 If your senior dog has a lot of difficulty standing up after lying down, they may be experiencing joint or arthritic pain in their back. If your senior dog simply refuses to stand, this can definitely be a sign of pain. You should take note of this sign of pain and talk to your veterinarian about treatment options., If your senior dog has trouble climbing the stairs, they may have joint pain in their legs or back. If your senior dog is experiencing a lot of pain from arthritis or other conditions, you should take note of this sign of pain and speak to your veterinarian about treatment options., If your senior dog looks very withdrawn a lot of the time, this may also be a sign of pain. Look to see if your senior dog hides away in the corner when they would normally be interacting with your family. This may be a subtle sign that your dog is in pain., If your dog shudders, squeals, or barks when lifted, they may be experiencing pain. You should take note of this symptom and talk to your veterinarian about the experience.
 Your senior dog may try to hide their pain or cope with it in ways that are hard to notice. However, they may also express themselves forcefully. You can look for the following signs of pain:Whimpering
Withdrawal or unusual quietness
Unusual aggression in response to being approached
Ears held flat against the head
Licking of sensitive areas of the body
Loss of appetite
Not wanting to walk, run or play
Stiffness and limping
Slowness on walks
Strange reactions to touch
Personality or other behavioral shifts

, Consider how much pain your senior dog is experiencing in their daily life, including in relation to signs such as difficulty moving, walking up the stairs, standing up, or hiding in the corner. If you have observed these or other signs of pain, your dog may be experiencing a lower quality of life. That said, there is no gold standard for measuring pain in animals and your assessment will be largely subjective.Talk to your veterinarian about your observations and reflections on your senior dog’s pain and see if they have any suggestions for treatment or other options.


You might also consider using a scale to determine your senior dog’s quality of life, including in relation to pain, happiness, mobility, and other factors.
 This scale helps you determine your senior dog’s quality of life during emotionally difficult times. It was developed by Dr. Alice Villalobos and gives an objective measure of quality of life by measuring levels of hurt, hunger, hydration, hygiene, happiness, mobility, and more good days than bad. It is best to complete the scale three days in a row in order to ensure you are getting an accurate reading and to consult with your veterinarian about the possible implications of the scale results., To assess hurt or pain, consider the extent to which your senior dog’s pain is being successfully managed. If your senior dog is having difficulty breathing or expressing other signs of pain, take notes of these symptoms. Considering the level of pain or hurt your senior dog is experiencing, score the success of their pain management on a range from 1-10 where higher numbers indicate more success in managing their pain.For example, a score of 1 would indicate severe pain and 10 would indicate very successful pain management.
Watch for signs of painful urination, which may indicate a urinary tract infection, bladder stones or other conditions., If your senior dog is going hungry because of a loss of appetite or inability to eat food, it is a sign of diminishing quality of life. If your senior dog can no longer eat, they may need a feeding tube. Considering the extent to which you are able to manage your senior dog’s hunger, write down a score between 1 and 10. Higher numbers indicate less difficulty with hunger., Consider whether you are able to meet your senior dog’s need for adequate hydration. If they are not able to drink water and exhibit signs of dehydration such as dry nose, mouth or gums, you should consult with your veterinarian.If you have run out of options for addressing chronic dehydration and associated symptoms (e.g., dry mouth, vomiting), you should take note of this sign of a diminishing quality of life. Give a score between 1 and 10 to indicate the extent to which your senior dog is managing to stay hydrated., If your senior dog has limited mobility because of joint problems, perhaps you have made arrangements to give them someplace to lie down closer to the rest of the family. Dogs are social animals so you should make sure you give them the opportunity to be close to the family. If you have tried to lift your senior dog’s spirits in various ways but they still look rather glum or unhappy, you should take note of this sign of a diminishing quality of life. Give a score between 1 and 10 to indicate the level of happiness that your senior dog currently experiences, with a higher score indicating greater happiness., Observe your senior dog’s movement around the house and the backyard. If they have trouble moving around the house, you may want to install aids such as dog stairs to help them get up onto beds or couches. If you have taken measures to improve your senior dog’s mobility but they still struggle getting around the house or yard, this may be a sign of a diminishing quality of life. Assign a score between 1 and 10 to indicate your senior dog’s mobility level, with a higher score indicating greater freedom of movement.Take notes on your senior dog’s mobility. If there are particularly difficult situations such as getting into the car or onto the couch, you might be able to use an aid to solve the problem. However, if your senior dog is simply unable to move or rarely moves, it is a sign of a diminishing quality of life.
 Reflecting on the last week or month, consider whether your senior dog has had more good days than bad days. A bad day might be a day where your senior dog looks depressed, experiences a lot of pain, or has ongoing health issues. A good day might be a day when they look more like their usual self and show signs of playfulness or affection with other family members. If there are far more bad than good days, it is a sign of a diminishing quality of life. You should assign a score of between 1 and 10, with higher scores indicating a better proportion of good to bad days.You could take journal notes on good versus bad days every day for a couple weeks. Then, add up the total number for both good and bad days and compare them in order to make an accurate score.
 The total score should be the sum of the individual totals (i.e., 1-10 scores) for hurt (i.e., pain), hunger, hydration, hygiene, happiness, mobility, and more good days than bad. If your total score is above 35, your senior dog still has a good quality of life. If they scored less than 35 points, you should talk to your veterinarian about your senior dog’s diminishing quality of life and possible medical options, including euthanasia., Put yourself in your senior dog’s paws. Empathetically imagining yourself as your senior dog, consider whether you would want to continue living. Write down your response in a journal and take it into account in conversations with your veterinarian., Empathetically imagine yourself in your dog’s paws. Would you still be enjoying life? Write down your response in a journal and take it into account when talking about your senior dog’s quality of life with your veterinarian.


For example, you could tell your veterinarian: “If I imagine myself as Sam (insert your dog’s name), I think I would still enjoy life right now. That may change, but I think I would still be enjoying life.”
You could say: “If I imagine myself as Sam (insert your dog’s name), I think the pain would be too much to handle and I probably wouldn’t be enjoying life anymore.”

, Empathetically imagine yourself as your senior dog. Thinking about their quality of life score and the pain they experience in their everyday life, consider whether or not they are ready to move on to a better place. Write your response in your journal.


If you have family or friends who share your senior dog, you might want to share your reflection on whether or not they are ready to go. See how they feel about it, and then talk to your veterinarian about possible options moving forward.
If you think your senior dog is ready to move on to a better place, talk to your veterinarian about euthanasia.
If you think your senior dog is ready to go, you could tell your veterinarian: "Imagining myself as Sam (insert your dog's name), I can't believe I would want to keep on living with all of the daily pain, not being able to eat, drink water, or play with friends and family anymore. I think it is time to move on."

