 Believe it or not, there are many sites on the internet that allow you to easily to figure out when people unfollow you. They all work using the same basic principle: the sites load your list of followers into a database, then, when you request an update, they compare your current list with your old list. If a name disappears, the site automatically identifies that the missing name is someone who has unfollowed you. Below are just a few good sites to use for this purpose — there are several more:



Unfollowers.com: This easy-to-use site boasts a slick interface (and the ability to monitor your Twitter account as well.)Justunfollow.com: This site offers extra tools that can be handy for dealing with a large group of followers, including the ability to put followers onto a "whitelist" or "blacklist."Insta.friendorfollow.com: This stripped-down, beginner-friendly site also allows you to see which users you follow that haven't followed you back.The choices above are all great, but for the purposes of this article, we'll use Unfollowgram, a popular service for people who like to track their Instagram followers (available at unfollowgram.com.)Note that all of these sites work in the same basic way, so you should be able to follow the example instructions for Unfollowgram without difficulty even if you're using one of the other sites.;
, Start by visiting unfollowgram.com and clicking on "Login with Instagram." You'll be asked for your Instagram user name and password. The first time you log in, a dialog will appear asking for your permission to access your Instagram account. Click the green authorize button to continue.


Note that if you've already linked your Instagram account to your Facebook account and you're currently logged into Facebook, your login details may be supplied automatically.
Finally, when you are asked, supply your email address when you are asked to complete the account creation process.
 Once you've made your account, figuring out who unfollowed you is as simple as clicking the appropriately-labeled button at the top of the screen. This will take you to a screen that should list any user that has unfollowed you since you started your Unfollowgram account. However, since you just created your Unfollowgram account, this list will probably be empty at first.


To be clear, there isn't any way to figure out who has unfollowed you before you make your Unfollowgram account. Unfollowgram doesn't have access to your list of Instagram followers until you give it your login details and your express permission to access it, so it can't retroactively figure out who unfollowed you in the past. The same is true of the other Instagram monitoring services above.
 Unfollowgram isn't just useful for seeing who's unfollowed you — it's also handy for keeping track of lots of other stats. Below are the different options available on the Unfollowgram navigation bar:



Who Doesn't Follow Me Back: A listing of users on Instagram that you follow, but who have not returned the favor. You can choose to unfollow anybody on this list by clicking the "Unfollow" button.

Who I Don't Follow Back: Conversely, these are the users who follow you that you yourself are not currently following. If at any point you change your mind and want to start following some of these users, you can do so by clicking the "Follow" button next to their profile pictures.

Followers: This is the complete list of every user who follows you, which is exactly identical to the list on your Instagram app. Here, you can click on each user's profile pic to be taken to their Instagram home page.

Following: The complete list of everybody who you are following. Here, you can unfollow them if you wish or visit their Instagram home page by clicking their profile picture.
 Whenever you reload the Unfollowgram page, it will automatically update with your latest statistics. If anything has changed since you last refreshed — for instance, if someone has followed or unfollowed you — this will be reflected after you refresh. However, you don't have to use your browser's refresh button to do this. Instead, to refresh the database, simply click the "Check" button in the top right. Within a few seconds, you'll be able to see if anyone has unfollowed you!

