 The longest she had her hair was a little past her shoulders at the beginning of HIMYM, but towards the end she started cutting it shorter; so you can choose to either have it a little past your shoulders or shorter. Color- Robins hair is usually either a dark brown or black so keep your hair a dark color. Style- Robin either styles her hair in loose curls or sometimes she'll wear it straight. She usually wears her hair down but there are sometimes when she wears it up. On special occasions she will put clips and headbands on to accessorize but usually she doesn't keep anything in her except maybe a few bobby pins. And for a part she usually parts in on the side or sometimes in the middle.;
, Only wear foundation and or concealer, eyeliner and mascara (not too dark or too heavy), a lipgloss or a natural looking lipstick (she does wear red lipstick sometimes though), and MAYBE a little bit of blush and natural looking eyeshadow like a brown or a pink.
 I recommend shopping at places like Nordstrom. However if you can't afford that you can shop at places like Gap, Nordstrom Rack, Marshall's, TJMaxx, or even places like forever 21 (or any place in the mall), also Abercrombie sometimes has really great sales; its just all about buying the right things. Some of Robin's signature pieces are:


cute blouses
classy sweaters
dark jeans
skirts
classy capri pants
nice dresses
long trench or wool coats
blazers
ballet flats
classy heels
short boots
leather boots
tights

, Some of her casual signature pieces are:


skinny jeans
dark leggings
tank tops
classy t-shirts
casual (but still classy) sweaters and blazers
jean shorts
and for casual shoes she will usually just wear some comfortable heels, boots, or ballet flats

, She'll just wear a nice necklace, some classy earring, and maybe a watch or bracelet.



brush your teeth and tongue, and floss at least twice a day (also consider whitening products)
bathe at least once a day and use a deodorant
wash your hair as often as needed (some people need to wash their hair everyday, some only need to do it once a week; whatever is necessary for you)
also for your hair consider going to a salon every so often just to get it cut or trimmed or styled or even just checked on to make sure it's healthy
make sure your clothes are always clean and neat
for your face get a facial cleanser, acne treatment (if necessary), a toner (if necessary), and a moisturizer with SPF
moisturize your body
take care of your nails whether you get them done at a salon or do them yourself make sure you cute them, clean them, and get a nice nail polish (try some classy solid colors or a french tip)

, Try getting a gym membership. If this doesn't work for you there are others ways to work out. Join a sports team, buy workout DVDs, go for a walk or a run, ride a bike. Whatever you choose to do just make sure to do it at least 180 minutes a week. Also try to eat healthy: follow the food pyramid and write down what you eat. It is very important to be healthy

