 Become familiar with the central principles by visiting , by reading Baha'i books, or by talking to Baha'is:


The purpose of the Baha'i Faith is to unite all the peoples of the world in one universal Cause, one common Faith. Baha'is believe that all humanity was created by one God and all are members of one human race.
To be a Baha'i means to follow the teachings of Baha'u'llah, the Prophet-Founder. Baha'is believe He is the Promised One of all ages, and that His teachings enable humanity to build the peaceful and prosperous civilization which has been promised in prophesies of many religions.
The Baha'i Faith has an administrative order including elected nine-member assemblies at the local, national, and international level.
Baha'u'llah has revealed laws that Baha'is are expected to follow. These laws include daily prayer and daily reading of Baha'u'llah's  Writings.
A key tenet is the independent investigation of truth; each individual is responsible to discover the truth for himself. This pertains to the process of becoming a Baha'i.
Contact Baha'is in your area and ask them to speak with you. You may ask what activities are in your area so you may participate in Baha'i Community life.
Join a study circle - a small group of people who gather to learn. Baha'is have these in many country and often follow a curriculum called Ruhi, which means "spirit."
Ask Baha'is for literature or buy books online, or check your library. Baha'u'llah and the New Era is a great introduction.;
,, If you have reached a decision to join, carry it out with conviction.
 The requirements for becoming a Baha'i include believing in the Bab and Baha'u'llah, and agreeing to abide by Baha'i laws. To vote and participate in the administrative order and to directly help build the Kingdom of God on Earth, one enrolls one's membership.


If they do not know you, the Local Spiritual Assembly may wish to ask someone to have a brief conversation with you about the Baha'i Faith to make sure you understand what your enrollment means.
In many countries, you will be asked to sign a card and provide your address and phone number to enroll. This helps the community keep track of who is a Baha'i and may be required by the laws in that country.
Enrolling in the Baha'i Faith is free; contributing sacrificially toward Baha'i Funds is a sacred obligation and privilege for every believer. The amount is left to the individual, is private, and will never be questioned.
 This is not compulsory but is a great way to learn more about living the Baha'i life. You may join a study circle before you decide whether to become a Baha'i. It is useful to start with Ruhi Book 1 which covers the importance of praying daily; and what is the soul and the afterlife.
 Baha'u'llah writes, "The first duty prescribed by God for His Servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws...It behoveth every one who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other."


Gradual changes to conform one's conduct to Baha'i laws is helpful. If a law is difficult or confusing, you may consult a Baha'i friend or ask the Local Spiritual Assembly for help.

