 Are you starting a new business that you want the rest of the world to know of, or are you in charge of your firm’s corporate branding through social media? Or maybe you’re just a normal user who wants an easy way to manage all the social networking accounts you have? Knowing your reasons for needing the service will give you key ideas which Hootsuite plan to pick.;
, Currently, there are three plans offered by Hootsuite. Each plan has its own unique features designed to meet the needs of different individuals for better social media management, whether for personal or corporate use.


Free—Designed for personal use, it has basic functions such as RSS feeds, basic message scheduling, and analytics reports. It’s perfect for individuals who just need a little help organizing their accounts.
Pro—This is created for people running small to medium businesses who want to use social media to advertise and enhance their current trade. The Pro plan is equipped with mid-level features such as custom URLs (website address) and message archiving. You need to pay a monthly service fee.
Enterprise—This is best fit for large businesses and corporations that need to monitor the market and manage more complicated company branding on the social media. The plan includes several high-end features such as technical support, a dedicated account representative, and compliance integration. To avail of the Enterprise plan, you need to book a schedule at Hootsuite’s website (https://socialbusiness.hootsuite.com/enterprise-smms.html). A representative will then call you to make arrangements.
 After studying the three available plans, determine which tools and features you’re most likely to use with your social media management. By doing so, you won’t be wasting money on plans with features you really have no need for.


As mentioned, each plan has its own unique features designed for certain needs. Access this link: https://hootsuite.com/plans, and compare the different tools each plan has.
 After identifying your needs and requirements, it’s time to avail of the plan you like. Open your web browser, go to Hootsuite’s website (https://hootsuite.com), and select the plan you’ve set your sights on.


You can also send a message directly to their sales department to avail of their service by copying this link to a web browser: https://socialbusiness.hootsuite.com/contact-sales.html.

