 Good writers are good readers. Not only can you keep abreast of trends in your writing specialty and see examples of other writers' styles, but you can also find story ideas from what you read, whether in newspapers, magazines, books, or online.


Other works of fiction can serve as inspiration for your stories, as well. Scholars have cited the influence of the Scandinavian legend of Amleth and the Roman tale of Brutus on Hamlet.You can also base a creative writing idea on a quote. The classic "Star Trek" episode "The Conscience of the King," featuring the exposure of a former dictator, who had tried to atone for his past by leading an acting troupe, takes its title from a line in "Hamlet": "The play's the thing wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.";
, If readers recognize the connection between your story and something from everyday life, they will be more likely to empathize with your characters and appreciate your story more.


Reading a newspaper, news magazine, or news website on a regular basis can provide you with a steady stream of story ideas in the form of news events. Many episodes in the "Law and Order" franchise were based on contemporary news headlines.Some English scholars and historians argue that Shakespeare's "Hamlet" was inspired by the life of King James I.You'll have to change some of the elements in the real story for your fictionalized versions in order to avoid scandalizing real people.
 If you are writing for a popular audience, see what is popular on the big screen or on your television screen. Think about topics in the same genre as other popular movies or shows.
 Build off your favorite song. Maybe listen to a Tupac song and write about gang violence. Maybe listen to a Joni Mitchell song and write about environmental issues. Listen to all kinds of music even if you don't consider a genre to be for you.
 If you think you are interested in writing about a subject, learn more about it. You might just learn an interesting detail that will form the kernel of your entire creative writing piece.Look through dictionaries, encyclopedias, and even thesauruses. You may come across a word, idea, or event that will spark your imagination.