 Just open your browser of choice, type http://www.odesk.com on the address bar, and hit Enter.;
, On the oDesk main page, click on the login button at the upper-right corner of the page to bring up the login window. Enter your email address and password into the text fields, and click on “Log In” to get into your account.
 Once you’re logged in, click the button with the gear icon at the top-right side of the screen to open your account’s main Settings screen.
 On the left side of the Settings page is a list of submenus. Select the third option on this list, which is “My Contractor Profile,” to display its own settings to the right of the screen.
 Scroll down to the bottom of the profile settings, and look for the submenu “Employment History.” Click on the blue “Add” button right next to it to open a pop-up window.
 It’s the first thing you can add to your Employment History. Just click inside the box, and type in the name of the company you used to work for.
 The second and third boxes are where you type in the location city and the country, respectively.
 The next box is for the job title you held at the company you listed.


For example, “Editorial Assistant” or “Art Director.”

, Next in line is identifying your role in the company you listed. Were you a supervisor or a high-rank manager perhaps? Pick and tick it off from the items listed on the drop-down menu.
 To give the time period that you worked for a company, first find the month and year of your start date on the drop-down menus for the month and year, respectively. Do the same for the month and year that you left the company.


If you are currently still working for this company, just check the box for “I currently work here,” leaving the exit date blank.
 Click on the description box under the date section, and give a concise background for the tasks you were in charge of while employed at this specific company.


Remember, you want to highlight, so don’t be overly modest here.
 Review the information you just added, and click on the green “Save” button at the bottom of the screen to save your education history to your profile.

