 In France, it's customary to greet people with a friendly, "Bonjour." "Bonjour" is used to say hello to friends and family. However, it's also used with strangers. It's customary to say "bonjour" when entering a store to shop.Clerks in France aren't as into small talk as clerks in America. Usually, a brief "bonjour" is all you get upon entering. It's considered rude not to return the greeting.
Do not say "hello" instead of "bonjour." Even if you feel your accent isn't great yet, French people prefer that people make an effort to speak their language.;
, Used especially in Paris, "sympa" is the slang form of "sympathique." Sympathique means nice and the term "sympa" is a way to casually appreciate a person, place, or thing without being too mushy or emotional.For example, say someone asks you, "How was your flight?" Answer with, "Sympa."
If you want to seem French at home, drop in an occasional "sympa" in front of friends and family members.
 Manners are important in French culture, so make sure to drop the word "merci" when appropriate. This is the French form of "thank you" and is used to show gratitude in a variety of situations. You can say "merci" if someone gives you directions, holds a door for you, or to say goodbye to a shopkeeper after making a purchase.When saying "merci," place more emphasis on the first syllable than the second.
 If you're visiting France, especially a crowded city like Paris, you're bound to bump into people on the street and train. In such situations, the words "excuzez-moi" and "pardon" both essentially mean "excuse me."As French people value good manners, do not neglect to use them if you want to act French.

"Excuzez-moi" is roughly pronounced, "ec-cus-se-mwa."
"Pardon" is pronounced similar to English, but the "o" is pronounced making a distinct "o" sound rather than the English "uh" sound.
 Food is a huge part of French culture. When ordering at a restaurant, you can look more French by ordering using the language rather than simply pointing at the menu. Start with "je voudrais," which means "I would like..." Then, say the item on the menu you're ordering."Je voudrais" is roughly pronounced "zhuh voo-dreh."Don't worry too much if you're unsure how to pronounce the menu item. French people will understand your accent is not exact, but will appreciate you ordering in their language.
 If you want to make French people happy, learn a variety of pro-French phrases. You can add these to conversation occasionally or use them to convey you're having a good time on your trip."J'adore Paris" means, "I love Paris."
"Vive la république et vive la France" means, "Long live democracy and long live France."
If you're enjoying your food at a restaurant, say, "La cuisine française est la meilleure du monde." This means, "French food is the best food in the world."

