 There are a variety of human foods, mostly meats, that you cat will enjoy. Although you should not supplement his normal cat food with too much human food, small portions of human food can be a nice treat for your cat. These foods include:


Tuna, cooked or canned
Salmon, cooked or canned
Chicken or turkey, cooked
Lean beef cuts, cooked
Eggs, cooked
Liver, cooked
Sardines, canned
Clams, canned
Cheese, in small cubes, one at a time
Milk, a tablespoon at a time since many cats cannot properly digest lactose, which can cause digestive problems, Catnip is a great natural plant that acts as a treat and toy for your cat. You can buy catnip toys for him to play with and sprinkle some on the floor, which provides him with a snack as well as something to play with.


You can grow a fresh catnip or buy store bought catnip. This variety may be fresh or died., Cat grass is a plant similar to oats and wheat that attracts cats. Plant a tray of cat grass to sit by a window during the winter or have a patch in your backyard. This will give your cat something to play. You can pluck some for him to eat.


Cat grass is very low in calories.
It is common for some cats to vomit the cat grass back up. If this happens with your cat, switch to catnip., If you aren't happy with commercial treats or basic human food, you can make homemade treats for your cat. Look for recipes with healthy ingredients, such as lean meats, vegetables, grains, and eggs. There are many different kinds of different cat treats out there, such as sunflower treats, chicken biscuits, tuna treats, and sardine cookies.Play around with many different varieties of ingredients to see what you cat may prefer. Make sure you bake them in small pieces to avoid overfeeding your cat.
Homemade treats are good options because you can control what is in them and how much of each ingredient he gets. Look for recipes with the best natural ingredients that avoid foods toxic to cats., There are certain human foods that are harmful to cats. These foods can cause health problems, such as weight gain and diarrhea. In some cases, these foods may cause death. These foods include:


Salt or any food with too much salt
Avocado
Grapes or raisins
Chocolate
Nuts, such as macadamia
Citrus, especially rinds
Coconuts or coconut oil
Onion or chives
Leeks
Garlic
Liquids with caffeine, such as coffee or tea
Alcohol
Sugar free foods that contain xylitol
Yeast dough