 If there's a stove, it's most likely to be electric. There usually are also microwaves for public use. Also find out if either of these even work. You may have to cook on an other floor or in a different dorm (provided you have someone with you who lives there).;
, Stuff like hot pots, coffee pots, candles (useful if you're addicted to roasted marshmallows), and hot plates may not be allowed. But, although this isn't recommended, it may help to be familiar with how strictly enforced those rules are. They may be rules whereas long as nothing is out during inspections, your RA won't even care if you're walking down the hall with a hot pot.



If they're allowed, hot pots are great to have. Also, microwave safe plates, bowls, and coffee cups.
You need basic utensils, forks and spoons, a sharp knife for cooking, and chop sticks if you're a lover of Asian food. Also, a spatula, spaghetti spoon, and one of those over-sized spoons for mixing. Consider what you actually use.
For pots and pans, just cover the basics, and be as simple as you can be. A frying pan, saucepan, and spaghetti pot (plus colander). A steamer or double boiler if you cook with them a lot and know you will use them. If you bake, a mixing bowl, cookie sheet, brownie/cake/bread/muffin tin (again, think of what you'll actually use).
Aluminum foil, paper towels, plastic wrap, and dish soap are also necessary. You may also want plastic bags and/or Tupperware for leftovers.
Don't go Costco on ingredients. You will be able to find smaller amounts at a regular grocery store (but if your parents shop there, you can reuse small bottles and stock up at home). Make sure to have nonperishable basics: oil, sugar, flour, baking soda (you can also sprinkle this in the trash so it doesn't smell as bad), rice, pasta, and vinegar. Buy perishables such as produce, milk, eggs as you need them (if you don't have a fridge, you should find a friend who will let you store these things. But a fridge is also highly advised).
Keep microwave and instant food too. Ramen, easy mac, instant coffee (unless you have a coffee maker you can fit in your room), tea, powdered drink mix. Even with these, you can get creative, especially with Ramen. While they're not necessarily healthy, they can be the difference between spending $5 on a meal, and you can control the amount.
 Especially if you don't have a stove in your dorm. And this can also be a lot less time consuming than cooking conventionally and cleaning pots and dishes. Here are several WikiHow articles, with basics and fancier stuff:


Make Ramen Noodles in the Microwave
Boil Water in the Microwave
Make Scrambled Eggs in a Microwave
Poach an Egg Using a Microwave
Hardboil Eggs in a Microwave
Make Microwave Oatmeal
Cook Bacon in the Microwave
Cook Rice in a Microwave
Microwave Corn on the Cob
Bake a Potato in the Microwave
Make Toffee in the Microwave
Make Smores in a Microwave
Make Chocolate Fondue in the Microwave

