 In general, processed food is higher in calories and higher in fat. Really, it's higher in just about everything. And it mops the floor when it comes to nitrates and toxins. So, in addition to it being bad for your waistline, it's pretty havoc-wreaking on your health.


And the truth is pretty gross. Refrigerated, not-from-concentrate citrus juices "languish in storage "tank farms" for months."It's perfectly legal for companies to keep the FDA in the dark about new additives, and consequently there are some 1,000 ingredients the FDA has no knowledge of whatsoever, according to an estimate done by the Pew Research Center.And, sadly enough, eating just a ham sandwich every day significantly raises the likelihood of obtaining heart disease because of the nitrates and other chemical preservatives in the meat.If you're not convinced yet, nothing will do it.
 Sodas, juices and all kinds of energy drinks often contain far more calories than you would need on low key exercise and thus can add to weight gain. Water, low sugar fruit drinks and teas are best. Avoid alcohol -- it just dehydrates you and adds calories you don't need. Drink two glasses of water before every meal to start feeling sated even before you sit down to eat.


You shouldn't drink water because it's the lesser of two evils: the benefits of water are astounding. It helps your muscles, clears your skin, reduces your appetite, works with your kidneys, and helps you poo.Still not buying it? Drinking 17 ounces of cold water can up your metabolism 30% after just ten minutes.In a completely separate study, participants who significantly upped their water intake lost just over 15 pounds in three months (they did watch their calories, too).All in all, whatever you do, make carrying around a water bottle a habit.
 If you're not keen on the idea of drinking a ton of water, good alternative sources are fruits and vegetables. They're low-calorie dense foods that are made up of mostly water. And that comes in at a whopping 0 calories. But the best part? They're full of vitamins and nutrients, too.


Diets rich in fruits and vegetables may reduce the risk of some types of cancer and other chronic diseases. Fruits and vegetables also provide essential vitamins and minerals, fiber, and other substances that are important for good health and lead to a slimmer waistline.If you're unsure how many fruits and veggies you should be piling on, use an online calculator.As a general rule, everyone needs more.
 A recent study showed that the more servings of dairy foods that adults consumed, the greater the percentage of their total calories that came from saturated fat (definitely not a good thing). And other studies have shown that a diet high in red meat leads to increased risk of heart disease and cancer. What's the answer? Go low-fat and lean.


Some dairy items have impressive levels of two things many of us need more of: calcium and protein. Low-fat milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, and reduced-fat cheese pack a protein and calcium punch in every serving. Just a cup of lite nonfat yogurt, for example, gives you a third of your daily recommended calcium intake, along with 17% of your estimated daily protein intake.Protein servings of meat, poultry, or fish, should be the size and thickness of the palm of your hand. But unlike animal protein, most plant-based proteins are "incomplete," meaning they lack some amino acid building blocks. By combining plant proteins, such as rice and beans or hummus on pita bread, they become "complete" with all the essential amino acids found in animal protein., It's tempting to just cut out the "bad stuff" entirely--but carbs and fats aren't all that bad. In fact, we need fat to survive. They're super energizing, make our skin glow, and do come with certain vitamins.And as for carbs, some are full of fiber. These are carbs that get absorbed slowly into our systems, avoiding spikes in blood sugar levels and energizing us.


The unsaturated fats are the welcome ones. Switch to canola, walnut, and olive oils. Go for nuts, avocados, olives, and legumes.
Opt for complex carbs. Think brown, not white. Whole grains, oats, brown rice, and quinoa are all good options.

