 When the vacuum cleaner is not in use, place it where your pet can easily see it. Being around the vacuum while it is not making noise should help your pet view the cleaner as something other than a threat., Make sure the vacuum is as close to the ground as possible. Adjust the upright section of the vacuum so that it is lying on the ground or is as close to the ground as possible. Reducing the overall height of the vacuum may make it seem less imposing to a pet.
 Move the cleaner to where the pet is sitting while it is turned off and allow the animal to look at and smell it. Pets go by scent as well as sight. Once they get used to seeing and smelling the vacuum, they should naturally be less afraid.Never place the vacuum cleaner where your animal likes to sleep or eat. This might only work to make them afraid of those areas, causing further problems.
If you have a cat that you are trying to acclimate to a vacuum, never place the vacuum by its litter box., Try placing a towel or sheet the animal uses on the vacuum cleaner while it is turned off. Your pet may want to get closer to the vacuum because it smells familiar or because it has something the animal wants on top of it., When the vacuum is lying on the ground in the off position, try placing a treat on top of it and see whether or not your pet tries to retrieve the treat. Animals will become much more steadfast in their resolve when a treat is involved., Animals can be quite territorial when it comes to their favorite toys. Take a toy you know your pet loves and place on the vacuum cleaner while it is off. Over time, the animal may come to associate the vacuum cleaner with one of its play things., Now that your pet has had the chance to investigate the vacuum while off, try turning the vacuum on. Your pet will probably run away because of the noise, but it might keep looking at the vacuum from a distance, showing more curiosity than fear., While the vacuum is on and making noise, leave it in one place. If it is not moving, but still making noise, your pet may choose to be brave and approach the vacuum. At the very least, it may get a little bit closer, signaling a minor victory.Be sure to reward your pet for any attempts to get close to the vacuum with treats or toys., Try to vacuum at a distance from the animal. Do not go too close while they watch you. After a while, they might be braver and actually follow you around as you vacuum., When you finish vacuuming the desired area, turn the vacuum off and offer your pet a treat, toy or reward. If your dog loves going for walks, take him out for a walk immediately after vacuuming. If your cat likes wet food, give it a can when you have finished vacuuming. If you do this consistently, the animal will come to associate the vacuum with activities it enjoys., Talking to your pet in a calm voice while vacuuming may help it realize that the vacuum is not something to be feared. Animals take verbal and non-verbal cues from their humans. Try calling the pet over to you with a friendly and calm demeanor while the vacuum is running. Its eagerness to follow your commands may be enough to help your pet overcome its fear.

