 Think about past activities and experiences that you were passionate about and why. Consider your past employment, volunteer activities, or college courses to source your passion and plan for your future job. What special skills were needed to carry out these activities successfully? Skills often align with the things you do well and are interested in.By assessing the skills you developed through your deepest personal interests, you can connect them to potential jobs, learning, and leisure activities.
Self-assessment will help you expand your self-understanding, define your strengths, and clarify which career path is best for you. Your life and work will become more fulfilling as a result.
 Your strengths are the keys to successfully finding the real you in the workplace. By combining your talent with passionate interests, you will be able to excel at your job and enjoy the everyday challenges.A good way to discover your strengths is to watch for signs of excitement. Excitement is a result of performing an activity that you do well and are motivated to do it. Ask a colleague at work to pay particular attention to you for a day to keep track of when they observe you most energized, engaged, and animated.
There are also several character strength tests on the internet if you feel asking a colleague to observe for an entire day as inappropriate.
Identify yourself in terms of your strengths rather than by your job title. This will eliminate some boundaries in the workplace and allow you to explore new roles and gain flexibility.
Recognize your unique approach to utilizing your strengths. Oftentimes, specific skill sets that you thrive at will stand out compared to how other people perform the same task. Take special note of this in order to understand what you are truly good at.
 Brainstorming is a common technique to generate creative solutions to a problem, or, in this case, to identify how your strengths can be utilized to solve problems. By brainstorming, you can free yourself of stale, established patterns of thought and develop new ways of looking at something creatively. If necessary, bring others into your brainstorming session to help out.Although the environment should be relaxing and fun, it should also be focused on creating as many ideas as possible. If you are able to create a long list of ideas to be solved, the better chance you will be able to make new connections to your strengths and skills.
As you go through the brainstorming process, question everything about yourself. When you analyze your ideas, ask yourself, “do I possess the necessary skills to solve this problem?”

, A good way to visualize who you really are is to write a resume. Resumes feature your skills and strengths to a potential employer. By creating a resume, you can look back on past experiences to see what you are good at and how you accomplished the tasks associated with that position.By analyzing your education, employment history, and experiences carefully, you can better assess the qualities you have to find employment that can best utilize your unique skill set.
A resume is built to fit the needs and expectations of the company that you are applying for. This is a good exercise to creatively think about who you are and if you have the skills and experience to deal with issues you will face at the company. By taking this hard look at yourself, you become more aware of who the real you is.
Writing a resume will give you an opportunity to put into the words what strongly engages your interests, skills, and experiences.

