 An emotionally intelligent person will often be accepting of and open to the ideas and suggestions of others. Though they may not always agree, they will at least tend to acknowledge the validity of the thought while respectfully voicing their own opinion.


If this person is willing to try new ideas, they likely have some degree of emotional intelligence.
Being open minded signals that the person acknowledges that they do not know everything nor have all the answers.
 Self awareness is defined as the awareness of your own character, wishes, and motivations. If someone tells you that they believe they are honest, but you have caught them lying several times recently, then perhaps they are not very self aware. However, the person who openly and honestly admits both their strengths and their flaws has an understanding of themselves that helps develop their level of emotional intelligence., You can assess a person’s level of emotional intelligence through asking them questions about their thoughts and feelings. Ask them questions about how they handle stress or who they look up to or aspire to be like. This will give you an idea about their inner thoughts and desires.You might ask something like “what do you do to take care of yourself when you’re stressed?”
You could also ask “who do you turn to when you’re facing a difficult decision and why?”

, A person who has high levels of EI will tend to be extremely in control of their emotions. This does not mean that they will not be expressive, but that they will not overreact or respond dramatically to circumstances that do not warrant that. If a person cries over the slightest issue or throws things when angry, they are likely not very in tune with their emotions because they do not know how to respond appropriately.Notice who around you, while being emotional, keeps a calm and steady demeanor.
 One of the truest tests of emotional intelligence is being able to handle criticism with grace. People who are not emotionally intelligent tend to either shut down completely when criticized or react with unwarranted intensity. Notice the person who remains calm and perhaps even asks questions to understand the criticism.For example, perhaps someone says that they didn’t complete a project well. An EI person might respond by saying “I admit that I could have done a more thorough job, but I was facing some time constraints. I will take your critique into consideration moving forward, however.”

