 Click on "File" in the top, left corner, then click "New" from the drop-down menu. When the New window opens, make sure the "Model" tab is selected at the top and that the "Model" row is highlighted in blue in the Templates box. Name your part and select the folder in which you would like to save the file. Click "OK".
 At the top of the page, click on "Insert" then "Sketch". This will open a window on the left of your screen labeled "Create Sketch".
 Under Sketch Plane, choose "Existing Plane" from the Plane Method drop-down menu. Click on the xy-plane from the 3-Dimensional axis in the center of your screen. The plane will highlight in orange when it is properly selected. DO NOT CLICK "OK". While the Create Sketch window is still open, there will be a toolbar at the bottom of your screen. Click on the Circle icon in this toolbar.
 A small XC and YC input box will now be next to your cursor. These will be the coordinates of your sphere's center. While the XC number is highlighted in blue, type "20" then hit Enter on your keyboard. When the YC number is highlighted, type "30" and hit Enter.
 Type in "50" and hit Enter. Now hit Esc ONCE on your keyboard to exit the circle.
 At this point, the circle command should still be active and the XC, YC box should reappear. If it doesn't, repeat steps 2 and 3 with the following specifications. Type "40" as your next XC and "30" as your YC value. Hit Enter.
 Hit Enter. Now hit Esc twice to exit the sketch command completely.
 In the top, left corner there is a button labeled "Extrude". Click on the small arrow to the right of the Extrude button to open the drop-down menu. Click on "Sphere". This will open a small window on the left side of your screen.
 Under Type, click on "Arc" from the drop-down menu. In order to select an arc, click on the sketch of your first circle in the center of your screen. Click "OK".
 Repeat steps 5 and 6, clicking on the second sketch. This time, select "Unite" under the Boolean drop-down menu. Click "OK".
 Under the "File" drop-down menu (see step 1), place your cursor over "Close". When the sub-menu opens, click on "Save and Close". This will return you to the initial welcome menu.

