 There are many pastes out on the market. Always read the labels of these products; many of these products can be used on calves that are up to eight weeks old, and can also be used on calves immediately after birth. However, some pastes may have an age limit, so always double check.
 The first step in using a dehorning paste is to restraint the calf by placing it inside a restraining chute. A restraining chute is a metal cage composed of metal tubes. It can fit one cow or calf at a time, and has a special space in front where the cow’s head can fit. Once the head is passed through the open space, special bars or tubes can be fixed and adjusted so that the cow’s head can be firmly held in place.
 Once the cow’s head is in place, have an assistant move the cow’s head towards the assistant’s thighs. To do this, have the assistant push the cow’s muzzle with his left hand so that the cow’s muzzle rests against the assistant’s thigh. For the right horn, the assistant would use his right hand.Another way to restrain a calf is by placing it in a chute and having an assistant push the calf forward so that the head protrudes outside of the chute. Another assistant can then use his left hip to push the head of the calf against the vertical post of the chute, making the head turn at a right angle with the vertical post of the chute. The left hand is then used to support and hold the back of the head. In this way the horn buds are exposed while the animal is immobilized.
 The calf can also be restrained by administering a sedative like Xylazine. Once the calf is sedated, the calf is gently laid down in a lying position and the front and hind limbs are tied down.
 Once the calf is sedated, feel for the horn bud on the calf’s head. Gently trim away hair on and around the horn bud. Lightly brush the horn bud with a small wire brush.


Do not brush the bud too hard or else it may bleed.
 Locate the occipital groove, which runs behind the cow’s eye and into the horn. Once you find the groove, inject the lidocaine at the base of the bud.


Make sure to hold the syringe at a 45 degree angle away from the eye. Wait 10 to 20 minutes for the medication to take effect.
 Apply the vaseline with your index finger and make sure that it does not get on the horn bud.
 Using a wood applicator or a syringe, apply a thin film of dehorning paste over the entire horn bud and over a small ring of adjacent skin. Only one application of the paste is necessary.


In calves that are one week of age or younger, the entire application area may only be the size of a nickel.
In calves that are older than one week, the application area may be the size of a quarter.
 Once the application has been placed on the horn buds, allow the calf to rest away from other animals and in a place protected from the elements.

