 Using the Magnum up while there are still people around to protect you will get you more points as long as you go for headshots (headshots are worth more points than regular kills.) Another advantage is that you save your powerful shotgun until the end of the round, which will be more useful at that point because of the higher population of zombies.
 One mistake many people make, is to follow the rest of the group to one popular camping area. This is not good. Usually the zombies will send a few people to the exits of your spot (example: the gravity lift on Sword Base) and attempt to flush you out. On the other hand, if you keep moving you will keep the zombies running around randomly. This effectively separates them into smaller groups, making them easier to take out.
 If you make it to last man standing, moving around will be absolutely zero help. If your the only one left, the zombies can now see a marker on their screen showing your position. This is now the appropriate time to camp. Experiment to find good hiding places using Forge or 2 player Xbox Live matches with a friend. Eventually you will find some little ledge or cliff that you can walk along or hide behind that makes you harder to reach or surround.
 Always save one of your two evades for emergency escapes or dodging underneath a bullet. Remember to keep a fair distance away from your "prey" as it takes you a small amount of time to readjust your weapon after evading.;
, Though you might get killed a fair amount of times before you get the hang of it, being aggressive is very useful. Use erratic movements to keep the Spartans guessing. Or even jump off a ledge that the Spartan thought was inaccessible. But mainly, surprise and aggressiveness will get you far.
 Many players love using flaming helmets, bright or dark armor, or other noticeable cosmetic changes. This can be to your advantage as, depending on the map, it may stick out like a sore thumb!

, Try to vary your armor colors, such as using darker colors that are blended with brighter ones. This will give you more variety and sometimes help you stay inconspicuous. Also, avoid obvious helmets and shoulder gear. Those flaming helmets may look cool on a FireFight match (where the AI knows your location anyway)but it can be a curse in multiplayer battles.
 Don't pass the time smacking your teammates in the back and then crouch and move away like it wasn't you. They may just decide to leave you under attack from zombies or talk to the others about booting you out of the match. Getting booted out of matches enough times could result in temporarily being banned from multiplayer matches of any kind.

