 It is best to visit in the afternoon/evening/late evening hours. Examine the location with just as much care as you would if you were considering purchasing the property.


Park your vehicle where it won't be easily seen by the provider or their staff, and walk around the neighborhood. As you walk, listen to the noise level and note the conditions of the establishment/home and neighboring properties.;
, There are some key things to consider if the care is from someone else's home:


Note how many people appear to be living on the premises. A crowded driveway or house may indicate that your child will be exposed to a much larger group of people than may be advertised. If you aren't comfortable with random strangers coming and going through the home while your child is in the provider's custody, your child will likely not be/feel safe in that environment.
Note the condition of any people you see near the home, and the impression you get of them in your gut. If you feel uncomfortable being on the street with the people you see, your child will likely not be safe in the custody of this provider.
Note the condition of the residence and neighboring homes or buildings. If the home, or surrounding homes or buildings, are derelict, you will need to discover the reason for the conditions as they are and what extra safeguards the child care provider has in place to keep your child safe from injury, and from contact with unsavory neighborhood characters.
 If you're considering a business-run child care establishment, here are some things to take note of:


Walk around the building. Note the condition of the building to make sure it is not in disrepair in areas not easily seen from the street. Look up at windows/roofs and see if there are signs of dangerous conditions. Notice peeling paint/shingles, fallen gutters, cracked window glass, and unsafe entry/exit points. If you would be leery about purchasing the building, find a more suitable place for your child to spend their days.
Take note of any people you observe in the immediate vicinity and what impression they make on you. If you don't feel completely safe and comfortable interacting with the people around you, there are safer places to place your child.

