 Lay your fabric flat (or folded in half, if the pattern directs you to do so) and place your pattern over the top. Follow your traced lines and the guide to cut out your fabric in the matching shapes. If you are using a dress for the pattern use your traced outline of half the dress, drawn after being folded in half and placed along the folded edge. Cut along this line, and unfold the fabric to expose a complete front of your dress.


Add ½ inch of extra fabric around the edges of the dress for seam allowances. Most patterns already have this included in their measurements, but you will need to keep this in mind if you are tracing a dress for your pattern.
If you want to add sleeves to your dress, these will need to be cut as separate pieces from the body of the dress. Cut your dress fabric in a tank-style top and then sew your sleeves on later.
Be sure to cut the fabric for the back of this dress as well at this point, using the same method as you did to cut the front.
 Follow the sewing directions on your pattern. Typically the sides of the dress will be sewn first. Turn your fabric inside-out and fold ¼ of an inch over on either side, using an iron to flatten it out. Then, use a zigzag stitch to sew the front and back together, and a top stitch to attach your newly formed seam to the body of the dress. The top stitch will help the fabric to lay flat along the seam and add a more professional look to your dress.


Follow any specific directions on your pattern for sewing additional sections of your dress.
If your pattern directs you to sew something other than the sides first, do so.
 For a simple neckline, fold over ¼ inch of fabric along the edge and iron it flat. Use a straight stitch along the collar to sew the edges in place and keep them from fraying. You can adjust how deep the neckline plunges by measuring the distance from your waist to the desired area on your bust, and adjusting your fabric accordingly.
 on the bottom of the dress, fold over ¼ of an inch of fabric and iron it down flat. If you have one available, use a serger to secure the ends and keep them from unraveling. Then, use a straight stitch to attach the folded edge to the bottom of the dress, holding it in place. So you won't make a mistake.
 If you want, add a zipper to the side or back of your dress to allow for easier opening/closure. You can also choose to add a lace overlay, ruffles, trim, or beading to your dress for an added touch. It’s your dress, and your opportunity to show your style! Do so as you please.

