 One of the great things about using miswak to clean your teeth is that the stick you use can potentially be free! Though most majority-Muslim countries will have cheap, easily-available miswak sticks for sale, it's also possible to make your own miswak stick just as traditional practitioners would have. To start, find a suitable tree. Traditionally, miswak sticks are taken from Salvadora Persica trees (also called "toothbrush" or "arak" trees). Below are just a few suitable alternatives that are native to the Mediterranean, Middle East, and Levant where miswak is most frequently practiced:Olive trees
Palm trees
Walnut trees

, Next, simply take a small twig or stick from the tree's branches or any exposed roots using a knife or your bare hands. Your stick doesn't need to be especially big — traditionally, miswak sticks are about as long as your hand is wide. Be careful not to take more than you need or to hurt the tree more than necessary — this is wasteful and disrespectful.
 When you take any sort of plant product out of the wild, you run the risk of exposing yourself to harmful chemicals or germs, no matter how clean the plant looks. To reduce the chance of this risk happening to you, be sure to thoroughly wash any miswak sticks you cut directly from the tree before using them. Use disinfectant soap or an equivalent antibacterial substance to clean the stick and rinse with water to remove the soap. Repeat several times for cleanliness.


Be sure to store your miswak sticks in a clean, dry place before using them. Since you've just washed them, they will be wet and can potentially pick up dirt or dust if you're not careful.
 Never take your miswak stick from a tree you know to be poisonous or otherwise harmful. No matter how much you clean a miswak stick from a poisonous tree, using the stick will expose you to chemicals that can make you sick. You will also want to avoid any trees that you know to have been treated with a pesticide or any other potentially harmful chemicals. Below are just a few types of trees from which you should not take miswak sticks (this list is incomplete, so consult a botanical resource if you're ever unsure whether a certain tree is unsafe).Pomegranate trees
Bamboo trees
Chambelle trees
Raihaan trees
Myrtle trees

, Though people in certain parts of the world have been taking their own miswak sticks from nature for thousands of years, for the inexperienced, this can be an intimidating task. If you're ever worried about whether or not a certain miswak stick is safe to use, consider buying yours from a reputable vendor. Miswak sticks are available both online and from specialty brick-and-mortar stores (most commonly in Muslim countries and communities) — in developed countries with modern health regulations, these commercially-sold sticks will be sanitary and reliably safe to use.

