 Many people mostly go by a nickname. You probably know a lot of people named James who are always called Jamie. If you can find a fun nickname for yourself, you may be able to avoid using an embarrassing name.Choose a nickname that makes sense. People may be resistant to calling you something with no connection to your name or personality. For example, your name is Gertrude, which you dislike, and so you ask people to call you Samantha. People may resist this.
You can ground your nickname is your existing name. For example, Trudy could be a fun way to avoid Gertrude. You could also ground your nickname based on a physical characteristic. Say you have light red hair. You could have people call you Ginger.
Do not try to force a nickname. You have to gradually transition into the name. You can ask that people call you by this name, and remind them on occasion, but don't refuse to respond to anything other than your nickname. People may find this rude.;
, If your name is very unusual or hard to pronounce, there are times when it's simply easier to use a different name. Have a go-to name to use when ordering coffee or making reservations.For example, say you have a very difficult to pronounce celtic name. It may be hard to explain how to spell or pronounce this at a coffee shop when ordering a drink, or over the phone while making reservations.
You can try using your last name for reservations. At a coffee shop, just use a different name. You can introduce yourself as something easy to pronounce, like "John" or "Mary."

, In some situations, however, you may be unable to use a different name. Professional situations, such as setting up a bank account, may warrant use of your real name. If someone asks questions, be prepared to explain.If your name is extremely unusual, people may suspect you're using a fake name. Be ready to explain how and why you have the name you do.
Bring a second ID. This is a good precaution if you have the kind of name that may sound fake.
 While it can be frustrating, people will occasionally mispronounce your name if it's unconventional. Try not to get angry in this scenario. You have probably stumbled over someone's name at some point in your life.Correct the person politely. Say something like, "No, it's actually pronounced differently" and then repeat your name.
People may feel bad or be embarrassed, so reassure them you're not upset. Say something like, "Oh, it's fine. Everyone gets it wrong the first time!"

, As people often tease hoping to get a reaction, this is often the best means of deflecting it. If someone mocks your name, try to simply tune them out.Just do not respond at all if someone makes a comment. Act like you didn't hear anything and continue on your way.
People who tease others thrive on the response they get. If they see you are not going to be bothered by teasing, they'll move on.
 A bad name may be turned into an embarrassing nickname. Say you have a foreign name that sounds like an embarrassing word in English. A bully may call you by this word. If this happens, stand up for yourself.Do not get aggressive. Remember, bullies thrive on the response they get. If you start shouting and act seriously upset, the bully will know he or she got to you.
Instead, state calmly, but firmly, "Please do not call me that. I am not going to answer to it." If the bully continues to call you by an embarrassing nickname, just walk away.
 This is oftentimes the easiest way to cope. If some people won't stop tormenting you, just avoid being around them.If you're getting teased in school, know where the bullies usually congregate. Try to avoid these areas.
Travel in groups through the hallways, and in areas like bathrooms and locker rooms. Friends can help protect you from bullies in areas you cannot avoid.
 If you're willing to make fun of yourself, bullies will have no ammunition to use against you. If someone teases you about your name, laugh and make a joke right back. A bully will likely back off if they don't get the response they want.For example, say your name is Gertrude and a bully is calling you "Gerdy Turdy." Instead of getting mad, laugh and say, "That's not half as funny as how the Starbucks barista spelled my name last week. Nice try though."
Bullies will be shocked if you take their abuse with good grace. Humor can be a great way to deflect jokes and take down bullies.
 This can make you appreciate the name more. Where does your name come from? Why did your parents choose it? Maybe it speaks to your heritage or culture.For example, you may have a name rooted with a particular ancestry. If your great grandma migrated from Finland, for example, you may have a Finnish name. While a name like Lempi may sound a little silly, it means "love" in Finnish. It's unique to have a connection to your heritage through your name.
You may also have an odd name due to a piece of art or culture. For example, you're named Eponine after your mother's favorite character in Victor Hugo's famous novel Les Miserables. While it may get frustrating to constantly have to tell people how to spell and pronounce your name, some people may appreciate the reference., You likely have less trouble starting conversations with an unusual name. You may have to repeat yourself several times when asked what your name is. However, you can strike up a conversation about the topic right away.Some introductions are awkward, as you're often unsure what to say to someone new. Conversations on, say, a first date are always hard to start. Think of your name as an advantage. You have a conversation starter right there.
An unusual name can also help you tell if someone was listening to you or not when you introduced yourself. For example, if the person asks what your name was again after you have already introduced yourself, then you will know that the person was not paying close attention the first time you introduced yourself.
If someone raises an eyebrow at your name, you can say something like, "Oh, it's my great grandma's name. She moved from Finland in the 1900's." From there, you can talk about family history and Finnish culture. Without your name, you wouldn't have had that conversation starter ready.
 For better or for worse, unusual names are not hard to remember. Elizabeths, Michaels, and Johns may have people forget their names all the time. However, with an unusual name, people are more likely to remember as it sticks out from the pack. While your name may be annoying sometimes, at least it's unforgettable.An unusual name may even be an advantage to you for certain career-related events, such as:


on your resume
during interviews
at networking events
when meeting new clients

