 It takes time for anyone to build confidence in themselves and in who they are. Part of building confidence involves knowing your needs in various situations. It is just as important to know what you can do independently.


People with disabilities are often offered help. While this is a nice gesture, it is okay to say, “No thanks. I got it.” , People may be unaware of the accommodations that you need as a blind or visually impaired individual. Use positive language to state your needs. If you know of resources that you can share with others, this may help you be an even better advocate for yourself. If you are aware of certain light bulbs, places/computer programs to have documents translated to braille, or other resources that could help your employer or school accommodate you it can help make the process easier. You might start by directing them to the American Foundation for the Blind.
At work, for example, you might need an adjustment in your schedule because of transportation limitations in your area. Be clear with your employer about how much time is needed based on the transit options you have.
At school, for example, you may need larger print or an adjustment in lighting. Make sure that your teachers know that this is a necessity for you to perform your best. You can approach your teacher after class and say something like, "I can't see what you write on the chalkboard and it makes it hard for me to follow the lesson and take notes. Can I move to a desk in the front row or could you write in larger print on the board?"
If you are not given the necessary accommodations, you have the right to file a formal complaint. Take note of when and where the incident occurred. Prepare documentation of your request for accommodations and the denial of your requests. You can file complaints with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or with your school district.
 You may find yourself the target of rude or ignorant comments. Whether at work, school, or in some other social situation, this can be draining.


Sometimes, for your own well being, it is best to ignore inappropriate comments. You can pretend that you didn’t hear what the person said and let it slide. This only works if the comments don’t bother you. If you do feel truly hurt, it is important to express yourself. Tell a friend or counselor about the incident.
Respond to discriminatory actions if you have the emotional resources to do so. Take a deep breath and use a calm voice. You can say something short that simply points out the person’s fault and give a short explanation about why it was inappropriate.
For example, if someone laughs at your for fumbling with some packaging, you might say, “Hey, don’t laugh. I’m making an effort here. I bet you wouldn’t want me to laugh at you if you were in my situation.”

, If you are facing social prejudices or lack of appropriate accommodations for your needs, spread the word about the discrimination going on. Many people are willing to help if they know about the situation.Get your friends to join in. Your friends, regardless of disability, should be able to help gather force around your cause. Organize a peaceful protest. Try boycotting an establishment or simply protesting outside a city hall. Remember to organize your group and arrange for any necessary permits.
Write to your local representatives. Clearly explain the situation in your community. Express how it has affected you and your well being. Finally, state what kinds of changes need to be made and suggest how they can be accomplished. 