 Certain stores like Sam’s Club enable you to save money by selling goods – including canned food – in bulk. You might have to buy a whole box of, for instance, canned peas, but the cost per can will be lower than it would be if you shopped at a regular grocery.You can often get bulk deals on a smaller scale at regular grocery stores. For instance, if you buy three cans of peas, you might pay one dollar per can, for a total of three dollars. But if you buy just one can of peas, you might pay $1.50 for a single can.
Check the prices of canned goods as you shop, with an eye toward canned food that declines in price as you buy more.;
, Many grocery stores issue coupon sheets to local residents. You may also be able to obtain coupons by visiting your local grocery store and looking for a coupon sheet available near the front of the store.Sign up for the “Shopper’s Club,” “Rewards Club,” or similar program at all your local grocery stores to ensure you receive the most up-to-date advertisement sheets in the mail or email.You might also be able to find useful coupons to save money on canned food through sites like Groupon.
 If you see canned foods you’re interested in on sale, buy them. Taking advantage of sales is a great way to save on canned food. Some stores have special sections where discounted goods are available.Pay attention to sales advertised on television and in your local paper to identify sales where you could save money on canned food.
 Just like fresh foods, canned foods have peak selling seasons. Cranberry sauce, for instance, will cost more around Thanksgiving and Christmas. To save money, avoid buying canned foods that are in-season., Store brands – as opposed to name brands – are always cheaper. But when it comes to quality, there is rarely any difference. Check the lower shelves to locate store-brand canned food.Store brand canned food is often obtained from the same producer that name brands use. Both the store brand and the name brand just slap their own labels on the products and charge different prices.
 Family-size cans are larger than regular cans, but are less expensive per unit of weight. Buying family-size cans, therefore, can save you money.Invest in a set of sturdy plastic storage containers so you can store your leftovers easily, especially, if you won’t be using your entire family-size canned food at once.

