 Facebook has offered a great opportunity of introducing your business and engaging with your customers through its business page feature. You can create a Facebook page for your business and publish the offers and discounts related to your products or services to attract new customers. Your customers can buy your featured products or services directly from your page, and you can provide excellent customer support to make them more engaged in your business.


Go and create your business page at www.facebook.com/pages/create. You must have a Facebook account and need to log into create a page from your account.
Choose a categorized box to start creating your page. After choosing a box matching your business type, select your business category and type your business name and other contact information in the required fields.
Click “Settings” at the top left corner of your page, and edit all the necessary information about your business such as “About,” “Address,” “Description,” “Products,” “Website,” and “Contacts.”
Post regular updates about your products or services on your page to make your targeted audience aware of your business and increase your sales.;
, The advertising feature on Facebook is the cheapest and easiest method to meet new customers and make them buy your products or services regularly. You can create and launch your business ads on Facebook, adjusting your budget and meeting up your goals. It is a direct platform to invite people to call or come into your store and buy your products or services from home.






Create and set up your business ad. Go to www.facebook.com/ads/create to create and set up an ad to fulfill your business goal.
Choose your advertising objective. You can create an ad to increase your page likes, engage your page post, invite people to your business website, promote taking action, or claim an offer of your product or service.
Add a 1200 x 627 pixel image as a cover of the ad, and put the headline and detail information of your ad. These parts should be attractive and authentic.
Choose your targeted audience, campaign, ad set, bid, budget, and schedule for your ad. Facebook will show your ad to audiences matching your demand and budget.
Finally, choose a payment method to pay for the ad. You can use your credit card or your PayPal account. Wherever your business is, you can meet new customers and drive your sales higher using this paid ad feature of Facebook.
 You can create promo to make people buy your products or services using limited-time offers. Creating an offer related to your business sales is a feature of your business page.


Go to your business page and click on the “Offer, Event+” link on the top of the status field. Click on “Offer” from the drop-down menu.
Set up your offer page. Type the title and description of your offer in the required fields.
Upload an image to represent your offer. Select the expiration date of your offer from the drop-down calendar menu, and put the claims limit for your offer.
Remember, your offer must be available for a limited time, and the title and description part of your offer must contain a fixed off percentage of the total purchase.
 Creating a business community group is the best platform to discuss about your product or service and know your customer’s feedback. You must provide excellent customer support to satisfy buyers’ demand and inquiry instantly. Create a group and build up your customer community to make an active discussion forum related to the service you provide.


Click on the “Create a group” link below the “Group” tab on the left bar of your Facebook home page to begin setting up your business community.
Type your group name, and chose the privacy method of your group from the radio buttons. Click on “Create” and choose an icon to create your business group.
Enter the information about your business products or services in “Add a description” field, and upload an attractive group cover photo representing your business. Now invite and add people to your business group and encourage them to start an active discussion.
Post questions and polls regarding your product or service on your group page to start the discussion. Encourage others to post questions and comments about your product or service. You can also create a business event on your group to make your audience engaged physically. The customers will be satisfied with your provided support, and this will make them buy your product or service frequently.
 You can use your business page to invite people to buy your products or services directly from Facebook. Provide detailed information about your product and steps to buy the product on this platform.


Post pictures and videos offering a particular product of your business with detail information; this way, people will know what your product looks like and can decide whether to buy it or not.
Post links of your business website on your Facebook page as a referral link to follow and buy a product easily.
Identify your customers’ interests about your products and offer them those products that interest them. You should modify your business products according to the reviews, interests, and demands of your customers.
Set up a printable “Voucher” tab on your business-landing page so customers can buy your product or service directly from your page or claim a discount from your physical store.
 You can directly call people to action by launching short and tailored messages regarding your products and services. Add only posts related to your product or service feature, along with an official web link.


Use short phrases to launch such messages. For example, “Download,” “Buy now,” “Collect your copy,” “Shop now,” “Sign up,” etc. People like to see short messages and find their desired product quickly and easily.
 You can arrange different contests on several topics and announce a prize to the winner. This will make people interested to participate in your contest and use your launched products more. It is a great opportunity to introduce your products or services to your customers to rapidly increase your sales.


Decide the platform of arranging a contest. You can organize a Facebook contest using either “Timeline contest” or “Apps-based contest.” A “Timeline contest” is easier, and you can organize it from your business page using the “Offer/Event” button at the top of the post field. You can simply offer a contest of liking a post, commenting on a post, or posting on your page. On the other hand, you can choose a contest app to customize your contest in ways that are more attractive.
Use a Facebook app for organizing your contest. Moreover, you can use some external apps for your contest such as “Agora pulse” at http://www.agorapulse.com and “Kontest App” at http://kontestapp.com. Go to these apps pages and connect your Facebook page to launch a contest.
You must offer an attractive prize to the winner and tell the methods of participating on contest. As a prize, it is better to offer a discount coupon on your product selling. Likewise, for entry method, you had better attach a survey, questionnaire, or quiz related to your product or service.
Set up your contest. You must follow the official rules of organizing a contest. Set an appropriate definition and particular starting and ending date, and the designation of the winner.
Promote & share your contest to make it successful. Send emails to the users or share your contest on other social media platforms to let the people know about it.
 People do not like to hear only about business. Besides posting the features of your products, you need to share useful tips and guidelines with people.


Post a tip or guideline on your business page. The intention of the post should be to help people to do a particular stuff.
Check people’s comments on your post and reply with the proper solution for it. In your comment, you can recommend a particular product or service from your business as a practical method. Remember, you should not force people to use your product or service in that case.
Help people buy your product or service if they become interested. Your offered customer service can double your sales.

