 Laying out some newspaper or an old sheet will help trap any dirt that might burst from the bag during the removal process. This is a useful step for older vacuums, and vacuums whose bags are extremely full.

You may also want to keep your trash can close by to avoid dragging dirt or other debris through the house.;
, Either zip your vacuum’s bag chamber open, or remove the plastic top to access the bag. Most upright vacuums have a zip closure, while most hose-attachment vacuums use a plastic receptacle to house the vacuum bag., To determine how full (and messy) your job will be, check your bag for bulging. If there is no bulge at all to your bag, a full vacuum may not be the cause of your vacuum’s troubles. If there is a slight bulge at the bottom of the bag, or the bag is bulging almost to full capacity, it is time to replace the bag.


If your bag is extremely full, you may need to manually remove dirt and debris from the chamber connecting to your bag.
 The manner in which you do this will depend on your vacuum’s make and model. Most have a cardboard covering that attaches to a small, circular opening. You may need to remove a clip to remove the bag, or you may be able to simply twist the bag free. Check your specific brand’s instruction manual for further instruction.Although newer models usually have a seal that clicks into place once a vacuum bag is removed, old vacuums typically do not. To minimize dirt escaping, you can place duct tape or another adhesive over the bag’s opening.
 Disposable bags should not be emptied and reused, as they are intended for single use and may not hold up under multiple uses. Once you have removed the old bag, place it into the garbage.While it may be tempting to make each bag stretch further, emptying and reusing disposable bags has been linked to a decrease in performance.
 Place a new bag in the exact same place, repinning any clips or switches that were in place when you removed the bag. Some vacuums have a mechanism to keep the bag firmly in place, while others rely upon gravity to keep the bag from moving around., Close up the body of your vacuum, and you are ready to once again get cleaning. If, after replacing the bag, the vacuum makes an odd noise or does not suck as it should, reopen the chamber and make sure you have replaced the bag properly.