 Provided you can recognize what a sunflower seedling looks like, you can remove sprouting sunflowers by hand removal or by hoeing. Hoeing works well on a dry day as any seedlings you uproot will dry out and die before they can re-root.


A sunflower seedling has a small stem and two green, oval shaped leaves at the very top of the stem. In a week, it will have four leaves, all pointing out from the center of the stem, almost like the top of a helicopter.
 It isn’t recommended to try burning away seedlings as this is a dangerous method of removal but some gardeners risk it anyway.


This is especially unwise in dry conditions or near any flammable materials, such as a wooden fence.
 Perennial sunflowers naturally regrow year after year from the same plant. These have deeper roots than annual sunflowers and the roots have tubers and rhizomes attached. You’ll see perennial sunflowers emerge in the early spring, which is a bit sooner than annuals. Perennial sunflowers spread via their roots as well as via seed, so you need to dig the roots up to be rid of the plant completely.It’s best to burn the root mass or put it out with the trash rather than compost it as it may regrow.
 Annual sunflowers will self-seed (scatter their seeds which will regrow the following year) if left to do so. Birds will also help scatter the seeds by feeding from the seed head. It’s best to cut back the flowers immediately after the blooms are past their prime.If the plant still has other flower heads that are coming out, try to remove old blooms by cutting off the spent flower heads where they join the plant. This allows you to enjoy the other flowers as they emerge.
 Once all the flowers are spent, cut the stalk of the annual to about knee height. This allows you to pull the remaining stalk out of the ground.


If you aren’t bothered about leaving a woody root mass in the ground and don’t intend to pull it, you should cut it off as close to the ground as possible.
 Sunflowers are ‘hungry’ plants that will absorb a lot of nutrients from the soil. Other plants that you put in the same spot may miss out on nutrition if you do not restore the soil.


Use an improver such as compost or well-rotted manure before you replant the area. Do this immediately after removing the sunflowers. Try to do this in the fall before the ground gets too cold.

