 Simply block out the visuals of the movie when you anticipate a scary part coming. You can simply close your eyes or cover them with your hand, hat, hood, or a blanket.


If you want to be subtle, try feigning a slow blink, for which you just close your eyes for a few seconds at a time. You can also block your eyes with a low hood or hat to appear like you’re still watching when you’re really not.Pay attention to the cues that the movie gives you to indicate that a big scare, called a jump scare, is coming. Listen for ominous music or look for when a protagonist is alone or in the dark, seemingly safe for the moment., Block out the sound of the soundtrack to make the visuals of the movie a little less scary. Often the music is what makes a scary scene more of a dramatic surprise.


Plug your ears with your fingers at the moment you anticipate a scary part. Remember to listen for the music starting to get creepy, but you can block out the sound once you anticipate it starting to build to a big scare.
If you don’t want those around you to know that you’re blocking the sound out, try wearing earbud headphones or earplugs throughout the movie. You can hide them with your hair, a hat, or a hood. Just remember that this can block all the sound around you, and you may not hear your friends if they try to talk to you.
 Tell your friends or family a simple excuse to leave the room or theater when you anticipate a scary part coming up. Get up to use the bathroom or get a snack, for example.


Make sure you don’t use the same excuse too many times during the movie, or be gone for too long at a time. Actually bring back a snack if you say you’re going to get one; do your best to make it realistic.
You can even look up online databases that tell you at what point in the movie a jump scare will come, so you know exactly when to make your exit., Have a snack, drink, or chew gum to keep yourself occupied and keep your jaw relaxed. Play with something small in your hands to keep them occupied as well.


You can try squeezing a stress ball, fiddling with a small toy or item, or something else that helps you release some of your nervous energy while you remain mostly still.
Distract yourself further by talking and laughing with your friends during the movie, if they’re okay with doing so. It can really help to realize the silly or ridiculous parts of the movie, or simply remind yourself that your friends are real and the movie is fake.

