 Attorneys and law students can become a member online or through the mail. Membership lasts for one year, and the dues will depend on what membership level you choose. You can download the brochure, which includes an application, here: https://nationalimmigrationproject.org/PDFs/members/nipnlg-info-brochure.pdf. Alternately, you can visit their website and join or renew your membership. The different membership levels (and their rates) are:


Student: $40
Legal Worker/Non-Attorney: $100
Non-profit Attorney: $160
General Member: $200
Lead Sponsor Level 1: $400
Lead Sponsor Level 2: $600
Lead Sponsor Level 3: $1200;
, You can also donate money to NIPNLG by visiting the donation page at https://secure.nationalimmigrationproject.org/np/clients/nationalimmigration/donation.jsp?campaign=19&. You may log in using Facebook or Twitter, or you may create a new account if you choose.


You can donate anonymously or by providing your personal identification.
Pay using a credit card. American Express, Discover, MasterCard, and Visa are all accepted.
 The project offers many internship opportunities, as well as fellowships. Internships are based in Boston and unpaid. Currently, the National Immigration Project is seeking interns in law, communications, and resource development. Send your cover letter, writing sample, and resume to the contact provided on the Project’s website.The Project also has fellowships, which are generally located in Boston as well. If you are interested, you can contact NIPNLG for more information.
 The National Lawyers Guild is the umbrella organization that runs the National Immigration Project. By supporting the NLG, you indirectly support the Immigration Project and all of the important work the Guild performs. If you become a member of the National Immigration Project, you are eligible to become a member of the NLG at a special discounted rate (currently $50).Visit this website: https://www.nlg.org/join/

Click on New NIP/NPAP Member and then provide your personal information.
You can pay with Visa or MasterCard.
Your membership dues are not tax-deductible. To make a tax-deductible donation, you should donate to the National Lawyers Guild Foundation.
 You can contribute money without becoming a member. Visit https://www.nlg.org/donate/nlgf/. You can make a one-time donation or a recurring monthly donation. Pay with either Visa or MasterCard. Contributions to the NLG Foundation are tax-deductible.


You can also contribute money by mail. Send a check to National Lawyers Guild Foundation, 132 Nassau Street #922, New York, NY 10038.
 You can support the National Lawyers Guild Foundation by giving stock or shares of mutual funds. In exchange, you save on your capital gains taxes.Contact nlgfoundation@nlg.org for more information.
 You can name the National Lawyers Guild Foundation as a primary or secondary beneficiary on your life insurance policy.As a secondary beneficiary, the NLGF will receive the proceeds if your primary beneficiary dies before you or at the same time., You can leave the National Lawyers Guild Foundation assets in your will or trust. You should also explicitly state how you want the assets used. If you don’t, then generally the NLG will use your gift for the benefit of the entire organization. However, if you are a member of a particular chapter, then 40% of your gift will go to the chapter and 60% will go to the NLG Foundation.


Include the following language in your will or trust: “I give the National Lawyers Guild Foundation, Inc. (Federal Tax ID #13-3336640), a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization with its principal offices currently at 132 Nassau St., Ste 922, New York, NY 10038, the sum of $2,500 to be used in such a manner as the Board of Directors for the National Lawyers Guild Foundation shall in its sole discretion determine.”If you want to restrict the gift, then change the above language. For example, you can state that the gift shall be “used to support the National Lawyers Guild New York Chapter.”
You should call 212-679-5100 ext. 16 if you have questions. You can also email nlgfoundation@nlg.org.
 There are tax advantages to giving stock or making a gift through your will or trust. To fully understand these consequences, you should meet with an estate planning attorney. He or she can also revise your will or trust to reflect your preferences.


You can get a referral to an estate planning attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Also see Select an Estate Planning Attorney for more information.

