 This method involves using an electrical flow to clean your coins. Wrap your coin in aluminum foil, but live the foil open around the edges a little bit. Pour malt vinegar into a shallow container and submerge the coin for 30 to 60 seconds. An electrical flow is created from the metal and the chemicals. Unwrap the coin and rub with your fingers to remove the debris. If the coin is very dirty, you may have to submerge it multiple times.You can also build an electrolysis machine using a battery/transformer, a wire, a tank, and a chemical solution.However, this is dangerous and is not recommended.There is a high probability of damaging your coin if you use this method., Chemicals can be used if your coin is heavily encrusted or has lime deposits. Be cautious when using chemicals to clean your coins. There is a higher chance of damaging your coin. Coca-cola, lemon juice, Noxon brass polish,, vinegar, and commercial bathroom cleaners (e.g. Lime-A-Way)are options. Let the coin sit in the chemicals for only a few minutes and then remove the coin and brush with a toothbrush. Test the chemicals with cheaper coins to see how long it take before the coin begins to erode. This can help you gauge how to treat your ancient coins.


Vinegar and lemon juice are less harsh than other acids. Dilute the lemon juice with 50% distilled water and let the coins soak for 10 minutes.Chemicals should be used as a last resort.
 Soak your coins in Calgon Water Softener to clean the coins. You can dilute the solution or use full strength solution. This will depend on the condition of your coin. Coins can be left in the solution anywhere from 1 day to 2 weeks. You must scrub the coin with a toothbrush every day when using Calgon. Check the coins to make sure that it is not being stripped by the solution., A professional coin cleaner is most qualified to clean your coins without damaging them.The cleaner will be able to evaluate your coin and determine the safest and best techniques. Professional coin cleaners can be found through the Numismatic Conservation Services website.Your coins will lose value after they have been cleaned. It is best to take your coin to a professional cleaner.