 There’s a good chance the owner has already picked up a dog collar, but even if so, check to see if they also got a dog tag. If not, choose between creating a tag with the dog’s information (which can then be attached to the existing collar), or ordering a customized collar (where the tag is part of the collar itself). This is a good idea even if the dog already has a tag with its name and the owner’s phone number, but lacks other crucial info.In addition to the name and phone number, dog tags should indicate any special needs the dog may have, such as “NEEDS MEDS DAILY” or “BLIND & DEAF.” Including such information could help the owner breathe a little easier in the event that the dog gets loose.
People change phone numbers, too, and may forget to update the dog’s tags to reflect this.
Dog tags can be created at many pet stores. Customized collars can be ordered online.
 If the owner hasn’t done this already, offer to pay for having the dog microchipped as a backup to the dog’s tags in case it gets lost and loses it collar. This involves the owner taking it to a vet or animal shelter and having them implant a microchip just below its skin. Then they fill in the corresponding paperwork regarding the pet’s name and special needs, as well as the owner’s contact info. Once completed, this is then submitted to the microchip company’s registry, along with the designated fee.Once the dog is microchipped and registered, other vets and animal shelters can scan the chip to find out who the owner is and how to get in touch with them.
Some companies may only charge an initiation fee. Others may charge a renewal fee to keep the dog registered from year to year.
 If the owner lets their dog run around off-leash, or if the dog has a flair for escaping, help the owner keep tabs on it even when it’s out of sight. Purchase a collar with a GPS tracker built inside. Enable the owner to locate it through a corresponding app on their smartphone., Unless the owner stays at home most of the time and/or brings the dog wherever they go, enable them to keep an eye on things even when they’re out of the house. Decide between a variety of cameras that will allow them to keep tabs on what the dog is up to. Options include:One-way cameras like Nest Cam, which allow you to watch over the dog from a smartphone or other device.
Interactive devices like PetChatz, whose app allows you to calm anxious dogs from afar by emitting calming scents, releasing dog treats, or even interacting with the dog through a video display.
Dog’s-eye cameras, which can be attached to their collar and played back later.