

Disconnect any light fixtures or ceiling fans in the way. Make sure to detach the wires as well.
Remove leftover paint. Sand areas that aren't level. Repair cracks with spackling paste.
Cover the opening with cardboard or tape to protect the wires.;
,

Wallpapering a ceiling with intricately patterned wallpaper can be difficult if you're trying to match it to existing wallpaper on the walls.
Make sure the wallpaper you buy is neither too heavy nor too light. Cheap wallpaper is often too light and will tear when attempting to lift it to the ceiling. Heavy wallpaper can be a problem because it is difficult to maneuver above you.


Mark with a pencil the width of each section of wallpaper minus 2 inches (5.08 cm). For example, if each wallpaper segment is 12 inches (30.5 cm) wide, you would make a mark along the ceiling every 10 inches (25.4 cm). This ensures proper overlap.


Measure the length of your ceiling and add 3 inches (7.62 cm) to each end.
If the room you are wallpapering is not a perfect square or rectangle, you will need to take additional measurements.


Pre-pasted wallpaper need only soak in water before application.
For unpasted wallpaper, you must first mix the paste. Place the section of wallpaper into the paste and create pleats after the back surface is covered.
Wait a few minutes before applying either pre-pasted wallpaper or unpasted wallpaper, as the paste and water need time to settle.


Place your ladder in a convenient location and carefully climb up with one end of the wallpaper in your hands.
Your partner should be standing on the ground holding the bulk of the pleated wallpaper. He or she will be feeding the paper to you as you apply.
Begin in the corner, facing the wall. Place the edge of the paper into that corner and line the other end up with your marks from earlier. Leave a few inches of length for trimming.
Once the end is secure, use a brush to flatten out the wallpaper. Locate and brush out air pockets as they form.
Move along the length of the wall as your partner feeds you more paper.
,

If you are hanging wallpaper on the walls next, you can skip this step.
