 Search job postings to see if anyone is hiring your skill set, but sometimes it can be difficult finding jobs that are out and actively recruiting. There are times when it is best to inquire directly with a desired company as to whether they have any room for your unique set of skills. Figure out which one you are writing the letter for.


Do research on the company so you can know exactly what it is they do, stand for, and could be looking for in a new employee. This will also help you to tailor your letter to highlight skills that they value.
Look up employee reviews of the business. You can get a good sense of the work culture and see if it is a good fit for you. If you are laid-back, it might not be a good idea if you see that the company has a strict way of dealing with deadlines. Be wary if you only see good reviews without any of constructive criticism. That could be false advertising initiated by the company themselves.;
, The proper way to format the heading is in the top, left corner. Include your name and contact information such as address, email, and phone number. Beneath that, have the name and contact information for who you are writing to.


Use a clear, legible font. In the professional world is it best to stick with a clear, concise one such as Times New Roman, Arial, or Calibri., It is best to have Dear Mr., Ms., or Mrs. followed by the name of the hiring manager. Do your research to find the name of whoever is in charge of hiring or who your letter will hit first. If you cannot find the name, address the letter to Whom It May Concern.
 This is the company’s introduction to you, so make sure to put your best foot forward. Say what position you are applying for and where you saw the job. Also, mention if you were referred by another employee or professional contact. Highlight the skills that are relevant to the position.


Keep your writing clear and concise. Companies do not want to have to read long, verbose letters. They want to see at a glance whether or not you will be a good fit for their company.
 This is where you can expand on your skills, where you acquired them and, and how these will be an asset to the company. If you are working off of a job description, make sure to address the specific qualifications they have outlined. If you do not have a description, work off of the research you have about the company and what you think would suit their needs.


Include how you would fit in at the company. If you know the job culture, it would be good to say some things about yourself that shows that you would easily assimilate with the company.
Focus on what you can do for them. Do not say what the company will personally bring you. That will sound like you are just using the company as a stepping stone. Even if this is the case, you should not let this be known. Everything you say should emphasise what you can do for them.
 This is where you thank them for their time in reviewing your letter. You should state that you are available for an interview at their convenience. If you plan on following up with a phone call, let them know in this paragraph.


Give a proper closing salutation. Best regards or Cordially work well for a professional letter., You want to make sure that this letter gets into the right hands and is not lost in all the other mail the company receives.
 If the company turns you down for an interview, ask them why. That could be constructive reasons to consider for the next time you apply to a similar job. You might be able to reapply to the job when you have more experience that they are looking for or at a time when they are actually actively hiring.

