 A pair of Blue Rams will do best in a tank that is at least 20 gallons (75.7 L). If you add other fish or other cichlid pairs, then you’ll need to boost the tank size up to 30 or 40 gallons (110 or 150 L). The general rule is to allot one gallon of tank water per one inch of full-grown fish.Remember that German Blue Ram Cichlids can grow to be 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) at maturity.
Overcrowding is not a problem to be taken lightly. It can stress your fish out, making them more prone to illness. It can also lead to increased aggressiveness and even starvation.
 Cichlids are accustomed to tropical waters and they require consistent water temps of 76–85 °F (24.4–29.4 °C). A heater can be used to regulate your tank's temperature. An aquarium light improves tank visibility. Many people choose to purchase an aquarium hood that includes a built-in light and heater.


Whatever lighting setup you choose, German Blue Ram Cichlids do best with light during the daytime. So, turn on your tank light on in the morning and off when you go to bed. However, if the tank gets a good amount of natural sunlight, you may be able to lower your tank light time to 2-3 hours.Monitor the tank temperature via a stick-on thermometer.
 This is the base material that covers the floor of your tank. Blue Rams prefer sand or gravel, as they mirror a Ram’s natural habitat. Make sure to rinse your substrate out before adding, otherwise it will make your tank appear murky. Add at least 2 inches (5.1 cm) of sand or gravel at the bottom of the tank and spread it out evenly., Blue Rams do best in a complex habitat with a number of good hiding spaces. Be sure to include plants, rocks, caves, and driftwood in your tank. These items will make water changes more of a hassle, but will improve the health of your cichlids in the long term.


Place larger plants on the outer perimeter of the tank. Make sure to leave swimming space in between and an open area in the middle of the tank. The Dwarf Amazon Sword and Brazilian Water Ivy are two plants that Blue Rams enjoy.Rocks and caves provide spaces for Blue Rams to escape from other fish. Blue Rams are naturally shy, so you will often see them seek out solitude. They will also hide from the breeding partners.A good selection of driftwood pieces can help regulate the pH level, provide great hiding spaces, and serve as a plant anchor. Make sure to buy your driftwood from a pet store, as this will ensure that is safe for aquarium use. You may notice some water yellowing after adding driftwood, this is perfectly normal and can be remedied via regular water changes.