 Many operas are approximately three hours long. You don’t want to ruin your experience by having your stomach growl throughout.
 Although an evening at the opera is a special event, you do not need to wear tuxedos or fine furs to fit in with the audience.


Unless it is opening night or a gala, many people wear cocktail dresses or suits to performances.More casual attire, such as dresses or sport jackets, are often worn to matinees. Many opera houses request that you not overdo it on cologne or perfume, so that performers and other guests are not affected by it., Your evening will be much more enjoyable if you are not rushing to enter before the curtain rises.


Be sure to have a location in mind for parking, or take public transportation if available.
Doors at most opera houses open 45 minutes to an hour before curtain time.By arriving early, you can explore grandeur of the setting, as most opera houses are extremely ornate.
You may also be able to pre-order your drinks for intermission, thus avoiding long lines.If you did not bring opera glasses, you may be able to rent them at your venue before the opera begins.Check to see whether your opera house offers tours or talks before the performance, such as at the San Francisco Opera.If you arrive after the performance has started, you will not be allowed to enter the theater until a break in the action or until after the first act., If you did not receive one prior to the performance, buy a program to give you a synopsis of the opera you are about to see.


The program will also feature the performers of the opera and give you more information about the production.
 The opera is an acoustic event , meaning that no microphones aid the performance. Thus, it is extremely important to remain as quiet as possible during the opera.


Turn off cell phones or pagers before the performance.
Refrain from opening candy or gum wrappers.
Do not talk during the performance.
 Nearly all major opera companies in the United States use supertitles, which project the line-by-line translation above the stage so you can follow along.The supertitles will help you understand the performance in real time.
Don’t worry about reading every supertitle. The emotions that drive the plot are apparent in the music., Because operas are lengthy, they feature at least one intermission per production, typically 20–25 minutes long.This is a good time to stretch your legs or use the restroom facilities.
You can also enjoy a drink or light snack at most venues.
Chimes often sound before the performance begins again to warn you that intermission is almost finished., The vocalists, musicians, and set designers put a lot of work into staging an opera production. Let them know their hard work is appreciated.


It is common to clap at the end of significant arias and at the final curtain call.Feel free to yell “Bravo!” for male performers and “Brava!” for female performers. Alternately, you can yell “Bravi!” for everyone., While it may be fun to include your children in your opera outing, it may not be wise depending on several factors.


Because of adult themes, some operas are not suitable for children. You should inquire with the opera house to see whether the production is recommended for children before buying their ticket.
Some opera companies, such as The Dallas Opera, recommend that children younger than 6 do not attend their main performances. Check about any age policies as well.

