 Before you apply to graduate school, you will need to research the type of graduate school you would like to enter. There are many schools out there, but you will want to look for a school that will help you focus on what specific career you are looking for. For example:


If you are looking for a school you can do research, you may want to look into RI institutions, which are ranked the best for research.If you want to specifically work in counseling and prevention, you should consider a school that offers specific clinicals or internships.
If you want to teach child psychology, consider entering a school with an emphasis in pedagogy and teaching.
 You need to call on your old connections to ask if they would be willing to write you a letter of recommendation. These connections should be people that can reflect on your academic, professional, or personal merit.


You may consider asking old professors, primary investigators (from labs), advisors, or employers (if applicable).
 Many graduate schools require a statement of purpose/intent for their applications. These statements ask you to specifically articulate why you want to enter the program and what you will bring to the school.
 Some graduate schools will require you take the GRE, which is a general graduate school examination (similar to the ACT/SAT for undergraduates). As of 2015, the MCAT, traditionally used for medical school, added psychology and sociology to their tests. Your school of choice will more than likely have a preference on which you will need to take.Both the GRE and the MCAT have test prep materials on their websites. Often, when you sign up for these tests, you will have an opportunity to take practice tests.
 After you have your materials together, it is time to apply to graduate school. This process can be daunting, but it helps immensely if you have prepared your materials in advance. Here are common requirements for graduate school applications:Statement of intent/purpose
Writing sample
Letters of recommendation (usually 3)
High school and undergraduate transcripts
GRE/MCAT scores
FASFA information
TESOL/TEFOL information (if applicable)

, Just like undergraduate, you will want to make connections to cohorts and mentors alike. They can really help you secure a job or help you with whatever you may struggle with. In graduate school, work can sometimes be overwhelming, take advantage of:


Departmental meet-and-greets
Opportunities to present research
University programs specifically for graduate students (for example, Graduate Student Senate or a graduate student psychology group)
Invited presentations/lectures

, Graduate programs should have some way to help you obtain a job when you graduate. This might be required professional development including clinical work or internships. Or, you might have an opportunity to do laboratory work with a mentor or professor.


Always keep an eye out for these opportunities, even if they are not mandatory, as they can go a long way in helping you to secure a job.

