 Apply a light coat of cooking spray to the bottom of the pan, then set the pan on the stove over medium-high heat.


To keep this recipe as low-calorie as possible, consider using a low-calorie cooking spray. Normal cooking spray will also work, however.;
, Place the chopped onion and minced garlic in the hot pan. Stir-fry for about 2 minutes, or until the garlic deepens in color and becomes more aromatic.


The onion may also release a stronger scent during this time, but use the garlic as your guide. If you overcook the garlic at this stage, it could ruin the taste of the finished dish.
 Place the bite-sized pieces of chicken and chunks of bell pepper in the pan with the onions and garlic. Continue cooking, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes or until the chicken lightly browns on all sides.


You can use red, yellow, or green bell peppers for this recipe, or opt to use all three. Keep in mind that red and yellow peppers tend to be slightly sweeter than green ones.
 In a separate bowl, whisk together the tomato paste, tomato passata (or tomato puree), Worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, parsley, basil, thyme, and chicken broth/stock. Pour the diet cola over the mixed ingredients and stir lightly to combine.


Note that tomato passata is ideal for this recipe, but it's an ingredient commonly found across the United Kingdom and Europe and rarely found in the United States. Canned tomato puree (U.S. variety) will work as a substitute,but for an even better substitute, puree an equivalent can of diced tomatoes in your blender or food processor until smooth.Also note that tomato paste in the United States is called tomato puree in the United Kingdom., Add the mixed sauce to the other ingredients in the pan. Stir well to combine and bring the sauce to a boil.
 Reduce the heat to medium-low and cover the pan. Allow the dish to cook at a low simmer for about 15 minutes, stirring it every few minutes to prevent it from burning to the bottom of the pan.
 Stir the snap peas into the rest of the ingredients in the pan and increase the heat to medium or medium-high. Allow the dish to continue cooking for about 10 minutes.


Leave the pan uncovered and stir the contents every few minutes. Note that the sauce should begin a gentle boil.
When finished, the chicken should be cooked through and the vegetables should be very tender. The sauce should also become slightly thicker., Transfer the chicken to individual serving dishes and enjoy it while it's still hot. You can serve it alongside rice, pasta, or potato wedges.

