 You’ll need to be using the Google Chrome web browser to use Bitmoji on your computer., It’s the large black button at the bottom of the page., Once the installation is complete, you’ll see the Bitmoji icon (a green winking chat bubble) at the top-right corner of Chrome., You have a few options:

Select Log in with Facebook to sign in using your Facebook account. You’ll be asked to log in to Facebook if you’re not already signed in.
Click Sign Up with Email to create an account that’s not connected to a social media network.
Sign in with a username and password. If you already have a Bitmoji account, enter your login information to access Bitmoji.
 You can customize every aspect of your character’s appearance, including facial shape and features, hair, makeup, accessories, and outfits.

You’ll begin by choosing a gender and selecting either Bitmoji or Bitstrips-style characteristics. You can get a little more detailed with Bitstrips-style (for example, you can change the hair length with this style), but Bitmoji-style is more cartoonish.
Your Bitmoji character preview will update as you select features.
When you decide on a feature, tap the right arrow to go to the next screen.
When you’re finished, click Save Avatar at the bottom of the screen.
 You can use Bitmoji on most social websites, including Facebook and Gmail., It’s the green chat bubble icon at the top-right corner of Chrome. A window containing several Bitmoji icons will appear., You can click the icons at the bottom of the Bitmoji window to move through categories. You can also click the magnifying glass icon to search for an action (e.g. dancing, hug), emotion (e.g. happy, sorry), greeting (e.g. happy birthday), and many other choices., Make sure you choose “Copy Image” and not “Copy Image Address.”, Click the box where you’d normally type, then press Ctrl+V (Windows) or ⌘ Cmd+V to paste the image into the box. Once the Bitmoji appears, click the site’s Send button., If you decide you want your character to look different, just click the Bitmoji icon in Chrome and then click the Edit icon (a person’s head with a pencil). You can select a different style (Bitmoji or Bitstrips), new features, and a different outfit.