 There is a tendency among college students to drink excessively, and this might lead others to think that drinking alcohol in large quantities is the socially accepted norm. Understanding this is the first step toward realizing that drinking should always be a choice rather than a way to conform, and you shouldn't let others dictate your personal choices and lifestyle.


Remember that social pressure can be both direct (if someone offers you a drink) or indirect (if you feel like drinking because those around you are all doing it).Once you identify these two different forms of pressure, you can learn how to deal with both by finding ways to say no or acting on your own will to curb your temptations.;
, You can inform your closer circle of friends that you have decided not to drink alcohol to avoid being offered a drink. This can help you sidestep awkward situations in which someone buys you a drink and you have to turn it down, or explain your decision each time you are in a drinking situation. For example, when you’re planning a night out with your friends you can tell them “I don’t think I’ll be drinking tonight, I’ve decided to take a break for a while”. If someone asks you to go to a club, say “I’m totally in, but I’ll take it easy and stick to soda” or make a little joke: “I’d love to come, are teetotalers allowed?”
The manner of the delivery of your explanation is important because you don't want to come across as alienating others by being condescending or judgmental.
 Being firm does not mean that you should be rude or explain why you prefer not to drink. Replying "No thanks" is enough to make your intentions clear and definitive.If you are asked why you are not drinking, provide a brief explanation as to your choice but still indicate that you recognize other people want to experiment and "have fun". For example:


"No thanks, I don't drink (often). I have some digestion issues and it's better for me to stick to soda."
"No thanks, I don't drink because of my beliefs. But I've got a great mocktail here and the night's young, so let's party!"
"Thanks but I've already had my drink for the night and I'm sticking with water from here on. I've got a research paper to complete in the morning and it's already overdue."

, It can be confronting to someone who wants to drink a lot to have someone who isn't drinking stand up for themselves. In a way, doing this in a drinking culture environment is breaking with conformity and for some people, this feels threatening. Rather than seeing their negative attitude toward you as personal, take it as a reflection of their own conflicted feelings about lacking control over alcohol consumption.
 Once you've announced clearly how you deal with alcohol, stick with it. Standing by principles and beliefs can be hard in the face of peer pressure, but learn to roll with being outside your comfort zone and remain a strong individual. And whatever you do, don't lose your cool.

