 There are two kinds of extensions: human hair and synthetic hair. Human hair is the most popular type for extensions; it's easy to look after (treat it the way you would your own hair) and essentially undetectable when properly put in place. Human hair extensions can be washed and styled like your natural hair. You can use straightening irons and curling irons or tongs on human hair and even dye it if you'd like.


Human hair extensions do not produce their own oil. Thus, they tend to be drier, frizzier, and more prone to damage. They need to be treated delicately.
Human hair is more expensive than synthetic hair and cost can run in the hundreds of dollars. Cost does not always indicate quality; however, so be sure to look and feel carefully.
Virgin hair extensions contain hair that has not been treated with chemicals or dye. They have the cuticle intact. They appear very natural. They are very expensive, however.
The ethnicity of the donor can affect the texture, volume, curl, and ability the style. For example, European hair tends to be thinner, but you can find virgin hair in natural red or blonde tones. Indian hair is much thicker, and it is great if you want a silky straight style.;
, If you're looking to add thickness, synthetic is a great way to go because it creates more volume. Synthetic hair may come already styled. Synthetic hair is also cheaper than natural human hair. That said, most synthetic hair cannot be washed. You cannot straighten or curl synthetic hair with most hot tools without ruining the hair., Unless you intentionally want extensions in a fun color such as pink, blue or purple, choose a color that most closely matches your own hair color. If you can't decide between two shades, go with the lighter one.


It can be difficult to find an exact match to your color, so if you're buying human hair, think about bringing it to your stylist to have it dyed to match your own hair color.
 The amount of hair you'll need depends on the thickness of your own hair and how much length and/or fullness you want to add.


If adding fullness only and your own hair is similar to the length of the extensions, purchase two to four ounces of hair.
If your own hair is much shorter than the length of the extensions you want, you'll need about six to eight ounces of hair to get a full, natural look.
As a general guideline, the longer the length of the extension, the more hair you'll need for a full look.
 Think about hairstyles and decide how you want your hair to fall after you have the extensions in place. This is important, as the way the hair is parted and how the extensions are placed dictates how the hairstyle will fall when it is finished.
 Dry your hair completely with a blow dryer and comb through it to ensure there are no knots or snarls.
 Part your hair at the point(s) on the head where you want to add the extension. For example, if you're sewing in an extension to add length, create a part that goes from temple to temple and/ or one that goes from the top of the left ear and across the head to the top of the right ear.









Use a mirror to help you see as you work. Since this can be extremely difficult to do on your own, you may want to ask a friend or stylist for help.
Try to get the line as even as you can. Once you do, comb up the hair above the part line and clip it into place.
Part the hair again just a tiny bit underneath your first part. You want to create a very thin "line" of hair that you'll use to make your cornrow. Take the hair below your cornrow part and secure it with a ponytail holder.

The cornrow braid will serve as the "anchor" on which the extension will be sewn.



