 Technology has led to e-readers, online newspapers, and blogs that you can read on your phone, tablet, or laptop. However, reading online or with immediate access to the internet can lead to distraction and less recall. Consider reading a physical book, newspaper, or magazine instead of a digital version.Sometimes, quickly skimming a newspaper article and clicking on the next link can lead to a lot of short bursts of information that you don’t focus on long enough to commit to memory or form thoughts.
Reading short bursts of information found on the internet can also lead to a shorter attention span. It may also affect your ability to read things in-depth.;
, Audiobooks are a great result of technology, but you can easily zone out or stop listening to an audiobook. Instead of listening to a book, try reading it out loud. You still engage your auditory senses, but engage an additional part of your brain by reading, listening, and speaking a book.Make it a family or social activity. Read a book to a child, or make your way through your novels with a friend or partner by reading them to each other.
 Instead of learning definitions, people just look them up on their phones. They also use phones to help spell. Instead of looking up a word and forgetting it immediately, look it up and commit it to memory.Learn how to spell the word, all various definitions, and any synonyms. You may keep a list of words you are learning, or make flashcards to help you review them and commit them to memory.
 Many people have exchanged talking for texting. They don't call people, and they don't visit. Instead, they text and talk on social media. This can lead to a decrease in social and verbal communication skills. Start making a point to talk to people using your voice and words instead of technology.


For example, you can call someone instead of texting them, especially if you want to have a conversation.
Consider going to dinner or getting together with people in person. Make sure you put away your cell phone and talk instead of staying on your phone.

