 If you are experiencing gum pain, try some ice therapy. You can place an ice cube or crushed ice on the gums as long as your teeth and gums aren’t sensitive to cold.Ice helps reduce inflammation and numbs the area to relieve pain.You can also crush some ice and place it into a balloon or the cut-off finger of a non-latex glove. Tie off one end and place the compress on the sore gums.
Cool foods can help relieve gum pain. The cold reduces swelling and can help numb the pain. Place slices of cool cucumber or raw potato on the gum to relieve the pain.You can also try to freeze slices of apples, bananas, mango, guava, grapes, or pineapple and place the slices on the sore gums.
 Making mouth rinses out of various products may help promote healing and help relieve gum pain. You can use these rinses three to four times a day.


Dissolve ½ teaspoon of sea salt in four ounces of warm water. Hold the solution in your mouth over the painful gum for 30 to 60 seconds. Spit it out and repeat two or three more times. Rinse with warm water.Make sure you do not swallow the saltwater.
A solution made with hydrogen peroxide may help swollen and sore gums. Mix equal parts of water and a 3% hydrogen peroxide solution. Swish in the mouth for 15 to 30 seconds.Do not swallow this solution.
Rinse your gums with apple cider vinegar. Mix ¼ cup of warm water and apple cider vinegar. Hold the rinse in your mouth over the painful gum for 30 to 60 seconds. Spit it out and repeat two to three more times. Rinse with warm water.You can also soak a cotton ball in apple cider vinegar and leave it on your sore gum for 10 minutes. Do not swallow the water-vinegar rinse.
Sage is a folk remedy used to treat inflammation. Boiling it into a tea and swishing it around your mouth may help reduce pain and inflammation of your gums.To make sage tea, start with a handful of fresh and washed sage leaves or one heaping teaspoon of dried sage. Add the sage to eight ounces of boiling water. Let the water cool. Allow the liquid to set around the painful gum for 20 to 30 seconds every time you gargle.
Other herbal remedies include wormwood, chamomile, and aloe. Speak with your doctor before using any natural treatments, as they can have negative interactions with other medications you may be taking or certain conditions.
 Massaging your gums may provide some relief. To massage your gums, use a clean finger and gently make a circular motion on top of the sore gum and as much at the sides as you can. Rub clockwise for 15 rotations, then counter-clockwise for an additional 15 rotations. Do not massage vigorously or press too hard.Repeat the massage at least three to four times daily.
Massaging your gums can help with sore gums from wisdom teeth. A gum massage can help erupting wisdom teeth ease through the gums while helping to relieve some of the pain.
 Heat packs rarely work for gum pain, but sometimes they do work for some people. If you find that heat may be helpful, you can make a heat press and apply it to your sore gums three to four times a day.Try using a small piece of cloth soaked with warm water. You can also soak the cloth in one of the teas listed for relief.
You can also use a warm tea bag. Soak an anti-inflammatory herbal tea bag in warm water. Place the tea bag over the gums and let it stay there for about five minutes. Repeat two to three times a day.Try using clove tea, goldenseal tea, echinacea tea, sage tea, and green or black tea., Sometimes, gum pain is caused by food pieces trapped between your teeth. To help relieve gum pain from trapped food pieces, use a piece of floss to clean near the gum and remove the trapped particle., There are a number of different oils that can provide relief for gum pain. Most of the oils listed are both anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial oils, so they can reduce swelling, inflammation, and help prevent infection. You can massage your gums up to four or five times a day with essential oils to help relieve pain and swelling. Clove oil has been found to be the most effective essential oil in relieving gum pain. You can rub it directly onto your gum.There are other essential oils that are helpful for gum pain. Try massaging your gums with the addition of a few drops of the following oils:Warm olive oil
Warm vanilla extract
Tea tree oil
Clove oil
Peppermint oil
Cinnamon oil
Sage oil
Goldenseal oil
Coconut Oil

, Garlic, ginger, and onions are anti-inflammatory agents that help reduce gum inflammation.These foods also are known to relieve pain. Using them on sore gums or making them into a paste can help reduce pain.


Cut a piece of onion or garlic and place it directly onto the tooth above the painful gums. Gently bite to release the juice. Afterwards, you may want to try a mint or two or brush your teeth.Cut a slice of fresh ginger and place it on the painful gums. You can gently bite down on the ginger as well. Be aware that the taste may be strong and spicy.
 Turmeric and asafetida are used as cooking spices in Indian foods; however, turmeric is known for its medicinal properties, such as being antimicrobial and an anti-inflammatory.It comes as a powdered resin or as a lump of resin and can be found in Indian stores and markets.


Mix one teaspoon of turmeric with ½ teaspoon of salt and ½ teaspoon of mustard oil. Rub this paste onto your gums twice a day to help with gum pain.
Take ¼ teaspoon of the powder and mix it with enough fresh lemon juice to make a paste. Apply the paste directly onto the sore gums. Leave the paste on for around five minutes. Repeat two to three times daily. Notice if your teeth develop a stain or discoloration that does not go away after brushing — you will want to stop using the paste if this occurs.
It has a bitter taste and an unpleasant odor that is masked somewhat by the lemon juice. However, you may find it useful to rinse well after using the paste.

