 Google forms are useful for planning events, making surveys, or collecting information in a streamlined manner. If you are not currently logged on with a Gmail account, you will need to log on before you can continue.


You can share the forms with other people, allow people to complete a form online and collect all the responses in a spreadsheet.
 Google Forms opens a new form. There are two main tabs at the top of the form – Questions and Responses.
 For each question, you need to write the question and state what type of answer you expect. If this is the first time you are creating a form, you can use the Take Tour button to familiarize yourself with the options available. You can include 9 different types of questions in your form.Use Short answer when you want the answer to be one or two words.
Use Paragraph when you want the answer to be one or more sentences. For example, your question might be ‘What are the benefits of exercising regularly?’.
Use Multiple choice when you want the answer to be one of a list of several options. For example, ‘Which sport do you enjoy most?’ Provide a list of sports to choose from. Each item in the list appears in the form next to a small round button.
Use Checkboxes when you want multiple answers from a list of several options. For example, ‘Which sports do you enjoy?’ Provide a list of sports to choose from. Each item in the list appears in the form next to a small square.
Use Dropdown when you want the answer to be a selection from a menu. For example, ‘Which season is most popular for your favorite sport?’ Provide a list seasons. The list appears in the form as a drop down box with the first season visible.
Use Linear Scale when you want the answer to rate the options on a numerical scale. For example, ‘How interested are you in the NFL?’ A scale question appears in the form showing a scale of 1 to 5. You can increase or decrease the scale when you create the question. The maximum scale is 1 to 10.
Use Multiple Choice Grid when you want several answers to a question. For example, ‘Which months do you play which sports?’ Provide a list of months as the rows and a list of sports as the columns. A multiple-choice grid question appears in the form as a grid with the row items listed vertically and the column items listed horizontally.
Use Date when you want the answer to be a specific date.
Use Time when you want the answer to be a specific time.
 Click on the Responses tab to display the available choices. Choose either Create a New Spreadsheet or Select existing spreadsheet.


If you create a new spreadsheet, give it a name and click Create. Google links the new spreadsheet to the form. When people fill out the form, Google puts the answers to the questions in the spreadsheet. Each answer appears with a timestamp.
If you select an existing spreadsheet, you can choose any spreadsheet you have already created. Google links the existing spreadsheet to the form. Note that if you do this, Google will reformat the existing spreadsheet. The questions in the form appear as column titles.

