 Before you even consider washing your velvet clothing, make sure to read the label. If it says “dry clean only,” take it to a dry cleaner to ensure that the piece isn’t damaged. If the label only says “dry clean” then it means that dry cleaning is the preferred way to wash velvet, not the only way.


Take the velvet article to a dry cleaner if you have any doubts. This can save a cherished article of velvet clothing from irreparable damage.Consider washing any velvet with a tag that says “dry clean.” This article may not be a pure velvet and can withstand hand-washing or even the gentle cycle of your machine. For example, crushed velvet and polyester velvets are usually fine to hand- or machine wash.;
, The safest and most effective way to wash velvet is to dry clean it. You can choose to dry clean your velvet at home or take it to a professional dry cleaner.


Consider getting a commercially available home dry cleaning kit if you are worried about the cost of using a professional dry cleaner. Make sure to read the product’s instructions before dry cleaning your velvet at home. Most products have a hotline that you can call if you have any questions.
Take your velvet article to a professional dry cleaner. Remember that most dry cleaners have been trained to handle delicate fabrics like velvet. Ask your cleaner any questions you may have and make sure to point out problem spots., If your clothing item is crushed or polyester velvet, you can either throw it in the washing machine or wash it by hand in a sink or tub. Washing the article yourself can save money on dry cleaning and may be just as effective as a professional.Make sure to read the label before you start. If you have any misgivings about washing the item yourself, err on the side of caution and dry clean it at home or through a professional.
Avoid washing the item with hot water, which can shrink it and cause it to lose elasticity. Consider using a detergent for delicate fabrics or specifically for velvet. Set a washing machine to either the “gentle” or “hand wash” cycle to ensure that the machine doesn’t damage your clothing.
Hand wash your velvet by filling a tub with lukewarm or cold water and a small amount of detergent. Swish your piece of velvet clothing through the sudsy water by using gentle movements of your hand. Do this until the item is clean. Avoid scrubbing or twisting the item, which can stretch or damage the fabric. When you’re doing washing the item, empty the tub and refill it with cool water. Push the garment up and down until you don’t see any more soap or residue., You can also wash a velvet garment by just addressing individual spots or stains. This can protect your entire garment from laundering and may save you money, too.


Mix one teaspoon delicate care laundry detergent with 2 cups cold water in a tub or sink. Dip a clean, soft white cloth into the mixture and wring it out well. Dab—don’t rub-- any stains with the white cloth until all of the stains are gone. Make sure to remoisten the cloth as needed. Once the stain is gone, rinse the white cloth with cold water and wring it out. Then dab the spot to remove soap and any lingering residue.
Mix a paste of lemon juice and baking soda and dilute it with water. Gently dab the solution on the spot until it is gone. Be aware that this is a very potent combination that can damage your garment if you do not dilute the mixture or apply it lightly.Consider using a dry cleaning solvent to spot clean stains. However, be aware that they often contain harsh chemicals that can quickly damage your velvet article if not used properly.
 If you only need to make your velvet garment fresh again, use a hand held steamer. This can remove wrinkles and make the fabric appear clean and lush again. Follow up steaming with a spritz of fabric freshening spray to make it smell nice.Hold the steamer about 6 inches from the garment to prevent soaking it. Run the steamer from the outside hems toward the middle of the garment.
Consider turning the garment inside out when steaming and spritzing it with fabric freshener. This can have the same effect as directly steaming and spritzing the garment.
Try hanging the item in a steamy bathroom if you do not have a hand-held steamer. Putting a velvet garment inside of a steamy, hot shower without exposing it directly to the water stream is as effective as a steamer.
 No matter what, do not put your velvet clothing into a dryer. This can shrink the garment and ruin the fabric’s luxurious texture.Hang any item you’ve machine washed and allow it to dry thoroughly. If necessary, use a steamer to move any wrinkles.
Push out any excess water from a hand washed garment with gentle pressure. Make sure that you do not twist or wring the item. Then lay out the garment on a flat surface. Put a clean, white towel under the item to prevent discoloration and allow it to dry thoroughly.If the white towel becomes saturated, replace it with a new, dry white towel.
Consider allowing your garment to sit on top of a dryer. The gentle heat will speed up the drying process while protecting your velvet garment from damage.