 This person is required to go along with the act and appear to be clueless as to how you did it. They are crucial for the trick. Explain in detail the trick to them and their role to see if they're willing., Location is an important aspect of every magic trick. If you're performing in your house, find a location with long curtains. You could also use a location with a door nearby.
 Explain the lowdown of the trick's entirety to your volunteer. Go through a few practice runs of where she'll hide and when she'll hide. Prepare trigger words like "kazaa" or "presto" to indicate when your volunteer hides and when she reappears.


Run a simulation of the trick with your volunteer so that you're both on the same page., Set up a performance space in front of the location you've decided on. Set up chairs at a vantage point that blinds them for the behind the scenes activity. Gather willing people to be part of your audience. It may be best to practice this trick in your home to your family., Make sure the blanket is long enough so that it covers her feet. Immediately after you've secured the blanket, your volunteer should make her move and hide. Silence is key to being believable.


Say your first trigger word once you've secured the blanket. This will let your volunteer know it's time to hide.
 Count in your head to 5 while they silently hide. Talk to the audience briefly as your volunteer hides. This will give off the impression that less time has passed. Don't take too long or else your audience may suspect something., After giving your volunteer around five seconds to hide, show your audience the empty space. Announce to the audience that your volunteer has disappeared.
 Once you've secured the blanket up a second time, say your other trigger word. This will signal for your volunteer to resume her original position. Make small talk until she is back in place. This should take about 5 seconds or less. Keep a calm demeanor while holding up the blanket.


It's up to you if you want to say magic words for her to reappear. This is a preference that will vary for each magician., Now your volunteer will appear standing in the same place as before. It will seem as though you've brought back your volunteer from some unknown abyss.

