 Decide who is going to pay for what and how much you can both collectively contribute. Talk to your spouse about their family and how much they are willing to pitch in. Have conversations with your family about what they have and how they are willing to help.In some families, the parents are willing to pick up a large percentage of the wedding cost.
If you have to talk to your family about contributing, you can say something like "As you know mom, my wedding is coming up soon, and I was hoping that you could let me know if you and dad could pitch in. I'm just trying to understand the budget for the wedding right now.";
, The best way to reduce overspending is to set a budget and to not deviate from the budget. Have a discussion with your partner about how much money they have and are willing to spend on the wedding. Once you get a good understanding of how much you can spend overall, you'll have a good idea of how much your budget is.
 It's important to associate specific dollar amounts to your costs so you'll know if you are going to go over budget. The most important expenses to figure out include the cost of the reception, attire, ceremony, flowers, entertainment and photography. Once you've estimated this number, add 5% for other expenses that you may have not accounted for.Remember to include the cost of your honeymoon as well.
 The more guests that you have, the more money you'll have to spend on the overall wedding. Invite only your closest friends and family to keep the list small. If your guest list is bloated, consider trying to reduce it by 20%, then reduce it again. Invite the people who you care about the most., As you plan for your wedding, you'll need to contact certain people to get quotes for your wedding. Instead of settling for the first person that you talk to, shop around and see who offers the lowest prices. Look for promotions or sales and make sure to read customer reviews so that you can get a better understanding for the different vendors at your wedding.Vendors include photographers, caterers, and musicians.

