 He doesn't have very neat hair like Light Yagami. Make sure not to brush it too much. Do not let your hair fall past your neck, though, and dye it black if possible.;
, It should be white but any colour is fine. It shouldn't have anything written, drawn, or made on it. Nothing.
 They should be denim-styled and a faded blue. Keep them a bit loose but not too loose! They shouldn't fall off! Also, despite them being loose, try not to appear overweight. L as a character stated that using his brain keeps him thin. It's a fine line, but as long as you keep it natural, it's totally fine.
 Only wear a pair of white sneakers if you're going outside. Don't wear socks either (he dislikes socks).
 This means no accessories! No watches, rings, bracelets or anything like that! Keep it simple and only wear the items mentioned above.
 Whenever you find yourself in a seated position, start noticing the different things happening around you. This is for work that may require detail.
 If someone asks why you're sitting like that or why are you so weird, just tell them it's your way of doing things.
 Be it small snacks like chocolate, a piece of cake or coffee. Or even just eat sugar cubes straight-up.


When eating cake with strawberry on it, (it seems to be his favorite) finish the cake first before eating the strawberry.
Drink sweetened coffee (adding milk is optional) often but make sure it's not too much caffeine for you! Black tea is acceptable too, but make sure you add a few sugar cubes.
 You can also hold a book/Death Note upside down only if you can read it upside down.
 Don't raise your voice until it's something unexpected.
, Put one foot on the other and keep doing it with both of your feet. In other words, rub one foot on top of the other.
 If someone asks you your name, say "You can call me L" (it helps if your name has a significant "L" in your name such as the first, middle, or last letter of your name).
 You can darken your eyes with eye makeup.
 While using it, sit in the same position and if possible, place it on the floor.


Be rather secretive about your laptop; this means have a secure password and general protection from prying eyes.
 Call him Watari. It can also be a sibling who's interested.
 L hates losing, no matter how small the contest. Be very suspicious by nature.
 This can go from stacking up sugar cubes or other sweets and eating the wrapper along with the rice cake (maybe L didn't want to get his hand dirty?). Be able to knot a cherry stem with your tongue. Another fun thing you could do would be to make origami with the wrappers of your sweets (although this was not something that L is seen doing).

