 It is easy to see where the other person is wrong. It is difficult to admit to your own wrongdoing after a disagreement. Determine what it is that you did wrong and how you can fix it. Then, reach out to your friend with an apology.For example, you may feel like you weren’t listening to your friend’s complaints. You may say to them, “I’m sorry for being a poor listener when you were trying to talk to me.”
Don’t expect to receive an apology in return. Your friend may not believe that they owe you an apology.
 As you work through a disagreement, it’s easy to fall on unhealthy responses, but they won’t help you fix your friendship. Unhealthy responses include refusing to acknowledge your friend’s point-of-view, reacting with anger, withdrawing from your friend, and fearing that the worst will happen. If you catch yourself doing these behaviors, choose a healthy response instead.

Listen to your friend’s concerns, then repeat back what you heard to see if that’s what they meant. Don’t argue with their feelings; instead, tell them that you understand how they feel before you share your side.
Stay calm when talking to your friend, and don’t put all of the blame on them, even if you feel like it’s their fault. Try taking a deep breath or counting to 10 before you speak.
Reach out to your friend to talk through your issues.
Remember why you’re friends in the first place. Trust that your friend wants to work things out, too.
 If your friend is ready to apologize, allow them the space to do it. Listen to everything they have to say and truly accept their apology. Don’t grant your friend forgiveness until you are really ready to forgive them., Letting go of the past is a long, ongoing process. In order to let go of the past you must be willing to change your attitude. Be ready to truly forgive your friend and move past the disagreement. Don’t hold those wrongdoings over your friend’s head forever. Avoid getting hung up on who was at fault., Talk to your friend about what you need from them in order to mend the friendship. Then, ask for them to tell you what they need out of the friendship. When they talk to you, be sure to actively listen.

