 For this this effect we are going to be painting the object on the inside, so you want to find a jar, vase, glass, or even a decorative glass object or animal which has access to a hollow inside.
 Some suggestions might be a light blue or green to create a transparent, antique glass look. You may prefer a bold red to add a modern pop of color to your home.
 White vinegar and water will give you the best clean finish. Drying with a microfiber towel ensures that no lint is left behind., In order to avoid any paint adhering to the outside of your project, wrap the object in a piece of plastic or a plastic bag and tape it well around the opening with painters tape., Insert the nozzle of the spray paint can through the opening of your object and coat the inside with a layer of paint. If it is an oddly shaped item, make sure that the hole is large enough to allow you to manipulate the nozzle in every direction to be able to reach all angles. Rotate the object as you go to ensure full coverage. If excess paint is collecting in one area, roll the object to spread the paint and avoid drips.
 Place the object with the opening facing down. Drying takes at least five minutes to be dry to the touch. Make sure the paint is completely dry before applying a second coat.
 For a more transparent look, you can use only a couple of layers. If you want a solid color, continue repeating the layering process until you reach the desired coverage.
 If the hole in your object doesn't fit the spray paint nozzle, consider pouring acrylic paint instead. Some acrylic paints are designed to be used on glass.These can be found at most hobby shops. They take longer to dry, but some can be baked to dry more quickly than air drying.


One benefit of using acrylics over spray paint is that you can get a nice opaque look using only one layer.
Another benefit of acrylic is being able to control where the paint goes as you roll it around the inside of the object. If you leave some of the glass clear, you can create a design with the paint.

