 Creating a cocktail dress from a saree is easy and quick. If you want to turn a beautiful saree into a unique dress, then you will need:









short, black strapless dress (or a black skirt and tube top)
a saree
a few safety pins
belt or other accessories (optional);
, Before you begin wrapping your saree, put on your black, strapless dress (or your skirt and tube top). Make sure that the dress or skirt that you choose does not extend past the middle of your thigh. Otherwise, the saree might not cover it.
 Take one corner of your saree and match it up with the corner on the other side of your saree. Make sure that the sides are evenly matched up with each other. Then, pin the corners together.








You should only place a pin at one corner. The other edge will need to remain loose and open for draping purposes.
 With one hand, hold the corner of the saree that you pinned against your waist. With the other hand, hold onto the other corner of the saree. Then, begin wrapping the saree around your waist.








You should be able to wrap the saree material around your waist at least twice.
Wrap the material as tightly as you can to give your dress a sleek look. A loosely wrapped saree may appear bulky or sloppy.
 When you have finished wrapping the material, tie the pinned corner to the other corner of your saree to secure the material in place.You may also pin the corners together if you prefer.









You should now look like you are wearing a full length skirt.
 Take the bottom corner of the saree that is on the outside of the skirt, and the corner that is on the inside of the skirt. Then, lift them up towards your right shoulder and tie the two corners in a knot.The loop you have created will help to keep the saree material up, so make sure that it is secure.









You may also pin the corners together, but make sure that you pin them from underneath so that the pin is not visible., Next, take your right arm and put it through the loop you have created. Adjust the loop as needed so that it rests comfortably on your shoulder.









You should now have a one strap dress.
 You may need to adjust your saree dress to make sure that it is draped the way you want it to be.You can also use safety pins to secure any parts of the dress that you would like to keep hanging a certain way. Just make sure that the pins are not visible.









If your dress looks too loose, or you don’t like the way it is hanging, then you can always start over.
 To finish up your look, add any accessories that you would like.For example, you can put on a belt to cinch the waist, add a brooch to the shoulder area or pair a shrug with your dress.









Avoid wearing sandals or other casual shoes with your saree cocktail dress.Opt for some close toe high heels instead to intensify the cocktail dress look.

