 Do you really want to act for the acting, or do you want to act for the "fame perks"? If you just want the perks, you're out of luck. What you really need for the Theatre is passion- even if you don't make it past off broad way, you should be in it for the fun and passion. Not the fun of riding to the dentist in a private jet.;
, Here are some common myths, busted;


Most performer-wannabes think that you need an "expensive" agent to perform at a community theatre. If you're one of those people, you are very wrong. Agents work with professional actors that have been performing locally for a VERY long time to find them professional auditions. Agents do NOT cost a penny up front! If you ever get to the point where you're looking for an agent, please remember; if they ask for anything up front, DO NOT GO TO THAT AGENT! They are a SCAM. Agents work for you to find YOU work, and then they take 10% from your pay. Clear? Good
Community theatre does not get you discovered. community theatre prepares you, teaches you technique in a relaxed setting, and gets you used to auditioning, rehearsing, and performing, but with less pressure.
 You must know before you talk to them, that you will need all of the training required. A few basics are:


Dance. Jazz is best for theatre, but ballet, tap, modern, and lyrical can also be very useful.
Voice lessons. These are crucial, because if you don't get the proper training, you could damage your voice.
Be ready to pay for part of this yourself if your parents won't. There are plenty of professional actors who were from middle, or even low-class families and worked to pay for their training. Be prepared, because all the classes can get pricey.
 Tell them about all of the necessities. Be mature and calm, but firm, so that you can get all the training you need without upsetting them. If you act out or give them an attitude, they may not think you're serious about this. Show them all of the research you've done on reputable classes, suitable teachers, and most importantly; your passion. If your parents give you a flat out “no” to paying for all of this stuff, think in their shoes. All of these classes are expensive. Reason with them. Join drama club at school to get a feel for what theatre is like.
 Ask any of your instructors(voice, dance, or even that crazy drama club teacher if they know of any groups, shows, or theaters that are looking for your "type". If they don't know about anything, look online, or check bulletin boards. Once you find an audition, see related wikiHow's on how to audition.

