 The conversation should begin on a positive note. Sit down with your boyfriend, and assure him that you care for him. Remind him of his good qualities before stating that you want to talk about his health.You can say, “Honey, you know that I love you, and I think you are an amazing person with so many good qualities. Which is why we need to talk about your health. I think you need to see a dentist.”

, It is best to state the issue outright. Do not dance around the subject or try to mask it. Let him know that you have noticed the problem and that for his own health, he needs to take care of it.


You can say, “You have been complaining about tooth pain for weeks now, and I can see that one of your teeth is turning black. It’s time for you to get it checked out by a dentist.”
You might even say, “Your bad breath is starting to become a problem. It’s hard me to want to kiss you when it is so strong. I think you might have an underlying problem that you need to have checked out.”

, Your boyfriend might become defensive. Perhaps he thinks you are criticizing him or maybe he is insecure about his teeth. Either way, you should assure him throughout the conversation that you are concerned about his health first and foremost.


You can say, “I still love and care about you. I just want what’s best for you.”
You might also say, “I’m concerned about your wellbeing. I don’t want you to be in pain because of this problem.”

, Many people are afraid or anxious about visiting the dentist. Your boyfriend may be scared or uncomfortable. He may also be concerned about the cost of dental care, or he may simply think that it is a frivolous visit. Be sensitive to his reasons. Ask him gently why he does not want to go.


You might say, “Is there any reason in particular you don’t want to go?”
If he is nervous about visiting the dentist, you can find him a dentist that will give him sedation during the visit.
If he is worried about the expense, you can say something like, “It is far more expensive to have an emergency root canal than to fix a cavity” or “We will work something out to afford it. I will chip in to help cover the cost.”, Some people believe that dental visits are just for cosmetic purposes, but there are real dangers to neglecting your mouth’s health. You should emphasize what could happen if he does not take care of his problem. This logical approach might work best in convincing him to go.You might inform him that:


Cavities or cracked teeth that are neglected can spread down to the root of your tooth, requiring a painful and expensive root canal. The tooth may also have to be removed.Sensitive teeth could be a sign of a fractured tooth.The first stage of gum disease (called gingivitis) is reversible, but once it develops into periodontal disease, it becomes a lifelong condition that can cause your teeth to fall out.Bad breath could be caused by many medical conditions, including gum disease.Dental health might be connected to other health problems, such as diabetes and heart disease.