 Click "OK". This is the locked background, colored white. On the Layers pallet, double click on it. A small window will pop up. Just hit "OK", not changing anything, and it will automatically change into a regular, white, unlocked layer.;
, Set the Opacity and Flow to 100% and erase all the white, thus leaving a transparent layer.
 Do this by clicking on the foreground color square; a color picker window will pop up. Select your desired color (either black, dark blue or dark purple) and click "OK". Select the Paint Bucket Tool (shortcut G) and click once.
 It will automatically be set above the initial layer. Create five such layers. This can also be done by clicking the "Create a new layer" icon at the bottom of the pallet (second on the right, next to the trash can icon, which is for deleting layers). These layers are automatically numbered as you create them.
 Select the Brush Tool (shortcut B). Click the black arrow icon on the Toolbar, next to the displayed shape and size of the brush, and click the arrow in the top right corner. Choose the "Load Brushes" option, select "Assorted Brushes" and hit "Load".
 Choose the Assorted brush number 36 and set its master diameter to 700 pixels. Position your brush and click twice. It will seem as if you're painting directly on the colored background, but you're in fact working on a separate layer, and this does not effect the background.
 Select Layer 2 and reduce the brush diameter to 600 pixels. Position your brush equally spaced from both ends of the red surface and click once.
 Select Layer 3 and reduce the brush size to 500 pixels. Also, you have to change the Brush Opacity. So far we've been working with 100%, now reduce it to 70%. Click two or three times to fill in the space between the meteor's "tails".
 Increase the brush diameter back to 700 pixels and decrease the Brush Opacity to 50%. Keep the light orange foreground color. Position the brush somewhat to the left, so that the edge of the meteor's "head" remains red. Click once.
 Set your foreground color to a bright yellow. Decrease the Brush Opacity to 40%, but keep the size at 700 pixels. Position your brush over the entire meteor (including the red edge) and click once.
 This will make it invisible, leaving the other layers and the transparent pixels behind them. Choose "Layer / Merge Visible" (shortcut Shift + Ctrl + E). All the visible layers, on which we drew parts of the meteor, will now be merged into one (automatically named Layer 5, because that's the layer on which we were working at the moment of merging it with the other layers).
, Choose the Rectangular Marquee Tool (shortcut M) and select the area around our meteor; do this by clicking a point on the layer and then draw diagonally while holding down the mouse button, until the entire meteor enters the selection.
 Position the mouse cursor outside of the selection border, by one of the corners of the selection. A curved arrow will appear. Click, and while holding down the mouse button, move the mouse left or right in order to rotate the meteor. In this case we rotated it to the left. Click the icon of any other tool; this will make a pop - up window appear, asking you to confirm the transformation before switching to a different tool. Click "Apply". However, the meteor will still be selected, just hit Ctrl + D to deselect it. Keep in mind, this rotation will not effect the colored background.
 Select the brightest, most vivid red color. Leave most of the settings default; but set the Spread to 10 pixels, the Size to 4 pixels, and under Contour, select Gaussian (first row, first one on the right). Hit "OK".
 Now the colored background and Layer 5 are merged.
 The entire picture will become a single, locked layer, automatically named "Background".
 A pop- up window will appear. The picture format will be set by default to .JPEG, leave it like that. Enter a name for your file. Click Save, set the quality to 12 (maximum) and under "Format Options" select Baseline ("Standard"). Hit "OK". The file is automatically saved in the last folder selected by Photoshop.

