 If any of your employees are arrested and detained for immigration irregularities, get the name, location, and phone number of the detention facility where they will be held.Typically the ICE officer is not going to give you this information unless you ask. Even when you do ask, the information you are given may be incomplete.
You may want to keep the ICE website bookmarked on a work computer. You can find contact information for detention facilities and ICE field offices using the locator pages on the ICE website.
Try to take down as much identification information as you can about the ICE officers who conducted the raid.
This information may be of use to your attorney in protecting your rights, especially if the ICE officers expanded their search beyond the scope of their warrant or harassed and intimidated you or your employees during the course of the raid.
 After being arrested, immigration detainees often are transferred to another location. They may be moved to a nearby jail, or to an ICE detention center in another part of the country.This is something you have to be on top of, because detainees can be transferred even within hours of being arrested.
If you call the detention center identified by the ICE officer and are told the person is not there, ask where they have been sent.
Keep in mind that the detention officers may refuse to give you this information. Document the phone conversation and get the name and identification of the officer with whom you spoke. Contact your attorney for assistance with locating your detained employees.
 It's generally not a good idea to have your own attorney representing your detained employees. However, you can help them find an experienced immigration attorney.Your attorney may know of attorneys in your area that practice immigration law. Otherwise, you may want to find immigration attorneys using the searchable directory on your state or local bar association's website.
There also are nonprofit organizations that provide free and reduced-cost legal services to undocumented immigrants.
You may be able to find legal assistance for your detained employees by contacting these organizations.
Keep in touch with the family of your detained employees so that you know what's happening and what you can do to help.
 When undocumented immigrants are detained, ICE typically sets a bond. Paying this amount allows the detained employee to be released pending their deportation proceedings.Bond is similar to bail in criminal cases. If you pay the bond for your detained employees, you'll get most or all of your money back provided they show up for court dates.
Contact the ICE detention center holding your detained employees and ask if bond has been set. If you are told bond has not yet been set, find out why.
Bond for detainees typically is several thousand dollars. You can work with their immigration attorneys and request a hearing to have this amount lowered.
Keep in mind that in can take years for a detainee to stand before a judge. Paying the bond for your detained employees allows them to spend this time with their families rather than in a detention center.

