 Grooming your Scottish Terrier will require different types of grooming tools. High-quality tools will be more expensive, but will last longer and help you groom more effectively without hurting your Scottish Terrier. Below are tools that you’ll need to care for its coat:Coarse brush
Pin brush
Metal-toothed comb
Thinning shears
Electric clippers with a #10 blade (#8.5 blade optional);
, Your Scottish Terrier will be much easier to groom when it's on an elevated surface, like a grooming table. Put the grooming table in an area that has good lighting.Organize all of your tools so everything you need will be close by.


Having your Scottish Terrier on a table will keep you from bending over and hurting your back while you groom.
Grooming tables are available online or at pet stores. If you do not want to buy a grooming table, you could use a sturdy card table.
 Scottish Terriers have two coat layers: a soft, wooly undercoat and a coarse, weather-resistant outer coat.To keep your Scottish Terrier’s coat in good condition, brush it at least once a week. Use this time to check its skin for anything abnormal (redness, lumps, scrapes).Here are general tips for good brushing technique:Always be gentle.
Brush in the direction of hair growth, working outwards from the skin.
 A pin brush has wire bristles that painlessly remove loose, dead hair.Brush through the undercoat and outer coat. It may help to brush in small sections at a time.


Brush the eyebrows and beard forward. Also, don’t forget the easy-to-miss areas, like the elbows and inner thighs.If you see knotted hair, do not yank through the knot with the brush. Yanking would be painful. If you cannot brush through the knot, leave it until later.
 Combing through the coat will help you remove knots that didn’t come out during brushing.When you get to the knots, spray some detangling spray on them. Let the spray sit for a few minutes, then comb through each knot.If the knots are large, use your shears to split the knot into small vertical sections.Then, comb through each small section until the hair is smooth again.

