 Place yourself in your partner’s shoes. Think about how you would feel if they told you they did not like their engagement ring or another important gift. Also, keep in mind your partner’s personality. Are they cool, strong-willed/fiery, sensitive, or passionate? Then, base what you will say off of these facts.For example, if your partner is passionate, reframe the information by helping them see the silver lining. Focus on the idea that redesigning the ring can be a project that brings the two of you closer together. And make sure to ask for their input., Sit down and write what you will say and how you will say it. Craft your words carefully and make sure that the words you choose express your feelings accurately. Remember to use “I” statements instead of “you” statements.For example, instead of saying, “You picked the wrong ring,” say, “I’m not sure if the ring suits my personal tastes. I think I would like a different setting. What do you think?”
Your tone of voice should be courteous and respectful, as well. This will communicate your honesty and willingness to work together to make the situation right.
Consider asking a trusted friend to sit down with you so you can practice and work out exactly what you will say. This can be especially helpful if your friend knows your fiancé, as this can give you greater insight into how your fiancé might react.
 Make sure that the place you choose to break the news is comfortable and private. Your partner may have a strong emotional response, so try not to tell them in a public setting. Also, be aware of your timing. Don’t bring up the conversation when they are in a bad mood or are busy.Try to keep this conversation as casual as possible. Saying something like, "I need to talk to you about something. Can you come over tonight?" might cause a lot of unnecessary stress and anxiety. Consider telling them when you've already planned a low-key hangout, for instance.
 Make sure that your body language reflects your message. When you are communicating with your partner you want to appear open and positive. Remember to make eye contact, have good posture, smile, and try not to cross your arms or have your hands in your pocket.If you are unsure about your body language, practice what you will say in front of a mirror. This way you can adjust any body language that sends the wrong message.
 When breaking the news, your partner will inevitably feel embarrassed, disheartened, disappointed, or even sad. Understand that this is a natural reaction, especially in this case. Allow your partner to feel what they need to feel and try to make them feel more comfortable.Even if you speak with compassion and tact, your partner's feelings may still be hurt.
Remind them that picking out a new ring together can be a positive experience. Just wait until your partner has worked through their emotions somewhat. Still feeling upset, hurt, or resentful could make the experience difficult, when it should be fun.
Let them know that you love them and that this is not a rejection of their love and commitment.
Your partner may need a little time to process their feelings — after all, they probably put a lot of time and thought into their ring selection. You may feel terrible about hurting their feelings, but give them the space to feel their feelings and let them be hurt. Tell them how much you love them, and how excited you are to be getting married.

