 It doesn't matter if you're a guy or a girl, we live in the 21st century.


Ask them yourself. Confidence is attractive. It also suggests to them that you're genuinely interested in him or her and not just anyone who might be your date, increasing your chances of having them agree to go with you.
Have a Plan B. Just because the one you fancy isn't up for it. it doesn't mean that you can't have a date. Figure out if someone is available by having a quick chat with them about the prom (e.g. Are you looking forward to it?, I'd say it will be a brilliant night, So whose the lucky guy/girl?). If they mention they haven't got a date, say that you don't either and ask if they fancy going along with you (be casual but not dismissive).

The great benefit of this tactic is that you can suss out if they are good company. If you don't enjoy chatting to them for five minutes, do you really want to have them hanging around you all night?


Figure out how you'd deal with no. A smile, feigned devastation or a simple "Lucky guy", "I'm not surprised you're in demand, you're gorgeous" or a "I'll see you there, maybe we can dance at some point?" reduces the awkwardness of the situation- and vastly increases your chances of getting a date with them another time.
If they say no, go to the prom anyway. Life's too short to skip out on something like this.;
, If your date shows signs of displeasure during your date, ask yourself what you could be doing wrong.


Are you talking about yourself a lot? Unless the person asked you a question, you may come across as self-centered and conceited.
Are you teasing? Some people don't understand that teasing is just a way of playfully showing affection. Give the person a compliment instead! Whatever you're doing, show them that you realize what's wrong.



If you are the guy and it is your prom or her prom, pick her up at her home at an agreed time. The guys usually give her mother a box of chocolates and get a corsage or bunch of flowers for their date. Be charming towards her family, reassure her father that you'll take care of her and grin and bear any photographs. You should organise a lift for you both to the meeting place for your prom group.
If you are the girl and it is his prom but not yours, you might wish to meet him at the general meeting point for the prom group. Check with him beforehand.
 You can be guaranteed that there will be loads of pictures taken, formal and informal. Whilst a stick in the mud is no fun, neither is someone who pulls faces in every and any formal snap.

Spend a few minutes in front of the mirror figuring out how to arrange your fabulous features in a smile for the picture. A proud mammy will hang the picture on the wall for years, and then let loose and find some fun poses for the crazy pictures you'll take with your friend later in the night.
 In many areas, corsages and buttonhole posies are par for the course. If this is the case, take the time to choose an arrangement that will compliment your outfits.
 Who wants to show up at prom with someone who hasn't taken a shower in five days? Shower. Dress nicely. Do your hair, makeup (if you're a girl), and a little deodorant never hurts anyone.
 If the prom includes some food or even a sit down meal, make sure you know how to handle various knives and forks and how to eat various dishes. Basic things like not talking with your mouth full, eating small bite-sized chunks at a time and not slurping can make or break the date.
 If there is a drink going around, avoid it altogether or only take as much as you can handle. Nobody's dream of the perfect prom includes a date making ridiculous comments, being aggressive or vomiting across their tux or dress.


If you plan on drinking to excess, tell your date beforehand. Depending on the local underage culture, they might not be bothered or split off with sober friends at some point in the evening. Some however may ask you to refrain from making a fool of yourself or may not want to go to the prom with you in such circumstances. Attitudes towards alcohol often have personal roots so respect their privacy and agree on a solution that will ensure that you both have a good night.
If you suspect that you may not in a position at the end of the night to make sure your date gets home safely, arrange a lift for them beforehand with a friend or taxi company.
 You're at the prom, and a slow song comes on. Your date has been waiting all night to dance with you. And do you know how to dance? No! Just be prepared for any kind of dancing, but if you don't care and neither does your date, go crazy.
 Think about what went right, or what could've gone wrong and didn't. Just don't dwell.

