 White spirit, or mineral spirit, is a petroleum based solvent most often used in the care and preservation of alabaster. White spirit cleans the stone without removing its natural moisture and without adding new moisture. White and mineral spirits will not cause staining when used to spot clean alabaster, and will not cause damage to the surface, preserving the alabaster’s natural color and luster. White or mineral spirit can be often be found at your local hardware or art supply store. , When using white or mineral spirits, it is important to work in a well ventilated area. Fumes from white or mineral spirits can be dangerous if inhaled for a long period of time. Be sure you are working in an area with easy access to fresh air., Choose a set of nylon or latex gloves to work with. Wearing gloves is not only important to keep your hands safe from the drying effects of working with white spirit, but also to protect your alabaster piece from any moisture or oils on your hands., In rare cases, alabaster may have been painted. White or mineral spirit often used for cleaning alabaster can be harmful to these painted areas, so make sure to only use these spirits to clean unpainted areas. If your alabaster does have painted areas that need to be restored, consulting a restoration expert may be the best option., You will use this to spot clean smaller areas. Pat gently on the surface of the alabaster, especially where dirt or grime appears to have built up. Do not rub the cotton swab along the stain, as this may push the dirt further into the surface and make the stain more difficult to remove.
 If the first attempt does not completely remove the stain, repeat use of the spirit and cotton swab as described in the last step.


Keep in mind that subtle brown or red veining in alabaster is what gives alabaster pieces their unique nature, so some areas that may appear stained may actually just be a part of the stone's natural beauty.
 Douse a soft cloth with spirit and move the cloth along the natural grain of the stone. Be sure to follow the natural grain of the stone when wiping dirt and grime down, so as to not risk damaging the alabaster itself. Make sure that your cloth is fully saturated with white or mineral spirit before using it to clean your alabaster piece, as any areas left dry on the cloth may cause damage to the piece.
 Before determining if another pass is necessary, wait for your alabaster to dry thoroughly. Areas where the spirit has been applied may still appear stained before drying thoroughly, so be patient before determining if more cleaning is necessary.


Remember to be gentle when cleaning your alabaster! Alabaster is a sensitive stone and is easily damaged, so proceed with caution when performing any maintenance on the stone.

