 Join a gym that has a lap pool (25 yards/meters at least). Swimming throughout the year will increase your strength, endurance, and stamina. It will also keep you in contact with fellow year-rounders who can support your efforts.
 When you don’t have anyone to talk with at the pool, swimming can feel like a chore, and a lonely one at that. Going to work out with other swimmers might score you free training advice for free.At the very least, you’ll make friends who share your desire to become a better swimmer. This will lead to a sense of accountability, something that really helps when dragging yourself out of bed at five in the morning.
 Both are great opportunities for all swimmers to get technique help on each swimming stroke. They are also great ways to meet fellow swimmers who will help bolster your goal to become a better swimmer.
 There are four basic strokes (butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and freestyle) and you should try to learn them all. While you’ll always have a favorite, being a well-rounded swimmer will help to keep swimming challenging an interesting.


When you swim all strokes, your use more muscles. Your body will also get a much better workout. You’ll see and feel the results faster when you utilize all four strokes.
The risk of injury while swimming is decreased because you aren’t always stressing the same muscles with the same movements. The musculature is more balanced.The skills you learn from one stroke transfers into skills into a different stroke. For example, the underwater undulation you employ when kicking off the wall into breaststroke is transferable to the underwater undulation you’ll use when starting in backstroke.
 Adding flip turns eliminates the stop-and-start rests at the end of each lap. You’ll become a better distance swimmer when employing these maneuvers. You’ll also save energy when you push off the wall, propelling yourself into a good position to begin your stroke. It’s also a great way to see where your opponents are.


Exercising your core while you learn will help you accomplish the technical aspects of a flip-turn. They require a full somersault, a trunk flexion, and rapid trunk extension.-
Keep your chin down when using a flipturn in freestyle. Begin the turn about an arm’s length from the wall. You’ll begin to do a somersault or a “flip.” Your chin should come close to your chest. Your knees should come close to your chest as well. Plant your feet against the wall and twist your torso. Put your hands together and streamline your body as you push away from the wall.
When you’re doing a flipturn in backstroke. About one yard or meter from the wall, turn around to the front by reaching around with your leading arm. Look around with your head so your body will naturally follow. Keep the leading arm extended ahead and flip. Push off from the wall.
 Check online to see what’s available. Look for instruction that is above your level. Challenge yourself!

, Drills will help you pay attention to the clock and your times. They allow you to take what you’ve been working on (like your strokes) and immediately apply it to your regular swimming habits.


Play “catch-up” while you swim freestyle. Catch up drills are a classic way of improving your freestyle stroke. Their goal is to smooth out and lengthen your stroke by making you pay attention to your strokes. You keep one arm out in front of you the entire time you swim, and wait until the arm taking a stroke “catches up” with the other one.
For more interesting swimming drills, ask other swimmers, or go online. There are plenty of fun suggestions to keep your workout interesting.
Challenge yourself by setting a yardage goal to complete each week. A good start is 2000 yards or meters a workout (forty lengths).Your goal is to become a better swimmer and nothing betters swimming like more swimming.
 Keeping an eye on the clock will help you ascertain how efficient your are in the water. If you are doing sets, make sure they are timed (ie four fifties on the minute with ten seconds break between the next round).
 With an increase in distance and speed, your technique will improve dramatically. Set new goals as you leave old ones behind!

, Through the swimming community, there are plenty of opportunities to compete in swim meets, even as an adult. A competition is a way to boost your swimming by providing a new, determined, focus.

