 You simply cannot be a proper hipster wearing the same jeans and Hollister t-shirts like everyone else in school. You need original threads. Hipsters are notorious for their skinny jeans (both for guys and the ladies) so stock up on blue, black, and grey colors. Make sure they are VERY skinny. Band t-shirts are great, especially if no one has ever heard of them. Cardigans for fall, and pea coats for winter. Flannels are also great year round. For shoes, Converse hi tops, Vans, Doc Martens, or classic boat shoes. And of course, to top it all off, thick tortoise or black rimmed nerd glasses.


Hipsters are known for their vintage and ironic fashion. To get some vintage clothing, check out your local thrift stores, or online stores like Topshop or etsy.
During the summer, hipsters wear sunglasses. Specifically Wayfarer RayBans and aviators.;
, They tend to be very sarcastic, and avoid answering questions directly, but instead give a slightly rude sarcastic answer. They're also really chill, no matter what happens. They're laid-back and friendly to people who are friendly to them. If you get a bad grade, shake it off and don't worry, you can do better next time!

, I know this will be hard, since you're depressingly mainstream, but it's time to throw away your Lady GaGa, Katy Perry, and Bruno Mars, and start collecting some Indie vinyl. There are actually tons of great underground Indie bands out there, you just need to know where to find them. Go to local shows frequently, or maybe local music stores to see who's there. Then you can go on to wikipedia and search "list of Indie bands" and they will definitely hook you up.


You could also check out music blogs like Gorilla vs bear, Pitchforkmedia, and Stereogum. Pandora and LastFM are sites that find music you might like based on the artist, genre, or song you put into the search bar. Try putting in artists like Neon Indian, Wild Child, Edward Sharpe and The Magnetic Zeros, The Ramones, or Girls.
 Most hipsters are a deep and artistic type of people. There are many different types of arts. You can be interested in photography, drawing, or painting, or you can be a writer, of stories or poems, or you can even pick up a guitar or sit down at the piano and play. Any of these stimulating arts are good. Hipsters are also into subjects like Philosophy or Literature. They love reading the classics.
 Hipsters recycle, and don't litter, and enjoy nature and want to keep it nice. Most Hipsters are also vegetarian or vegan, which I highly recommend if you want to be Hipster. Not only does it keep you thin to fit into your skinny jeans, but it's also great to be against the cruelty to animals.

