 Films are inherently visual mediums, and if you can't tell the story with your visuals, you may want to consider using a different art form. This doesn't mean voice over is bad. Rather, you need to use it to get across points that can't be communicated through video instead of beating the audience over the head with exposition.


In Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang, Robert Downy Jr.'s narrator provides great, sarcastic commentary about the locations and fills in necessary backstory, allowing the movie to focus on comedy, action, and events instead of telling everyone's history.
In nature documentaries like Planet Earth, the narrator knows to remain silent for large periods of time, letting the gorgeous images take center stage., Don't simply re-record the same inflection, pauses, and emphasis every time you do the line. Test out new readings of the line, trying to get 3-4 versions of the line that you like and can play with in editing. This is a huge help if you are the editor, and it is also an invaluable addition for a director of the commercial or movie. This gives them flexibility when editing, and it helps you find the best way to portray the voice you are acting out., Good breathing for voice-over is similar to good breathing for singers. A big, audible breath in the middle of a sentence sounds unprofessional and is distracting, as are gasps of air at the beginning of every sentence. Focus on taking short, controlled breaths, turning away from the microphone when you need to take a big breath.


Breathing is much easier to remove from recordings than it used to be, but it still saves everyone time to avoid recording it in the first place.Focus on breathing in and out through your chest, moving your belly with each breath like a singer does.
 Sometimes the lines on the page just don't translate well to the microphone. If you've tried every line reading imaginable and it still sounds like verbal sludge, try cutting a few words to make it flow more smoothly. Feel free to adapt, adjust, or edit the script on the fly if it doesn't sound natural when you're saying it. That said, be sure that your new changes are small enough that the original aims of the script stay true.Be sure to read the entire script before making changes -- you never know if a detail you believe is small will come back later.
 This is a skill that takes a lifetime to master, yet is well worth it for a career in voice over. You need to be able to make your voice sound the best it possibly can, because it will change through the microphone. Balancing sound is not easy, but start by using a free program like Audacity and looking up tutorials online, which can help your find specific effects (like movie-announcer voice, gender switching, etc).


If you are serious about audio, you need a program like Pro Tools or Logic to really mix and master sound.
At the very least, play with the EQ and volume of your voice, which allows you to subtly balance the tone of your voice.

