 If a woman feels comfortable in your presence, she's more likely to find you attractive and be interested in you romantically. Be respectful of a woman's body and her choices.


The way a woman treats her body is her business. Try not to comment on her eating habits, her fitness habits, and choices she makes regarding her wardrobe, make-up, piercings, or tattoos. Feeling controlled or judged is a big turn off for women.
Do not pass judgments on a woman based on her sex life. A woman's sexual past and history should not be of her concern. There is often a double standard when it comes to judging a woman's sex life versus a man's sex life. Women are judged more harshly for promiscuity than men. If a woman feels you are judging her, she won't feel comfortable around you and is unlikely to find you attractive.
 Women like to feel like their presence is valued. Being a good listener can make a woman feel more attracted to you.


Maintain eye contact when a woman talks. Use non-verbal signals to show that you are listening. Nod and smile when appropriate.
Ask questions about what she's saying to convey you're paying attention. Ask for clarification on her feelings or elaboration on the details of a story.Try to remember bits of past conversations. If she's mentioned a friend of hers, ask about that friend. If she's talked about an issue with a family member, check in to see if it was resolved., Many women find the ability to tell interesting stories attractive. Try to work amusing or insightful anecdotes into any given conversation. Remember, elements of a good story include conflict, tension, humor, and drama.


Try to frame experiences in a story-like fashion. Strive for a beginning, a middle, and end. Build tension in between by using suspense and foreshadowing.You can find radio shows online, like This American Life, that feature storytelling as a key element. This might give you a good idea on how to tell an engaging story.
 While a lot of men believe women are attracted to the aloof of brooding, this is actually not true. Studies indicate women tend to be attracted to men who are open about their emotions. Vulnerability actually makes men appear more masculine and attractive to women. Try to be open about how you're feeling and why when interacting with women. This can make you appear more attractive., Women are often attracted to men who are good conversationalists. While listening can make you more attractive to women, you should also work on making conversation as well.


Use the environment. If you're out at a club, restaurant, or bar with a woman use what's around you to make conversation. Pay attention to what a woman takes notice of and use this as fodder for talking. For example, if she glances at a painting on the wall of a restaurant, say something like, "That's a really interesting print. I wonder who the artist is." This is a great way to start a conversation.Current events are also great conversation starters. If you're going on a date, for example, you can use current events to combat lulls in conversation. Say something like, "What do you think of the latest election data?" You could also keep it light. Celebrity bad behavior is often a fun conversation topic. If you notice someone too drunk in public, make a humorous comparison between this person and whoever is gracing the headlines this week due to substance abuse issues.Ask a woman for her opinion on a variety of matters. Women are attracted to people who they feel value their insight. Say something like, "My friend Joe and I are having a disagreement on something and maybe you can help settle it. Do you think cell phones help or hurt communication skills?", Another fun way to keep women engaged with you is to play a game. If you're at a bar, play a game of tic tac toe or hangman on a napkin. If you've been dating for a bit, play a game of scrabble at your place. Games that involve insight, intelligence, and strategy can help you show off your better qualities. This can help you appear more attractive to a woman.