 Some restaurants will place an oshibori in front of you when you sit down. It’s a small, damp hand towel you can use to clean your fingers before and during the meal. After wiping, fold it nicely and place it back in its container. Use it again as needed.Don’t wipe your face with the oishibori. It’s meant for your hands.;
, Even though most people use chopsticks, sushi is traditionally a finger food. Fingers make handling the roll easier and allow you to feel its texture. This helps you prevent nigiri-zushi from falling apart. If you’re unsure if you should use your fingers or something else, ask the staff.Try not to ask for knives and forks. Some restaurants are more forgiving than others about using utensils. Some people may also think you’re a little rude for eating this way, so offer an apology first.
Chirashi-zushi (scattered sushi) is best eaten with chopsticks or a fork, if the establishment permits.
 Aim the fish portion of the sushi towards the soy. A gentle dip will give you all the soy you need. Rice quickly absorbs soy, which overwhelms the flavor of the sushi. Also, soaking sushi in soy is disrespectful because it implies the original flavors of the roll are not good enough.Always dip nigiri-zushi upside-down in the soy sauce and eat it rice-side up.
Don’t pour lots of soy sauce into your cup. You don’t need a lot of soy, and wasted soy is frowned upon in Japan.
Some rolls, usually eel and mackerel, already have sauce on them. Don’t add soy or other condiments.Wasabi isn’t a necessity. You can place a little on your sushi before dipping it into soy for extra spice. Avoid mixing the wasabi into the soy sauce.
 Sushi is made to be eaten in one bite. Two bites is acceptable, particularly when eating large American versions. It’s better to take small bites than to have too much food in your mouth. When you do this, don’t put the sushi back on the plate. Keep the uneaten part between your chopsticks and try to hold the ingredients together until you finish., Ginger does not go on the sushi. It is used after you finish a piece of sushi to clear off the taste. This helps you experience the full flavor of the next roll or dish you sample. You do not need to eat a large slice of ginger to feel refreshed., Finishing your food shows that you enjoyed it. Waste is considered disrespectful to everyone who worked hard to give you this food. The rice takes a painstaking amount of effort to get right, so it’s impolite to leave a grain of it behind.