 Making time for each other is a way to say you are committed to each other. Say you will spend a certain time each week with each other, and stick to it. It will also give you a chance to get to know one another again., When you first got together, you were probably partially attracted by the differences the other person exhibited. For instance, maybe you were exhilarated by the fact that he or she was impulsive and loved to be spontaneous. Now, you may find yourself hating the quality. The key is to try to remember why you loved that quality in the first place and move toward enjoying it again.For instance, it may drive you crazy when your spouse wants to drop everything and drive to the mountains. On the other hand, it keeps your life from getting too boring. Try to strike a balance, and enjoy what you can.
 It is important to acknowledge what is going well in your relationship as well as what has become a struggle. You might even want to make a list of strengths and difficulties together. Make sure that you include things on the list that you avoid talking about because of fears that you will just end up fighting about them.Try to pick a time to talk about your strengths and difficulties when you are both feeling calm and focused. Avoid talking at the end of a long day or at other stressful times.Use "I" statements rather than "You" statements. In other words, try to talk about what you're feeling and what you think is wrong without blaming the other person. For instance, saying "I get upset when we don't spend enough time together" is better than "You're never around." The second statement puts your spouse on guard, while the first helps open discussion.Spend time talking and listening. That is, you can't just lay out what you think is wrong. You also need to spend time actively listening to what your spouse has to say. Show you're engaged by offering short summaries of what he or she has said and by asking questions that are relevant to the conversation., Once you've figured out together what issues you have in the marriage, it's time to try to come up with some solutions. You may even be able to draw on some of your strengths to help you develop solutions to problems in your relationships.


To compromise, you must talk about your wants and needs, helping you both to decide what's most important to each of you.In other words, to make a compromise, you must be willing to let the other person win when it comes to their needs, giving ground when it comes in conflict with your wants. The same must be true of the other person.
 Sometimes, you need the help of a professional to get past your problems. A marriage counselor may help you fix more problems than you expect, and in fact, about half of people who use marriage counselors say that the counselor helped them fix all of the major problems in their marriage.

