 You should only tie a horse up with a rope connected to a well-fitting halter. Tying a horse up by the bridle, either directly to the bit or to the reigns, can cause the horse pain and serious injury., Only tie your horse to a solid object that the horse cannot break or pull over. Horses are very strong and can pull with tremendous strength when frightened. If you tie your horse to a fence or railing, inspect the poles or rails and be sure to choose one that is not damaged or corroded. Make sure the area in the immediate vicinity of the horse is clear of dangerous objects the horse might step on or run into.If you must tie your horse to something the horse ‘’could’’ break, tie a loop of string around the object and then tie the horse’s rope to the string, instead of the object itself. If the horse does decide to make a break for it, this will minimize property damage.
 Make sure to tie your horse up far enough away from other horses that they cannot fight. It is best not to tie your horse up around other horses at all, until it is used to being tied., Do not tie the horse to an object on or near the ground. The horse could step on the rope, trip on it, or get tangled up on it, and potentially suffer serious injury. You can tie a horse to something higher than his head., Leave about 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m) of rope between the horse and the object it is tied to. This is enough rope to allow the horse to comfortably move his head. Leaving more rope can lead to injury., If your horse will be tied up for a number of hours, be sure that there is food and water available, and that the horse is sheltered from the elements. Tying your horse to a sturdy fence post under the shade of a tree might be an option, or to a sturdy post or gate inside a barn.Check on the horse frequently, especially if it is new to being tied up.
 It is always a good idea to carry a knife, in case the horse manages to pull the knot tight and you need to release it in a hurry. Cut through the rope between the post or ring and the knot. Be sure to hold the knife so the blade is facing away from both you and your horse, so that no one is injured if the rope abruptly gives way., Never step over or under a tie rope, and remain well out of kicking range when walking behind the horse. Speak to your horse softly before approaching it, to avoid startling it, and keep your hands on the horse as you walk alongside it., Untie the horse and turn the horse to where you want it to go before you remove the halter. Quick-release knots should be very easy to untie. For the bowline, simply untie the knot using both hands.