 Remember the secret: they don't know that you are leading their ideas your way on purpose. Even if you decide whether or not you want to end the relationship (friendships only—not in a romantic relationship). Perhaps watching a loved one squirm is all you need to realize that you actually do love them deep, deep down. Really deep down.


Tell them that something does not look good on them when it doesn't. It's not your fault that you don't have the best tact.
Avoid finishing off their favorite snacks when you meet up with them; so that they have to go buy more. If s/he's hosting a party, keep helping, giving seconds and filling the empty serving dishes, glasses, plates, (whatever) so that they do not have to keep running back and forth.
Be "distant" friends with all the guys (or girls) they hang out with. Once their guy friends are a little lusty over you, a girl is never going to be happy; so avoid that. Ladies, this means never flirting with her boyfriend or the guy she's been crushing on for forever—it's too obvious and downright catty. Jealousy, also, can arise in relationships between two guy friends when the girls flock towards one of them.
Don't say things that you know will upset them, i.e.: not to the point that they'll confront you about it. For example, if your friend is country, why talk about how much you wish that they would just chop down all the trees in front of the road signs. Remember, they have to be things that you actually believe. If you also love living out in the country, you'd obviously seem a liar who's trying to irritate people, if you get too much into upsetting them.
Listen to music they know and sing the words in the car. Or listen to music they don't really like much, but only if they've listened to them before. If they only like "I Kissed A Girl" by Katy Perry, but don't like any of the other songs, then if you play the rest of them, singing all the words, insist that you thought they might learn to like her, if you were asked to turn it off.
Become friends with their friends, better than they expect. This is possible, if you try to win over their friends because your friend will be aware that you are angling a little more than usual lately and will most likely have talked to them about it. But, if you have mutual friends, don't just invite the mutual friends to go to movies when you know your roommate/relative can't go—or apologize, and if you know that they don't want to see it, but you and the mutual friends do.

