 Hyperhidrosis is a relatively mysterious condition where the nerves responsible for triggering the sweat glands become overactive for reasons unknown — although the problem becomes worse with stress or nervousness. Hyperhidrosis usually affects the hands, feet, underarms or face bilaterally (on both sides of the body) and episodes occur at least weekly during waking hours.Some people suffering with hyperhidrosis constantly sweat throughout the day.


People with severe hyperhidrosis can run the risk of dehydration unless they replenish their lost fluids with plenty of water.
Approximately 3% of the population experience bouts of hyperhidrosis, particularly adults aged 25 to 65 years.;
, Most antiperspirants found in grocery stores and pharmacies contain aluminum-based compounds that can temporarily block the pores that release sweat.Consequently, the sweat doesn't reach the surface of the skin and eventually gets reabsorbed by the body. As such, apply liberal amount of antiperspirants under your arms, as well as onto the palms of your hands and soles of your feet. It may feel a little strange, but likely better than the clamminess that's commonly associated with hyperhidrosis.


Over-the-counter antiperspirants are usually best for cases of minor hyperhidrosis only.
If you're applying antiperspirant to your hands, you may want to use unscented varieties, especially if you anticipate greeting people and shaking hands with them.
 Choose clothing wisely if you have hyperhidrosis. You should always wear clothes that are breathable and made from natural fabrics, such as cotton, light wool and silk.When you exercise, consider wearing more advanced fabrics that are designed to wick moisture away from your skin. Cotton socks are best for sweaty feet, although you still might have to change them multiple times per day. Shoes made from natural materials (especially leather and suede) can help prevent excessive sweating by allowing your feet to breathe.


Rotate the shoes you wear because they may not completely dry overnight. If you must wear damp shoes, use a hair dryer to get them as dry as possible.
Using talcum powder in your shoes might help absorb moisture and prevent them from being constantly damp. Chronic dampness increases the risk of mold growth.
 The more you sweat, the more salts, toxins and sugars get deposited on your skin, which attracts bacteria. The compounds in sweat combined with the waste material from the proliferating bacteria greatly contribute to foul body odor. As such, people with hyperhidrosis need to bathe more often (at least daily if not twice daily) to help keep the number of bacteria in check and to keep from becoming too malodorous.Regular soap is fine for combating bacteria, but buy brands that have natural moisturizers (aloe, almond extract) in them so your skin doesn't get too dry and flaky. After taking a shower or bath, make sure to dry yourself thoroughly, especially between your toes and under your arms.


People who sweat profusely on a regular basis are more prone to bacterial skin infections, particularly from ingrown toenails and minor abrasions.
Excessive loss of electrolytes is another issue for people with moderate-to-severe hyperhidrosis because sweat contains salt. Loss of electrolytes often leads to muscle cramping.
 There are a variety of herbal preparations that have been used by various cultures over many generations to combat excessive sweating, although none have been thoroughly studied by Western scientists to determine their effectiveness. However, there are many anecdotal reports that applying certain herbs as antiperspirant or consuming them internally can help combat hyperhidrosis. For example, witch hazel extract is strongly astringent, which dries skin and acts as an effective antiperspirant virtually anywhere on the body.The tannic acid in black tea is also very astringent, so washing parts of your body with cold tea may be very helpful to combat sweating.


Other herbs traditionally used to reduce sweating include white vinegar, sage tea, slices of raw potato, tea tree oil, and camphor combined with coconut oil.
Most herbal preparations diluted in water are safe and appropriate to use in all areas of the body, although some might sting your eyes, so be cautious when washing your face.
 Stress caused by your job and/or personal relationships can create anxiety and trigger bouts of hyperhidrosis. Consequently, try to deal with the stress in your life by making positive changes and/or train yourself to combat anxious thoughts by being more optimistic and innovative. In other words, try to "turn lemons into lemonade" more often. Excessive stress triggers the sympathetic nervous system to release hormones that prepare your body for "fight or flight" — and a side effect of that mode is more sweating.Avoid reading about stressful events in the newspaper and watching stressful, scary or thrilling shows on TV. Instead, read more motivational, inspiring and/or comedic material and watch comedies or documentaries.
Try natural relaxation techniques such as meditation, tai chi, yoga, breathing exercises and/or biofeedback — all can help reduce the stress that triggers sweating.
 If your efforts at home aren't satisfactory, then your doctor may prescribe an antiperspirant with a higher percentage of aluminum chloride (about 20%), such as Drysol or Xerac Ac. This is the first line of treatment against hyperhidrosis.Prescription antiperspirants are usually applied just before bedtime and left on overnight, then washed off in the morning. It often takes three to five days to see noticeable results.


Aluminum chloride products work best if applied to a dry area and then covered with plastic wrap overnight.
Prescription antiperspirants can cause skin and eye irritation, so be careful handling them. If your skin becomes chronically irritated, hydrocortisone cream is usually recommended in combination with the aluminum chloride product.
 The injection of Botulinum Toxin A (Botox, Myobloc) into particularly sweaty areas is another treatment option for hyperhidrosis.Botox also has anticholinergic effects as it decreases the transmission of the nerve impulses to the sweat glands and reduces sweating. Botulinum injections for the underarms to reduce sweating is approved by the FDA. However, several injections are required for significant results, which can relieve symptoms for between three to nine months, but the potential long-term dangers of Botox injections are not well understood.


Keep in mind that this is a second line treatment. Botox injections can be painful and expensive, so it is bets to try first line treatment options first.
Just like getting Botox for facial wrinkles, your underarm skin is iced or anesthetized before getting injected.
A 2008 study found Botox to be more effective than topical 20% aluminum chloride antiperspirant for the treatment of moderate-to-severe underarm hyperhidrosis., Microwave thermolysis is a procedure that uses microwave energy to destroy the endocrine glands that produce sweat. The FDA approved this treatment for hyperhidrosis in 2011. However, your body will still be able to cool itself down after the procedure because only 2% of your sweat glands are in your armpits.Most insurance companies do not cover microwave thermolysis, so check your insurance before you consider this treatment.
The procedure is painless because your doctor will numb your armpits before starting.
Multiple sessions are required. Each session lasts about an hour, but most patients report reduced sweating after only two sessions.
 Common systemic agents (taken orally) used to treat hyperhidrosis include anticholinergic medications (propantheline bromide, glycopyrrolate, oxybutynin, benztropine).Anticholinergics are relatively effective because they block the preglandular neurotransmitter (acetylcholine) that triggers sweat secretion. However, the down side is that these medications commonly create numerous side effects such as mydriasis (pupil dilation), blurry vision, dry mouth and eyes, difficulty urinating and constipation.


Anticholinergics used to treat hyperhidrosis are not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for that purpose and are being used "off label", which is legal, but not always considered ideal.
Other systemic medications used off label for hyperhidrosis include sedatives and tranquilizers, indomethacin (anti-iflammatory drug) and calcium channel blockers.
 Iontophoresis was introduced over 50 years ago and consists of passing a direct low-level electrical current across the skin of water-soaked hands, feet and armpits in order to reduce sweating.The mechanism of action remains debatable, but it is effective and without any significant side effects. Treatment is usually 2-3 times a week for 20-30 minute sessions, and slowly decreases over time (like once every two months), although the devices are often required to be bought or some hospitals/GPs might loan them out for patients to take home for the sake of convenience. Most hospitals that have a dermatological area have one and the waiting lists are usually quite short. Iontophoresis is not an option for people who have pacemakers or are pregnant.
Anticholinergic agents can be mixed in water to soak the skin to make the procedure a little more effective, but it also triggers occasional side effects.
Side effects such as irritation are common, and also some patients experience light electric shocks after the treatment.
 A sympathectomy is a surgical procedure to reduce sweating by blocking a group of nerves in your chest. This nerve group sends signals to your brain that cause your body to sweat. In someone with hyperhidrosis, cutting off this signal can put a stop to excessive sweating.Like any surgery there are risks,but new endoscopic techniques have made the surgery safer than it used to be.
A sympathectomy should not be your first choice. It is a last resort treatment. If nothing else works for you, then a sympathectomy may be a good option.

