 Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, then set it aside for later.


The cookies in this recipe are also known as "black and white" cookies.
 Pour the flour into a medium-sized mixing bowl. Add the baking powder and the salt. Stir them together, then set the bowl aside.
 Pour the milk into a measuring cup. Stir in the vanilla extract and the lemon extract. Set the cup aside.
 You can do this in a stand mixer with a paddle attachment, or in a large bowl with a handheld mixer. You can also use a food processor. Cream the two together for about 1 minute using a medium speed setting, then scrape down the sides of the bowl.
 Beat in the egg first, until there are no streaks left. Switch to a low speed setting on your mixer, then alternate between adding in the flour and milk mixture.


Wait until the flour is completely absorbed before adding in the milk.
You only need to add in the flour and the milk in two batches.
 You can do this with a 3-tablespoon (45-milliliters) cookie or ice cream scoop. You can also roll the cookies into 8 balls with your hands. Space them evenly on the baking sheet.
 They are ready when they turn fluffy, and a toothpick poked into the middle comes out clean. Once they are done baking, let them cool on the baking sheet for about 5 minutes first, then use a spatula to transfer them to a wire cooling rack. Let them finish cooling there.
 Pour the powdered sugar into a mixing bowl. Whisk in 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of milk until the mixture is smooth and consistent. Pour half of the glaze into another bowl. You will finish preparing your glazes in these two bowls.
 Set the bowl aside when you are done. This will make the white half of the cookies.
 Set the bowl aside when you are done. This will make the chocolate (black) part of the cookies.
 Set the cookies onto a wire rack. Pour the white icing over half of each cookie using a spoon. Then, pour the brown icing over the other half of each cookie using another spoon. When you are done, each cookie will have a white half and a brown half.


The cookies must be completely cool before you ice them.
Place a sheet of wax paper or parchment paper under the rack to protect your counter.
 These cookies will remain soft and are perfect for any formal event.

