 Typical places for the seepage of cigarette smoke from one apartment to another include air vents, pipes (plumbing), gaps in insulation, eaves or other places, electrical outlets, ceiling fixtures, cable or phone jacks, windows and doors. Do not forget to consider balconies and outdoor patios as another possible source. Unfortunately, even the ventilation system can be a source (see "Warnings" below).;
, If you have understanding and cooperative neighbors, you may be able to arrange with them to locate exit points in their residence and ask them to deal with these exit points in the same way as your entrance points.
 Gaps should be filled with suitable filler such as insulating foam for large gaps or silicone caulk for smaller ones. Consider gaps around light fittings, electrical points, around air vents, around plumbing items etc.
, This will help prevent the entry of smoke and other undesirable elements such as dust, pollen and insects. Install a threshold under the door if there is none, and attach weatherstripping on all 3 sides of the jamb.
 Not only will this help prevent smoke from entering off balconies and gardens etc., but it will increase your energy efficiency.
 These will help to draw smoke outside and can help increase ventilation. Seek professional advice on type and installation measures.
 There are some important follow-ups that you might consider pursuing as well as the practical actions in the steps above.


Notify the landlord, building management or other relevant persons that you have the problem. Request that action be taken to prevent the distribution of secondhand smoke through the apartment building. Check the lease agreement or apartment building bylaws to see if you can find additional support.
Check local laws to see if there are bans on smoking in public places, such as gardens and common outdoor areas. It may mean that you can request property management to enforce the laws. If there are not currently laws in place to protect your family and other non-smokers, consider calling or writing to your local law makers. Don't wait for others to protect you and your kids- take action to change local laws yourself.
Ask for compensation from a landlord, property management or other relevant party for the repairs you have made. Keep all receipts and document all repairs made. You may not be successful but it is worth trying and it is even more important to retain this documentation if the matter turns into a legal issue later on.

