 A lot of people play with slightly different rules in different geographical areas or cultures, and it's best to be clear about what you can and cannot do before the game begins to avoid confusion or frustration during the game. In this version, the rules are as follows:The strongest to weakest goes in this order: 2,A,K,Q,J,10,9,8,7,6,5,4,3.
The strongest suit is hearts followed by diamonds, clubs, and spades, but this rule only works when playing the same card. For instance, a 2 of hearts beats a 2 of diamonds.
The 3 of spades is the lowest card in this game. The 2 of hearts is the highest. This also runs the works across all the suits. Twos are higher than threes.
The card is higher than the suit. For instance, the 9 of spades is higher than the 8 of hearts.
The object is to play a card that beats the previous card on the table until you get rid of all of your cards. So, a 5 of spades beats a 3 of spades. A king of clubs beats an 8 of hearts because even though the hearts suit is higher than the clubs, the king is higher than an 8.
This game is best played with four players as each player gets 13 cards, which evenly divides a standard deck. Note this is also how the game derives its name.
Some play with rules that would normally be considered cheating. So, depending on the rules, it is okay to look at other player’s card or play out of turn if you can get away with it. , You can play your hand a number of ways. Hands can be played in singles, doubles, triples and runs. A higher single card -- a solo card -- beats a lower single card. For instance, a queen of hearts beats a jack of hearts. A higher double -- two cards -- beats a lower double. A higher triple -- three cards -- beats a lower triple.

There also are runs -- a combination of at least three cards in sequential order. To beat a sequence the sequence must be higher than the previous sequence., The object of the game is to get rid of your hand as quickly as possible, and card combinations help you do that since you can put down more than one card at a time. A pair or double is a combination of two cards with the same number but different suits. For instance a 5 of spades and 5 of hearts are a pair. To defeat a double, the opposing player needs a pair of cards with a higher rank, for instance, a queen of hearts and queen of diamonds.








A triple is three cards cards with same rank and different suits. So, a 5 of Spades, a 5 of hearts and 5 of clubs is an examples of a triple. To beat this triple, the opposing player has to put out three cards of the same rank higher rank, for instance, 6 of spades, 6 of hearts and 6 of diamonds.
A run or sequence requires at least three cards in numerical order. ( The suits can be mixed.) It can only be beaten by another sequence where the rank of the highest card is ranked higher than the last card in the previous run. The lowest card a run can begin with is a 3 of spades For instance, a 4 of spades, 5 of hearts, 6 of diamonds and 7 of spades is beaten by a 4 of hearts, 5 of diamonds, 6 of hearts and 7 of hearts because a 7 of hearts is higher than a 7 of spades.
 In this game, certain hands win the game instantly. No trading is allowed.These cards must be in your hand after the initial deal: four 2s, six pairs ( 22,44,33,66,77,88), three triples, and a dragon’s head. A dragon’s head is special run from a 3 to an Ace of the same suit. The hearts dragon’s head is the highest because hearts is the highest suit and cannot be beaten by another.








Holding four 2s in your hand after the deal is an instant win because it is four of the highest cards in the game. Twos are the highest cards in each suit.
In some cases, four 2s is the only instant win that people play when they this game. In other cases, people agree that if someone receives four 2s during the deal, then the dealer re-shuffles and re-deals the cards.
If you are holding six pairs, this means that 12 of your 13 cards form pairs.

