 Niyyah is the Islamic concept of performing an act for the sake of Allah. To truly perform wudu, you should center yourself and quiet your thoughts, focusing seriously on what you are doing.


Niyyah doesn't necessarily involve saying anything out loud, but focusing on the phrase "Bismillah" (in the name of Allah) is a good way to accomplish the centering necessary. Say it out loud or silently to yourself, whichever makes you comfortable.;
, Use your left hand to wash your right hand. Do this three times. After that, use your right hand to wash your left hand three times. Make sure to wash in between your fingers and all the way up to your wrists., Use your right hand to cup water into your mouth three times. Swish it around in your cheeks and the back of your throat. Do this thoroughly to get all the remaining food in your mouth out.
 Use your right hand to cup water and inhale it into your nose three times. You can use your left hand to close one nostril and blow out if you need to. Snort sharply and abruptly without taking too much water into your nose and choking yourself. If you cannot inhale water into your nose, you can wet your fingers and put water on the lower part of your nostrils.


Make sure to use safe water to perform this ritual; in some warmer areas of the world, water may contain naegleria fowleri, an amoeba that, if inhaled into the nostrils, can cause a rare but usually fatal type of brain infection. Even tap water (usually in third world and developing countries) may be contaminated; to avoid this illness, boil water for one minute (three minutes at higher elevations) and leave it to cool before rinsing your nose with the water. , Wash your face three times by spreading your hands from your right ear to the left, and from the edge of the hair to the chin.
 From your wrist to your elbow, wash your right arm with your left hand three times and then wash your left arm with your right hand three times.


If you have a cast, you are allowed to simply wipe over it instead., Using your wet hands, gently wipe your forehead from the eyebrow to the hairline. Also wipe down your hair, the back of your neck, and your temples. Do this one time.
 With the same water, use your finger to clean all the crevices of your ear. Use your thumb to clean behind your ears from the bottom upward. This is also done one time.
 Clean up to the the ankles and be sure water goes between the toes. Use your pinky finger and go through each toe to eliminate anything between. Start with your right foot and scrub each foot three times.
 Generally, the prayer is as follows: "Ash-hadu anlaa ilaaha illALLAHu wahdahuu laa shariikalahu, wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan 'abduhuu wa rasuuluhu."


In English, this is translated as "I bear witness that there is no deity other than Allah alone; He is One; He has no partner and I bear witness that Muhammad (may Allah honor him and grant him peace) is His (chosen) servant and (true) Messenger."

, Actions that nullify wudu include natural discharges, including urination, vomiting, defecation, excessive bleeding, and gas. Sleep also nullifies wudu.After intercourse, re-performing wudu alone is not enough to be able to perform Salat. There is another form of purification that must be performed known as Ghusul.

