 Take a look at your school's supply list (if they provide you one) and its policies on bags, the textbooks you will be receiving from your school, and whether you'll be using a laptop (mostly in late high school). These factors affect the type and size of the bag you will need.


First of all, see what your school's rules or handbook have to say about backpacks. Certain schools do not allow rolling backpacks or messenger bags, for example, and some have specifications with regards to style or color.
If you have back problems or other medical needs, make sure that the type of bag you're considering getting will not cause you more trouble. Messenger bags, tote bags or other bags carried on only one shoulder may be poor choices in this situation.
If you will be transporting a laptop to school, record its measurements, so you can narrow down your choices of bags to ones that have a laptop pocket and ones which have the perfectly sized pocket for your mini-computer.;
, Here are negative examples:


"The bag I want to buy can't hold all my stuff!"
"My school/parents won't allow it."
"The bag is too expensive."
"People have been saying that it isn't durable."
"Everyone has one."
"The bag is not eye-catching."
"It isn't waterproof."
"I don't like the style!".
 This will make your decision less stressful!


Other than your school supplies, what else might you carry? Middle and high school students might want to bring a makeup kit, a phone, an iPod, or projects, among other things. So, decide what goes into your bag before getting one. These things make a difference (some bags provide a device pocket in which you can carry your portable devices and listen to music).
 Preferably look for a bag that has sufficient pockets, dividers, zipper compartments, etc., that will allow you to put everything inside in an organized manner.


Multiple pouches of varying sizes is a good idea. Little compartments are great, to hold all your personal things, especially if you carry your backpack around all day.
Water bottle holders may be helpful if you carry a water bottle.
If you bring a lunch every day, you might like to have a separate compartment in which you can put food to prevent spills.
 Durability is a huge factor when purchasing a bag. It may cost more money but not having to replace it, will save money in the long run. If you're looking for maximum durability, a bag made out of nylon or canvas might be necessary, and depending on where you purchase your bag, you may pay handsomely for that. Conversely, if you want to be able to replace your bag year after year, extreme durability might not be of such concern.


However, if your bag will be used to carry sports equipment or will be taken on camping or hiking excursions, you would be well advised to go for something that is reasonably durable.
Look for replacement warranties for the bag. Quality brands will provide this reassurance.
 You don't have to spend a lot of money, but it's always helpful to know something about who made your bag. Also, should you need help with your bag, a trusted company is always more helpful.
 Your backpack is as important as your clothes, if not more so because you wear the same bag every day! Get one that you like now and will for a while.

