 Try to be open to the way your parents feel about the situation and the reasons they have. More likely than not, you are not the only reason why your parents are acting mean. Just like you they have their own stresses, worries, and relationships to manage, and it is inevitable that some of these tension may boil over onto you. This is just part of being a family.Are there ways to help your parents deal with their stress? Maybe doing 1-2 extra chores will ultimately help them relax and make everyone happier.
Are your parent's concerns or "meanness" really a big deal in the grand scheme of things? Are they just in a bad mood because of work, or are they truly cruel?
Outside of small incidents, ask yourself if your parents otherwise support, love, and care for you? All parents can get a little angry, but this doesn't mean they hate you.
 If you jump into a fight every time you believe your parents are being mean, you'll just keep the cycle of anger turning. Everyone has tough days, gets into a grumpy mood, and mistakenly thinks someone hurt them. If you lash out at your parents every time they seem angry you'll just develop a pattern of meanness. Instead, just be yourself and pick your battles wisely.


Go off by yourself for a few minutes if you're upset. Chances are good that, in private, you'll both forget about why you're angry., Be the happy one in your household. Having this aura of positive, supportive thinking is infectious, and is proven to prevent bullying and anger from most people.All it requires are a few simple things:


Thank your parents daily for something. A dinner, a vacation plan, a new softball glove -- all that matters is your gratitude.
Let your parents know that you love them. A simple but thoughtful card on their birthdays, a quick hug before school, a brief "I love you" before bed here and there -- these little things add up and diffuse meanness better than anything else.
Apologize when you mess up. Get in front of their anger and own up to your mistake. If you take charge of the situation you give them fewer chances to get angry., If are any church groups, clubs, sports, support groups, etc. that your friends do or that you are interested in, you should find out when they meet and ask your parents if you can go. If you have a friend that goes to the group, ask your friend if you can go with them. These kinds of organizations can help you form a positive identity and purpose outside of your family.Getting out of the house is a great way to diffuse tension between parents and children. You have your own life to live, and don't need them to do everything for you.
 The vast majority of parents would never dream of abusing their child, and the majority of disciplining, arguing, and punishment is not child abuse. However, you should talk to a guidance counselor, social service worker, or call 1-800-4-A-Child immediately if you experience:Constant belittling, bullying, name-calling, or verbal cruelty
Feelings of horror or extreme terror in the presence of your parent(s)
Feeling violated or unsafe.
Beatings, attacks, or serious threats.

Sexual assault or abuse.