 Omega 3s are helpful in increasing fertility by regulating reproductive hormones, increasing the cervical mucus of egg white, which helps the sperm reach the egg. Omega 3s can also reduce your body’s sensitivity to the hormone prolactin, which can suppress ovulation, and boosts blood flow to the uterus, which can aid with the development of uterine lining..


Foods rich in omega 3 are cod liver oil, canola oil, walnuts, pumpkin seeds, cashews, avocado, sunflower seeds, almonds, sesame seeds, olive oil, corn oil and safflower oil.
 Calcitriol has the ability to control the genes involved in the production of estrogen and embryo implantation. The uterine lining is able to produce calcitriol in response to the embryo as it passes through the uterine cavity before implantation.


The recommended daily intake of vitamin D is 35 (international units) (IUs) per pound of body weight.
 This vitamin can help you to restore your luteal phase, which is the time period from your ovulation to your period. It is generally 11 to 16 days long. Vitamin B6 can also help to reduce your prolactin levels, which, as described above, can disrupt your ovulation process.Try to get roughly 100 mg of vitamin B6 each day. Foods that are rich in vitamin B6 include whole grains, walnuts, lean red meat, seafood, bananas, potatoes, beans, spinach and fortified cereals

, Studies have shown that vitamin C increases the amount of mucus in the vagina which makes the mucus more abundant. This means that it will be easier for the sperm to travel and reach the eggs. For breastfeeding women it is recommended to get around 65 mg of vitamin C each day.Vitamin C can be taken in capsule, tablet or effervescent form. You can also eat foods rich in vitamin C, such as cherries, oranges, kiwi, red and green pepper, lemon, spinach and strawberry.
 Zinc is a mineral that can help your pituitary gland to release chemicals that promote ovulation. It can also help to boost your pituitary gland’s production of estrogen and progesterone..


You should try to get roughly 25 mg of zinc each day. Foods rich in zinc are veal liver, shellfish, crabs, dark chocolate, lean red meats, wheat germ, watermelon, chickpeas, and pumpkin and squash seeds.

