 You likely have a few statutes you hold dear when it comes to your discipline style. Your spouse probably does too. Pick a few and have your spouse do the same. Then make a pact that you will not argue about these. While it’s okay to have a couple non-negotiables, understand that you must be flexible in other areas. Compromise means that you are going to make some concessions.


For instance, you may be adamant about having a no spanking rule. Your spouse may feel that withholding works the best. Choose one or two methods of discipline that you feel the strongest about and work together to make sure both of your wishes are granted., Already having a plan in place for certain behaviors can stop you from disagreeing when it’s time for discipline. Discussing how you want to resolve the problem before it shows up allows you to maintain a united front. It can also prevent arguments between you and your spouse when it’s time to take action.


For instance, discuss what disciplinary actions you will take for common misbehaviors, such as talking back, getting bad grades, fighting with siblings, and staying out past curfew. Attempt to come up with a punishment that you are both comfortable with., Suggest that you try your way of disciplining for a month and then offer to try your spouse’s way. Taking turns gives you both an opportunity to try what you believe will work. It can also prove helpful if you’re having difficulty finding a style that is effective with your child.


For instance, you could say, “Let’s try my way of grounding this time. Then we can try your method of taking away the electronics the next time. Perhaps we will settle on whichever works best.”, Tell your spouse that they did a good job with their choice, if the child responds the best to it. Avoid withholding a compliment just because your idea wasn’t the most successful. Offering support to your spouse is not only encouraging, but may strengthen your relationship, as well.


For example, you could say, “It looks like your way was the best way. Good job and good idea.” Your spouse will likely appreciate your humility and courtesy., Often, one parent will be far too lenient or go overboard on treats because they think the other person is too strict. Other times, one parent will become hyper-militant in their parenting because they think the other parent provides no structure. This damages their relationship with their child. Do your best to compromise in a way that allows you and your spouse to carry equal weight.