 Cataracts generally appear in individuals over the age of 55 and progress slowly. At first, cataracts may not interfere much with your vision. If your cataracts are mild, you can take some steps to ease the discomfort and/or inconvenience. When they begin to challenge you daily, it is time to consider having them removed.In the mean time, you deal with symptoms by:


Making sure glasses and contact lenses are the most accurate prescription.
Using a magnifying glass to read small text.
Improving the lighting in your home.
Wearing sunglasses when you go out during the day.
Limiting driving at night.;
, This surgical process to remove cataracts involves using an ultrasound probe to break up the lens for removal. This is the most common method for cataract removal. This is a simple outpatient procedure that take an hour or less to perform.Your surgeon makes a small incision in the front of your eye and inserts a tiny probe into the lens (where the cataract has formed).
Your surgeon then uses this probe to break up the cataract (using ultrasound waves) and draw out the fragments.
The back of your lens is left intact. This serves as a place for your lens implant to rest.
Stitches may or may not be needed.
 This is another method for removing cataracts. It involves making an incision in the eye and removing the lens in one piece. This procedure is less common and a bit more invasive. This method may be used if you have certain eye complications. Nonetheless, this is still an outpatient procedure that can be done in as little as one hour.Your surgeon will make a larger incision in your eye.
Through this incision, your surgeon will remove the front capsule of the lens.
The back of your lens is left intact. This serves as a place for your lens implant to rest.
This procedure will require some stiches.
 Almost everyone who has cataract surgery will be given an artificial lens (to replace the one that is removed). This is called an intraocular lens (IOL). Before your surgery, discuss the various types of IOLs with your doctor to determine which one is best for you and your lifestyle.IOLs can be made of plastic, silicone, or acrylic.
Some IOLs can block UV light.
Just like glasses or contact lenses, IOLs can be fixed-focus monofocal, multifocal, or toric (for astigmatism correction).
Think about your lifestyle. Are you often in bright sun or dimly lit spaces? Are you often outdoors? Do you play sports? Inform your doctor about these needs.
Both your eye care requirements (such as any corrective adjustments and/or the shape of your eye) and your lifestyle will help determine the IOL that is best for you.

