, Press in the center of the Watch face for two to three seconds or until you feel the vibration coming from your watch. There are no audible beeps when you force-press on your Apple Watch. Force-pressing will give you the options to customize your Watch face.


If you don't find one you like, keep swiping to the right until you see the + button. Click it. Then use your crown button to move it up or down. when you find one you like, click it and now that watch face is yours.
 Whether it's Mickey Mouse or something less tony such as the Chronograph or Color, Utility or even the Simple watch face, there's some really simple watch faces you can use.

For a short time in between Apple watchOS 3.0 and Apple watchOS 3.2, there was a Minnie choice to complement the Mickey Mouse. However, it was removed.
, This will allow you to change your colors and display options for the Watch face. For simple watch faces that display the time with hands on a clock-styled movement, this will allow you to adjust the color of the hands as well as the complications you have added so the Watch face will be something that you can enjoy when you need to access these tools the most., You'll generally have a spot to adjust the hour and minute hands as well as another area to adjust the seconds hand along with a third tab of customizations you can make for the complications you have on your Watch.

For the Solar and Astronomy watch faces, they do not have the customize button so just click the watch face.
 To move between complications or choices (such as complications that display around the edge of the watch or display digitally, tap the item then make your selection of what should be placed in that spot. The green part is whatever you are changing.For most of the watch faces, you can swipe right and there In some of these boxes, it'll give you other choices of what can be put there without changing what's there already (put in a different format), while in others it'll give you completely different things to put in the box. Use the crown to change the color or format of what item is displayed. will be more functions you can change.

If you choose Astronomy, then you can see Earth, the moon, and the solar system if you press its buttons on the bottom of the screen. If you move the crown button you can see the past, present, and the future. Also, if you double tap the screen on during the solar system, all the planets will line up.
If you choose Solar, you can move your crown button and you will see the movement of the light.
If you choose Motion, you can change your creature from flower to butterfly to jellyfish. And if you tap once, it will show another type of the flower or butterfly or jellyfish.
 When you are done, just press the button under the crown slowly twice and it will disappear. Doing so, essentially saves your customization design on your Watch.