 Remember that wine pairing guidelines are just that: guidelines. Although most wine connoisseurs wouldn’t recommend it, you might love the contrast of a super-sweet white chocolate with an ultra-dry red wine. The only way to know what you like is to try different things., To really appreciate the tastes of wine and chocolate together, use a simple palate cleanser to get any lingering flavors from dinner out of your mouth. Eat something with a neutral flavor, like a few bites of white bread, and drink a little water., Your sense of smell contributes a lot to what you taste. Inhaling the aroma of your food and drink first can help you appreciate the various flavors more fully. It can also build your anticipation by giving you a preview of what your taste buds are about to experience.Hold each piece of chocolate to your nose and take a moment to inhale deeply before you bite.
Before taking a sip of wine, swirl the glass gently, then take a series of quick, short sniffs from just above the top of the glass., Take a small bite of chocolate, and allow it to melt enough to coat the inside of your mouth. Close your eyes and concentrate on what you feel and taste. Make note of:The texture. Is it smooth and creamy? Does it have a crumbly or fudgy texture? If your chocolate contains nuts, sea salt, or bits of nougat, what do they contribute to the texture?
The flavor. Is it bitter, sweet, or both? Are there fruity or salty notes? Do you detect hints of almond or hazelnut?

, Take a quick sniff of the wine, then take a sip while the taste of the chocolate is still lingering in your mouth. Pay attention to the feel and taste of the wine, and think about how it mingles with the flavors of the chocolate.

For example, does the wine feel smooth, or crisp? Does the texture work well with the texture of the chocolate?
Do you notice any notes in the wine that complement the chocolate particularly well? For example, hints of berry can go particularly well with dark or milk chocolate.
 Allow yourself to be in the moment and savor the mingling of the flavors. Close your eyes and take a few moments to concentrate entirely on the taste of the chocolate and the wine. Wait a few moments between tastes to appreciate the aftertaste that lingers after you have swallowed both the chocolate and the wine.