 Your doctor may have told you that you're obese or morbidly obese and advised that you need to lose weight. Unfortunately, many doctors end the conversation there, not providing more solutions.Don't be shy — ask your doctor for resources to help you address the physical and emotional parts of obesity, and if necessary, also ask your doctor for referrals.If you are morbidly obese (BMI over 35), consider a bariatric surgery consultation to see if surgery is an option for you. Your insurance may pay for it if you have comorbid disorders such as hypertension and diabetes.
 Research has shown that people are more inclined to stick with a plan if they have a support group, which is different than relying on your friends and family. These support groups meet for a unified reason, such as weight loss or loving yourself at any size, and are a a great resource of like-minded people.Commercial groups are available and usually have several locations, making them easy to get to.
Your local community center may run various emotional, mental, and physical health groups.
Churches often rent spaces to groups as well that may or may not be affiliated with a religious organization.
 Online communities offer a few advantages: you don’t have to commute to reach the group, you have a degree of anonymity of you want it, mobility issues are not an issue, and you have access to unlimited people from around the whole world. A simple search of any major search engine will take you to community forums, which are often run as message boards, although some do have real-time chat features.


Search for more than one set of key words. If you’d like to find a Love Yourself at Any Size (LYAS) group, you might search that term, but also try "health at any size community", for example.
 Your local bookstore or library is a goldmine of resources. You have thousands of books at your fingertips that will help you deal with obesity, from making better food choices to nourishing your self image. Bookstores offer the advantage of looking through books before you commit to purchasing them, giving you an opportunity to decide if that’s really the book for you.


Independently-owned bookstores often have bulletin boards with listings for group meetups on a variety of topics that might be a great fit for you.
 Insurance companies want you to be healthy because it saves them money, and often there are perks that you can take advantage of that might not be advertised. Call your insurance company and ask what ancillary perks you might be eligible for or get on their website and look up your specific policy.Some offer fitness trackers which are wearable devices that keep track of how many steps you take in a day.
Some offer gym fee reimbursements.
Many insurance companies can direct you to various support resources.
 It seems that every month a new device, video game, or app is coming out that helps us with our overall health. Consider using a wearable activity monitor, or using applications for your phone or computer that track your activity, your food and beverage intake, or even your blood pressure numbers. These serve as excellent motivators and help you feel proactive.If you have a smart phone or a tablet and a computer, look for applications that will sync to all of your devices so that you have access no matter where you are.

