 This really is the most important meal of the day, even when you’re trying to lose weight. Focus on eating lean protein (eggs or low-fat Greek yogurt) for breakfast as a way to jump-start your metabolism, stay fuller longer, and help you burn calories throughout the day.
 Eating fiber-rich fresh vegetables as part of your meals and as snacks will help you curb hunger and eat less throughout the day.
 Skip sugary types of drinks and stick to pure, simple water.Drink 8 ounces (.25 liters) of water before every meal to help you feel full even before you start eating. Water also helps boost your metabolism and aid in digestion.
Be sure to drink at least 64 ounces (1.9 liters) of water every day.
Try infusing your water with non-sugary flavor sources, like fresh mint, basil, or cucumber slices to make hydration more palatable.
 High calorie drinks can be dangerous in that you end up consuming more calories that you notice. Try to limit drinks like sugary juices, sweetened coffee or tea, and alcoholic beverages., These count for more than 800 of our daily calories, and we often consume them without even noticing!Pay attention to food labels and avoid products with solid, trans, and saturated fats as well as added sugars.
Eliminate fast foods and refined grains (white bread, for example) which are loaded with fats and often pumped full of extra, unnecessary sugars.
Limiting salt and starches will help you reduce fluid retention and shed water weight, which is great for a quick slim-down fix., It's just as important to consider how much food you’re eating, in addition to what kinds of foods you’re eating.Try to cut back on your portions to save calories, and follow these basic guidelines for portion control:Eat 5-6.5 ounces (142-184 grams) of lean (not fatty) proteins like chicken, beans, and fish.
Eat 5-8 ounces (142-227 grams) of grains, with 1/2 from whole grains.
Eat 1.5-2 cups (.35-.5 liters) of fruits.
Eat 2.5-3.5 cups (.6-.8 liters) of vegetables.
Consume 3 cups (.7 liters) of nonfat or low-fat diary.
Eat no more than 5-7 teaspoons (25-35 ml) of oils (try to get these from plant and protein sources).
Eat no more than 121 calories from solid fats and added sugars.
 Instead of having just a few big meals in a day, spread out your food into several smaller sized meals. This will help keep your blood sugars and metabolism up, and reduce the temptation for snacking in between meals.