 Even a grumpy cat will appreciate food that tastes good and is good for her. Choose a food that has high-quality ingredients and is free of by-products.A high quality cat food will have a statement on the bag stating that it meet your cat’s minimal nutritional requirements, and thus meets the requirements of the American Association of Feed Control Officials.Consider wet food instead of dry food. Dry cat food tends to be low in water, high in carbohydrates, and contain more plant-based than animal-based protein.Cats are carnivores, so their main protein source must be animal-based.
Make sure to give your cat access to plenty of fresh, clean water.If your cat has specific nutritional needs, speak with your veterinarian for recommendations on what type of diet is best for your cat.
Talk to your cat as you prepare her food and give her a few gentle strokes along her back when she eats.This affection and attention may help reduce her grumpiness.;
, What cat doesn’t love a scrumptious treat every now and then? Your grumpy cat would love snacks that contain lean protein, such as freeze-dried chicken or lamb. Do not feed her human food, though—human food can cause your cat to develop mild to severe digestive upset.Tuna is another tasty treat for cats. Too much tuna, though, can lead to condition called yellow fat disease. A tuna-heavy diet can also lead to a vitamin E deficiency.Raw meat can be a source of infectious disease for cats, so do not treat your cat with raw meat.Limit your cat's treats to 5% or less of her diet.Too many treats can cause your cat to become obese and experience obesity-related health problems (e.g., arthritis)., Your grumpy cat may like you more if you give her a warm, comfortable, and quiet place to sleep. Place soft blankets, and maybe even a few soft pillows, in her sleep area.Clean her bedding when it becomes soiled, but do not clean it too frequently—she will still want to smell her scent on it., Your cat may be grumpy because you haven’t cleaned her litter box in a while. A dirty litter box could make even the sweetest cat a little grumpy. Clean out the clumps of urine and feces on a daily basis.If a regular and frequent cleaning schedule is not practical for you, consider switching to a self-cleaning litterbox., Toys are an important aspect of your cat’s overall health, and can keep her physically and mentally active when you are not home. Your grumpy cat would appreciate a variety of toys that will challenge her and keep her busy. Toys as simple as a crumpled piece of newspaper or a pizza box with a big hole in the middle can keep your grumpy cat entertained.Other fun, inexpensive toys include a paper bag with the handles cut off, ping pong balls, and empty toilet paper or paper towel rolls.If you would like to purchase some toys at the pet store, pick toys that do not have any small parts (e.g., ribbons, plastic eyes) that your cat could remove and swallow. Swallowing these small parts could give your cat serious digestive problems.Switch the toys out on a regular basis so your cat does not become bored with them (or grumpier!).
 In addition to your cat's general grumpiness, she may do some other specific behaviors to tell you not to interact with her. For example, she may hiss at you, arch her back, fluff her tail, and flatten her ears. All of these behaviors are clear signs for you to steer clear of her.Your cat may also hold her tail in an upright and slightly curved position. This tail position lets you know your cat is feeling defense or aggressive, not playful.If your cat really wants to be left alone, she may spit at you!, It is important for your cat to see you as her friend, not just as the person who owns her and gives her food.Her grumpiness may start to fade as you spend more time with her, which you can do by playing interactive games with her. Play games that nurture her natural hunting instinct. For example, shine a laser light on the floor in different locations and watch your cat chase after it.Schedule at least one playtime with your cat per day. Her grumpiness may stem from you not spending a lot of time with her, so plan to dedicate at least 10 minutes of your day playing with her.
 If your grumpy cat is well into her adult years, try bringing out her inner kitten to get her to like you. For example, play a game of fetch with her. Toss a toy mouse across the room and let her fetch it. You could also turn on a faucet and watch your cat have a child-like fascination with the water.Be creative with how to nurture her inner kitten. If you have had her since she was a kitten, try to remember what made her happy as a kitten and do those things.
 Your grumpy cat may start to like you more if you are affectionate with her. Cats love a soft scratch behind the ears, so try this with your cat.Try petting your cat in different areas to see what she likes the most and least. When your ‘session of affection’ is over, give your cat a treat so she can make a positive association with your efforts to be affectionate with her.Be affectionate with your cat on her own terms. If you try to be too affectionate with her, she may become even grumpier.
Try doing a few slow blinks with your cat. Slow blinks are a sign that your cat is comfortable with you.Your grumpy cat may not want to give you a slow blink initially, but she may do so as you do more things to get her to like you.
 During your play sessions, watch your cat's body language to know she has had enough and wants to be alone. When she is overstimulated, her pupils will dilate, her ears will flatten back, and she may start twitching or waving her tail. Your cat may also start to growl or put her teeth on you.End your play session when your cat indicates she no longer wants to interact with you.
 However, if your efforts to get her to like you pay off, then she may start to show affection in her own way, such as by licking you or ‘making biscuits.’ If your grumpy cat starts licking your ears and hair, she is showing that she trusts you and sees you as a friend.If your cat’s licking becomes excessive or uncomfortable, discourage her from licking by moving away when she starts licking you or giving her a soft toy towards which she can be affectionate.‘Making biscuits’ is another way of describing kneading behavior in cats. Kneading is your cat's way of showing that she's comfortable., If your cat wants to snuggle close to you to enjoy a nice nap, she is letting you know that she trusts you. Cats, like people and other animals, are most vulnerable when they are sleeping. If your grumpy cat sees you as a safe and warm spot to sleep, give yourself a pat on the back!, If you have an indoor/outdoor cat, or a very curious indoor cat, she may bring you her catch (e.g., dead prey) to show off her hunting prowess. Although the sight of a dead bird in your cat’s mouth or on the porch does not seem very praiseworthy, give your cat praise anyway—she is showing you a sign of friendship and you do not want to reject that.If your cat has a habit of bringing dead animals to you, and you are not comfortable removing the animals, consider contacting a local animal removal service.
 Another way to get your grumpy cat to like you is to imitate her affectionate behaviors. One of these behaviors is head bumping. Your cat will do this to say hello to you, leave her scent on you, and see you as part of her clan. Bump her head right back to reinforce your being part of her clan.Do not be forceful with the bump—you could just move your head slightly forward as she bumps it.

