 You may consider talking to your health care team about the problems you’re having bonding with your baby. They may be able to give you information or refer you to places where you can learn techniques for bonding with your baby.There may be classes available in your area for new mothers and fathers that teach how to interact, respond, and take care of your baby.
You may also try going to new parents groups.
 Psychotherapy is a common treatment for postpartum depression. Psychotherapy is when you go see a psychologist, therapist, or counselor to talk about your condition. Therapy gives you a place to discuss your fears, feelings, and concerns. Your therapist can offer suggestions on how to manage the symptoms and interact with your baby.Since postpartum depression carries many misconceptions, you may feel like people will judge you if you go to therapy for PPD. Don’t let this stop you. Getting the help you need to heal yourself so you can care for your baby is nothing to be ashamed of.
For example, you may want to tell your therapist if you feel sad, if you feel like self-harming, if you have suicidal thoughts, or if you have feelings that make you feel like you can’t bond with your baby.
Many women with postpartum see results and recovery within two to three months.
 If talk therapy does not help, you may want to consider medication. Your doctor can prescribe antidepressants to help you with your depression. However, you need to understand the negative side effects of antidepressants, such as how some antidepressants make it unsafe for you to breastfeed your baby.Discuss with your doctor the pros and cons of medication. Talk to your partner as you decide whether antidepressants are the right fit for you.
You can take either selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). SSRIs are usually what is prescribed and include Prozac, Zoloft, and Celexa. TCAs are generally used if you can’t take SSRIs and include doxepin.
TCAs are not safe for breastfeeding.
 Support groups may offer help as you work through your PDD. In a support group, you can connect with other mothers who are struggling with the same problem. You can share your feelings and listen as they share theirs. You may even be able to find suggestions for bonding with your baby.You can ask your doctor about support groups in your area. You may also search the internet to find online support groups.

