 This is very important, as it will protect your hair from heat damage. Heat-damaged hair can often look dry, frizzy, or ratted. To prevent this from happening, apply a heat protectant spray to your hair, focusing on the ends.
 You should have the bottom third or bottom fourth of your hair loose. The thicker you hair is, the more sections you will need to work with.
 Take a small section of hair, and place a round brush under it, as close to your roots as you can. Turn on your hairdryer, and place it right over the brush.
 Keep the hairdryer directly over the brush at all times. Do not pull the brush completely past the ends of your hair.
 If your hair is not smooth, pull the brush completely past your hair and start again. When your hair is smooth, rotate the brush back towards your scalp, rolling the hair around it.
 Leave the brush in your hair as it cools. Once it is cool to the touch, carefully pull the brush out of your hair. At this point, you can move onto the next section.


If your hair is very fine, consider giving it a quick spray with a lightweight hairspray before moving on.
Save power by turning your hairdryer off while you wait for your hair to cool.
 Keep working in small sections and thin layers until you have straightened all of your hair.
 If you are happy with this look, you are done and can go about your day. If your hair isn't straight enough for you, pass a hair straightener through the ends and the upper layers. Pull the hair straightener through your hair using an upwards motion rather than straight down. This will help create extra volume. Here are some more pointers on straightening your hair:For even more volume: roll your hair up in a round brush or thermal styling brush, about 1½ to 2 inches (3.81 to 5.08 centimeters) away from your scalp.
Keep the brush in your hair until your hair cools before pulling it out.
Pass your hair straightener through your hair, right under the brush, while unrolling it to make your hair even straighter.
 Run a brush or your fingers through your hair, starting at your forehead, and moving straight back. This will help create extra volume. After that, you can part or style your hair however you like.

