 You can do this with a seam ripper or small nail scissors. Or, if the garment is much longer than desired, you can cut off the bottom with fabric scissors.


Don't make the garment too short, though! Leave several inches to prepare your blind hem.;
,


Stand on a stool or table and ask a friend to put a few pins at the correct level.
 Remove the pins.


Use water-soluble pencil, pen, or chalk.
Alternatively, you can mark the hemline with pins.
 For example, if you want a 2-inch deep hem, you mark a line 2 inches above and 2 inches below the hemline.


Again, you can use a water-soluble pen or pencil, or do this with pins.
 Be certain to leave an inch of fabric!

, If you have 1 inch of raw edge, tuck 1/2 inch of fabric under, leaving the remaining 1/2 inch under your bottom line.


Some experts suggest sewing this fold with a basic straight stitch or finishing the raw edge with an over edge or zigzag stitch, but this may not be an essential step., Do this by pinching the fabric at the middle line (what's to be your final hemline). Your other two lines (above and below the hemline) should line up, since they are equidistant from the hem. Pin around the hem to hold this fold in place.
 At this point, your bottom line will once again be exposed, and below it the pressed raw edge.


You can remove the previous pins and use them to secure the folds.
 After you've done this, you can remove the pins if you wish, but it isn't necessary., The sewing machine requires a specific foot for this stitch, with the vertical bar passing between the two feet.


Alternatively, buy a universal blind hem presser foot for your machine in a sewing shop or online. These feet are fairly inexpensive and a good choice if your machine does not have the blind hem presser foot.Make sure, however, that it fits your machine. Check the product specifications before buying: they'll usually say which machines it works with.
If you can't find a presser foot for your machine, you can still make this hem! Skip to sewing instructions in Part 3, Step 2.
 Follow the instructions for your particular machine.
 This setting is often indicated by two stitches spaced far apart, but check your user's manual to be sure. Now you're ready to sew!, Make sure the foot's vertical plate is sitting right on top of the fold. The machine is going to stitch along the raw edge section mostly, but cross the plate into the fold every few stitches.
 Hold the fabric carefully so that the fold stays just under the vertical plate. This way the needle is sure to catch it.If you do not have a blind hem presser foot, make the stitch pattern manually:


Put the machine feed dogs on the inside.
Place your fabric on the machine as in Step 1.
Make five straight stitches, and then one stitch to barely catch the fold.
Continue around the hem.
 Remove the garment, snip the thread, and turn right side out. Check for any missed stitches.


If needed, go back and redo the sections where there is a missing stitch.
 If a line remains from the previous hemline, try spritzing it with a bit of distilled water and ironing. If this doesn't work, it will probably come out when laundered.