 Run an online search with the keywords "and "criminal records" to find the right agency. The court record you need might be with the state police, the state courts, or another agency.
 Be on the safe side and get your court records directly from the government. A non-official agency may not be as accurate, and also may charge a fee for a record that the state will provide either cheaper or for free.


Make sure that you're looking at an official website by checking the end of the site's address. It should end in “.gov” instead of “.com.”

, The process for record requests varies from agency to agency. Be sure to follow the official instructions on the correct agency’s website.


Some states will ask you to get your request notarized by a notary public. A notary public is a person who has the license to administer oaths and serve as a witness.
Find a notary public in your area by searching online.
You can usually find one at the bank, and often at UPS stores.
 Most agencies have different forms for people looking for their own records and those requesting someone else's. Check with the specific agency to make sure. Keep the following in mind when requesting records for someone else:


You may not be able to access someone's entire criminal history. For example, Oregon's Open Records Unit only provides records for the past year.The agency might tell the person who committed the crime that someone requested his or her court record.
 Records requests are common for people hiring new employees. The Fair Credit Reporting Act regulates a person's consumer report, which includes criminal records. If employers want to hire someone to access these records they do so through a Consumer Credit Reporting Agency or a CRA. If you’re an employer, you may need to register with the state agency before submitting a request.


Know the rules about which types of convictions you're allowed to take into consideration. Many states allow consideration only for crimes related to the job in question.For example, an accounting firm can refuse to hire a convicted embezzler. However, embezzlement only has a connection to jobs in which the person would be handling money.
 The instructions can get complicated, and the forms sometimes ask for a large amount of information. This might range from simple contact information and fees to notarizations and fingerprints.Make sure you have all your ducks in a row so your request isn't delayed or rejected.
 Again, the process for submission might vary from agency to agency, so follow the instructions carefully. Some states might ask you to send them in via postal mail. Others might let you fill out an online request form. You might even have to submit the request in person.


Search the website for the fee amount. Include it with the form if you're mailing your request. Send it separately or pay online if you're submitting the request on a website. Bring a check or money order with you if you submit the form in person.

