 As you begin to conclude your letter, reaffirm your feelings briefly. Say something like, "I will continue to look forward to my morning algebra class as it give me a chance to be close to you." You want the recipient to know you're feelings are serious and not fleeting. You can also briefly summarize what was said in the letter to help you reach your concluding thoughts., It can be difficult to do, but you should try to end on a single sentence that sums up the gist of what you're saying. This is an elegant way to end a love letter. It can reiterate your feelings and leave a lasting impression on the recipient.It may take a few tries before you find the right sentence. You may want to grab a piece of scrap paper and write down a few sentences before settling on one to include in your letter.
It's okay to be a little cheesy. Love letters are often somewhat overwrought but infatuation itself is often dramatic. Don't be afraid to use language that sounds somewhat hyperbolic or ridiculous.In our example, try something like, "You really do light up my mornings Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays with your spark, passion, and enthusiastic nature."

, If you want this letter to lead to a possible date, provide some contact information for yourself. You can say something like, "If you're interested, text or call the following number." You could also include your e-mail or a link to a social media profile

, Once you've finished your letter, find a way to deliver it. This can be tricky if you're writing to someone you don't know.

#*If you know the person's name, it might be a good idea to write her name on a envelop and place the letter in there. Then, leave the envelop where she will see it. For example, if you're writing to someone who works at a coffee shop you could leave the letter on your table or where drinks are set down.

If you have an e-mail address for the person, consider e-mailing your letter.
If the two of you have a mutual friend, see if that friend can deliver the letter.
Do not try to send the letter in the mail. Getting a letter in the mail from a stranger can be scary. You do not want to come off as creepy.

