 If the woman seems to generally appreciate women, including their sex appeal, there is a chance she is bisexual. Does she always notice other people's looks and comment on them in a sexualized way?As with every potential clue, it’s possible she is just admiring another woman without having a sexual attraction to her. After all, women are constantly scrutinizing other women’s appearances.
However, if she repeatedly openly admires another woman’s sex appeal, maybe she is open to more.;
, This is not an uncommon phenomenon. Although it’s getting easier, it can be hard for people to admit they are bisexual to families and friends or even themselves.


Go with your intuition. Sometimes you just get a vibe. You generally know when someone seems attracted to you or someone else, right? Sometimes intuition can mean more than words. Some studies have found that up to 60 percent of women are attracted to other women, so it's not that rare. Whether they will act on it might be another story.Society encourages women to develop emotional closeness to one another. For some, this can spill over into attraction. Realize that sexuality can be very fluid. Studies have found that women define their sexuality more ambiguously as they age.
The tricky part is that many platonic female relationships mirror romantic relationships because they are built on sharing intimate details and talking about personal issues for hours on end.
 Is she always trying to strike up a conversation with you or another woman? Does she try to sit next to the woman at meetings? These could be signs of interest.


If she goes out of the way to interact with another woman in ways a partner would, that’s a sign. Does she show up at the other woman’s soccer games or head to the bar when she hears the woman is there? Does she try to arrange things where it's just for two?
Is she always texting, emailing or calling, and not to talk about guys? This could be a sign that she is trying to get closer.
 Although some women in relationships with men discover they are really bisexual, if she seems to have no man in her life, that’s also a sign she could be bisexual.


This is especially true if she seems like she has never had a man in her life in a romantic sense. Inquire about past romantic relationships that were serious.
Check out her social media. Does she post pictures of herself with only male friends and a lot of females? Does she seem to be surrounded by women a lot who aren’t relatives? What's her body language like around them? All of these could be signs.

