 This is the third to the last quest in the Dark Brotherhood side story. It comes right after the “A Recipe to Kill” quest where you’re required to kill a chef named Balagog gro-Nolob.


Astrid, the leader of the Dark Brotherhood will talk to you after you kill Balagog gro-Nolob and will give an item called “Jarrin Root,” which you will use to kill the Emperor with.;
, Solitude is one of the biggest cities in Skyrim. To find it, all you need to do is follow the road that leads northwest from the city of Morthal. Once you arrive in Solitude, head towards Castle Dour, the largest structure in the middle of the city.
 At the entrance of Castle Dour you’ll find a man standing guard. This is Commander Maro, one of the high-ranking officials of the Tamriel Empire. Talk to him and he will ask you to show the “Gourmet's Writ of Passage,” an item you got from the previous “A Recipe to Kill” quest.


After showing Commander Maro the writ, he will allow you to enter Castle Dour. The next scene will be inside the kitchen of the castle.
 Gianna’s a chef in Castle Dour, and the one that will assist the main character (though is not to be mistaken as an accomplice). Talk to her and she will ask you to get the chef’s hat, which can be found on one of the shelves inside the kitchen.
 Look around the room and find a bookshelf nearby with a white chef’s hat in it. Approach the bookshelf and take the hat.
 After taking the chef’s hat, talk to Gianna again, and she will ask what ingredients to add to the soup she’s cooking. An option will appear on the screen allowing you to choose what items to give to Gianna. Make sure to choose and give her the Jarrin Root that Astrid gave to you at the very start of the quest.


The Jarrin Root is a very strong poison that can instantly kill anyone who eats it. After giving Gianna the root, she will prepare the dish and serve it to the emperor.
 Once Gianna is about to place the dish on the table, crouch and slowly walk back to the kitchen. As soon as Gianna places the dish on the table, the emperor will start eating and immediately die. Do not wait for the emperor to drop dead because if he dies while you’re inside the dining room, the guards will immediately suspect the chefs and attack.


Once you’re back in the kitchen, escape through the back door and leave.

