 Open a new web browser tab or window on your computer, and enter aws.amazon.com/s3 in the URL box.;
, In order to use S3, you will need an AWS account. You can locate the “Create an AWS Account” button in the top-right corner of the Amazon S3 page. You will be taken to the registration form.
 All you need to register is a valid email address or phone number. Enter your email address or phone number in the field above “Sign up.”

, Click the circle beside “I am a new user,” and then click “Sign Up Using our Secure Server” button. You will be taken to another form for “Contact Information.”


If you have an existing Amazon account, you can use that to log in instead. Enter your registered email address, click the “I am a returning user and my password is” option, then provide your password in the box below. Click “Sign in” to proceed with the registration.
 Fill up all the required fields, indicated by an asterisks in the form. At the bottom, enter the letter image displayed in the box, and check the AWS Customer Agreement checkbox.


When you’re done, click the “Create Account and Continue” button.
 Though Amazon S3 provide a free plan, the credit card information is needed for services used not in the free plan. Enter your credit card information and billing address in the fields, and click “Continue” at the bottom.
 You will see the phone number you provided in the Contact Information form in the first field. Below is a “Call me now” number. Make sure that the phone number is valid and that you can answer it right away before clicking “Call me now.”


Once you press the button, a 4-digit PIN will appear below it. When you receive the call, answer it and enter the PIN. If successful, an automated message will tell you so in the call.
Click “Continue to select Support Plan” to go to the next registration process.
 All customers will receive free support, but paid plans will allow you to get one-on-one technical help as well as other support features. There are four plans you can select from:


Free—This is the basic plan. With this, you can contact Customer Service for your account and access AWS Community Forums.
Developer—This plan costs $49 a month. With it, you can ask technical questions and get a response within 12 business hours.
Business—For $100 a month, you can get 24/7 phone and chat assistance, a 1-hour response, and so much more. To learn more on the cost, view the “Pricing Example” link in the plan description.
Enterprise—This plan provides the following support: 15 minute response to web cases, an assigned technical account manager, and white-glove case handling for critical issues. To view the cost, click the “Pricing Example” in the Business option.

Note that if you select Enterprise, you will not be billed immediately. AWS will contact you to discuss your needs and finalize the signup.


Once you’ve selected a plan, click “Continue.” AWS will take a while to verify your information, then you will be taken back to the AWS home page.
 After signing up, you can sign into the AWS Management Console. This will allow you to have a simple web-based interface for Amazon S3. Click “Sign in” at the top right, provide your email address and password, and click “Sign in.”

, Choose “S3,” if not chosen already. You can locate it below the “Storage and Content Delivery” heading at the leftmost column.
 A Bucket is where all your data is going to be stored. You can find the “Create Bucket” button near the middle of the page; click it.


A pop-up will appear asking you to select a Bucket Name and Region. Enter the name of your Bucket in the “Bucket Name” field. Remember to give your Bucket a unique name.
Select a Region from the drop-down option. Choose a region closest to your location, as this will be where the server data will be located.
When you’re done, click the “Create” button below. The created Bucket will appear on the left panel of the window.
You can create up to 100 Buckets at a time for each AWS.
 Double-click the Bucket name to open it in full on the screen. For now, the main window will be blank, as this will be where folders created inside the Bucket will be listed later on. At the top left will be three option buttons.
 You can start uploading files into the Bucket if you want. Just click the “Upload” option button at the top left. A pop-up will appear. You can drag-and-drop the file you want to upload into the center of the pop-up. You can press the “+ Add Files” button at the bottom left of the pop-up and a file explorer will open. Select the files to upload and click “Start upload.”


Depending on the size of the file(s), this could take awhile, so be patient.
 If you want to be more organized with your uploads, create a folder instead of uploading directly into the Bucket. To create a folder in the Bucket, click the “Create folder” option button at the top left.


Below the “Name” header bar (just beneath the option buttons), a “New folder” field will appear. Click this field and rename the new folder. Once you’re done, click the checkmark beside the field.
Now double-click the folder name to open it, and similar to uploading directly into the Bucket, click the “Upload” button at the top left to open the Upload pop-up window. Drag-and-drop the files to upload here, and click “Start upload.”

