 Each state has a list of licensed non-profit credit counseling services that can help you create a plan to repay your debts and change wage garnishment.The U.S. Trustee Program has a list of reputable agencies approved to provide pre-bankruptcy counseling in each state, available at http://www.justice.gov/ust/list-credit-counseling-agencies-approved-pursuant-11-usc-111. These agencies typically offer debt management assistance as well, even if you're not looking to file bankruptcy.Contact several agencies and get information about the services they offer. You may also be able to have an informational interview with a counselor who works there. Take a look at several agencies if possible before you decide on one., Your credit counselor will need information about your income, expenses, debts, and assets so he or she can evaluate your situation.


You should gather information about all your debts, not just the one for which you're faced with wage garnishment. You also might need to bring bank account statements going back several months.
It's important that you be honest about your actual expenses. Your credit counselor will help you build a budget and then figure out how much money you can devote to paying off your debts., Based on your financial information, your credit counselor will help you create a schedule you can afford and work with your creditors to adjust your debts.This payment agreement typically resolves not just the debt for which you're having your wages garnished, but any other outstanding debts you have.Your credit counselor will talk to all of your creditors and get them to agree to the terms of the agreement. Your creditors may even agree to lower the amount of money you have to pay or reduce your interest rate., Once your CCS agreement is in place, creditors cannot garnish your wages as long as you are making the scheduled payments.


You'll be making a single payment as scheduled to your CCS, which will in turn distribute payment to your creditors.Keep in mind that if you miss a payment, you may forfeit the agreement and the creditor may file to have your wages garnished again. If you're concerned you might miss a payment, contact your credit counselor as soon as possible before it happens, so you can work something out.

