 It helps a lot. Unless it is at night and/or you live in a quiet place and you are alone, there are always some distracting noises coming from people, nature, machines, etc. Earplugs can be a bit uncomfortable so do not use them for very long periods at a time (e.g. take a break after an hour).
 Divide the card up into three sections: morning, afternoon and night. Every time you catch your mind wandering, make a little checkmark in the appropriate box.After only a little while, you'll find that your mind won't wander as often, simply by keeping a tally!


Being aware of the issue is the first step, and this method helps you stay very aware of each time you lose your concentration. Your awareness of what you're doing will eventually help you improve your concentration, without any added effort.
With this method, you'll eventually be able to pinpoint your most vulnerable times. Say you find a lot of tallies during the morning, when you're still tired and your mind is likely to drift. That's a sign that you should be improving your concentration by getting more sleep, or eating a healthy breakfast.
 If you have a set time during the day — say your "drift off" time is at 5:30 every day, when you get back from school or work — you may be less likely to sanction drifting off during 11 a.m. or 3 p.m. If you catch yourself drifting off during any of the unsanctioned times, tell yourself that you have a designated drift off time and try to keep your brain concentrated on whatever task is at hand.
 Blood is the main vehicle of oxygen in our bodies. But blood gets pooled in the lower half of our bodies as a result of gravity, and doesn't push as much oxygen to the brain, where it helps improve concentration. In order to help oxygenate the brain, get up and take a walk every so often to get the blood pumping.


If you're stuck at work and you can't really carve out the time for exercise, try doing exercises at work. These can include any number of things, including isometric or aerobic exercises.
 If your brain has to concentrate consistently for hours at a time, it loses processing power and your concentration levels slip.Better to space your project out and take breaks or power naps in between in order to reboot your concentration and keep it humming at closer to 100%.
 If you really want to improve your concentration, you'll start trying to convince your brain to finish one task before you move onto the next one.


Apply this philosophy to as many different tasks in your life as possible. You may think that finishing one book before starting the other has nothing to do with finishing work on one car before starting work on another, but they're surprisingly alike if you think about. Even the smallest tasks have reverberations in other parts of your life.
 The spider comes to investigate where the noise is coming from because it pays to be curious. But what happens if you repeatedly hold a vibrating tuning fork next to the spider's lair? After a while, the spider won't stop to investigate the tuning fork anymore. It knows what to expect, so it ignores it.


The spider technique is behaving just like the spider. Expect for distractions to come and try to throw you off your concentration. A door slams. A bird whistles. A flash mob erupts. Whatever the distraction is, continue focusing on your task at hand. Be like the spider and turn a blind eye to distractions that you know can throw you off your concentration.
 Your bed is where you sleep; your desk is where you work and concentrate. Your mind makes these sorts or associations subconsciously, which means that you're sending a "sleep" signal to your mind if you're trying to work on your bed. This is counterproductive because you're actually asking your brain to do two things at once (concentrate and sleep). Instead, ask you brain to either concentrate or sleep by choosing your workstation carefully.
 The five-more rule is simple. Whenever you feel like quitting or losing concentration, tell yourself to do five more of whatever you were doing. If it's math problems, do five more problems. If it's reading, do five more pages. If it's concentrating, do five more minutes. Find the energy deep within to do five more of whatever you were you doing.

