 These are generally prepared for you by your dentist. This is the only at-home whitening treatment that carries the seal of approval from the ADA.Schedule an appointment with your dentist or orthodontist to discuss this procedure.
Your dentist will fit you with a custom-made tray that fits over your teeth and braces.
You will put a 10% carbamide peroxide solution in these trays.
Some treatment plans recommend using the trays twice a day while others recommend overnight use for one to two weeks.
The average cost of this treatment is $400.00. This is a very effective and more affordable option than in-office whitening. Plus, it is done from the comfort of your own home, and you should not experience any sensitivity or other major side effects.Simply slide the tray with the bleaching solution in it over your teeth and let it sit.
If you have Invisalign braces, this option is very easy. Just remove your Invisalign tray while you use the whitening tray.
 These products are available without a prescription at most pharmacies. These paint-on gels don't have the seal of approval from the ADA as effective teeth whitening products.These products require you to paint a bleaching gel onto your teeth that then hardens within 30 minutes.
To remove the gel, you simply brush your teeth.
These can be hard to apply around brackets and wires if you have braces.
These gels contain lower concentrations of hydrogen peroxide than in-office or dentist prepared options.
Paint-on bleaching gels don't have the same effectiveness as tray treatments. Results may vary from person to person.
 These range from gum irritation to increased tooth sensitivity.Bleaching agents in tooth whitening kits are chemicals that can irritate the soft tissues in your mouth. If the concentration percentage of carbamide or hydrogen peroxide is under 15%, then any discomfort should be minimal. If you are using whitening trays, irritation usually only occurs if your trays do not fit properly or you overfill the trays.
You may experience sores or swelling in your gums as a result of these treatments.
Another side effect of some whitening treatments is increased sensitivity. If you are using a whitening treatment that is under 10% carbamide or hydrogen peroxide and you experience sensitivity, then you should not proceed with treatment.
The increased sensitivity can be bothersome to patients with braces, especially around the time your braces are tightened.
Avoid using these products several days before and after your braces are tightened.
If you find the side effects hard to deal with, call your dentist or orthodontist for some solutions. They may be able to provide you with a new tray or ways to keep the whitening products off of your gums.

