 While honesty is always good, extremely personal details don’t need to be shared until after you’ve gone out with the same person several times and plan to continue seeing him or her. Let your date get to know you before bringing up money concerns., Even though you should avoid discussing your financial woes on the first date, you can’t keep that information secret forever. If you plan to continue dating the same person, you’ll need to be honest with them at some point.


A reasonable time to tell someone about your financial situation is about one month into dating, if you’ve already gone out several times during that first month.To bring up the topic of money, try starting the conversation by saying something like, “I’m really glad we met and I like spending time with you. I hope we continue dating so I want to be honest with you and let you know that I don’t have a lot of money right now.”

, You don’t have to give your date a detailed outline of everything you are doing or plan to do to get back on your feet financially. Just give them an idea of the general steps you are taking, such as applying for a new job. Knowing that you are doing something about the situation can be reassuring to the person you are dating.
 Even if the person you’ve been dating has enjoyed their time with you, they might be uncomfortable with your financial situation. Avoid making them feel bad if they don’t want to continue dating. End the dating relationship on good terms.


Try saying something like, “I’ve had a lot of fun with you and I don’t mind hanging out as just friends it that works best for you.”
You can say something else such as, “I understand if you want to take a break from dating for a while. I can always get in touch with you once I get back on my feet financially, if that’s okay with you.”
If the person you’ve been dating does want to take a break after you’ve revealed your money troubles, that doesn’t mean you have to begin dating them again later. In fact, you might choose not to go back to dating someone who was uncomfortable with you being broke at the time. Just don’t fault them for feeling that way.

