 If your negative feelings intensify and begin to alter your everyday choices and activities, you may have prenatal depression. Watch for drastic changes to your eating patterns (beyond what you might consider ‘standard’ pregnancy cravings or nausea). Poor memory retention, feelings of worthlessness, continual crying, lack of interest in previous hobbies, pulling away from family/friends, and feelings of deep sadness or anxiety are all possible signs of depression during pregnancy.If you have prenatal depression, know that you are not alone. Between 13-30% of pregnant women and new moms are diagnosed each year.Your prenatal depression is not caused by anything that you have done or have not done. And it offers no indication as to the type of parent you will be in the future. The key is to recognize the degree of your feelings and to take action.
 When you are pregnant there are real physical reasons behind some of your negative emotions. Almost immediately after you become pregnant your hormone levels begin to change, especially progesterone and estrogen. These hormonal fluctuations can also escalate your negative feelings into the category of prenatal depression.


Take some control back by watching for your emotional triggers and avoiding them. For example, if sad movies turn you in a sobbing mess, watch comedies instead. However, if you find yourself crying all the time for no reason, seek out professional assistance.
Your hormonal fluctuations will be the most aggressive in the first and third trimesters. The impact can be seen via spontaneous emotional highs and lows.If you suffered from PMS then you are more likely to experience negative feelings during pregnancy. If you’ve taken medications for mood disorders or for any hormonal causes (including birth control), you are also at a heightened risk for developing negative emotions and possibly prenatal depression., You should feel comfortable talking to your doctor about anything and everything related to your pregnancy. Tell your doctor, as specifically as possible, about your negative feelings and your concerns about prenatal depression. Ask for suggestions and advice that you can implement immediately.


This may be a difficult topic to discuss, but your doctor is a professional and has worked through these issues before with other patients. It is important to be as blunt and candid as you can be when describing your symptoms. For example, you might say, “I cry for an average of 6 hours every day.”
Don’t be shocked if they request a blood test. A blood draw can give a doctor a better picture regarding the levels of your hormones. For example, a thyroid imbalance can lead to intense negative feelings during pregnancy., If the negative feelings persist or if they escalate, you may want to consider making an appointment with a therapist. They will talk over your concerns with you, providing an outlet for some of your negative energy. They will also help to identify whether or not you are suffering from prenatal depression. With proper treatment, most people with prenatal depression see significant improvements in their life.Your therapy will likely consist of a combination of talk therapy (expressing your feelings in a safe space) and medication.
If you don’t think that you can afford a therapist, you may want to investigate what your health insurance will cover. You can also contact the therapist directly, discuss your financial concerns, and ask about other options, often including discounted rates or payment plans. If at all possible, don’t let money prevent you from getting the help that you may need for you and your child.
 Taking any medication during pregnancy is a matter of balancing out risk versus reward. If your doctor or therapist prescribes you antidepressant medication then they have weighed the various options and decided that this is the best course of action for you. Some antidepressants currently considered for use during pregnancy include Celexa, Prozac, and Zoloft, among others., One of the keys to treating depression while pregnant is to seek out help as soon as you become concerned. Untreated and unchecked depression poses a variety of risks to both you and your baby. If you stop taking the best care of yourself (using vitamins, eating right, sleeping well, etc.), then your baby can be born early or have a low weight or struggle with other potential health problems.Untreated depression is also a risk factor for you long-term as it can carry over into your postpartum period, making it even more difficult to cope with the challenges of being a new mother.

