 After you make the decision to return to therapy, it can help to reconnect with your previous treatment. Write down what was helpful about your past sessions. Note aspects you had trouble with. It may also help to come clean with yourself about why you are going back.

For instance, you may have disliked your previous therapy experience but realize that you needed it to get better. Be real with yourself. This is the only way you can rebound successfully after relapse.
 If for some reason the therapist or approach did not work for you, it may be practical to conduct some research into different options. While it’s not a good idea to blame your therapist or their approach for your relapse, it is true that certain therapists and treatment approaches work better for some people than others.For example, exposure therapy might work better for anxiety while talk therapy may be better for borderline issues.
Talk to your family doctor and do some digging to see if there is a more suitable option for your circumstances.
 After you have chosen a therapist, contact them to make an appointment. Depending on your situation, you may have to first receive a referral from your doctor or you may be able to reach out to the therapist directly., The only way your therapist can adequately address your needs is with your full disclosure. Be straightforward when completing your intake packets, so that they have a clear picture of your circumstances. Also, answer their questions honestly when you meet for a session.For instance, you may feel ashamed about using drugs or alcohol to cope with your symptoms. However, you may benefit from some additional counseling for substance abuse. Telling your therapist about this can help them develop a customized treatment plan that focuses on your needs.
Keep in mind that your therapist cannot read minds and you will need to be honest and open to get help. It is okay to reveal a little at a time if that helps you, but you can also reveal as much as you want to up front. If you have trouble talking about certain things, then you may also consider writing them down and sharing this with your therapist.
 You can’t simply show up for a therapy session and expect change. You need to make a personal commitment to open up to your therapist and keep an open mind. Also, don’t count on any improvements if you only do the work when you’re in your session. Effective therapy carries over into other parts of your life.Remember that no one can do the work of therapy for you or make changes in your life except for you.

