 Have you ever seen a beautiful woman in a magazine or on television and wished you looked like her? Do you compare what you see in the media to what you see in the mirror? The more you view these images, the more critical you will be of yourself. Try to ban or at least limit the media that you are consuming.

When you do look at these images, remind yourself that those women have been photo-shopped and manipulated to look a certain way. You may not even recognize those women if you saw them in real life.
Try to find positive images in the media that do not focus on how women look. You may find profiles of women who are being praised for their talents, skills, and abilities.
 Your body is going through a lot of changes, and you may not like all of them. However, try to point out the things you like about your body (e.g. your hair, your teeth, your hands, etc.) instead of everything that is wrong with it. Be proud of the things that your body can do as well..For example, if you are an athlete, focus on how strong your body is and how it allows you to play your sport.
If you are a musician, focus on how your hands allow you to play an instrument well.
You may not be able to change your body, but you you can change the way you feel about your body.
 Negative self-talk about your body can really hurt your confidence. Try to counter any negative thoughts you have about your body with something more objective. Would you criticize your friend's body the same way you criticize your own body?Instead of saying "my arms are huge and ugly," say, "my arms could use a little work."
Also avoid talking negatively about other girls' bodies.
 Treating your body well from the inside out can help you feel more confident about your looks. Exercising regularly, eating a healthy, well-balanced diet, and wearing clothes that you feel good in can improve your body image. Your appearance is one of the many things that makes you who you are.


Exercising is also a good way to boost your feel good hormones and improve your mood.
Accept the things you cannot change about your body such as your eye color, height, shape, or skin color.

