 Most grocery coupons are found in the newspapers on Sundays and Wednesdays. If you have a newspaper subscription, you can easily locate the coupons inserted in your newspaper.There are three different inserts that might be found in your newspaper: Smart Source (SS), Red Plum (RP) and Procter & Gamble (PG). You’ll be likely to find at least one, if not more, of these inserts.
Save multiple copies of the inserts, and you’ll be able to save even more when you find the product on sale. Most coupon-clippers like to have 2-4 copies of their coupons on hand at any given time.
 Even if you don’t subscribe to the newspaper yourself, you might be able to cash in on free coupons that other people were planning to throw away. Many people throw away or recycle their coupon inserts, and would happily share theirs with you. Start by finding out whether people you know subscribe to the local newspaper.Check with your coworkers as well. You could even set up a coupon exchange at work.
If your workplace has a newspaper subscription, you might be able to take the coupon inserts unless they’re used for another purpose.
 If you live near a coffee shop or restaurant that sells the newspaper, you’ve probably seen people reading the paper on Sunday mornings, then leaving it behind for someone else to read. Take advantage of these old papers that would likely be headed straight to the trash.Some gas stations might give you their unsold Sunday papers on Sunday evening or Monday mornings.
You can also find the coupon inserts that have fallen out of the newspapers stacked in the bottom of the newspaper box.
 If you don’t mind what people think, you can almost always find Sunday newspapers tossed into recycling centers. You can usually gather many weeks’ worth of coupon inserts within a few minutes.Once you’ve located the best locations for dumpster diving in your area, revisit every couple of weeks.
Some dumpsters might be locked, or have an attendant to prevent you from getting inside the dumpster. In this case, it’s worth getting to know the attendant. Usually, once you establish yourself as a safe, respectful person, the attendant won’t mind your trespassing.
 Almost all libraries carry newspaper subscriptions. They discard the coupons, and so are usually happy to give you their coupon inserts if you ask them nicely.If your city has many libraries, get to know them all.
Don’t forget to stop by on Wednesdays as well as Sundays.
 Start a coupon exchange with others in your community if there's not already one in existence. The premise of the coupon exchange is simple: provide a coupon exchange box in selected community locations (the gym, community center, church basement, etc.) and put the coupons you don't want in the box.Invite others to do the same.
You'll then multiply the number of coupons you all have to choose from, and find the coupons you need for your own use.
There are plenty of options for online coupon exchange as well.
 You can sometimes find coupons in an automatic dispenser mounted on a grocery shelf beside the product. These coupons are called “Blinkie’s” because the machines sometimes have little red blinking lights.These coupons are usually provided by the manufacturer.
The downside of Blinkie coupons is that you can’t predict when they will appear.
 Catalinas are the coupons that you might receive after you check out at the grocery store’s cashier’s station. These coupons can be for a certain amount of money off a specific product (for example 50¢ off your purchase of a 16-ounce coffee) or for money off your next order (for example $1.00 off your next order).They are called Catalinas because this is the name of the company that produces this type of coupon. However, they might be knows as “register rewards” or another name.
The disadvantage of Catalinas is that you can’t spend them at the time of your purchase. They are provided as a way to lure you back to the store.
 Manufacturers will often provide coupons taped to the lids or labels of their products to encourage the consumer to buy their product. These are called Peelies. You might find a coupon for $1.00 off the purchase of 3 cans of a certain product, for example.When coupons are found hanging around the necks of bottles or jars, they are known as hangtag coupons.
You’ll need to make sure to check and see that the cashier notices these coupons if you aren’t using a self-check lane. Because they’re attached to the product, they’re occasionally missed.

