 This method requires you to use more arm strength and is easiest when done on crossbows with a lower draw weight.Your weight and strength will also determine how easy this method is. You will need to apply more force when using this method, so the heavier and more muscular you are, the easier it will be.
Note that this method cannot be used on a compound crossbow with a pulley at the end.;
, Hook one side of the crossbow string onto one nock on the bow. The other side should be loose and the other nock should be empty.


Make sure that the loop of the bowstring is properly seated inside of this first nock.
 Place the nocked side of the prod (bow) on the floor or a similar hard surface. Tilt the crossbow so that the empty nock it tilted upward toward your dominant hand.


Steady the butt (the back of the barrel) with your non-dominant hand as you tilt the bow.
Hold the loose end of the string with your dominant hand as you position the bow. Grabbing it now will make it easier for you to maneuver it later.
When you are indoors, a hard floor will usually suffice. If you are stringing the crossbow outside, however, you should prop it against a wooden block. When a wooden block is not available, take off your shoe and set it on the ground (with the sole facing up) and prop the crossbow against that.
If using a block of wood, you could even drill a shallow hole into the center of the block to help prevent the prod from slipping around as you work. If you do this, place the nocked tip of the prod directly inside that hole.
 Carefully step on the prod part of the weapon, positioning your foot just next to the barrel on the side of the prod opposite your nocked end.


It is easiest to use your dominant foot while doing this.
Lean into the bow as you do this to maximize the amount of pressure you apply.
Consider stepping on the prod with your bare foot to avoid any accidental damage to the prod.Keep your foot as close to the center of the prod as possible. Doing it this way will help the prod bend evenly.
If your crossbow has a stirrup, do not put any pressure on it. Doing so could warp or otherwise wreck it.
 Slide your dominant hand down a little onto the barrel of the crossbow. Grab onto the barrel and pull it up, toward your torso.


Continue applying pressure with your foot as you do this.
You should see the prod bending once you apply enough pressure to both the prod and the barrel.
Your non-dominant hand should be pulling up on the empty end of the prod from the front to help bend it toward you.
 Slip the loose end of the string onto the empty bow nock.


You will likely need to release the barrel of the crossbow and use your dominant hand to hook the string onto this second nock.
 Pick up your crossbow and examine both nocks. The string loops should be securely in place for each side.


If the string is not secure in both nocks, attempting to fire your crossbow will likely be unsuccessful and may even be dangerous.
 Bowstring removal is done in the same way, but in reverse.


Position the on the ground in the same way as before and apply the same sort of pressure.
Unhook the string from the bow nock facing you.
Pick up the crossbow and unhook the string from the other nock.

