 It will be a big help to get things before you start the quest to avoid going in and out of Ardougne. Some of these things can be bought or found around Runescape.;
, Talk to him and he'll tell you that Elena, his daughter, went to investigate a plague in West Ardougne. He'll then tell you to talk to his wife, Alrena.
 You'll need a mask to enter the city that she can make by using a dwellberry. Give the dwellberry to her and she'll create and give you a mask when you talk to her again. You will be told to talk to Edmond again about the garden.
 Be sure to leave this picture in your inventory.
 He'll tell you that you'll need to pour water on the soil. Use your buckets of water on the "Mud" spot. After you pour all four buckets, you have the ability to use your spade on the patch. Both of you will fall into a sewer.
 Click and use your rope on the opening. Go back to Edmond and he'll tell you that you need to go alone in West Ardougne. Go back to the opening and put on your mask. Click on the opening and "search" the pipe. This will lead you to West Ardougne.
 Tell him that you are trying to find Elena. He'll tell you that she is helping the citizens of the city. He'll also ask to return a book for him, which will appear in your inventory.
 You'll find out that when you try to open the door, the people inside will not let you in. However, because you have the book, they'll invite you in.
 They will tell you that Elena has been kidnapped and you'll be asked to go talk with Milli upstairs.
, You'll notice a building with two doors being boarded up with planks. Try open the west door and the mourner will tell you that the plague has gotten into the house. Tell the mourner that a girl named Elena is inside the building and you need to get inside. He'll tell you to talk to a guy named Bravek.
 Talk to the clerk inside and say that it's urgent to talk to Bravek. The clerk will allow you to talk to him.
 He has a headache from a hangover, so ask him what you can do about a cure for it. He'll give you a poorly, written note.
 Use your pestle & mortar with the chocolate bar and add the dust to the bucket of milk. Add snape grass to the concoction. Talk to Bravek and give him the concoction which will cure his headache. He'll give you a warrant when he learns that the mourner didn't listen to you.
 You'll get caught by the mourner again and he'll tell you to ask the head mourner. Open the door and sneak inside the house immediately and quickly when you see the message, "You wait until the mourners' back is turned".
 She'll tell you that there is a hidden key. You'll find the key in an upstairs barrel. Use the key on the door and Elena will tell you that her father will reward you for rescuing her.
