 Bruschetta is an appetizer staple that can be made gluten-free by toasting gluten-free bread and topping it with warm roasted tomatoes, olive oil, and herbs and spices.To start, buy gluten-free French bread at your local grocery or health food store. One slice of French bread will make about four pieces of bruschetta.
Use fresh grape, pear, or cherry tomatoes in season. Warm them before adding them to toasted bread by putting them in a skillet over medium heat. This will bring out their flavor.
Brush the French bread with olive oil and balsamic vinegar before toasting. Add garlic, basil, and cloves to the top of each slice after cutting into quarters.
 In most diners and restaurants, the batter for onion rings is made with wheat and contains gluten. However, you can create a gluten-free batter that enables you to continue to enjoy these pub-food favorites as an appetizer or side dish with steak or other grilled foods.The batter for gluten-free onion rings is made with gluten-free all-purpose flour, white rice flour, and club soda. The club soda makes this batter lighter than other fried batters.
You can use the same or similar batters for other fried treats such as cheese sticks or fried avocado spears or green beans.
Search online for batter recipes, but don't simply substitute gluten-free flour in another recipe that calls for regular all-purpose flour. The batter won't come out right and may not coat properly.
To make onion rings or other fried snacks at home, you'll need a four-quart (about 3.7-liter) Dutch oven or similar cookware so that you can fry them in canola oil. You'll also need a candy thermometer to confirm that you've heated the oil to the right temperature (385 degrees Fahrenheit or about 196 degrees Celsius).
 Shrimp is a common appetizer, and prosciutto-wrapped shrimp will be a hit at any dinner party. While it's usually not a problem, you want to make sure you check the prosciutto you buy to confirm that it's gluten-free.These shrimp make a light appetizer, and using fresh herbs and spices adds a lot of flavor. Simply prepare the shrimp according to your own recipe, then wrap them in prosciutto before broiling them.
If you don't want to risk the high sodium content of prosciutto, leave the wrapping off and serve shrimp coated with basil, red pepper flakes, salt and pepper, and lemon zest mixed in olive oil. Broil the shrimp two minutes on each side and serve them hot.
You can also grill shrimp with herbs and spices and serve them with your favorite gluten-free dipping sauce.
If you want to fry or bake your shrimp, consider using coconut (which is naturally gluten-free) or gluten-free panko-style bread crumbs to coat them.
 Olives make great gluten-free snacks or appetizers and are a welcome addition to any gluten-free cocktail platter or antipasto. Choose a variety of different olives and toss them in oil and spices before serving.Take about four cups (about 0.9 liters) of olives and toss them in two cups (about half a liter) of olive oil. You can add herbs and spices such as garlic, rosemary, lemon rind, parsley, and red pepper to the olive oil.
Shake or stir your olives well to make sure they're completely covered with the mixture, then place them in an airtight container and refrigerate them until you serve them.

