 If your printer connects over Bluetooth instead of Wi-Fi, the process for preparing your printer for connection will vary slightly.


Some Wi-Fi printers must be connected directly to a wireless router via Ethernet in order to receive an Internet signal.
 Your printer will need to be able to communicate with your wireless router, so you can't place it too far away from the router.
 Press your printer's power button; it will likely have a





icon on or next to it.

Your printer must be plugged into a power source.
If necessary, also plug the printer's Ethernet cable into the router.
 If you don't have your manual, you can find it on the manufacturer's support site.


Some printers need to be connected directly to your Windows or Mac computer before they can be used wirelessly, while others allow you to complete the wireless setup process entirely on the printer itself.
If your printer supports wireless networks, then you will usually need to use the menu interface on the printer to search for your wireless network. Once you connect, you will need to enter in your wireless password.
 To do so:



Wi-Fi - Use your printer's screen to find the Wi-Fi setup page, then enter your network's password. This must be the same network to which your computer is connected.

Bluetooth - Press the "Pair" button, which will usually have the crooked Bluetooth "B" icon on or next to it.
 Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen., It's in the lower-left corner of the Start window., This option is near the top of the Settings window., These tabs are on the left side of the window. If you're connecting a Wi-Fi printer, you'll click Printers & scanners. For a Bluetooth printer, click Bluetooth & other devices., These are at the top of the page, and depend on whether your're connecting a Wi-Fi printer or a Bluetooth printer.

When connecting a Wi-Fi printer, you may see the printer's name already listed on the page. If so, your printer is connected.
You may first have to click the Bluetooth switch to enable Bluetooth on your computer.
 Click your printer's name in the Add window; if you're connecting a Bluetooth printer, you'll also need to click Connect after selecting your printer. Doing so will connect the printer to your Windows computer.

You may have to press the printer's "Pair" button again if connecting to Bluetooth.

