 Most dermatologists recommend that you wash and moisturize your face on a daily basis because it cleans and protects the outer layer of the skin. But you shouldn't feel pressure to buy expensive creams or serums simply because you fear you won't be appealing to others. You can generally find great, affordable skin care products in your local drugstore.


Beware of products that claim to be anti-aging. Aging is a natural part of life and it shouldn't be feared.
The two most effective products in reducing the effects of age on the skin are a full-spectrum sunscreen (worn every day, even when the sun isn't out) and a retinol. If a product does not have one of these two ingredients, it might not be effective at reducing the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.The strongest retinols generally require a prescription from a dermatologist and can't be purchased over the counter.;
, The first step in achieving healthy skin is to keep it clean. You want to embrace gentle cleansers that are free from harsh detergents and alcohol. Bar soaps are generally too harsh for the delicate skin on the face.


If you have oily skin, look for foaming cleansers as these will help reduce blemishes. Ingredients such as benzoyl peroxide and glycolic acid will also help control the production of oil. You should certainly cleanse in the morning and at night; you might also want to cleanse a third time, (for example, when you arrive home from work in the early evening).
Dry skin sufferers should use gentle, creamy cleansers that are free from soap and alcohol, as these ingredients will strip the skin of precious moisture. Be sure to follow up with a moisturizer immediately after cleansing. You might find that you only need to cleanse at the end of the day.
If you have normal skin, you can use a wide range of cleansers. Use a gentle, water-soluble cleanser formulated for the face.Those with sensitive skin should avoid cleansers with fragrance, alcohol (which can be too astringent) and dyes. Look for soothing ingredients such as aloe vera or chamomile in your cleanser.
 Moisturizer will keep your skin supple and well hydrated. You will generally want to apply in the morning and before you go to sleep at night. The best formulation will depend on your skin type.


If you have oily skin, you might be tempted to skip moisturizer altogether. But often your skin produces too much oil because it is not properly hydrated. Look for moisturizers that are oil-free and have acne-fighting agents like salicylic acid. Your skin will be happiest with moisturizers that are in light gel form or a thin lotion.If you have dry skin, you should search for thicker, creamy formulations as opposed to thinner lotions or serum-based textures. Look for moisturizers that have elements like shea butter and hyaluronic acid, which are very hydrating. Ceramides are also a great ingredient for dry skin.
If you have normal skin, then look for a light, water-based moisturizer which will not disrupt the perfect balance your skin already has. Cyclomethicone, a silicone-derived ingredient, will help keep your skin glowing.If you have sensitive skin, look for moisturizers which do not contain alcohol or fragrance and are also free from dyes. These can irritate your skin and exacerbate any larger issues you might have, like rosacea or acne.
 The most important ingredient to include in your skin care routine is a good sunscreen with a minimum SPF 30; it should provide protection against UVA and UVB rays. Wearing sunscreen every day will reduce the risk of skin cancer while also diminishing the appearance of wrinkles and fine lines as you get older.


Apply your sunscreen after you apply you moisturizer but before you add any makeup, like foundation.
Wearing sunscreen will also give you an even skin tone since you won't have an uneven patches from burning.
 Exfoliation can help remove scaly, rough cells from the outer layer of the skin, revealing a shiny, new layer underneath.


You can exfoliate by using a cleanser or a face mask that has Alpha Hydroxy Acids (AHAs) and/or Beta Hydroxy Acids (BHAs). If you use an exfoliating cleanser, massage it into damp skin so it can work into the outermost layer of skin. Rinse off and dry your skin with a clean face towel.
If you are using an exfoliating mask, you should follow the directions on the product, but you will most likely need to leave it on dry, clean skin for 10-20 minutes and then remove it by rinsing it with warm water.
Avoid using face scrubs that have beads or pieces of nuts (like almonds) and fruit stones. These can be too harsh and even leave harmful cuts on your skin.
If you have very sensitive or dry skin, exfoliation might be too harsh for your face.
 Facial massage has been shown to have amazing benefits for the skin, improving blood circulation and reducing puffiness around the eyes. Done over a sustained period of time, it can also reduce the appearance of wrinkles.Gently stroke the skin on your face in upward, circular motions. You can do this you apply your cleanser or moisturizer. You can also use a facial oil or a cleansing balm when you do your massage. Just make sure you are not doing it on dry skin, as this pull and damage the skin.
 You shouldn't invest in make up out of fear or insecurity. It is definitely fine to not wear any make up at all; you can still have a beautiful, pleasant face without it.
 Unless you are attending a special event or you are striving for a very edgy, experimental look, the best makeup is generally used in moderation to create a healthy, natural appearance. Make up should enhance your natural beauty rather than masking it.
 Out of all the make up products you can use, foundation is the most important because it covers the largest amount of skin. If you have a generally uneven skin tone, foundation can help improve your complexion.


Find the right formula for your skin type. If you have oily skin, you might look for an oil-free foundation that leaves a more matte finish. If you have dry skin, look for a foundation that leaves a more dewy, supple finish. Foundations generally come in liquid form, but you can also consider powder or cream formulations.You should apply foundation after your sunscreen has absorbed into your skin. You can use your fingers, a brush, or a sponge to accurately blend it in.
Be sure to pick a shade that matches your natural skin tone. Test out the foundation in natural light to see how it looks.
Resist the urge to cake it on. If you feel very insecure about your skin, you might be tempted to apply foundation all over your face and in multiple layers. But you probably don't need to apply that much, just over the uneven patches of your skin. Let some of your natural skin shine through.
If you don't want to use a formula as heavy as a foundation, you might also consider a tinted moisturizer. Tinted moisturizers will even out skin tone, but they generally do not provide the full-coverage of a foundation.
 Sometimes foundation doesn't work as well in covering problem areas such as acne or dark circles under the eyes. A creamy concealer (usually in a pot or a wand) can help reduce the appearance of these imperfections.
 If you want to add some extra color to your cheeks, you can add a little bit of blush. Generally, a peachy-pink color will look good on most skin tones, but you can choose a wide variety of shades, from deep reds to more autumnal berry shades. You should generally use a large, fluffy brush to apply blush to the apples of the cheeks.


Blushes often come in powder forms, but if you have dry skin, you might use a cream blush for a dewy finish.
 Your eyes are one of the most enjoyable areas to apply make up because you can create a very dramatic look with eye liner and colorful eyeshadows. But if you are going for a more natural look, a coat of mascara and a neutral eyeshadow (in a light beige or brown color) is universally appealing.
 If you want to add a boost of color to your lips, consider a lipstick or a tinted lip balm. Lipstick is generally the most noticeable element of make up on your face; a 2011 study from Boston University suggested that women who wore it in a professional setting were considered more confident and reliable.Generally, most lipsticks will leave a lustrous sheen on the lips, but you can also find shades in a more dramatic, matte finish (a la Marilyn Monroe). For a professional setting, a shade in a peachy-pink, light red, or coral will be more appropriate than a very dramatic shade, like a Gothic purple.
You can also just wear a lip gloss or a hydrating lip balm if you want to highlight your lips, but not draw too much attention to them.
 Nothing can highlight the beautiful features of your face more than a great new haircut. Schedule an appointment with a hairstylist to find out what kind of cut will best flatter your face shape.Round face shapes look best with hair that is cut in multiple layers. This cut minimizes the width of the face. A long bob or a piecey pixie cut will generally look flattering here.
Oval faces generally need cuts that make them appear to be less long. Blunt bangs or a center part will help these faces look fuller and more radiant.
Square faces can something look a little too severe. Soft, long waves or a straight, shoulder-length cut will help soften the jawline.
Heart shaped faces will look better with a dramatic side part or with side-swept bangs.
 Necklaces that draw the eye up to the face can also help give you a natural glow. Consider necklaces that fall in a wide circle across your collarbone as they can add a great punch to a basic outfit.


Metallic necklaces in silver and gold will automatically draw light to your face and add a great glow to your overall appearance.
Avoid clunky chokers as these break up the long line of your neck.
 Nothing can ruin your appearance more than wearing a color that makes you appear to be sallow or washed out. First, you have to determine if your skin is cool toned or warm toned.To determine your skin tone, look at the veins in your wrist. If your veins appear to be blue, you are cool-toned. If they appear to be green, then you are warm-toned. You can also think about which jewelry you prefer; if you look better in silver, you are most likely cool-toned, whereas if you look better in gold, then you are warm-toned.
Cool-toned people will generally look best in blues, greens, pinks and purples.
Warm-toned people will look best in bright reds, oranges, yellows, and ivory.
 The key ingredient to appealing to other people is to be confident in yourself first. Have faith in the fact that your face is exactly how it should be in its current state. You don't need make up, injectables or plastic surgery to be appealing to others -- you are already beautiful.


If you suffer from a lack of self-esteem, take five minutes in the morning to list five positive attributes about yourself (particularly about your appearance or body if that makes you insecure). You can write it down or say it out loud to yourself, but always remind yourself of your beauty and self-worth.
 Having a pleasant appearance to other people is less about how you look and more about how you interact with them. Consider doing the following actions when you meet someone for the first time:


Make constant eye contact when you speak with someone. Don't look down or just past the other person. Look at them directly in the eye so they know that you are truly interested in listening to them.
Smile. If you are happy to meet someone, show it. If you have confidence in a business proposal or a class presentation, then deliver it with a smile. A genuine smile has been shown to relieve stress and to convey confidence.
Smiling also makes you pleasant to be around; when you smile, you induce a reflexive-response on the part of the other person because they will want to smile backAsk questions about the other person. Nothing will convey a pleasant demeanor more than showing interest in someone else.
 In order to have true confidence, you have to value yourself and take care of yourself. Self-care is a practice in which you do things which bring you joy and fulfillment. Unlike some diet or exercise regimes which deny or restrict your body, self-care routines incorporate things which give you a sense of peace and stability while also reducing stress and anxiety. Here are some examples:


Exercise if it makes you happy. In self-care routines, exercise is not about disciplining the body or punishing it. Rather, you exercise because it brings you happiness. If you love being in nature, go for a hike or a walk in your favorite park. Yoga, pilates, running and team sports can also add to your self-care routine.
Complete morning meditations. Taking time to pause and reflect on your purpose in life can add value to your self-care routine. Before getting caught up in the rush of the day, take a few seconds to breathe and be grateful for the positive things in your life.
Give back to your community. Volunteering has been show to increase the life span of its participants while also improving your sense of confidence. When you give back to other, you gain a larger sense of purpose and a confidence in your ability to make a difference. Maintain a basic hygiene routine. Life can get very busy and sometimes we skip that daily shower or we go a little longer without doing laundry. But doing these small things can boost your larger sense of confidence, making you a more pleasant person to be around.

