 During a robbery it is important to demonstrate that you are not a threat or obstacle to the robber. A good way to convey this is to remain calm and cooperate with the robber. Work with the robber's commands to help keep both yourself and everyone else as safe as can be during the robbery. Do not offer to volunteer or actively help the robber. Only do what they ask of you.
Listen carefully to commands and work quickly and effectively to fulfill them.
Inform the robber directly about any steps you need to take and explain why you are doing them.
Ask them permission for any actions like putting your hands in a drawer or your pockets before doing so.
 If you are given a command by the robber and you don't understand what they are asking, you may need to ask for clarification. Doing so can be dangerous as the robber is likely to be highly agitated and nervous. Try asking a question using some of the following techniques to make sure you keep the situation as calm as can be:Keep your question direct and short. Saying something like “I'm sorry. I don't understand.” can be simple enough and still get your intention across.
If you misheard something try rephrasing what you thought you heard as a question. For example “You wanted only 10 dollar bills?”
You should ask for permission before doing anything that might alarm the robber. For example “I must reach under the counter to get the keys. Is this okay?”
Never ask any questions that are not relevant to your own confusion about what the robber was asking.
 Normally during the course of a robbery you should remain as silent as you can. However, there may be a time when the robbery asks you a question that requires a response from you. Speaking honestly and directly can help keep you stay calm in your response.


Long responses during a robbery can increase stress and panic.
Try to frame responses in a positive way, working with the robber and showing compliance.
Always answer honestly.
Never try to change the robbers mind.
For example, if you are asked where money might be located and how to access it, you might reply “In the safe. It's here behind the counter”. Don't go into any more detail about the money or safe unless asked.
 Robbers do not want a fight. Fighting will only get you and possibly other people hurt or killed. Remain calm throughout the robbery and do not try to put and end to it by fighting the robbers or trying to get in their way.Move slowly and calmly. Quick movements may appear threatening to the robber.
 Keeping track of details regarding the robber and the robbery can be of use to police and can also help to keep your mind focused and calm. Pay careful attention to details about both the robber and what the robber did during the crime to help keep you relaxed.Remember what the robber looked liked. Take mental notes of height, weight, clothes, or other distinguishing aspects.
Remember what the robber did. Keep a mental record of everything the robber did and in what order.
Don't stare or make eye contact with the robber. Take quick glances only.
Don't go out of your way to take in the details as this can put you in danger.
 Immediately after the robber leaves lock all doors and windows and contact law enforcement to report your situation. Locking doors and windows will help keep the robber from returning as well as preserve the crime scene for when law enforcement arrives.Work with law enforcement to explain the details of the robbery that you recall.
Talk with others at the crime scene to help keep you calm and recall details about the robbery.
Do not touch anything in the area as police will need to investigate it.
Check the condition of those present once the doors and windows have been secured.

