 Make sure you practice this attitude every single day till it becomes an automatic habit for you, etched into your brain so that it'll become difficult for you to stop behaving in such a good, pleasant manner. Also, be carefree with many events that occur in your life, such as people calling you names. None of that matters when it comes to making yourself confident and happy. Remember that you should never change for other people, whether it's to impress them or simply fit in. Not only will you become fake, but you will also feel miserable rather than happy. You'll easily get tired of being the opposite of yourself.


Don't worry if acting kind and blissful feels awkward at first because it'll soon feel natural once you get used to it. By then, people should know you for your pleasant manner.
Be cautious when it comes to being carefree. You should know when to be serious in certain situations; otherwise, you may unintentionally hurt others and perhaps even lose relationships that may be important to you.

For example: Be carefree when people laugh at your mistakes, but quickly lose that attitude when a friend's family member dies.
 For example, you could say "Sprinkle-riffic" instead of "terrific". You could also exclaim, "Dippin' dots!" rather than use the word "Wow!" Not only will it sound cute and humorous to people, but it'll also be fun to say. Be creative when it comes to changing words to go your way, but make sure you don't turn them into bad words.


Keep in mind that some people may find you annoying when you change words like that, but never change for them. However, if you feel uncomfortable saying words as mentioned above, don't feel forced to follow this step. Do only what's comfortable for you, but don't forget to be adventurous rather than uptight and stiff. Have a little fun with yourself, but not to the point that you hurt yourself and/or others!

, Although you may believe that they don't want you to have any fun, keep in mind that they're only thinking of the best for you. Obey them while you're still under their care, and remember that they won't always be around so make good, happy memories with them. Tell yourself that they are the King and Queen, while you are the ice cream princess!

, Ice cream princesses should listen to Nightcore music while keeping in mind that it isn't evil or bad. Actually, it's known as "Hardcore Happiness." Nightcore basically consists of songs from songs that people hear today. However, the music is faster while the beat and voices are more high. Despite the fact that some ice cream princesses may enjoy it, you don't have to listen to it if you don't like it. When listening to music, make sure you choose only songs with clean lyrics. Be sure that the songs have no bad intentions hidden behind the words because ice cream princesses should be pure and not listen to any bad songs.

