 The paper should be longer than a regular sheet of paper.It needs to wrap around enough to look like a scroll. Your paper needs to be thinner than the dowels you use, so you may have to cut some off of the edges. There are many different types of paper that can be used to make a good scroll.Two sheets of regular white paper taped together end to end
Brown paper grocery bagParchment Paper
Rice paper
Papyrus paper;
, Dowels are round rods made of wood, metal, or plastic. Scrolls are typically made using wooden dowels. Dowels come in different lengths, so you might have to cut them to the right size for your paper. You want the dowels to be about 1 to 2 inches longer than the paper. The thinner the dowel, the tighter you can wind up your scroll. You can choose the thickness of the dowel you would like to use.⅜ inch
¼ inch
½ inch
1 inch

, Decide what you want the scroll to say or display on the inside. If you don’t know what you want it to look like, some ideas are hieroglyphs, chinese characters, or a still life picture. Choose a method to apply your script or artwork to the scroll.Painting
Printing
Coloring
Calligraphy
Handwritten or drawn

, You can assemble a scroll using one dowel at the top of the paper or two dowels on the top and bottom of the paper. Use a strong glue to secure the dowels to the edges of the paper. Press firmly and hold for a few seconds to ensure the dowel is adequately attached to the paper.


Make sure the glue extends the entire length of the edge of the paper.
You can also wrap the paper around the dowel and glue it to itself. If you decide to do this method, make sure you get the paper wrapped extremely tight around the dowel so it doesn’t have room to slide around.
 Embellishments can make the scroll look authentic and give it that extra flair. There are many ways to embellish your scroll and make it unique.


Attach a ribbon to the top for hanging.
Add an ornament to the ends of each dowel, like a wooden wheel. This would be easier to do before attaching the paper onto the dowels.
Use ribbon, string, or twine to tie the scroll together after rolling.
 There are two different ways of rolling your scroll.


If you have a one dowel scroll, roll the paper around the dowel until the entire paper is rolled. Secure the paper with a ribbon, string, or twine by tying it around the scroll.
With a two dowel scroll, roll both sides of the paper around the dowels until they meet in the middle. You can also secure this type of scroll with ribbon, string, or twine.

