 Even if you and your boyfriend have been together for years, you shouldn't look at the relationship as a perfect union that should stay exactly the same until the end of time. You should both be working to impress each other, to keep chasing each other, and to remind each other why your relationship is so great. Don't just fall into the same old dull routine because it's "pretty good" and has been working thus far; take your relationship to the next level by always trying new things and keeping it interesting.


Don't stop telling each other how much you mean to each other.
Keep up your weekly "date nights," and make sure you leave the house for most of them.
Make sure you try something new together at least once a month, whether it's a new restaurant or a new sport.
Be spontaneous. Go on a random weekend trip you planned the night before; sign up for a salsa class at the last minute.
 If you want to hold on to your boyfriend, then you can't let yourself go. Both of you should make sure you shower regularly, get your hair in good shape, and dress nicely when you're hanging out together. You can wear sweatpants on Sundays, maybe, or on another designated "vegging out" day, but on the whole, you should dress up when you're together like you could appear in public, even if you're not leaving the house.


Caring for your appearance will keep you from getting complacent in your relationship and will make you and your boyfriend feel more romantic.
You can even make a point of dressing up extra nicely for your date nights, even if you're not going anywhere that fancy.
 Whether you and your boyfriend are sleeping together or just hooking up, make sure you get together in a place that makes you feel romantic, not a dirty car or cluttered basement. If you can hook up in your bedroom, make sure that it's neat, clean, and that it feels like it's made just for you two to kiss each other; don't hook up near textbooks or the piles of folders you brought home from work. When you're getting intimate in the bedroom, intimacy should be the only thing on your minds.


If you and your boyfriend live together, this is especially important. If the room is only used for sleep and sex, you will both feel more romantic.
 If you want to keep your relationship feeling fresh, then you and your boyfriend have to spend some time apart. If you're always together, then you won't have as much to talk about, and you won't be able to miss each other or appreciate each other when you're apart. No matter how close you are, it's important to pursue your own interests and to hang out with your friends and families apart from each other from time to time.


Just going out with your girlfriends without your boyfriend every week or two will give you a new appreciation of how much you love him.
Don't be clingy or needy. Let your boyfriend go out and do his own thing now and again and he'll love you -- and feel romantic -- even more.
 If you and your boyfriend do something romantic together that gets your blood pumping and makes you feel good, you will be guaranteed to feel more sexy and romantic. This can take the form of any kind of exercise such as long walks, hiking, biking, running, yoga, ballroom dancing, or just going to the gym together.


A couple that works out together stays together. And stays in shape.
Raising your adrenalin will also put you in a better mood, and will make you more fond of the person you're with.

