 If your video recorder is not available, then borrow one or buy one. This is a critical need. Visit every room and open every cabinet so that a count may be taken later if necessary. Closely scrutinize and document higher value items to assess the relative wear and tear. Don’t forget to closely document your furniture and its condition as mars and scraps can occur afterwards from moving and may necessitate repair. Pretend that everything was destroyed or not returned and videotape enough information to be able to document the asset. Don’t forget the basement, closets or storage areas. Use as much videotape time as needed. Have multiple copies made of the videotape to share with insurance and furniture restorers, and a base copy.;
, Pay attention to molding and trim, woodwork details, built-in stereo systems and in-ceiling speakers, closet systems, bathroom and kitchen details such as mirrors, fixtures, lighting, cabinetry, flooring & outlets. Take photographs also of every room and the furniture so that the details may be easily shared. If your camera is indisposed, then buy several instant ones or borrow one. Have multiple copies made of the videotape to share with construction personnel, insurance, subcontractors, and a base copy.
 Do not give that to the insurance contractor or insurance adjuster. Instead, make them document to you everything in the house that requires replacement before the demolition destroys the evidence so that you can concur with the listing. Make it a precondition to not demolish items that have not been documented to you yet. Sample listings are included in the appendix. If you are unsure of the model or type, remember that most manufacturers can tell the information from a serial number so notate all serial numbers in your listing of contents.
 Retain any items of value that you may want in your possession and not risk to a third party loss. Pay particular attention to jewelry, sentimental items of value, artwork, items necessary to your work/lifestyle, and items required for your financial and medical needs in your retention of materials. Take small sample remnants of the carpeting by room. Your value for carpet will be subject to whatever samples they choose to submit so retain a remnant of each room.
 Use their information to document the colors present in the various rooms of the house and exterior. Make a chart of all previous selections and use that to notate the new selections. Example is in the appendix.

