 Simple tasks, such as vacuuming the lounge and cleaning the countertops can all make for an easier lifestyle. When you have done a few small tasks, move on to bigger chores. Mowing the lawn, cleaning windows and mirrors, organizing bookshelves, etc. help to keep everything in order.;
, Instead, clean a little bit every day. That way, it won't feel like a huge burden each time.
 Don't put it off, or else the mess will be much worse.
 If you work for long hours during the day while others stay at home, create a "Chore List." It's like a simple rota: at a certain time of day, one person that stayed at home will do a chore. All chores that need to be done must be done on time, so when you arrive home, the house will be neat and tidy, ready for people to sit down in and watch that new drama on TV.


No one person in the household should bear the sole responsibility for cleaning. It is everyone's responsibility to keep it clean. If you are constantly cleaning up after other house members, put an end to this arrangement. Tell them that they are all responsible and that the house always needs cleaning.
 Don't all rush to your rooms. The whole house needs cleaning, not just the bedrooms.


One person can dust, another can vacuum, another can tidy up (for example, neatly arranging the cushions in the living room), another can organize bookshelves, etc.
 Make it easy for everyone: rotate the chores each week. You may want to keep a record of it all.
 This person has to check each room in the house to make sure it is clean and tidy. Change the family "head" every month or so.
 If you have children, reward them for cleaning up. The reward could be going somewhere special, eating a homemade pie, watching a favorite TV show together, etc. Just make it clear that cleaning needs happen before the reward. Then, look forward to that family treat.
 Use games, music, and even races to make cleaning fun for everyone, no matter your age.
 Whether it's a shopping spree, a night in front of the television, a walk on the beach, or just a lie in, you need to rest. Do something you enjoy. It could be every night, every weekend, or any time that suits you.


Don't buy things that need dusting!

