 Many of our daily routines and rituals can end up damaging the skin. Too much sun, a poor diet, over or under-washing, and your general environment could be wreaking havoc on your complexion. Some things that we do daily, which cause damage to the skin, are:Too much exposure to UV rays
Wearing too much makeup
Smoking
Living in an urban environment
Eating greasy foods;
, If you are a smoker, you are probably already aware of the damage it can cause to your complexion and appearance. In addition to damaging the lungs and impacting oral health, smoking causes premature aging and wrinkles in the skin as well as clogs the pores, creating pimples and blackheads. If you are serious about improving your complexion, you may need to kick your smoking habit first., Some people, mostly women, wear makeup to improve the appearance of their skin. Other people, such as actors or TV personalities, wear makeup for their jobs. Whatever your reasons are for wearing makeup, make sure you take the necessary steps to remove that makeup thoroughly and allow your skin to breathe freely.Realize that many makeups and facial products are designed to stay on the skin when exposed to water. Because of this, washing your face with soap and water is not an adequate measure for removing makeup and other facial products from deep in the pores. Purchase and use a reliable and effective makeup removing wash, scrub or pad to remove applied makeup., Many people desire a nice tan or bronze color for their skin. Unfortunately, not everyone can achieve this color without first doing extensive damage to their skin caused by UV rays. If you are not happy with your complexion and regularly go tanning, stop. Your skin will look much better in its natural color and avoiding the sun or tanning bed can prevent premature wrinkles and aging., The air we live in is not clean. Dirt, smog, smoke, and dust surround most of us on a daily basis. However, reducing your skin’s exposure to these pollutants can go a long way in making your skin look younger, brighter and healthier. If possible, limit your exposure to environments that are loaded with pollutants and use products designed to remove these pollutants from your pores.