 You will need fabric gloves, scissors, glue, various colors of felt, and anything you want to decorate the puppets with!


Fabric gloves can be found at many gardening stores. It is better to pick up a larger size to give you more room to decorate the puppets.
The felt will be used to help decorate the puppet. Buy fairly large squares of felt to ensure you have plenty in case of a mistake.
The decorations can be anything from googly eyes to sparkles. You might also want to pick up pipe cleaners to help make the puppet come alive.;
, Discard any fingers that have a hole in the top unless you are creating a "bald" puppet (your fingertip will be the bald patch).









Try to cut the fingers off so that the puppet will fit your finger. If you have a smaller hand, cut farther up on the glove finger.
 A simple hand-stitch is fine. Glue works just as well if you can't or don't want to sew. Simply glue around the edges of the finger where you can see the seam. You can also use blanket stitch if you know how.









This will help the puppet last longer through continued use

, Your cut-off glove finger will serve as the body for your creation. The various colors of felt will help you to get the right "skin" color for the body. For example, if you want to create a lion, use a light colored yellow felt.
 You can either glue the felt on or stitch it.
 The face can look like anything you want as it is your puppet!









You can glue on googly eyes or cut out small circles from the felt. It may be best to use an exacto-blade for this task.
Glue on a nose made from felt, sequins, tiny buttons etc.
Create a mouth. Glitter sticks are great for this, or cut a felt smile and glue on.
Add the hair. Use yarn, wool, string for hair. If you are making a puppet that resembles a person, add the hair to the top of the puppet, around where the seam is. If you are making an animal puppet, glue short pieces of string around the entire body.
Add anything else you would like to the puppet. If you are making a man, use pipe cleaners or cut out pieces of paper to add a hat! You can decorate the puppet with anything you would like.

