 Run a search query that includes the name of your city and the word “Craigslist.” Find your local site and bookmark it for easy future access.;
, Get to know the general architecture of the site and the general etiquette for posting.
 Choose a classified listing category in which you want to post. Note that there are a few rare cases that require payment, including posting jobs in the San Francisco Bay Area or other larger cities, selling cars or trucks, posting therapeutic ads, posting tickets or posting brokered apartment rentals in New York City., Since the newest posts appear at the top, you will get the majority of responses to your post within the first two to 24 hours. Be ready to respond to take advantage of Craigslist’s social power.


Craigslist asks that you post to a single category and single location only once within 48 hours for each topic.
 Click on it. Select the type of post you are offering, such as “event” or “housing offered.”

,, Be specific and specify a limited time, amount of money or qualification required. Use the best possible keywords in the title, so that people can search for your listing.
 Unless you want your personal email to show up on the listing, select the radio button to use a craigslist coded email relay. This allows you to use your email to receive messages, but still remain anonymous on the site itself.
 If you are selling items, you should always include images that help the viewer to see the condition of the item.
 Preview it and edit it before it goes live. If you like how it looks, publish it.
 It may arrive in your junk mail. Confirm your post and it will go live. Be ready to respond to posts almost immediately.Save the confirmation email so that you can return to the post to remove it or edit it in the future.
 You may choose to arrange meetings at a separate location to better protect yourself.
 Find an ad that you want to respond to.
 Click on the link “Email to a Friend” below the listing. Type in your email and the ad will appear in your inbox until you are ready to respond.
 View the contact information for the post, including the name, a telephone number and the email relay. You can choose to call instead of emailing, if an email is provided and you want to expedite the process.
 Paste it into your preferred email program. Compose and send your email, taking care not to include personal information until you are confident that the post is not fraudulent.
 Generally, the sooner you reply to the post, the more likely you are to get results from it., Many people use it primarily for furniture, technology, events and job postings. You may find you get better results selling smaller items on eBay or Amazon, since people are more accustomed to those forums for used items.
 Search online for the purchase price of a used item. Take into account the condition of the item as well. If you are selling on Craigslist, use this method to set your price.
 Usually, the seller will indicate a price and add “OBO” or “or best offer” if they want to get rid of it quickly. If demand is likely to be high, you are more likely to need to buy it at the full listed price.
 Being one of the first people to respond is your best chance to get the item.
 Convenience and reliability are good reasons for someone to write you back and arrange the sale.
 Always bring someone else with you to help with transportation and provide an assurance of safety.
 You want to ensure a happy, direct customer, and the best way to do so is to be honest about the condition, the model and the location.
 Be sure to specify whether delivery or pick-up is desired. Also, specify what types of payment are accepted.


With Craigslist, the standard is cash on delivery.
 You may get spam responses.
 This is the most that Craigslist’s general rules allow. Breaking those rules may result in getting a post removed.