 Before you hold an infant, it is important to wash your hands thoroughly. Take a minute to wash, rinse, and dry your hands before picking up the baby.
 As you’ll be holding your infant against your chest for several hours, you’ll want to find a relatively quiet, secluded, comfortable location for the kangaroo care.If you have a private room in the hospital, you could lay in the bed or sit in the chair while holding your infant.


If you’ve returned to your house, but your obstetrician suggests that you continue to administer kangaroo care, find a comfortable spot where you can remain relatively static for several hours.
For example, sit on the couch and read or watch a couple of movies, or hold your infant in bed while you rest.
 If your infant is wearing a hospital onesie, remove this—you can leave a diaper on the baby, however. It’s important that the infant have as much skin exposed as possible. The skin-to-skin aspect of kangaroo care is crucial.If you’re concerned about your infant’s temperature while you give a baby kangaroo care, ask the hospital staff for an infant-sized hat for the baby to wear.
 In order to facilitate skin-to-skin contact with your infant, you’ll need to remove your shirt as well. The hospital staff may also be able to accommodate you with a loose, front-opening blouse or shirt that you can contain your infant inside.If you’re in a more crowded area within a hospital, you may be able to hold your infant under your shirt without undressing. Be careful not to drop the child in this situation. For this purpose, it may be best to perform the kangaroo care sitting down.
 Fathers can hold the infant directly against their chest; mothers are advised to hold the child between their breasts. Women will probably need to remove their bra in order to do this, both to maximize skin-to-skin contact and to avoid squishing the infant under your bra. You should hold the infant upright against your chest, rather than cradling the baby in your arms or laying them across your body sideways.Holding the baby upright will maximize the skin-to-skin contact between you and the infant. If you cradle the baby sideways against your chest, the baby’s body may tilt away from yours and decrease the contact and warmth the baby receives.
Parents are encouraged to switch off: pass the infant to your partner when you need to use the restroom, take a walk, or eat a meal.
 Kangaroo care is not a technique that can be implemented for only a short period of time. You should intend to hold your baby for at least one hour, four or more times each week.Do not play with your baby at this time; simply let the baby rest on your chest.


The total number of days or weeks for which you’ll need to provide kangaroo care will vary based on how prematurely your infant was born, how quickly the baby gains weight, and whether or not the baby maintains its good health. Consult with your doctor for their estimate of how long you’ll need to maintain kangaroo care.
You can also place a blanket around yourself and the baby. This will further insulate the infant and keep them from cooling off, and will also keep you warm since you may not be wearing a shirt.
In some settings, it’s common for the parents of preemies to provide almost 24/7 kangaroo care., Mothers, if your infant is awake, hungry, and healthy enough to breastfeed, kangaroo care presents an excellent opportunity for breastfeeding. The infant’s closeness can naturally stimulate and increase the mother’s breast milk supply, and kangaroo care has been shown to lead to an increase in successful breastfeeding.Fathers can use this time to feed their infant using a bottle of pumped breast milk or formula milk.
 Not only will the skin contact that results from kangaroo care keep your infant warm, but it will provide other health benefits which will help the premature infant survive and thrive. Kangaroo care was initially used to decrease mortality rates among preemie babies, and can help preemies survive that might not otherwise live. Kangaroo care gives babies other health benefits, including:Stabilizing the infant’s heart rate.
Increasing the baby’s time spent sleeping and quality of sleep.
Regularizing the baby’s breathing patterns.
Increasing the infant’s brain development.
Increased breastfeeding.
Decreased crying.
This practice benefits the parent as well as the child. The copious physical contact increases the parents’ emotional connection and feelings of closeness with the baby., If, in addition to having been born prematurely, your preemie is sick or has serious medical concerns, the doctors may not allow you to hold the child or give them kangaroo care. Ask the doctors and staff members of the neonatal or neonatal intensive care unit if your infant is well enough for kangaroo care.Even if your infant is connected to various machines or monitors, you may still be able to provide kangaroo care.
However, depending on the state of your baby’s immune system, doctors may be concerned about the infant’s contact with foreign bacteria and discourage kangaroo care.
 If your infant was born extremely prematurely, they may not be sufficiently developed and may need to remain on life-support machines or in intensive medical care. If this is the case, do not try to give your infant kangaroo care. While kangaroo care may benefit the preemie later, medical care to guarantee the infant’s survival should be the first priority.To determine if your infant is overly premature and too delicate to be given kangaroo care, consult with your obstetrician or the staff of the neonatal care unit.
 For a variety of reasons, certain hospitals may have restrictions on when or how parents are able to provide kangaroo care to their premature infants. If hospitals are unfamiliar with kangaroo care, or that staff feels that they do not have resources to allow parents to safely practice kangaroo care, they may not allow it.Also consider the timing of your infant’s premature birth. Hospital staff may be most inclined to let parents provide kangaroo care for premature infants beginning at 28 or 30 weeks after conception.

