 Either way, look for a brightening shampoo with a cool blue or purple hue to help balance out the warm brassy tones in your blonde.In a pinch, blue or purple anti-dandruff shampoo may also help balance out some of the brassiness, but a brightening shampoo intended specifically for this purpose will probably be more effective.
Apply the shampoo according to label instructions. Usually, you’ll need to apply it like you would apply any normal shampoo: massage a dime-sized or nickel-sized amount into your scalp and hair, then rinse with warm water.;
, While following your shampooing with a normal conditioner will protect your hair from damage, following up with a brightening conditioner will both nourish your hair and further your color-correcting efforts. When possible, try to use a conditioner that matches the brand and product line of your brightening shampoo.


Like your shampoo, your conditioner should also be a cool-hued blue or purple to help balance out the warm brassy shades in your hair.Label instructions may vary, but typically, you’ll need to apply the conditioner after shampooing and leave it in for about three minutes prior to rinsing. Most brightening conditioners should not be left in the hair without rinsing.
 Before drying your hair, mist a heat protecting spray or work a heat protecting serum into your locks. Heat damage can worsen the brassiness of blonde hair, but a heat protecting product can help shield your hair from the additional damage., This is another important way to protect your brassy-blonde hair from heat. When using your hair dryer, make sure that it’s set on the “low” setting instead of “high.” It’s also a good idea to leave it partially damp instead of drying it completely.You should also avoid the use of flat irons and curling irons as much as possible, at least until your hair returns to the proper shade. If you notice brassiness returning after using heat styling tools, it might be better to omit them from your routine completely.
 A neutralizing gloss is a hair treatment that revitalizes dyed hair, giving it a glossy sheen. Selecting a neutralizing gloss will tint your hair with a color that balances out brassy tones, leaving you with “pure” blonde hair.You can apply a brass-breaking foaming gloss at home. It's important to select a formula designed to remove yellow/orange tones from your hair, however, since basic formulas only add shine without correcting color. Apply the gloss to your hair after washing and rinse it out after three to five minutes; repeat one to three times a week until the problem is fixed.Check the label instructions when using a home gloss treatment. Some should be applied after shampooing but before conditioning, while others should be applied after both shampooing and conditioning.

