 The more you know before the hunt, the more likely you are to find success.You can identify mule deer not only by their ears, but also their typical coloring (grayish-brown, with a light gray face and a black forehead “mask”) and size (up to 3.5 feet tall and 7 feet long, and roughly 130 to 280 pounds in weight). They can see fairly clearly for up to 600 yards (and, as nocturnal feeders, have excellent night vision) and can smell a human approaching from up to half a mile away (with a sense of smell roughly one thousand times better than ours).
“Muleys” eat weeds, leaves, twigs, and shrubs like other deer, but tend to be more picky eaters, preferring tender vegetation. This makes their foraging areas more limited (and therefore easier to identify).;
, As indicated above, you can find mule deer in the contiguous United States from Texas to Washington state, and especially throughout the Great Plains region. Mule deer hunts can happen on snowy mountains and in arid deserts, so it pays to do some research on when and where you want to engage in your search for that trophy “muley.”Before choosing when and where to hunt, determine if you are willing and able to deal with extreme temperatures and or weather conditions. Mule deer hunts usually involve several days spent mostly out in the elements, so extreme heat or cold can certainly be a concern.
 For your own safety (and to avoid legal troubles), as well as for the benefit of a mule deer population that is in decline,hunt only in season and according to the regulations established by that state, province, or territory.


In the U.S., contact the relevant state wildlife agency for information on hunting seasons, licenses, regulations, etc. Website links for seventeen state wildlife agencies in “muley” territory can be found at https://muledeer.org/state-wildlife-agencies/.
Familiarize yourself with any restrictions on the size or type of deer that can be taken during that state’s particular season. If you are hunting mule deer bucks, the definition of “antlered” may be as simple as “having an antler fully erupted through the skin and capable of being shed.”Meanwhile, the big prize for serious hunters is a “muley” that is over 200 inches (500 cm) in length and has a antler spread of at least 30 inches (76 cm).Your target buck is likely to be somewhere between these two extremes.
 Hunting mule deer or another species of wild game can for many people be an enjoyable and rewarding experience. However, never forget that you are in control of a deadly weapon, be it a bow or firearm. Proper training and firearm safety practices are essential, starting of course with young and/or new hunters but also including even seasoned veterans.In addition to firearm safety practices, investing in proper equipment will make the odds of an enjoyable and successful mule deer hunt much better. You will be scouting out “muleys” from long distances in low light conditions, so high-quality binoculars and a spotting scope are a worthwhile investment. Choose hunting clothing and gear that is suited to climate conditions (hot, cold, or in between), but also give preference to softer fabrics that are less likely to “crinkle,” rustle, or make other noises that might give away your location. Remember, mule deer have excellent hearing., While you’ll sometimes hear of a hunter who hops out of his truck and bags an impressive buck, mule deer hunting is often a taxing physical and mental challenge. Prepare your mind and body beforehand, and remember that the substantial effort you put into the hunt can make the reward all the sweeter.


Especially if you plan on stalking your prey (as opposed to scouting out a location and waiting for a good target to come into range), make sure that you are in good physical condition. You’ll need to be able to track over long distances in potentially rough terrain, crouch or lie down for long stretches, and be ready to react at a moment’s notice.Patience is a definite virtue when hunting “muleys,” whether you are stalking them or waiting in your chosen location. There’s a lot of waiting, a lot of stillness, and a lot of silence; take advantage of this change from the hectic nature of your normal life., The first step in hunting mule deer is figuring out where to find some of them, of course. Depending on geography, mule deer tend to forage freely at night and then bed down for the day in high grass, brush, or thicket. Learn to identify “muley” tracks and follow them where they lead you. Examine the plant life for signs of foraging as well.Mule deer need to have access to water every day, so a creek, stream, pond, spring, or other water source can make a good starting point for your search. Look for tracks to and from the water source., Whether you’re playing the “waiting game” or utilizing a stalking approach to your hunt, determining the best location in which to set up for your shot is essential. Consider factors like visibility, vantage point, and wind direction when setting up.Setting up on higher ground than your intended target is almost always a smart hunting strategy, and it typically holds true when hunting mule deer.
However, remaining downwind (or at least crosswind) from your target is even more essential when hunting “muleys.” As mentioned, mule deer have a fantastic sense of smell, and are likely to sniff you out if you’re upwind, even if you use a masking agent.
 If you don’t plan on stalking your mule deer prey, but rather want to wait for them to come to you, you need to pick the right location and practice a great deal of patience. Once you’ve established your target area, do a grid search to determine the best place to set up (on an elevated position near a watering hole, for instance) and get into spotting position.The first two hours of daylight in the morning and the last two hours in the evening are the best times to spot mule deer. They are heading to their bedding spot after foraging all day during the former, and getting up and out to feed again during the latter., You can spot them in the early morning, then spend the day (while they rest) moving slowly but surely into your ideal position, for instance. Or, you can scout out the bedding location beforehand, then set up before dawn to ambush your target “muley” as it returns for the day.Remember, patience and persistence are key to hunting mule deer. Think of it more as a chess match, with moves and counter moves, positioning and repositioning, and long pauses between the action.
 Whether you are stalking your prey or waiting for it to come to you, and no matter if you are using a bow or firearm, you need to practice patience and ensure that the mule deer is within your effective range for a clear shot. As a responsible hunter who shows respect for the hunt, you owe it to yourself and your prey to make sure your shot counts and brings down the “muley.” You will no doubt feel an adrenaline rush, but do your best to remain calm, composed, and focused on the task at hand.


While it is always helpful to get as close as possible to improve the accuracy of your shot, the heightened sensitivity of mule deer to sounds and smells mean that you may not want to encroach closer than you need to. Basically, stay as far back as you can while retaining full confidence that you can hit the target accurately., The phrase “you only get one shot” is quite often true when hunting mule deer. Miss your mark, and you will probably lose your prize (or, even worse, lose it and cause it a slow, painful death later on). In terms of choosing where to aim, you have several options. Shots into the brain or spinal cord will cause the quickest, most humane death, but are also much more challenging for the typical hunter. Basically, aim for a spot you know you can hit.Brain shots are the target of choice for many professionals, as they cause instant death and preserve all the meat. However, it is very easy to miss completely or, worse, wound the deer in the face or mouth.
A properly-placed neck shot will snap the spinal cord and cause quick death, but again, the target area is very small. A miss may paralyze but not kill the deer, or cause a wound that will cause a slow, painful death if the deer escapes.
A shot that passes from one shoulder blade through the other will also sever the spinal cord and kill quickly, but is likely to damage some of the meat. Also, once again, the target area is small.
Heart-and-lung shots, targeted behind the front leg and slightly up from the chest, are the traditional standby for most hunters. Such shots usually cause significant bleeding, which is beneficial because you will almost certainly have to track and finish off the wounded deer.
 Unless you are an expert marksman or happen to make a lucky shot, your “muley” is unlikely to drop dead in place from a single shot. To claim your prize and end your target’s suffering, you need to be ready to track and kill the deer you just hit. Be prepared for what may be a time-consuming process.


Parts Three and Four of How to Go Deer Hunting offer good advice on identifying and following blood trails to the injured deer, as well as finishing the kill. One piece of advice you may be surprised to see is to wait thirty minutes before you begin tracking the deer. An immediate chase may cause the deer to run further afield, while some patience may cause the wounded animal to lay down and bleed out closer to your location.
 Once you track down your wounded target, it may well be lying down or standing with little urgency to move. Some hunters abide by the practice of slitting a prone deer’s throat in order to end its life, but a properly targeted shot from close range works at least as well. Whatever method you choose, bring the impressive creature to its end without added pain and suffering.


Once the deer is confirmed dead, you will need to field dress it. While this is an easier process to learn by watching a seasoned veteran, How to Field Dress a Deer offers good step-by-step directions with illustrations.

