 If you are experiencing decreased sex drive, erectile dysfunction, depression, or poor concentration/memory, talk to your doctor. These symptoms may be due to low testosterone levels. Your doctor can confirm low testosterone levels using a blood test.It is best to go for this test in the morning because this will provide the most accurate result.;
, The condition of having low testosterone levels is known as hypogonadism. If you are diagnosed with hypogonadism, your doctor may recommend replacement therapy. This involves taking a synthetic form of testosterone to meet your testosterone needs.Never try to take testosterone products yourself, as your hormone levels will need to be strictly monitored during treatment. Having too much testosterone can be just as harmful as having too little.
If hormone replacement therapy isn't for you, you can try some natural methods of boosting your testosterone levels.
 Testosterone is a steroid hormone, which means it is fat-soluble. If you are overweight, most of your testosterone will be stored in the fat. This portion will not participate in hormone activities. That means, although you have normal amount of total testosterone, you are not benefiting from all of it. You can boost your testosterone levels naturally, by losing a bit of weight.Processed sugar is primary culprits for obesity. Avoid soda, processed foods, and sweets.
Refined carbohydrates include bagels, waffles, crackers, pretzels, cookies, cakes, and muffins. Highly processed foods that are difficult for your body to digest and have little nutritional value include ketchup, chips, cereal, and "easy" to make foods. Limit your intake of these foods and switch to whole grains and other more natural options.
Eat plenty of vegetables. They slow down sugar absorption from the intestine and scavenge bad fats from the diet. Try to eat five servings of veggies per day.
 When it comes to boosting your testosterone levels, intense exercise for a short period is more beneficial than moderate exercise for prolonged periods. This high-intensity activity works to increase the function of testosterone receptors in the body. This helps to produce desired levels of testosterone in your body, without giving extra work to your testosterone producing cells.Warm up for about three minutes. Then exercise as intense and as fast as you can for 30 seconds. Swimming, cycling, sprinting or running on a treadmill are good examples. Then gradually slow down over 90 seconds.
Repeat the exercise and recovery cycle seven or eight times. The total duration of exercise should be 20 minutes.
 Zinc is a mineral that is essential for sperm production and testosterone synthesis. It increases libido and helps to maintain normal reproductive function. Meat, fish, raw milk, raw cheese, beans, and yogurt are good natural sources of zinc. You may also consider taking a zinc supplement., Vitamin D helps to maintain semen quality and sperm count. It also increases testosterone level, which may boost libido. Vitamin D is synthesized from cholesterol in the skin under the influence of UV light.


Sun exposure is the best way to increase vitamin D levels. Spend 20 to 30 minutes under the sun exposing some body parts like arms, legs, back etc.
Small fish and fish oil are also good sources of vitamin D.
Mushrooms are also an excellent source of vitamin D.
 When you are under a lot of stress, your body produces excess amounts of cortisol, a hormone to cope with that stress. Cortisol prepares your body for an emergency, triggering your survival instinct and essentially neutralizing the effects of testosterone. To allow testosterone to exert its effects, you need to keep stress-levels low.Get a massage.
Attend a yoga class.

Try meditation.

Perform a progressive muscle relaxation.
 Not getting enough sleep can reduce testosterone levels in men, so it is important to get plenty of sleep if you are trying to boost these levels.Aim for eight hours of sleep every night. To get this amount, you might need to go to bed a bit earlier than you have been, or sleep a little later if that is possible for you., Some medications counteract or compete with testosterone and reduce its activity. Speak to your doctor about trying different medications or dosages.Examples are opioid drugs (Fentanyl, MS Contin, and Oxycontin), corticosteroids (prednisolone), and anabolic steroids (nandrolone).
Always speak to you doctor before making any changes to your medication regimen. Do not experiment with dosages on your own.

