 In the series she frequently brings up famous horror icons such as Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees. Start watching horror classics like 'Halloween', 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' and all of the 'Friday the 13th' movies. If horror bothers you, as well as gore, begin with PG-13 movies and go up to horribly gory R rated films like '28 Days Later' and ‘Dawn of the Dead’. Grow used to seeing people getting stalked and slashed in every film you rent.;
, You can find interest in many more things, not limited to this list: vampire bats, coffins, old and new horror movies, scary cult classics, Gothic art and architecture, cemeteries, ghosts, and everything else that seems eerie or darkly cool. Macabre is especially important if you want to be like Sunako Nakahara. Sunako adores the darkness, like scary abandoned houses and the possibility of seeing a spirit.
 Learn to appreciate the darkness, loving the night and shadowy, cool places. Complain about the summertime heat, or hot days.
 Sunako doesn’t allow anyone to push her around or make her feel poorly; she especially unleashes her fury when someone calls her an ‘ugly girl’, so don’t tolerate anyone picking on you or someone you care about.
 (Think back to Sunako making the kotatsu by hand and carrying it through the snow.) Thus, it’s important to strive for your goals to get what you want and always remain motivated.
 So, try to appreciate being a ‘loner’, or at least having time to be alone. Like Sunako, who often spends time with her skeleton and two figures in her room, find happiness in creating, thinking, or just being alone. It doesn’t mean you should forget about family and friends, but having some solitude makes you like Sunako and can be good to relax.
 Find beautiful people, like celebrities and models in magazines like Kate Moss and Giselle to be annoying and troubling to you. Think of them as too pretty to exist, therefore making them too difficult to look at.
 Nakahara is amazingly great at playing the piano, cooking the boys’ meals and is very strong. Make sure you can find some great talent to keep with you to not only impress but feel proud of being different.

