 There are lots of good reasons to send flowers but there are also some not-so-good ones, so you'll need to get sorted on the message you send along with those flowers.


Good reasons for sending flowers: To express your love; to say Happy Birthday; to say Congratulations; to express support for exams/work interviews/try-outs, etc.; to express sympathy for a loss; to say you miss her; to woo her; to ask for forgiveness, etc.
Times when not to send flowers: To try to woo back an ex who has made it absolutely clear you're both through; where the girl has made it clear she hates flowers; she's allergic to flowers; when you can't afford flowers.;
, If you don't know this yet, ask someone who is close to her, like her mom, a bestie or a sibling. Ask that person to keep it quiet.
 This is a good choice when you really don't know what flowers she likes (and you can't find out) or her favorite flowers are out of season or too expensive.
 Many flowers have a meaning. You can find more out about this by reading How to express yourself using the language of flowers.
 If the girl likes scents, look for flowers with a lovely fragrance. Ask the florist for help. Commonly liked fragrant flowers include freesias, roses, frangipani, gardenia and jasmine.
 There are various options here:


Visit a local florist. This has the benefit of being able to talk to the florist for advice and you'll be able to see the actual flowers and arrangements.
Look at online florists. You'll be able to see images of what they send, along with prices and delivery fees.
Pick your own. You could pick flowers from your own garden and make your own arrangement. This is a lovely gesture that she'll likely find very touching.
 It's standard to have them delivered by a florist or specialist deliverer. However, you can deliver them yourself, either by leaving them at a place where she'll get them but not showing yourself, or turning up and surprising her in person.
 You could send them to her workplace, her home, or to a place you know she'll be at for an activity such as exercising at the gym.


Consider sending her flowers if she's on an extended business trip and you're missing her. It'll remind her how much you care. You'll need to find her hotel address.
Sending flowers to her workplace is a lovely way of showing you care; all of her coworkers will be curious, which adds to the thrill.
 Keep it short and sweet, getting to the point quickly and signing it off (unless you're doing it for Valentine's Day as a secret admirer). Examples include:


"I miss you!" Love, Fred
"Thinking of you, hope all is going well." Love, Sam
"Roses are red, violets are blue, but these daffodils remind me of the sunshine of you." Love, Corey
"Sorry to learn about your dog, Max. Hope he'll be better soon." Hugs, Jeff

