 Draw a cactus shape, then cut it out. Be sure to cut through all sheets of paper at the same time; you want the shapes to be identical.Keep the shape simple. You will add details, such as leaves and spikes, separately.

If the paper is too thick to cut all at once, draw a template first, trace it onto the paper, then cut the shapes out individually.
If you don't know how to draw a cactus, you can use a stencil or find a template online.
You can use any type of paper you want, such as cardstock or construction. You can even paint regular paper green beforehand or used patterned scrapbooking paper.;
, Keep the cacti stacked, and fold them in half lengthwise. Next, take one of the cacti, and fold it in half, lengthwise, the other way to create a mirror fold., Unfold the mirrored cactus. Coat the outer part of it with glue. If you think of it as a card, the outside of the "card" is the part that gets the glue., Unfold the remaining two cacti. Align them with the matching halves on the glue-covered cactus. Press them together, and let the glue dry. If you need to, trim off any excess, overlapping paper with a pair of scissors., An easy way to create spikes is to draw x or * shapes. You can also draw short, tapering lines instead. Let the paint dry before moving on.

No paint? Use a white paint pen, crayon, or colored pencil instead.
 Cut some pink tissue paper into small squares. Scrunch the squares over the end of a pencil or pen to create a cupped flower shape. Glue the tip of the flower to the top of your cactus.Don't like pink? Try red, white, yellow, or orange instead.
 You can use any type of flower pot you'd like. Terracotta would be a great choice, but porcelain would also work. You can even use a small bowl or tea cup!

Save space by filling the pot with crumpled foil or paper, or a block or foam.
If your flower pot has a hole in the bottom, glue a piece of paper over it from the inside. This will keep the "soil" from leaking out.
 Gently push it into the sand, rice, or pebbles. If you used larger rocks, you can hot glue the cactus to the largest one you have.