 Pick out an outfit and make sure it is clean, pressed and that any tears are mended. Put your clothes sectioned off in a clearly visible spot in your closet, whether on hangers or in drawers, so as to keep them clean and easily accessible.;
,


Remove underarm hair and hair on your legs and arms if you wish.
If your hair takes a long time to dry, consider washing it beforehand so that it is dry enough to style as you wish before the date.
Now is the time to try out your make up and hair.
Lay out any products that you will need so that you can get ready as quickly as possible before the date.



Make sure that you can dry and style your hair in time for the date.
Tidy up any stray unwanted hairs with a razor during your shower.
 Fainting because of hunger or thirst is not as romantic as it sounds.


Avoid fizzy drinks or too many carbs as you may feel bloated.
 Wait for your deodorant or antiperspirant to dry before you pull on your top to prevent any telltale white marks.
 You might make it a bit more polished looking than usual, but don't make it unrecognizable. Above all, make sure it is neat and clean.


If you want to try out a new style, do so the night beforehand so you know what you need, how it really looks and what products you will need to complete the style.
 Always dress in your own personal style, but recognize the type of date.


Is this a first date? Make yourself look nice, and that you care about them, but don't over-dress.
Is this just a normal date with your partner? Well if you're comfortable enough with each other you can get away with normal clothes. Just stay well groomed.
Is this an anniversary date or something important? Dress up, make it look important.
, Make it something that you have worn before so that your date remembers it, or something new that smells like it but don't go too drastically different. Not a lot of people like cologne/perfume, though and some are actually allergic. If you choose to wear it, make sure you're not overdoing it! A little can smell good, but it should be a faint whiff, not an overpowering odor.

