 (This is the hard, white, card stock page.);
,


1. On this line that states "Sales Representative" write your own full name.
2. On this line that states "JA Company" write your company name followed by "a Junior Achievement Company"
3. On this line that states "Sponsor" write your company sponsor (be sure to ask your VP of Sales if you don't know who this is)

,


1. On this line that states "Sales Representative" write your own full name.
2. On this line that states "JA Company" write your company name followed by "a Junior Achievement Company"
3. On this line that states "Sponsor" write your company sponsor (be sure to ask your VP of Sales if you don't know who this is)

,


1. In the red highlighted box you can see that it is vital that each member places the "Cardboard Backing Sheet" under each set of forms (these are the three flimsy papers attached to one another; white, yellow and pink papers).



1. This is the pink flimsy sheet which will come on top of the "Cardboard Backing Sheet".
2. This is the "Cardboard Backing Sheet" and when the the three flimsy sheet bundle is placed on top of it, there should be the white flimsy sheet on top (the top sheet of the the bundle).
 Notice steps 1-3 are only appropriate if it's a pre-sale, otherwise you don't need the information. Every other step is for a pre-sale as well as a regular sale.


0. This is simply an easy checking off the box: if you are giving the product right at that moment you make the receipt (not a pre-sale), then check the first box. If it is a pre-sale, check the second one.
1. On this blank, simply put the name the customer tells you (first and last).
2. On this blank simply put it to the address you will be delivering it to (note that you are responsible for getting it on time and ensuring the company makes enough products for your pre-sale).
3. This is where you write the exact date (Month, Day and Year) the product(s) must be delivered to the customer.
4. This is the date of when you created this sales receipt (so when you made a sale where you gave a product and received money, or a pre-sale). One again write in a Month, Day and Year format.
5. One this blank where it says sales representative, please put your entire name.
6. Where it says description, please print your product name and it's specificity if it has variations: E.g. Body Spray: Summer Scent. Please reprint the product name and the other variation if a customer wants more than one kind. E.g. Body Spray: Summer Scent (and then in the box under) Body Spray: Fall Scent
7. Here please print the quantity of the product for each variation in numerical format (so: 1 or 12)
8. Here you will print your Junior Achievement company name, this is not your product name unless you don't have a product name. E.g. Apple
9. For this area, please ensure you put the amount of cents in the second column and dollars in the first. E.g. $12|00. Note that you need to write the unit price for each variation product.
10. The subtotal is multiplying the amount of products sold by the unit price. E.g. Sold 4 Summer Scent Body Sprays for $12.00 each, so I would write $48.00 here. Dollars in the first column and cents in the second.
11. Where it says sales tax, we have none as Junior Achievers. So always put $0.00.
12. This is when you add the entire total, including the addition of any variation products.



1. This is the little edge that holds the three flimsy sheets together and needs to be carefully ripped off along the dotted line as to not rip any page. One ripped, you should have three separate pages.
2. This is the first page (white).
3. This is the second page (yellow).
4. The third page (pink) is underneath the yellow page, but I was unfortunately unable to get it into the scan, so I used the one from the three-layer set above this one.



1. As you can see, this is the white or top page from the three-layer receipt bundle. As the line indicates, it's a customer copy. So, the white sheet (this sheet) goes to the customer.
2. This is the yellow or second page from the three-layer bundle. As the line indicates, it's the copy that should be returned to "Marketing", but please give this to your V.P of Sales. So, yellow sheet goes to V.P. of Sales (this sheet).
3. This is the pink or third/bottom page of the three-layer receipt bundle. As the line indicates, it's the Sale Representative (this means you, whoever sold it). This is the sheet you can keep for personal records. So, pink sheet goes to you (this sheet).
 You just completed your sales receipts! Keep up the great work selling!

