 You should always follow your doctor’s instructions, but some general guidelines for resting your knee and reducing swelling follow:Elevate your knee
Apply an ice pack or cold compress for 10 – 15 minutes
Repeat four times per day for a few days after the injury

, If your doctor says it is okay, take Motrin (ibuprofen) to reduce your pain and swelling.Follow the dosing prescribed by your doctor or pharmacist.


You can also take Tylenol (acetaminophen), but this will only treat the pain and not address swelling.
Talk to your doctor if you feel that you need to continue using these medications for longer than a week.
 After your kneecap is back in place you will likely be placed in a knee brace to prevent the kneecap from becoming dislocated again.The connective tissues in your knee may take weeks to heal enough to provide stability to your kneecap.


In the meantime, it is important that you wear the brace as it will provide stability to the joint.
 However, these appointments are necessary so that your doctor can ensure that the knee is healing properly and that there are no secondary injuries that were missed at your original appointment.


Expect your first follow-up appointment to be just a few days after the initial injury.
 You should try to avoid putting too much stress or pressure on your knee for a few weeks after the injury. You should allow the joint to be mobile while still giving it time to heal. Discuss with your doctor when to resume work and other activities.



Even when your knee starts to feel better, you have to strengthen it the proper way to avoid re-injury and ensure a full range of motion. This can also help you avoid complications down the road.
 Athletes who have suffered from a kneecap injury should consult a qualified board-certified sports medicine physician to get specific recommendations about returning to training.


Most of the time, a kneecap injury will require four to six weeks of healing before you can return to playing., Studies are somewhat inconclusive about this supplement, but there is some evidence that it can help improve knee movement after an injury., While you are healing and possibly in the weeks after you have been cleared for normal activity, you should wear good quality shoes. This can help you have a regular gait while walking or running and avoid putting too much pressure on your knees.

