 Before you apply the mask, you need to make sure that you face is clean canvas. Remove any makeup or lotions you may have on your face and wash your face to fully cleanse., Steaming your face before you apply the mask isn’t necessary, but it will help to open your pores and allow the mask to more deeply nourish your skin. To steam, soak clean towels in hot water, then wring them out and hold them against your face for around a minute.


You can also steam by holding your face over a bowl of hot water. Pour boiling water into a large bowl, then place the bowl on the table and sit in front of it. Lean forward and hold your face above the pot for a minute with a large clean towel draped over your head and around the sides of the bowl., Wash your hands, then use your fingertips to start patting on the cucumber mask, beginning at your forehead. Leave a circle of uncovered skin around each eye so as not to irritate them. Make sure that the mask layer is at least a half centimeter thick., After you have finished applying your mask, let it sit on your face for fifteen to twenty minutes. This gives the mask time to penetrate and cleanse your skin. Make sure not to touch your face during this time, as this could remove some of the mask., After the fifteen minutes are up, wash the mask away. Splash cold water on your face, and use your fingers to wipe the mask away. Wash your face with more cold water and use your fingers to gently scrub until all remnants of the mask are gone.


Cold water closes the pores on your face and seals in the nutrients and other benefits of the mask.
Try not to use a face cleanser to remove the mask, since it may be harsh after the mask. If you are having a lot of trouble removing the mask with just water, use a small amount of extra gentle cleanser.
 Use a clean towel to pat your face dry. Your face should now feel fresh, soothed and moisturized! If you have extra dry skin, consider applying a few drops of facial moisturizer to trouble areas. Otherwise, enjoy your fresh and revitalized skin!