 Often, a pair of pliers, a screwdriver, and an adjustable wrench are all you'll need, but to replace the washers in a bathroom faucet or to tune up the lawn mower, you will find the right tool for the job makes it much simpler and easier.


If you are just starting out, you may want to acquire tools slowly, as you need them. You'll spread out the expense and keep the clutter under control if you do.;
, A workshop is ideal, but even a good sized shelf in a utility closet will do. You will also need a work surface, such as a table or workbench, on which to perform repairs.
 The scope of the material should depend on your willingness to tackle various jobs and the kinds of jobs you wish to perform first. Start with a general guide. Then, as you need them, look up or purchase guides covering appliances, door hardware, plumbing, electrical, air conditioning, flooring, painting, exterior trim, roofing, and other specific topics.


Try your local library, especially for projects that you may only have to address once or twice in the course of your home repairs.
 You can attend a two to four hour class and learn the basics for installing various products, such as ceramic tile or light fixtures. These classes are usually taught on basic levels, and give detailed lists of supplies and tools required for each one.


Your local trade school, community college, or adult education program may also have home repair classes. Look around and see what you find.
 If you hire someone to tackle a repair job that you think is too much for you, watch how they do it, providing they don't object. If you are helpful and pass a tool to them, or hold something while they work on it, they may be inclined to share a little of their knowledge and tips with you. Take care not to get in their way; you may run up the bill if they are paid by the hour.
 If you need help with something, often you will find someone with experience, and learning from their experience will make your job easier and reduce the potential for mistakes.
 A great price on a ladder or saw is no bargain if the tool fails, and can even be dangerous. Great close-out stores are everywhere, and often they offer professional grade tools at a fraction of their usual price, but make sure what you're getting is suitable.


Are you buying a tool or part that needs to perform well and last a long time? If so, consider it an investment and be willing to pay for quality up front.
Remember that you can also save money by using something for a long time, installing it correctly for yourself, and by not buying things you don't really need.
Price does not always mean quality. A $20 faucet may serve perfectly well if you don't mind a basic appearance. A $300 faucet probably includes a markup for a brand name and designer styling. Product reviews and ratings can help you determine what's worth paying extra.
 A screwdriver or wrench may seem innocent enough, but even these harmless looking items have led to trips to the Emergency Room when used carelessly.
 Do not plug a three-pronged (grounded) tool into a non-grounded receptacle with an adapter. The ground wire in the circuit is there for a reason, and a dangerous situation can occur if you do this.
 If you change out a plumbing or electrical fixture this week, chances are you will be doing maintenance on it again someday. Remembering the mistakes you make the first time will help avoid them in the future, and knowing where you purchased an item, and when, may help you with warranty issues or finding parts for future repairs.


Keep a file folder just for warranties and product manuals.
Take digital photos. While you have the wall cut open or the trench dug, take photos of your project. They will help you remember later how things went together, where pipes, wires, or other hidden items went, and so on.

Keep a notebook where you record your home repairs, and date your entries.
 Do not assume that an unplugged appliance is harmless. Some have electric motors equipped with start and run capacitors that can hold a charge long after the cord is pulled. Old televisions were serious hazards at one time, since they contained high voltage high discharge capacitors that would hold a dangerous electrical charge indefinitely, even after being disassembled or ending up in a landfill.
 If you turn the water off to the hot water heater, turn off the power supply or gas to it also, to protect it from overheating.
]]Watch around the house for problems before they occur. Good maintenance can prevent many home repairs. Routine maintenance can include lubricating door locks and hinges, cleaning drain lines in the bathroom and kitchen sink, vacuuming the refrigerator coils and air conditioning coils, fixing plumbing leaks as soon as you find them, and watching for loose or broken shingles.


Broken shingles are a good example of preventive maintenance. They can be repaired or replaced easily and simply, but once water gets under them, roof decking can begin to rot, attic insulation becomes wet and moldy, and ceilings can be stained or damaged.
 Hopefully most car owners change their oil, oil filter, air filter, and spark plugs, but many people don't realize their air conditioning system and furnace have electric motors that need occasional lubrication, or that the hot water heater should be drained and deposits flushed out every few years. Simple maintenance, which the average homeowner can learn to do, will prevent the need to do major, and expensive, home repairs later.
 Often, you may buy a six inch piece of PVC pipe to repair a leak, when you can buy a ten foot piece for much less priced per foot. If you can store it conveniently, it will last for years and possibly save you a trip to the hardware store if you have another plumbing problem later. Glue, caulk, paint, and other solvent-based products have a short shelf life, and can be hazardous to store in your home, so buy only the amount you need of a single task.
 Having a dozen spare fuses will do you no good if you cannot find them when the lights go out.
 If you have doubts your repair is going to work, or have spent an afternoon trying to get it just right, and can't seem to do it, swallow your pride, and get help. Everyone bites off more than they can chew from time to time.
 Having the water or electricity off for hours while you look for the right part will not make you popular with the other residents in your home.
 Even though they are only there to sell the item you need, many are a wealth of information on replacing, installing, fitting, or finishing the products they sell, and sometimes they will even loan a tool for a particular job.
 If you find buying parts to repair a coffee maker or toaster is more than the price of a new one, don't make that mistake again. Televisions are notorious for excessive repair costs, compared to purchasing a new one.
 If you have a place to store it, often something you have replaced will have usable parts for the next project. An example would be a power supply cord. If you burn up a saw, you may use the cord from it on another power tool later on.
 If you are going to buy parts for home repair projects, you will have better luck if you know the correct name. Reading articles about the type of repair you are doing, or looking at repair manuals will help. Asking your brother-in-law who is all thumbs, and being told it is a "whatchamacallit" usually will not.


If you're still lost, try taking in a part that you want to replace or a photo of the part.
 Think of failures or mishaps as part of the tuition to the school of home repair. Remember, even master plumbers have leaks or crossed threads on pipes and fittings.

