 Some orange shades can overwhelm pale skin. A lipstick that is equal parts red and orange can prevent that from happening. Go for a cool red (that has blueish tones), which will balance out the warm orange tones.Experiment with true tangerine shades, as well – these can also complement fair skin.;
, Peach, coral and persimmon shades tend to be muted, making them easier to wear than some of the brighter orange shades. They can warm up a light complexion without dominating or overpowering the overall look.The pink undertones of these shades help make them accessible.
 Olive skin has a naturally tanned appearance that combines really well with true orange, as well as bold shades like electric orange.Look for spicy shades like fiery tangerine and chili pepper for a vibrant pop of color that complements your skin tone perfectly., Bold pops of color look great when paired with dark skin tones. Try a bright, true orange in a matte formula for a punch of high-intensity color.If true orange feels too bright, opt for a shade that has deep reddish undertones, like blood orange. These shades are fiery and vibrant, while also being slightly easier to wear than true oranges., Glosses and shimmery lipsticks are great, but intense colors like orange work best in matte. The bright color will already catch eyes, so you don’t need to add any shine. Additionally, glossy products will not stay on or remain as opaque as a matte lipstick., Dark, matte orange lipstick can be a daunting look to pull off. If you like the orange hues, you don’t need to start with a matte lipstick right out of the gate. Instead, try using a less intense lip stain.


If you already have a great matte lipstick, try dabbing it on lightly with your fingertip.
Once you get used to the idea of orange lips, you can build up the color and apply it more daringly., Lipstick, especially matte formulas, look best on smooth, hydrated lips. Before applying yours, use an exfoliating scrub to remove any flaky, dead skin. Rub the lip scrub into your lips using your fingertips, a washcloth, or an old toothbrush. Wash the lip scrub off your lips with warm water.You can purchase a lip scrub at your local beauty supply store, or you can make one yourself.
After you’ve exfoliated your lips, apply a very light layer of lip balm to give them some moisture.
 It’s important to perfect the shape of your lips with lip liner before applying your orange lipstick. The lipstick is difficult to remove from skin, so you want to set yourself up for success by outlining first with liner. This will also help prevent the lipstick from smudging outside the border of your lips later on., Then carefully trace your top lip to the outer corners of your mouth. Trace the center of your bottom lip, so that you create a small line. Once you’ve lined the center, bring your liner to the outer corners again.If you want, you can fill your entire lips in with liner at this point. This will create a base for your lipstick and can help it last all day.
 Careful application is key when it comes to pulling off this bold look. The brightness will make mistakes very apparent. Slowly dab the lipstick on your upper and lower lips. Take care to stay within the borders you’ve created with liner., After you’ve applied your orange shade, blot your lips on a piece of paper. This helps remove any excess product that could eventually wind up on your teeth. Check your handiwork in a mirror under good lighting, and you’re all set!, The great thing about this striking lipstick color is that it adds a big pop of color to any outfit, particularly darker outfits. Wearing a black top with black jeans can look pretty plain, but add a pair of orange lips and you instantly make the look brighter and trendier. Whenever you feel like your outfit may be plain, orange lipstick can save the day., Wearing complementary colors together is a great way to catch eyes and make a statement. With orange lips, this means embracing blue outfits. Play around with the different shades of blue. Orange lips will look striking against everything from sky blue, cobalt blue, royal blue, to even navy blue., Orange lipsticks will warm up your complexion, so embrace this warmth with fun florals. Mix and match different floral patterns together for an ultra-trendy look, or pair an orange pout with your favorite spring sundress. Orange can certainly be worn year-round, but its warmth lends itself perfectly to vibrant spring patterns.