 Since your heart is a muscle, it needs exercise. Sedentary behavior, like sitting all day, is the top risk factor for heart disease.Do a combination of stretching, aerobic exercise, and strength training to strengthen your heart and cardiovascular system. Exercise improves circulation and helps your body use oxygen more efficiently.Exercise can also improve your sleep and reduce stress, both of which are important for heart health.
 Many people think they should begin their workout with static stretches, or stretches that lengthen your muscles while they stand in place, but this can actually cause injury and impede performance. Instead, you want to focus on dynamic, or active stretches, that put your muscles through their full range of motion and mimic the exercise you will be doing. For instance, if you are going to jog or run, warm up by walking and with dynamic stretches like high kicks, walking lunges, and butt kicks.


Proper stretching will lead to better physical fitness, increase mental and physical relaxation, and reduce muscle soreness., Aerobic exercise is highly recommended for heart health because it breaks up stored fatty acids, providing more fuel for heart muscle.It increases energy release and helps the heart function more efficiently by strengthening your heart and lungs. It will also lower blood pressure. You may want to exercise every other day to develop the exercise habit. Then, work up to exercising for 30 minutes five days a week (for a total of 150 minutes each week).Any exercise that increases your heart rate and leaves you slightly out of breath is increasing the work of the heart muscle and improving function. Aerobic exercises that help improve your daily heart function include:Walking
Jogging
Rowing
Swimming
Tennis
Golf
Cross country skiing
Skating
Biking
Jump roping
Low-impact aerobic classes

, Strength train every other day to give your muscles a chance to rest between sessions. You can strength train by lifting weights, which will contract your muscles, help you gain strength, and improve your balance and coordination. Research is starting to suggest that strength training is an important part of heart health for these reasons.The American Heart Association recommends strength training because it:Increases strength in bones, muscles and connective tissue.
Lowers the risk of injury.
Improves muscle tone which burns more calories, making it easier to maintain a normal weight.
Improves the quality of life.
Lowers blood pressure, reducing the amount of oxygen and blood needed to maintain cell health and lowering the overall risk of disease.

