 Unlike the Republican Party or the Democratic Party, the Tea Party is not a formal political party. It is more accurately described as a movement. As such, there is no central leadership or single national group for you to join.


Joining the Tea Party is, on the surface, as simple as agreeing with the movement's core principles.
In another regard, joining the Tea Party is actually more complex since you will need to make more of an effort if you want to be involved in events and actions related to the movement.;
, The Tea Party movement began in 2009. While fairly recent, the movement has had an impact on political discourse and events in the United States.Rick Santelli is credited with titling the movement when he referenced the Boston Tea Party in response to President Obama's mortgage relief plan while speaking on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The news clip gained rapid popularity, and soon, the Tea Party movement spread across the nation as others similarly advocated for free market principles and limited taxation powers.
Tea Party chapters began to appear online and in the real world within a few weeks.
The first major Tea Party action to gain publicity was a series of rallies held across the nation on April 15, 2009, expressing dissatisfaction about excessive taxes.
While the name of the Tea Party references the Boston Tea Party of 1773, some also claim that "TEA" stands as an acronym for "Taxed Enough Already."

, Even though the movement is not a formal political party, there are a few basic values that those belonging to the Tea Party share. If you share these values, then in a manner of speaking, you are already part of the Tea Party.


In summary, the Tea Party stands against excessive taxation and excessive government involvement in the private sector.
In greater detail, common core values include the belief in a constitutionally limited government, the demand for fiscal responsibility within the government, and the promotion of the free market economy.Constitutionally limited government means that the powers of the federal government are limited only to those described in the U.S. Constitution. Government involvement on issues beyond those matters—like healthcare and marriage laws--is actively protested against.
Fiscal responsibility involves demands regarding the way that government uses taxpayer money.
The Tea Party views the free market as the economic structure best able to provide opportunity and success for families in the U.S. within all financial brackets (rich, middle class, and poor).


Most Tea Party groups also support stronger immigration controls. This is an issue commonly associated with the movement, but it is not defined explicitly in any set of core values.
 While this is not essential information, knowing which symbols are often used by members of the Tea Party movement can help you identify others who are a part of it. Being able to identify a member when you see one can help you make a connection within the Tea Party, which may help you find ways of getting involved with the movement's causes.


The most well-known symbol associated with the movement is the Gadsden flag, also known as the "Don't Tread On Me" flag. It depicts a coiled snake on a yellow background.
A less common symbol is the Second Revolution flag, which looks like a standard American flag with the exception of the blue field in the upper left corner. Instead of 50 stars, there are 13 stars arranged in a circle with the roman number two (II) in the center.
 As a movement, the Tea Party does not have an official website. There are several popular websites run by groups within the Tea Party, though, and you can often subscribe to these websites. Even without subscribing, you can take advantage of the resources these websites offer.


A few Tea Party websites worth checking out include:

TeaParty.Org (http://www.teaparty.org/)
TheTeaParty.Net (http://www.theteaparty.net/)
Tea Party Patriots (http://www.teapartypatriots.org/)
Tea Party 911 (http://www.teaparty911.com/)
Tea Party Nation (http://www.teapartynation.com/)
Tea Party Community (https://www.teapartycommunity.com/)
Tea Party Express (http://www.teapartyexpress.org/)



, The easiest way to get involved is to look for the nearest group and inquire about membership. Some groups may ask you to become a member, while others may simply ask you to participate in events when you can without signing up.


There are a few ways to go about looking for local Tea Party chapters.

Do an Internet search for Tea Party groups in your area. For example, your search terms may be, "Tea Party Chicago" if you live in the Chicago area.
Check national Tea Party websites for "Find a Tea Party" sections or similar headings.Keep an eye out for bulletins posted in public places, like the library or town hall, regarding Tea Party groups or contacts.


If you are unable to find a Tea Party group in your area, you can start your own. It might be easiest to do so with the help and resources of a national group,but you can also start your own without outside help.

Talk to your city hall to find out if there are any local regulations regarding the formation of such groups.
Start a website and social media pages to advertise your group and encourage people to join.
Talk to people who share your beliefs and encourage them to join and tell their friends about it.
 The movement is definitely a political one, and one of the most effective was to have a voice in the political process as a Tea Party member is to vote for candidates who pledge to uphold the movement's values and core principles. Do your research, support the right candidates, and make your voice heard on Election Day.


Make sure that you are registered to vote in your state. Voting regulations can vary by state, so to be on the safe side, register several months before an election to ensure that you will be eligible to vote in it.
Note that most Tea Party candidates usually run as Republicans, Libertarians, or other Independents. This is not always true, of course, but it is a fairly accurate starting point.
 One major activity taken up by most groups within the movement is the spreading of petitions. These petitions usually address a key political issue and, once enough signatures are obtained, sent to representatives at the local, state, and federal levels of government.


Minimal involvement would be signing your name to a petition (as long as you agree with it) and spreading the word to friends and families.
For more active involvement, ask Tea Party leaders in your area for information about taking the petition door to door or otherwise spreading the word more extensively throughout your community.
 Events can range from town hall meetings to rallies, and they can be held to address anything from the local to federal levels. Look to local and national Tea Party groups to find out about upcoming events and attend those you feel strongest about.


At the local level, events can be as simple as town hall meetings with guest speakers or current representatives.
Some groups sponsor bus tours in support of Tea Party candidates and representatives, causes, or other rallies.Some rallies will require you to travel to Washington D.C. to make a statement in large numbers, while others only require your support from a distance. Others, still, may only require you to travel as far as your state's capital., One of the most significant things you can do as an individual is to keep those around you informed about issues going on that concern the government and the nation as a whole. Encourage like-minded people to get more involved in the political process and engage those who disagree with you in intelligent, civilized debate.
 The more involved you get, the more likely you'll run across some harsh criticism. It's important to stay principled during those moments and to be courageous. As discouraging as it may seem, remember the reasons you first wanted to join the Tea Party and hold onto those beliefs to keep yourself motivated.

