 A hernia can affect different areas of your body in different ways, although a hernia in or around the stomach area may be the most common type of hernia. These hernias include:



Hiatal hernia affects the upper part of your stomach. The hiatus is an opening in the diaphragm that separates the chest area from the abdomen.There are two types of hiatal hernia: sliding or paraesophageal. Hiatal hernias occur more often in women than in men.

Epigastric hernia occurs when small layers of fat push through the belly wall between your breast bone and your navel.You can have more than one of these at a time. Although epigastric hernias often present no symptoms, it may need to be treated with surgery.

Incisional hernia happens when improper care after abdominal surgery results in bulging through the surgical scar.Often, mesh lining is incorrectly installed and the intestines slip out of the mesh, causing a hernia.

Umbilical hernia are especially common among infants. When the baby cries, a lump around the belly button area usually protrudes.;
, Hernias can also affect the groin, pelvis, or thighs when the intestines break out of their lining, causing uncomfortable and sometimes painful lumps in these areas.



Inguinal hernia affects your groin area, and happens when a portion of the small intestine breaks through the abdominal lining.Surgery is sometimes necessary for inguinal hernias, as complications can cause life-threatening situations.

Femoral hernia affects the upper thigh, right below the groin. Although it may present no pain, it looks like a bulge in your upper thigh.Like hiatal hernias, femoral hernias are more common in women than in men.

Anal hernia happens when tissues protrude around the anal membrane. Anal hernias are rare. They are often confused with hemorrhoids.
 Hernias can affect areas other than the stomach and groin region. In particular, the following hernias may present medical problems for individuals:



Herniated disks happens when a disk in your spinal column pops out and begins to pinch a nerve.The disks around the spinal column are shock absorbers, but can be dislodged either by injury or disease, resulting in a herniated disk.

Intracranial hernias occur inside the head. They happen when brain tissue, fluid, and blood vessels are moved away from their usual position in the skull.Especially if hernias inside the skull take place near the brain stem region, they need to be dealt with immediately.

