 If you have a good history of making payments on time, your bank will probably be happy to refinance your home or approve a second mortgage. Since they have already had an insight into your finances, they will also be able to give you good advice. Ask them for some preliminary information and even an estimate before you get too serious about signing any papers.
 As with any financial decision, you want to have options whenever possible. Ask your friends and family who they have gotten loans through before. Search the internet for local banks and lenders to see who approves home equity loans or HELOCs. Get any estimates you could get together and look for the best rates.
 Once you have looked at several financial institutions, you should have an idea which suits your needs the best. Try not to get sucked into a bad rate with unnecessary add-ons. For example, some institutions offer you insurance. This is unnecessary, since you certainly already have house insurance., The 2 basic kinds of interest rates are adjustable (ARM) and fixed rate (FRM). A fixed rate mortgage stays the same from beginning to end. An adjustable rate can fluctuate based on the market, called the index.This may cause your interest rate to go down, but the lender likely has caps on how much it can change.


Knowing which is up to a variety of factors. A simple one is whether you have wiggle room in your budget for interest rate increases. If not, go with an FRM. This will help you create a budget.On the other hand, going with an ARM is a way to avoid having to refinance your mortgage in the future, which has fees associated with it. Instead, your interest rate is constantly being reappraised.
If the bank seems to be trying to sell you on a FRM, however, it may be because the loan index is consistently decreasing. Ask them how interest rates on similar loans have fluctuated in the last couple years.
 Find a loan that does not include penalties if you are late with a payment. One late payment could result in dramatic increases in the loan's interest rate and required monthly payment.

