 Just how do you view what happened between you and your friend? While it isn't the only way of seeing what happened, it is important to know how you view the matter so that you can better explain yourself when the time comes.
 Hysteria and drama have no place in sorting out friendship problems. If you are unable to remain calm when discussing things with your friend, he or she will imagine that it's all about you and how you feel rather than be considerate of their feelings too.
 If you think about how great of a friend they were, this will give you motivation to do your part in restoring the friendship.
 If you had been on the receiving end of what occurred, if you had been your friend, how would you have seen what happened?

, What is your motivation? Ensure that it is a genuine desire to restore the friendship and not an occasion of proving yourself right and your friend wrong. In friendship, seeking to apportion blame is a certain way of destroying the relationship for good. Thus, be ready to seek friendship again and to take responsibility for your own actions and words., Say you're sorry and ask to hear their side of the story. Realize that if you don't get to the root of the problem, you won't be able to fix it. Not confronting your friend in person might be best for both of you, at first. An email gives both of you the calm space in which to cool off but still present your concerns and seek reconciliation.
 Instead, just try giving them their space and every once in a while, giving them a little sorry and smile, letting them know that you want the fight to be over.
 For example, have a sleepover and just take the time to talk about how each of you feel and what you think you need to work on to make your friendship stronger.
 Make sure that your friend knows how you feel. Understanding each other is the key to a good friendship.
 Even if they are not as well prepared as you are, hear them out. Try to genuinely see things from their view, and how that would make you feel if you were in their shoes.
 There are some things you must not try to do or say when reconciling. These include:

Never tell your friend that they're wrong. Everyone has their own opinion, and by telling them that they're wrong (even if they are) you're making it sound like you don't care about what they have to say.






Avoid blame shifting. When you are trying to sort out something with a friend, avoid starting your sentences with "you" because your friend will automatically think you are blaming her/him. Stick to "I" statements, for example: "I feel....".






Never try to change your best friend to make them more like you. You'll soon realize that they're perfect exactly the way they are.






When they try to talk to you, don't walk away. Make sure that you listen to everything they have to say. Communication is gold.






Never try to make your best friend jealous by pretending to have a new best friend. It'll hurt them -and you- way more than make them jealous.
, It may feel a bit awkward at first, but the more time you spend together, the more things can go back to normal.
 It's best to do this in person. Avoid talking about such personal issues over the internet or phone.
 Sometimes a gift can help to ease tensions. For example, a bouquet of flowers or box of chocolates delivered to their office or home.
 Sometimes it's the simple actions that make a huge difference.

