 Any suicidal thoughts present a serious risk, but some are even more urgent than others. These questions will help you figure out how likely they are to harm themselves soon. These are the first questions that many medical professionals ask.


How long have you felt like this?
Do you have a plan for how to do it?
Have you been gathering any supplies (pills, sharp objects, gun)?;
, This is a matter of safety, so in this case you should do it even if they don't give you permission. A doctor or nurse can help them calm down and come up with a plan to improve things in the long run.


Do not leave them alone.
If you can't reach them (e.g. they are locked in a room), call the police. They are trained for this. Suicide is illegal in many areas, specifically so that police can enter and help on suspicion that a crime will occur.
If they are not in immediate danger, get the soonest available doctor's appointment.
 Once people make the decision to kill themselves, they present a calmer demeanor. This means they could die any time. Here are signs:


Saying things like "It won't hurt anymore soon" or "Don't worry, I won't be a burden for much longer"
Getting their affairs in order (cleaning, writing or updating their will, giving possessions away)
Saying sudden appreciative thoughts (saying farewell): "You've been such a good friend to me" "Thanks a lot for all you've done"
Seeming serene or almost at peace

, Right now, your autistic loved one needs to be heard. Do your best to stay calm, no matter how horrifying their words are.Telling them that it's selfish or sinful will only alienate them even more and make it harder to help them.
Don't guilt them by saying "This would destroy your family" or "You have so much to live for."

,


"That must feel awful.""You must be feeling a lot of pain right now."
"That sounds rough."
"Yeah."
"I see."
"It sounds like _____ was really difficult for you."

, Use little signs to let them know that you care about them. This encourages them to tell you everything, and lets them know you love them and want them to not die.


Holding hands, hugging, rubbing their back (if they like touch)
Verbal support: "I'm so sorry to hear that," "That's too bad," "I can tell you're hurting"

, They need to feel that they can take as much time as they need, and that there's no pressure from you. Ironically, not pressuring them to talk makes them even more open to talking more. Here are some phrases that can help:


"Take as long as you need. I'm listening."
"You don't have to talk about it now if you don't want to."
"You seem upset. If you need to pause and take some deep breaths, I can wait."
"I understand you're having a hard time talking. That's okay. This is hard to talk about."

, Due to alexithymia, autistic people can struggle with understanding their own emotions, and they may be surprised to see you so upset. Show them that you take this very seriously, to help them recognize that their feelings matter and they shouldn't brush it off as weakness or "just a bad mood."


Even non-autistic depressed people may not realize that they are depressed., Anxiety can cause people to perseverate on false ideas: "I'm a horrible sister!" "I didn't thank him and now he thinks I hate him!" Giving a firm "That's not true" can help break the cycle, as it reminds them to evaluate whether their fears are based in reality.


Be persistent. If they keep saying "I'm costing you and Mommy too much money," keep telling them "No, you're not." If they hear it enough times, they will start to believe it.
 An open-ended "How can I help?" may confuse them, so it's best to ask specific questions—they are more likely to be able to think of an answer. Here are some examples that are designed to get answers.


"Is there anything or anyone in your life that is particularly upsetting?"
"Would you like to set aside some time this week to make a list of how we could make ______ less stressful for you?"
"Would it help if we hung out more?"
"How about we set aside some time each Saturday morning to bead bracelets together?"

, Ask how they're doing, and inquire about things that have been going on in their lives. ("How'd the physics test go?")


If they pause for a bit, they are genuinely thinking. They may not know the answer, may not know how to phrase it in a way they think you'll like, or may be evaluating whether you'd believe them if they said "I'm fine."

, Lines like 1-800-SUICIDE and 1-800-273-TALK (8255) are open. Numbers for specialty hotlines, such as transgender hotlines, boys' hotlines, LGBT hotlines, et cetera, can be found online. If they are not comfortable with calling on a phone, they can go to CrisisChat.org to talk via a text chat.


Avoid chat-based crisis hotlines that are not done by medical professionals or allow people to volunteer, such as BlahTherapy. These kind of chat-lines are not done by professionals, so the "listener's" bias may come into play with something like, "I'm sorry, I don't think I can help you. You're autistic and I don't think anyone can help you", which will just make the autistic person feel worse.
 Do so even if you were asked to keep this a secret. This is a matter of safety, so letting responsible adults know is very important. It may upset your autistic loved one, but it may also save their life. In the long run, they will be grateful you got help.
 A doctor can help figure out what is wrong, and prescribe medication and/or therapy for any illnesses. You can help by staying with them, holding their hand, and offering moral support (if wanted).
 The first medication may not work. It often takes several tries to find pills that solve the problem, and it may take months to find the right prescription. Assure them that this is normal, and you are proud of them for sticking to it.
 While most doctors are very helpful, there is a slight chance that you will meet a bad one. If so, recognize that they are wrong and the problem is real. Another doctor will treat this situation with the gravity it deserves.
 Suicidal people may feel like they are only being a burden to their friends and family. The following section includes ideas for getting these wrong ideas out of their heads.
 Since they may have trouble understanding how they are doing, you can help by keeping an eye on them. If you notice a relapse or dip in mood, you can check up on them and figure out what's going on.


It may be worth keeping a journal to show doctors how they're doing.
 Some people and groups feel that autistic people are tragic burdens that need to be normalized at any cost. When autistic people feel like they are burdens, or when their bodies are constantly controlled by others, they are more likely to feel depressed.
 If they feel like they're making a meaningful contribution, they are less likely to feel like a burden. Here are some ways they can be helpful:


Ask them to babysit (or co-babysit)
Go volunteering together
Using their special interests, such as writing articles for wikiHow about their passion
Ask them to take their younger sibling(s) out for a walk

, If they get moving, it will help keep their anxiety at bay. If they can do something about their problem (even something small), suggest that they do it. Otherwise, take a walk with them. This will help convince their brain that something has been done and it can stop worrying.


Suggest that they write two sentences or a paragraph of their paper.
Brainstorm and write down a plan for the family to handle the disaster they're afraid of. Assure them that now you all know how to handle it, so no more worrying is necessary.
Sit down with them while they email the professor in the difficult class, and then go do something fun together.
Take a walk around the block and talk about unrelated things.
 If they are depressed, they will probably feel very tired and may self-isolate. Moderate amounts of interaction and attention will keep them from being stuck alone with their bad thoughts from too long. Here are some ideas:


Go for walks, or sit outside together, so they can soak up some sunshine
Take them out to eat
Do quiet activities together, like drawing or reading to them
Sing along to their favorite songs
Find good movies to watch together

, Talking about their passions can help autistic people feel more energized and happy. Paint with them, visit a space museum, listen to a monologue, or watch their favorite movies together.
 Autistic culture in general is very supporting, positive, and welcoming. It may help them get rid of some of their self-hatred about autism.


Autistic people may discuss stories of abuse, torture, or human rights violations. This is not good reading material for a person fighting depression. Encourage them to be careful about the links they click, and heed trigger warnings.
 Loving actions show that they are not a burden, and you are okay with them the way they are. Here are some ways that you can show that you accept them:


Let them stim as much as they want
Honor all forms of communication (echolalia, AAC, behavior, etc.) and do your best to understand
Be patient with their struggles
Support their special interests
Respond compassionately to meltdowns

, You can't help a drowning person if you're barely afloat yourself. Take care of your own needs first, and remember that while you can be helpful, you are not responsible for the autistic person's well-being. Your physical and mental health matter too.


Enlist other friends/family members/caregivers to build a support network for the autistic person. This way, you won't be their only helper.
Take at least half an hour for "me time" every day. Take a bath, read a book, knit, or do whatever relaxes you.
 Offer hugs, hold their hands, draw them pictures, hang out, say "I love you," and let them know they matter to you in whichever ways feel best.

