 Playmates must stay in great physical condition in order to pose for Playboy magazine. You can stay fit too by joining a gym, or simply exercising close to home for no cost at all. Try going for an everyday jog or hike in your neighborhood or a nearby park, bike riding, or lifting weights in the house. Search the web for instructions on simple fitness exercises such as push-ups, sit-ups, planks, and an interesting and effective ab workout called the 'Stomach Vacuum'.;
, Along with exercising, you will want to eat right. Make sure your daily meals include healthy portions of fruits, vegetables, and vitamins. Drink water instead of coffee, tea, and energy drinks. Also, juices without artificial sugars and flavorings are a delicious and healthy beverage. Stay away from excessive alcohol and smoking of any sort.
 Whether your current hairstyle is short, medium, or long, you don't have to worry, Playmates have all lengths of hair.



Care: Wash and condition your hair with a gentle shampoo and nutrient-rich conditioner to keep it soft, shiny, and voluminous. You might want to straighten or curl your hair, but beware: heated styling tools can severely damage your hair even with the slightest use. So, make sure that you protect your hair with a heat protectant spray or serum when you do use hot tools.

Coloring: Dyes are also damaging, but if you feel like you want to brighten up your style, try going for a midnight black, rich chocolate brown, auburn red, or golden blonde. Often times, Playmates have platinum blonde hair, which can be sexy on some women, but rigid and/or fried looking on others. Be cautious when dying your natural hair color lighter.
 The natural look is beautiful and sexy, but most Playmates are wearing a little heavier makeup. Try the 'Cat-Eye' eyeliner look, or a sexy, smoldering 'Smoky Eye' look. Pair your eye makeup with a nude or sheer gloss, or a flattering shade of pink lipstick. Add a little blush in a color that matches your natural blush and you'll be set. The above look will go with any skin tone.
 Don't overdo your wardrobe with fancy dresses, 4-inch heels, or anything too frilly. You can look just as amazing in a simple white t-shirt and form-fitting jeans. The key to the Playmate look is to look simply sexy. Wear whatever you want, as long as it showcases your natural curves. You may want to consider adding a good amount of pink to your collection of clothes, as it's feminine and often the color included in Playmate photo shoots. Wear comfortable shoes such as tennis shoes (Converse, Vans, Ed Hardy's, Nike), flip-flops, flats, and wedge heels.
 The attitude part is always easier said than done. Just be yourself. Smile, laugh, make eye contact with the guys you think are cute. Hangout with your friends, go to the mall. Being yourself is sexier to guys than acting fake and preppy. Although there are loads of fake Playmates, there are plenty of real, down-to-Earth ones and you can be one of them.

