 First things first: be an owl. If you don't have an owl or are nonmember, you can be an eagle or bunny or penguin.;
,


If you're a great gray, be a light brownish grayish color on the colorpad. (Optional: add white spots if you think they look good. The rounded ones or the splotchy ones).
If you're a spotted owl, be brown and have white spots, rounded or splotchy.
If you're a snowy, then have yellow eyes and be white. Be all white if you're a boy, have black spots if you're a girl.
A barn owl should have white color 2, brown body, and black spots that are rounded.
A lesser sooty owl should have black color 2 and gray color 1. Be all black if you are greater Sooty owl.
If you are barred, have a black color 2, white color 1, or be creative and search a barred owl to look like the picture. These are just a few suggestions, and if you want to be a different kind of owl, look a picture and reference from that.
 Use any type of gauntlets from the diamond shop, or anything else that resembles a pair of claws, to be your battle claws.
 The helmet is, however, optional, as in the books they usually only wear battle claws into battle even though they are favorably drawn with helmets.
 Consider the Treehouse den as the base for your Hoole tree. The Fantasy castle works in a pinch, too.
 Section off the rooms that will be the owls dens/nests. Then make them have a nest, big enough for at most 3 owls.


A full moon rug from the wolves only party works, as does yellow mats from the den item mart.
For the dining room, use gecko plushes for the nest-maid snakes, or something snake-like. Put the nut-teaset on their backs and you have the iconic dining tables used by the Ga'hoolian owls! Be sure to make at least 3.
 You can place objects outside of the tree if you're using a treehouse, because owls and eagles will be able to fly to those places.
 Then create the chaw rooms and don't forget Bubo's forge!

, If your server isn't busy, find one that is.
 Call out where people can click your nametag, "Guardians of Ga'hoole roleplay at my den, owls eagles and bunnies!". When you have a favored amount of people, tell them the owl dressing advice shown in this article (above).
 Play according to the book series, or freeplay at the Hoole tree!

