 You can qualify for dental insurance in two ways: through your employer or through a government assistance program. You can also qualify for healthcare if you are a war pensioner or if you are retired and have a pension. You can enroll in private healthcare on your own, but this is often expensive and only done if you cannot get health care through an employer or through the government.In the U.S., most health insurance does not cover basic and preventive dental work. Only dental work that is determined to be "medically necessary," such as certain dental surgeries and endodontic procedures. Separate dental insurance is necessary for basic and preventive dental coverage.In the UK, you can qualify for free dental treatment if you are under 18 years old, are 19 or younger and a full time student, or are pregnant or have had a baby within the last 12 months.In the United States, you may qualify for Medicaid, which covers basic dental care, if you are 21 years old or younger, if you are 21 or older and a full time student, or if you qualify under other Medicaid requirements.Medicaid is a health benefit program available to some low-income individuals and families based on eligibility. Medicaid is only available to those who qualify based on income and family size.
Call your insurance provider to check if they will cover your dental work. Most dental insurance covers basic dental work like cleanings, fillings, and check ups or dental work to a certain dollar amount. More extensive procedures like dental surgery or dental appliances may not be covered by your provider or only partly covered by your provider. Find out exactly how much you are expected to pay for your dental work, as you will need to budget for a partial or full payment.;
, Many dental plans provide a list of dentists recognized under your insurance, known as preferred providers. These dentists have a contract with the dental benefit plan you are enrolled in.When booking a dental appointment, you should try to go to a preferred dental provider, as your insurance company will then be required to cover all or some of costs of your visit. If you go to a dentist outside of the preferred providers, you may have to pay for your dental work out of pocket.
 If your dental insurance company can provide coverage for your dental work, you can give your dental insurance card to your dentist’s receptionist when it is time to pay for your appointment. The receptionist will then use your dental insurance number to charge your insurance company for the dental work.


Some insurance companies arranged through an employer may require you to pay for the dental work upfront and then submit a receipt to be reimbursed for the cost of the dental work. If so, you may need to pay for the dental work and then send in a receipt so your dental insurance company can reimburse you.
 Contact your dental plan if there are any discrepancies or issues with your dental bill.


It can be useful to check with your dental insurance company before you arrange any dental work to confirm your plan will cover your expenses. That way, you will not be surprised by a large dental bill after you have already had your dental work done.

