 Use a cotton-swab applicator (such as a cotton ball or a Q-tip) for the procedure. After applying the oil directly to the scratch, rub it into the surrounding leather with a circular motion. Allow the oil to dry for an hour, then wipe it off with a clean cloth. If the scratch has not repaired itself after the first application of oil, try applying more oil, and let it sit for several hours.
As with all steps, test this in an inconspicuous area first as oil may absorb into the leather causing it to stain/darken.
 Find a clean cloth, such as a cotton rag, and dip the cloth in lanolin cream. Rub the cloth over the scratched area, perpendicular to the direction of the cut. This will smooth and repair the scratch, although it may take several re-applications before the scratch becomes invisible.Test the lanolin oil on a seldom-seen section of leather, as the oil may darken the color of the material.
 Before proceeding with this step, it is critical to be aware of your leather type. This process will only work on aniline leather types, as well as on bicast leather. To heat the leather, hold a hair dryer very close to the cloth, or press a warm iron against a damp cloth laid over the scratch.If you’re applying heat from a hair dryer, use your hands to massage the leather around the scratch. The heat should bring out the natural oil and dyes in the leather. If it does, the scratch may heal itself as a result.
If you’re using an iron and damp cloth, hold the iron on for 10 seconds. Remove it, and look at the scratch. If it seems to have disappeared, dry off the leather and prepare to use as normal. If the scratch is still there, repeat the step with the iron once more.
Avoid burning the leather. If it is uncomfortably hot to the touch, let the leather cool off before you re-apply any heat., Find a shade of shoe polish that matches your furniture.First, apply the shoe polish to the scratches with a clean cloth or a cotton-swab applicator. Then rub the shoe polish into the leather and, with a clean cloth, rub the scratch quickly to buff it.


This process will not heal the scratches, but it may help to disguise them.
If the color needs to be darker, repeat with another coat. If the color does not match your furniture once you have applied it, use a damp rag to wash it off immediately.
This process will be successful with more heavily pigmented leather (and also bicast leather), since shoe polish is not generally designed for use on furniture-grade leather.

