 The Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) defines "gay" as an "adjective used to describe people whose enduring physical, romantic, and/or emotional attractions are to people of the same sex." This is the only appropriate way to use the word "gay." Any time you use the word to mean something other than this, you are using it inappropriately.Unless someone has told you that they are gay, do not use this word to describe them. It is not your job or business to discuss another person's sexuality.
Also avoid calling gay people "homosexuals." This term is considered out of date and can be offensive to gay people.
 Using the word gay to insult something or someone implies that you think there is something wrong with being homosexual. Even if you do not believe there is something wrong with being gay, your use of "gay" in this manner suggests that you do. This can also be hurtful to people around you. You do not always know that you around a gay person or someone that has gay friends or family members.For gay people, constantly hearing the word "gay' used inappropriately can have a negative impact on their mental health and how they feel about themselves. You do not want to contribute to anyone's pain.
Using the word inappropriately can also give people the impression that you are insensitive or have an issue with people that are gay. You do not want people to think things about you that are not true.
 Although you may not have intended to be offensive or hurt someone's feelings when you use the word "gay" as a derogatory term, the end result still remains. You cannot take back or cancel something that you have said. Even if you apologize and explain yourself, your words can still hurt.Your words can be used to both help and harm.
Your words have a life of their own once they leave your mouth. Think of your words as a living, breathing extension of yourself. What you say may stick around once you have left. For example, you may casually call something "gay," but the person may think about what you said throughout the day.

