 The safe way to store loot is to buy a home. No matter where it is, you can store everything you own within the walls and not have to worry about your stuff being stolen.


There are plenty of chests and barrels around your home to infinitely store stuff.
There are some safe places in towns (like Whiterun) where you can safely store your stuff, but it is best not to get into the habit. Start storing stuff in homes as soon as you get a home. You can fast travel close to every home you can buy, making stowing loot a little easier.;
, The risky way is to leave your loot in areas that you don’t own, like camps and caves. These items will disappear over time, so if you store them you will want it to be temporary. Come back quickly to collect the items before they disappear.
 If you want to put a particular weapon on display, arm yourself with it before moving to the next step.
 This could be empty plaques on the wall, weapon racks, or mannequins.
 Select the appropriate button of the console you’re using to interact with an object.
 Weapons will automatically be traded out since you selected it before interacting with the object.


The above steps can only be done in homes you own.
 You can store loot in the following objects:


Furniture
Barrels
Knapsacks and satchels
Chests
Bookcases have limited storage capacity, but everything else is basically unlimited space.
 Select the appropriate button of the console you’re using to open the inventory.
 Go through your inventory and leave everything you want to store within the object.
 Select the appropriate button of the console you’re using to open the inventory.
 Options will appear.
 To do this, choose “Drop” from the options.



These steps are best done in the safety of your home.
 Increasing your stamina level when you level up increases how much you can carry (+5 for every level up).
 Enchanting armor can increase what you can carry as long as you are wearing that particular piece of armor.
 Using Alchemy or potions you find over the world gives you a temporary boost in your carry weight.


There are several potions in the game that you can use to increase your carrying capacity, as well as the ability to use Alchemy to make the Potion of Fortify Carry Weight.
These potions give you different durations for use and different amounts of additional weight over your current carrying capacity. Read them carefully to see how much extra you can haul out of dungeons, caves, and other locations.

