 Simply cut off the bottom of a t-shirt to make it shorter if it is too long, or make it into a crop top length. Cut evenly all the way around the bottom of the shirt to accomplish this.


Each t-shirt will be different depending on the size and how it fits on your own body. Cut away a smaller amount than you think you want, then try it on. Make additional cuts if you want it shorter, and keep trying it on to check the length.
You can also create a pattern at the hem of your t-shirt, whether or not you cut it shorter for a crop top. Try cutting strips for a fringe hemline, or cut shapes like diamonds just above the hemline for a cute cutout look.;
, Convert a t-shirt to a tank top or muscle tee. Cut along the arm hole seams for a regular tank top, or further down the sides of the shirt for a wide-armed muscle tee look.You may also want to cut a wider neckline for a classic tank, but this is not necessary.
For a muscle tee, you can cut in a straight or slightly angled line down from the shoulder to the side of the shirt. Try it on between cuts to make sure you like how much of the side is open.
You can also cut all the way down through the bottom hemline of the shirt and tie the ends together at the bottom for a cute side-tie look., Cut off the collar of any t-shirt to make it wider or just get rid of the typical crew neckband. Remember to cut less at first, then try it on to check the neckline before cutting any more.


To make sure the front and back of your neckline are symmetrical, fold the shirt so that the shoulder seams line up and the neckband is folded evenly on itself. Then cut below the band, following the original curve of it.Create a v-neck neckline by folding the shirt in the same way with the shoulder seams lined up. Then use a diagonal cut for the front part of the shirt so that it ends in a point instead of a curve.
 Make “fish gills” in the sides of a shirt by simply cutting even horizontal strips down each side. Or create the same effect by making the strips down the back of the shirt instead.


Stretch out the slits after cutting to make the fabric relax and roll up slightly. Anywhere you create slits will provide some extra stretch in the fabric, which is a great way to make a too-small t-shirt fit a little better.You can also make slits vertically just to the inside of the front or back of your neckline to create more interest and stretch in those areas as well.
 Create an easy peek-a-boo shoulder by simply cutting a half circle out of each arm of the t-shirt. This will create a round cutout shape on the shoulders when worn.


Lay the t-shirt flat and find where the shoulder seams meet with the arm hole seams. This is where you will make a cut on each side.
Cut a piece out of one shoulder, then save the piece you cut away and lay it on the other shoulder to use as a guide. This will ensure both sides look even.