 Once you have studied your course materials, it is time for you to implement your knowledge. Practice as many sample papers as you can. The more you solve, you will be able to know the test taking techniques and strategies of the examination. Regular practice will also help you get a control over the atrocities of time. Know your strengths and weaknesses and improve yourself.;
, When you become sure about your abilities, you will be able to concentrate on your studies. It is important that you assess yourself. You will be sure of your strengths and weaknesses as well. Once you are aware of the areas where you are lagging behind, you will be able to able to improve it with practice. On the other hand, do not forget to reward yourself, if you really live up to your expectation.
 If you feel that there are too many chapters in the syllabus and you cannot study all at once, do not get worked up. All you can do is, segregate your study materials in chunks. Chunking will enable you to study in a more efficient way. Once you divide your study materials, there will be small chapters that you need to finish within a short time. Hence, you can concentrate on these chunks and ensure a better preparation.
 When you have decided something in life, make sure that you respect your decision. Only you are aware of your capabilities. Hence, in that case, you will know how much you can study. Try to meet your deadlines and live up to your expectations. Be honest with yourself and then plan accordingly. Do not study when you are bogged down or tired. You will not be able to remember anything when you are tired. Hence, give your mind some rest.
 A specific goal or aim in life is important. Right now, your aim should be cracking the examination comfortably. You need to work hard to make your dream of cracking the PCAT. A dedicated and determined effort will fetch you better result at the end of the day.
 Without proper planning nothing can be accomplished. You should plan well while preparing for the PCAT. A proper planning will enable you to be focused and to be on track. Problems will be there in your life to bog you down. However, you should know how to prioritize. All you should do is, have the right attitude to face your problems with confidence and fight back.
 You will have to find ways to manage the atrocities of time. Proper time management will surely accelerate your preparation by leaps and bounds. If you are able to manage your time, then at the end of the day, you will find that you are not left with any pending projects. Moreover, time management will enable you to be more confident about your examination.
 You are advised to have a focused mind, when you are preparing for a competitive examination like PCAT. Learn to take your own responsibility and take control of the situations. When things go wrong, do not blame it on the circumstances, instead, learn ways to come out of your problems.
 It is time for you to hibernate your usual dilly dallying attitude. Once your examination gets over, you can get back to your normal routine. Procrastination is the thief of time. Stop procrastinating and finish your projects on time. Procrastination will eventually lead you to cramming and you should not cram at any cost. Cramming will not help you as you will not be able to remember anything during the actual examination.
 Be it any examination, revision is necessary. After you have finished reading a chapter, put effort to recapitulate all that you have studied. Revision will help you to look critically at the things that you have studied. You need to retain all that you have studied in your mind, so that you do not face any problem during the actual examination.
 With a healthy mind, you can only expect to ensure a healthy preparation. Hence, make sure that you do not neglect your health. Take proper food and maintain right kind of diet. Do not study at a stretch. Instead, make sure that you take regular breaks. Take a study break after two hours of study. This will rejuvenate your mind and refresh yourself as well. You will be able to retain your interest and get new vigor, while preparing for your PCAT exam.

