 If you are not able to offer people the services you provide, it will do your a business a disservice to try to remain open. Make sure you are committed to delivering a top-quality product while you are under additional stress.


Do a cost-benefit analysis of staying open or closed, after reviewing the costs of each with contractors. You should weigh the loss of business during the construction period with the increased cost of construction before deciding on your course of action.
Restaurants may not be able to stay open during renovations while staying within health and safety codes. Discuss this possibility while talking to contractors.;
, For resorts, this may mean blocking off an entire building, while with hotels it may mean doing a few floors at a time. Offices may be able to relocate some of their workers to other areas of the building while construction moves through different zones.
 For many buildings, this limits construction to work hours, between 9 and 5, including no construction on weekends. Limiting your contractors' work hours will create a longer schedule, and it will also add to the cost of your renovation.


For offices, this may mean setting construction work hours to before 10 and after 5 PM, and including work on the weekends. When you look for contractor proposals, you may ask for unconventional work schedules and pay extra to keep your employees mostly unaffected.
 Send out a building renovations memo with evidence of the necessity. Give tenants, employees and guests months to comment and prepare for the large renovations.
 Hotel, restaurant and other guests should know about changes to services, so don't try to hide it. Create a memo that informs them and tells them how you are limiting the disruption.
 Construction can lead to poor air quality and health concerns. Include proper barriers in your budget, so that these risks can be contained.


You may also need to consult experts on how to maintain air quality before you start. Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems need to be adjusted so that they do not carry particulates from construction areas to work areas. Rooms may need to be pressurized to prevent this is as well.
 A buffer between professional and construction areas will lower the risk of noise, air quality and health problems.
 You must be ready to close if the area is unsafe. Consult with your contractor, safety professionals, human relations department and management on the best way to close and limit the loss of safety and money.
 Appoint someone as the contact to handle complaints and consult with management and the contractors about changes to business construction plans. This person should respond to all complaints, keep their source confidential and create a system to improve customer and employee experience.
 Sending them information about progress will help them to look forward to improvements and changes.

