 Make sure there is nothing in your way or moving toward you that you may need to take into account before backing up.It’s okay to use your mirrors to aid in your check, but it’s important that you actively look around to ensure you don’t miss anything.
Make sure to look toward the ground on either side of your vehicle using your head and mirrors to ensure there are no people or animals laying in your path.;
, When driving forward or in reverse, your right foot should be the only one on the gas or brake pedal. If your car is equipped with a standard transmission, your left foot manages the clutch, but in vehicle’s with automatic transmissions, the left foot simply goes unused. Press your right foot on the brake pedal firmly, so that the vehicle won’t move once it is in reverse.The brake pedal is in the middle on vehicle’s equipped with a standard transmission and is the furthest to the left in automatic vehicles.
The brake pedal is the widest pedal.
 While it may be customary to drive with your hands at ten and two o’clock on the steering wheel, backing up will require that you turn your body to the right. Place your left hand at the top of the wheel so you can easily make small adjustments to keep the vehicle moving straight as you back up.It may be difficult to reach the steering wheel with your right hand while backing up, so steering with one hand is optimal.
 Depending on the transmission your vehicle came equipped with, there are a few ways you may need to shift into reverse. On automatic vehicles, it usually requires pressing a button on the shift lever and pulling it backward until it is aligned with the letter “R.” In standard vehicles equipped with a five speed transmission, you can usually shift into reverse by pressing the shift lever all the way to the left and pulling it backward.In vehicles equipped with six speed standard transmissions, reverse is usually all the way to the left and up, next to first gear.
Some cars require that you press down on the shift lever or press a release to access the reverse gear.
If you are unsure of how to shift into reverse, refer to your vehicle’s owner’s manual.
 Provided your view is not obstructed, twist your body to the passenger side so you can look out the back window of your vehicle over your right or passenger side shoulder. Make sure you do not remove your foot from the brake pedal. If you are driving a box truck or other vehicle that blocks your view out the back window, you will have to rely on your side mirrors to guide you.You may choose to place your right hand on the top of the passenger seat to help you comfortably look out the back.
If you are relying on your mirrors, make sure to check each of them frequently.
 As you take the pressure off of the brake pedal with your right foot, the vehicle will begin to move backward. Most vehicle’s engines idle at a high enough RPM (revolutions per minute) to propel the vehicle without any need to apply the gas.Ease off the brake slowly to ensure you do not accelerate too quickly to easily manage.
Press back down on the brake pedal to slow your vehicle down while backing up.
If your vehicle is equipped with a standard transmission, you will need to use the gas as you ease off the clutch, but can then allow the vehicle to idle.

