 Kids dehydrate more quickly than adults, so it is important to make hydration a priority. By the time a child tells you they are thirsty, they have already begun to dehydrate, so you should make water readily available throughout the day and offer your child water often.Young children, over age one, should drink about four glasses (32 oz.) of water a day, while older children should drink about eight glasses of water per day.
You can check if your child is dehydrated by their bathroom habits. If they urinate frequently and their pee is light yellow, then they are not dehydrated.
Other signs of dehydration include dry mouth, thirst, not having wet diapers for four to six hours (for babies), constipation, dizziness, fussiness or sleepiness (in children), and a sunken soft spot on the top of a baby’s head.It is also possible (but rare) for a child to get over-hydrated. Symptoms of overhydration include confusion, seizures, coma, or excess fluid accumulating in the lungs and lower legs.Overhydration usually only occurs with certain medical problems or rarely when giving babies or young children dilute formula or too much water when they are ill.;
, Even when you have a baby, if the child is not introduced to sweets, candy, cookies, soda, and the like, they will not have cravings for these foods. Therefore, they won't need these types of treats as they grow older and this will lead to greater overall health.Rather than giving cookies or other sweets as a snack, give your child a small serving of fruit (grapes, bananas, strawberries). These have sugar that they want, but not the overly processed kind.
Simply don’t buy processed sweets and fatty foods. If you don’t keep them in your house, it will be easier to keep them away from your children.
 Have a different vegetable every night. Make it fun! Maybe one night could be an Asian-themed dinner, and you could have an Asian chicken salad, or maybe an Irish dinner, and you could have potatoes.The key here is variety. There are many kinds of fruits and vegetables. Give your child a taste of different things so that they will be exposed to these flavors and grow accustomed to them early on.
 If your child shows good behavior do not give them sweets. That just teaches the child that good behavior is only worth it because of the sweets. Reward them with something educational, intellectual, or just a simple hug. This will help instill in them an appreciation for treats, rather than an entitled attitude.


Try rewarding your child with quality time or fun activities so that they don’t learn to become reliant on food for satisfaction or to feel good about themselves.
 Studies show that eating more meals at home often leads to healthier eating choices. In addition to the quality time with your loved ones, eating at home allows you to control your child’s portion size, to introduce new foods, and lessens the likelihood that your child will turn into a picky eater from being able to choose off the menu at most meals., Creating a meal from scratch means that you control every ingredient that goes into your child’s body. You can choose to make substitutions for healthier ingredients or to change up a recipe to account for your family’s taste preferences.


You can choose to substitute coconut oil for butter if you make a meal from scratch. Substitutions at restaurants or in pre-made meals are less easy.
 No matter what kind of eating your family does, it is important to raise your child with a good self-image. Tell your child they are beautiful and talk about loving your own body in front of your child.You should also focus on the health benefits of eating certain foods rather than whether or not certain foods will make you gain weight or lose weight.


Do not excessively talk about needing to go on a diet or how much you dislike aspects of your body in front of your child.
 Play sports and games with your kids. At early ages sign them up for soccer, dance, volleyball, baseball, softball, football, basketball, gymnastics, tennis, golf, or any other extra-curricular activities. Keeping fit can be fun, and playing sports teaches not only athletic skills, but helps socially, and builds sharing and team work skills.


Children should have about one hour of active time each day., Spend time with your kids while being active. Go for a walk. Take them to the water park. Take them to a regular park. Play hopscotch. Jump rope. Do things with your kids that involve more than just sitting on the couch. It will be good for both of you!, Spending too much time in front of the TV or computer is not good for children. It doesn’t promote as much brain development as active playing and it is not good for their eyes. Plus, any time spent in front of an electronic device is time that could have been spent playing and expending energy. Try to think of fun, active things for your children to do instead of watching TV or playing video games. You should also limit the amount of time your child is allowed to spend on these devices to two hours per day.
 Children need a lot more sleep than adults do because they are actively growing and developing, both physically and mentally. A well-rested child has more energy to be active during waking hours, so make sure your child is getting enough sleep. The average toddler needs between 12 and 14 hours of sleep per day (including naps), while kids ages five to 12 usually need around 10 hours of sleep per day., Children are more susceptible to germs and diseases because their immune systems are still developing. So, it’s important to provide a clean and safe environment for your children. This includes things like washing hands frequently (you and your children)and keeping the house clean to minimize allergens that could cause allergies or asthma in your child.You should also avoid cleaners with harsh chemicals like bleach or ammonia in them whenever possible. Try purchasing cleaners with non-toxic ingredients and always keep cleaning supplies out of reach.
 Children whose parents smoke get sick more often than those whose parents do not smoke. Second hand smoke can cause asthma and asthma attacks in children. It can also lead to higher instances of ear infections, bronchitis, and pneumonia in children., Vaccinating your children helps protect them (and others) from potentially serious, but completely preventable, diseases like polio and measles. This is one of the easiest and best things you can do to help your child live a healthy life.In addition to getting your child vaccinated, you should also take your child for regular checkups with a pediatrician.
In the past there has been some controversy about vaccinating children, largely because of a false claim that vaccinations are linked to autism. However, there is no medical evidence that autism is linked to vaccines at all., There are many different chemicals, substances, and objects that could cause severe harm to your child if he or she got a hold on them. To protect your child, put any unsafe items out of your child’s reach, such as in a locked cupboard, a safe, or on a high shelf. Some items that you should keep out of your child’s reach include:firearms and other weapons (keep these locked in a safe and unloaded at all times)
chemicals, such as cleansers, pesticides, and personal care products
houseplants, especially cacti and potentially toxic plants
small items that a child can choke on, such as buttons, screws, or marbles
medicines, prescription and non-prescription
alcohol and tobacco products
garbage

, Car seats are essential for children until they are old enough to use a regular seatbelt, which is usually when they are around eight to 12 years old. Make sure that you have a car seat that is appropriate for your child’s age and size and use it whenever you travel with your child.Always put your child’s car seat in the back seat of your vehicle. Airbags can seriously injure your child if she is in the front seat.
Use a rear facing car seat until your child is two years old. Then, switch to a forwards facing car seat.
Secure the strap across your child’s chest, at armpit level.
 When your child is using a bicycle, skateboard, roller blades, or scooter, she should always wear a helmet. Make sure that your child’s helmet is Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) certified to ensure that it is a quality helmet. This information should be printed on the label.Your child’s helmet should fit snugly on her head and it should cover her forehead too. Make sure that it does not wiggle around when she moves. The helmet should stay in place. You can adjust the chin strap to improve the fit.
 Children need to spend time with their parents and to feel that they are a priority in their parents’ lives. Set some time aside every day to have uninterrupted interaction with your children. This way, they’ll feel valued and prioritized and it will positively impact their emotional well-being., Even though it is often easy to dismiss your children’s behavior as associated with age (the terrible twos, teenage angst, etc.), it is still important to recognize that your child’s feelings are real and valid and they need to feel like you respect them and their emotions. Let your children talk to you about what makes them upset. Try to help them work through their feelings calmly.Don’t trivialize your child’s feelings, especially if they are sharing with you. Listen to what they say and try to help them resolve any anger or hurt feelings they might be experiencing.
 Sometimes children need more help than parents alone can provide for them. Maybe this means specialized doctors’ visits, or maybe this means some kind of professional emotional support, through therapy, counseling, rehabilitation, church involvement, etc.You should focus on getting your child the help they need regardless of how you may think it reflects on you as a parent, or any negative social stigma that might be attached to the help you think your child needs.


Your child may need help if they exhibit any of the following symptoms:

Mood changes
Behavior changes
Difficulty concentrating
Rapid weight loss
Intense feelings
Self-harming behaviors
Substance abuse



