 Nutritional yeast will add a mild, savory flavor. The high water content of many greens, like lettuce, can reduce the natural dryness of the yeast.Layer the yeast atop salads to suit your tastes.

If you enjoy using nutritional yeast as a salad topping, you might want to store the yeast in a wide-holed shaker, like the kinds used for parmesan cheese.;
, As soon as the vegetables are done roasting, if they are dry, drizzle or brush them lightly with olive oil. After that, dust the veggies with nutritional yeast. This will give the roasted veggies a cheesy quality., Transfer your popcorn to a large bowl, if necessary. Drizzle the popcorn lightly with olive oil and toss the popcorn to distribute the oil. Sprinkle in natural yeast while continuing to toss the popcorn to distribute the yeast evenly throughout the popcorn.Feel free to add other toppings to the popcorn. Popular choices include garlic, dried thyme, rosemary, pepper, and lemon pepper.Nutritional yeast has zero sodium. If you’re watching your salt intake, leave out the salt when making your popcorn and add nutritional yeast instead., Kale chips are already a pretty healthy snack, but they can be made even healthier by substituting nutritional yeast for salt. If salt consumption isn’t a concern of yours, try sea salt, cracked black pepper, and nutritional yeast together on kale chips.Create a spicy topping for your kale chips by combining the following in a food processor:

2 tbsp (30 ml) of nutritional yeast, 2 tbsp of lemon juice, 1 tsp (5 ml) ground chipotle pepper, ½ tsp (2.5 ml) of sea salt, ¼ cup (59 ml) of cut red bell pepper, 1 cup (237 ml) of cashews (soaked in water for 2 hours), a pinch of cayenne pepper. Add these processed ingredients to your kale before baking it., Fried foods are notoriously unhealthy. Season foods like French fries and onion rings with nutritional yeast to add a significant amount of protein and vitamins to the dish.Nutritional yeast has a somewhat nutty flavor that goes along well with many different kinds of fatty foods, like fried foods, meats, salad dressings, and more.

