 By default, Yandere-chan has medium-length black hair, which she wears tied back in a ponytail. If you have medium or long black hair, you can just put it into a ponytail. Otherwise, you'll have to buy a wig.
 Unless you naturally have grey or black eyes, you'll need color contacts in one of these colors. (If you can't get color contacts, you'll be okay without them. Color contacts are a nice detail, but not vital to cosplay.), Yandere-chan is typically depicted wearing her default school uniform, a white, short-sleeved seifuku outfit, along with black stockings and shoes. She has several other uniform styles available to her in the game, along with her school swimsuit and gym uniform. Thus you have a number of options when it comes to what you'll be wearing.

Checking Ebay or a cosplay site for a "Japanese school uniform," "seifuku," or "sailor fuku" will likely result in an outfit similar to Yandere-chan's uniform.
A white t-shirt and blue Japanese gym shorts, along with white socks and sneakers, will get you an outfit just like Yandere-chan's gym uniform.
You might have to custom-make some of Yandere-chan's other uniforms, which are more detailed and elaborate.
 Yandere-chan just isn't the same without her trademark knife or a katana. Real weapons are not allowed at most conventions, so you'll have to get a replica.

Other weapons available to Ayano include:

Scissors
Circular saw
Baseball bat
Shovel
Axe
Ritual knife



, To really top off your cosplay, you could splatter some fake blood on your clothes, skin, and/or weapon. Stores often carry fake blood around Halloween, and it can be found year-round online.
 Your cosplay will be even better if you can have a Senpai and some rivals. (The most notable rivals, as yet, are Osana Najimi, the orange-haired girl, and Kokona Haruka, the purple-haired girl with drill-shaped twin tails, but any character is game.) With the help of your cosplay companions, you could have a lot of fun setting up crime scenes and scenarios for photo shoots.