 Most people tend to feel better after writing about how they feel, as writing can help you to identify some of the negative emotions you might be experiencing and help you work through them.


You can de-stress by keeping a diary where you recall happy memories of being with your child or describe your feelings of anxiety or sadness at being separated from him.






Acknowledging your feelings may provide you with sense of calmness and acceptance.






Alternatively, you can also try expressing yourself through other creative means such as drawing and painting, as these tend to improve your mood.
 The first thing you have to remember is that you need to feel good about yourself. You don’t want your child to see you neglecting yourself just because you are away from him.


If you've had a hard day and you're missing your child, mentally unwind by just sitting with your eyes closed and focusing on your breath for about 20 minutes. Make an effort to let go of any negative thoughts.
Count your blessings and know that everything happens for a reason.
 Keep yourself healthy while your child is away by eating more fruits and vegetables such as watermelon, cantaloupe, strawberry cucumber, broccoli, tomato, pumpkin, etc.


Do exercises like jogging, walking, dancing, biking to reduce stress and help you sleep better.You may also find it more enjoyable to listen to music while exercising.






Groom and dress to impress. Make sure you are taking care of yourself by paying attention to personal hygiene and ensuring that you are well dressed. Being well-dressed will help you to feel more confident in social situations.






Get enough sleep. Not only because it is healthy, but also because it boosts your immune system and protects you from common sickness, like colds.






Keep your workplace clean and organized. This will help you to be more focused and productive and prevent distractions while at work.
 Give yourself a break and allow yourself the pleasure of shopping for the things that you want once in a while. This can be a special gift for yourself or something as simple as a bar of chocolate. Other ways of rewarding yourself include:


Grab your favorite book and cuddle up with a warm cup of green tea, which is both healthy and comforting.






Take a bubble bath and light some relaxing scented candles. Don't forget to apply a luxurious body butter to moisturize your skin after the bath.
 One thing that will help you to distract yourself from thinking of your child is to keep yourself busy. Get the most out of life by discovering a new hobby that you will love.

You could try outdoor adventures like traveling, or exploring something unique about a certain place. Consider writing a travel blog about it.






If you are looking for budget-friendly hobbies, try indoor activities like learning to play a musical instrument or doing some crafts, like scrapbooking, etc.
 If your child sees how sad you are at his absence, this will simply make him feel sad too, or even guilty for being away. Make things easier and better for him by putting on a brave face and letting him draw his strength from you.


Look for support from others. It helps a lot when you share how you feel with someone else, whether it's family, friends, or other parents. The most important thing is that someone listens to you.
You should also consider joining support groups online if you are hesitant to share your feelings with someone you know.
Connecting with other parents who are separated from your children will help you to feel less alone.

