;
,


Find CODA accredited programs at your local community college
Apply for admission to your selected school by filling out an application
Attend classes, study, and pass course tests

, Courses are offered through the Red Cross, American Heart Association, and other approved providers if this is not included in your CODA accredited course.
 Either a photocopy of the certificate of completion / diploma, or an official transcript (not a copy) must be included with the application.
A letter from a CODA-accredited dental assisting program on school letterhead indicating the candidate’s name and date of graduation, signed and dated by the program director, may also be accepted.
A photocopy of your CPR, BLS, or ACLS card, front and back. The card must be dated and signed or imprinted with the instructor’s name and also have the candidate’s name or signature on the card.
Fill out and sign the application. Indicate whether you will be taking all three components of the test, or if you've already completed either the Infection Control Component and/or the Radiation Health and Safety Component, you can indicate that you are just taking the General Chairside Component.
,, A minimum of 3,500 hours of dental assisting work experience must be completed over a minimum of 24 months. If a combination of part time and full time work experience is used, these 3,500 hours may be completed over a maximum 48 month period.



A copy of your high school diploma or GED. Official documents must include a school seal, school stamp indicating the document is official, or must be notarized.
A signed Employer Work Experience Statement must be included with the application. This must be signed by your employing dentist.
A photocopy of your CPR, BLS, or ACLS card, front and back. The card must be dated and signed or imprinted with the instructor’s name and also have the candidate’s name or signature on the card.
Fill out and sign the application. Indicate whether you will be taking all three components of the test, or if you've already completed either the Infection Control Component and/or the Radiation Health and Safety Component, you can indicate that you are just taking the General Chairside Component.
,, or D.M.D. program


Enclose a photocopy of the candidate’s diploma, certificate of completion or dental license.
,,, Be well rested and well studied.
 Official results will arrive in the mail within 2-4 weeks.
