


Understand that the term negative amortization, also referred to as deferred interest or "NegAm," is most often used within the context of home mortgages and student loans.
Note that the amount of time in which negative amortization is allowed by the lender is usually limited to an introductory period of 5 years or less.
Keep in mind that an amortization schedule will determine what percentage of a payment will go towards the interest and what percentage will go towards the principal.
Consider that the general concept of allowing negative amortization presumes that the borrower is anticipating the realization of an increase in revenue within the time frame allotted for negative amortization. Within the context of home mortgages, even when the equity of a given property is expected to exceed the amount borrowed, a period of negative amortization will significantly decrease any potential gains.;
,


Understand that negative amortization only can occur when an agreement allowing negative amortization has been made between the lender and the borrower. Otherwise, when the payments made are insufficient to reach full amortization within the allotted time frame as stated by the loan terms, the borrower falls into what is termed as default. Default occurs when the borrower fails to meet the agreed upon terms of the loan and can result in a variety of penalties, late charges and, in some cases, foreclosure.



Realize that a portion of each payment made on a standard loan agreement is split between the principal borrowed and the interest accrued. Negative amortization occurs when the payments made are less than the amount of interest charged.
Understand that the difference between the amount paid and the amount needed to fulfill the loan terms and reach full amortization within the given time frame is the amount that is added to the principal for each payment period.



Take into account that for a home loan of $250,000, given at an interest rate of 5% and scheduled to be repaid over a term of 30 years, the total amount paid will be slightly less than $600,000. The interest paid in order to reach full amortization will be approximately $350,000, or 140% of the principal originally borrowed.
Understand that the monthly mortgage payment, given these terms, would be slightly over $1650, a portion of which would be applied to the interest while the remainder would be applied to the loan principal. Negative amortization would occur should the amount of the payments made be insufficient to cover the amount of the periodic interest charged.
Remember that an interest only payment is agreed to, which reduces the amount of the monthly mortgage payment to $825 for the first 5 years. Negative amortization would be achieved if the amount of interest accrued each month exceeded $825. If the amount required to cover the monthly interest accrued was $900, the remaining $75 of unpaid interest would then be added to the principal, increasing the total amount owed on the property.

