 After the third year, it is no longer necessary to create new scaffold whorls. Outward-growing branches bear more fruit than upright branches. To get the maximum amount of fruit out of your tree, you might consider tying a string to the branches in the scaffold whorl and staking them in the ground during the growing season. Doing this will force the branches in the whorl to grow outward instead of vertically.Loppers and pruning saws are suitable pruning tools for trees that are too thick to handle with pruning shears. Be sure your tools are sharp and clean before you use them.
 No matter how old the tree is, always try to prune during the winter, while it's still dormant. Trim away any dead or dried branches, dead leaves, and dead fruit. Throw them in the compost heap or garbage.Always remember to sterilize your pruning shears before using them, even if you're just cutting away a few dead branches.
 If you see shoots growing at the base of the cherry tree, cut them. Pull out seedlings as well, so that the cherry tree's roots don't have to compete with a new tree., Each season, step back and look at your cherry tree is growing properly. Prune new branches that aren't part of the scaffold whorls, as well as branches that cross over one another. Remember that the goal is to create an open shape so that sunlight and air can reach the middle of the tree to help it bear fruit.If you see crossed branches, choose one to remove.
Branches that don't produce fruit can be cut back flush with the leader.
 Cherry trees are quite prone to disease, so it's best to remove all the trimmings after you're finished pruning, especially if you pruned away dead branches. Pick the dead matter off the ground and make sure to dispose of them far away from the tree to prevent disease., You might come upon a diseased or dying branch during the spring or summer, the least ideal time to prune a cherry tree. If this happens, prune away the branch, even though the tree is not dormant. The disease might spread to other parts of the tree if you don't remove it right away.If you're working with a diseased tree, you should clean the pruning tools you're using between every cut. Dip them in a bleach solution, wash them with hot water, and dry them off before proceeding.

