 You will be notified of an available kidney for your transplant via the transplant center. Once you have been notified, you should bathe or shower so your body is clean for surgery. You should also brush your teeth, being sure you do not swallow any water.You should also remove all makeup, nail polish, and jewelry. Take out your contact lenses and wear your glasses instead — your contacts must be removed during surgery.;
, You should pack a bag with loose, comfortable clothes to wear home when you are discharged from the hospital, as you do not want to irritate the incision post surgery. Look for clothing that are stretchy and soft, as well as comfortable underwear, socks and shoes. Make sure the footwear you pack is easy to slip on and off without having to bend over.You may also want to pack a small, firm pillow in your bag. You can then use this pillow as support for your abdomen, as it will feel tender and sore post-surgery.
 You should also have a folder or pouch that contains all your identification cards, such as your driver’s license and your medical insurance card. This way, you will be able to provide the hospital with current and correct information.If your doctor gave you any paperwork that relates to your surgery, you should bring this with you as well.
 You should fast at least eight hours before the surgery or as soon as you get the call that there is a kidney donor available. This will ensure you are prepared for surgery, as your stomach will need to be empty when the procedure is done., You may want to set up a chair with arms that are stable enough for you to push up on them when you need to get up and sit down. This will make sitting much easier post-surgery.You may also want to set up a heating pad near the chair, as it can help to soothe any soreness or pain around the incision.
 You should designate a responsible adult to accompany you to the hospital and wait for you during the procedure. You will also need a person to drive you home once you have been discharged from the transplant center.Try to only have one person accompany you to the hospital, as you do not want too many people in the transplant center with you due to the high risk of infection when you are immunosuppressed. If you are a minor, both of your parents can accompany you to the hospital.
You can also set up a phone tree or an email group that will allow you to update your family and friends easily. You may assign someone as the lead person who will then pass information to others. This will allow you to focus on your recovery and still circulate information about your surgery easily., Once you get to the transplant center where your kidney transplant is going to be done, you should meet with the medical team assigned to your surgery. You may contact the medical team on the way to the hospital so they are ready for you when you arrive.You should also be in contact with the surgeon who will be doing your kidney transplant. This will ensure you have all the necessary information about the surgery beforehand.
 You will get a thorough medical evaluation at the transplant center to confirm you are healthy enough for surgery. The medical team will ensure you do not have an infection or a medical issue that could cause issues with the surgery or your recovery.The medical team will also make sure the donated kidney is in good shape and will function properly in your body once it is transplanted.
 The medical team will also prepare your body for surgery by removing any hair on your chest and your abdomen. You may also be given a laxative or an enema to clean out your intestines and prevent you from getting constipated after surgery.An IV will also be inserted into your vein to give you medicine and prevent you from getting dehydrated. You may also be given a sedative to help you relax before the surgery.
 The medical team and/or the surgeon should outline exactly how the procedure will be done before you are operated on. You will be put “under” with general anesthesia and be asleep for the surgery.Then, the surgeon will make an incision on your lower abdomen, just above your groin. The donor kidney will be placed in your lower abdomen and the kidney’s blood vessels will be connected to your iliac artery and vein. The surgeon will also connect your ureter to your bladder.
The surgeon may also place a small drain into your abdomen to remove any excess fluid that may build up after the surgery.
 After the surgery, you will be moved to the intensive care unit and stay there for 24 to 48 hours. Then, you will be placed in transplant care for the rest of your hospital stay. You will spend at least five to 10 days in the hospital to ensure there were no complications with the surgery and that you are recovering properly.Depending on your medical condition and needs, you may be able to get out of bed and walk small distances after the surgery. There will be a medical team on hand to administer your medications and ensure you are recovering well.
 Once you leave the hospital, you will be monitored and checked by the transplant team on a weekly basis. You should also be given instructions on how to recover properly at home and what medications you will need to take. You should also schedule your first follow up appointment and any lab appointments.During the first year after your transplant, you will be required to go in for check ups with the transplant team on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. Once your condition stabilizes, you will be returned to the care of your primary care doctor.
You should also plan to visit the transplant team once a year, on or close to the anniversary of your transplant. This will allow the team to assess your progress and discuss any health issues or concerns you may have due to the transplant.
 You should continue your care at home by giving yourself six to eight weeks to rest. Do not lift heavy objects or do strenuous physical activity. Reducing all physical activity will ensure that you recover properly from the transplant.Try to do some light exercises, like walking and stretching two to four weeks after the surgery. You may also be able to resume more intense exercise like hiking, bicycling, tennis, golf and swimming six weeks after the surgery. Avoid rough contact sports, as this could put you at risk of injuring your transplanted kidney.
You should also avoid driving at least six weeks after the surgery. You may need to plan ahead so a friend or family member can help you get around while you recover.

