 This might be dinner together, a concert, a late summer's night picnic on the beach, and so forth.;
, This might need to be done well ahead of the day if you want to go somewhere that is popular. Having a reservation at an upscale restaurant or scarce tickets for a concert can be part of the thrill of the night out for your loved one.


Don't forget to book the babysitter if you need one. Leaving the kids out of this special night is part of what makes it special!

, For example, you might have a special bottle of champagne delivered to the table or you might organize a horse-drawn carriage ride to downtown. Try to think of adding on an extra that is really amazing and different from what your loved one would normally expect. Some other ideas include:


Do something you haven't done together in years, like going rollerskating or visiting a sideshow.
Hire a special form of vehicle to go around in, such as a Hummer, a Harley or a horse.
Consider natural possibilities, such as seeing glowworms in a cave at night, having a bonfire on the beach or watching the Northern/Southern Lights if you're near enough (or just stargaze).
Do karaoke, competitive comedy or some other fun interactive session. This is a good choice if your loved one enjoys competing and being the center of attention.
A picnic under the stars or a barbecue on the beach could be amazing.
An outdoor spa at a snowy resort could be part of an amazing night out; finish with a magnificent meal in the resort's restaurant.
If you and your partner are adventurous, you might like to plan a nighttime treasure hunt.
Set up a movie screen in your garden, make a sumptuous area on the lawn laid with cushions, blankets and candles and have a feast ready to share while watching the movie. This is a wonderful way to spend a hot summer's night together.
 You might need to save for the special night out. If so, planning ahead will help you to have a goal and to put enough money aside so that the night isn't too expensive for you.
 If you're going to all this trouble to organize a special night out, it's important that your date or spouse is free.

