 Girls can be bullies for a number of reasons, and it usually has nothing to do with you.


The need to be accepted and in control sometimes causes girls to be mean. They might not feel accepted at home, or feel out of control in another part of their lives. They might act mean to feel like they are on top for once.Girls are sometimes mean to another person just because the person is different. If someone is a little taller or quieter or better in class, it can be threatening to a mean girl, so they make fun of that person. This has to do with their own insecurities, not with the target of their bullying.;
, It might not be easy, but mean girls often don’t expect someone to question them.


If they’re making fun of you, immediately tell them to stop it. Showing confidence and strength lets the mean girl know you are not an easy target.
Say something like, “Hey, stop! You’re being rude and I don’t have to listen to it.”
Have your friends stand up to the mean girls with you. Like dealing with anything else, a little backup helps! It’s easier to stand up to a bully if you have some support., A mean person does not expect to get nice words in return. Being kind to a mean girl can throw her off balance.


If a girl is being mean to you, you can ask something like, “Are you having a bad day?” Showing concern and care might stop her in her tracks.
Being nice when someone is being mean will, at the very least, get on their nerves. It might also make them think about their behavior.Being kind also shows that you are confident enough to ignore their meanness and be the better person.
 Be confident in yourself and surround yourself with people who care about you.


There is nothing wrong with being smart, short, a little overweight, or different in any way. When you love yourself and have friends who love you, the mean girls don’t matter.
When someone is mean to you, it is really their problem, not yours. If you respect yourself, then the mean things they say aren’t important.