 Whether someone likes you or not says nothing about you as a person. You are still awesome for all of the same reasons. Do not let her romantic feelings change the way you feel about yourself.

Think about it from her perspective. The more you understand her, the easier it will be to realize that it is not about you. Avoid jumping to conclusions. You don’t know why she doesn’t like you. Be careful not to assume that it is because of something particular about you.
Make some space between you and your immediate reaction. Try to suppress any initial panicked emotions. Realize that your feelings will subside and wait for them to do so before you speak or do anything.
 Liking yourself is more important than other people liking you.When you truly like yourself, it has an awesome effect- other people want to be around you more.


Speak to yourself as a friend. You should offer yourself the same compassion, love and support you would to a friend who is going through a hard time.
Imagine yourself confident and free. In your mind visualize what you would look like if you were perfectly confident and happy. What would you look like? Strive for being that person. Think about that person when you are in doubt about yourself.
 It is hard to be open and honest with someone you like. If she does not also have a crush on you too, at least now you know. You are in a better position because you don’t have to spend more time wondering about her.


Being open and honest is a good habit to get into. With the next girl you like, you will be better able to interact with her because you had this experience.
 If you feel like you are not ready to start dating other people, work on yourself. Do not worry about liking someone again until you feeling better.


Go out with your friends. Spend time with good friends who make you feel good about yourself. These people will remind you of your interests and the other things that you love.
Distance yourself from her. If you are having a hard time with your emotions, tell her that you’d like some time and space from your relationship. Having her out of your life for the time being will help you focus on you.
 If you are feeling like you are ready to move on, pursue girls you are interested in. Hang out with groups of people that have new girls. Ask your friends about any get together coming up and attend them.


When you meet a girl you like, ask her for her number. You can be direct and say “I really liked talking to you- can I have your number so we can keep talking?”
Go on online dating websites. There are a few free websites that you can join and meet people to date. Lots of people use these applications to find people who share their interests and personality type. 