 There are so so so so so many ways of telling a story - which point of view, how to decide on a title for each chapter, where to set the story, etc. Read at least a chapter of a book every day, and make a mental note of interesting things the writer put in - for example, in Confessions of a NOT IT Girl, Melissa Kantor put in a few of Jan's fantasies, in script format. In The Tale of Despereaux, Kate Dicamillo told 3 separate character's separate stories, which all occurred at the same time, and then pulls all together in the last few chapters.;
, Look around you. Wondering how everyone but you seems to be able to get their hair into an amazing ponytail, and yet you have to resort to telling people you, "liked the casual look"? Write that down. Notice interesting conversation snippets? Commit 'em to memory. Sometimes it takes years for a story you can actually use them in to come up, but it'll happen.
 Please, please don't resort to every popular girl being a rich cheerleader who dates football players and is super mean to everyone. And the stereotype that all mathletes are nerds has gotten very, very old. Not to say that in every story you every write, the queen bee is a mathlete with no fashion sense(not that mathletes have no fashion sense - another lame stereotype) or anything - that would be, like, an ideal universe and not very realistic(though, if you want to write a story about ideal universes, like a teen utopia, go ahead, that could work). And also, the ...darker-dressed people... have really somehow got this stereotype that their evil. Just learn to create unique characters. Oh, and no matter how much you love a character, don't bring him/her into every story you ever write with a different name every time. Write a sequel instead.
 To be totally honest, there are really only about one hundred stories out there, we just change the time period, characters, details, etc. The Illusionist, Princess Bride, and Shrek are really the same story under different trimmings. It's basically all in the trimmings. Gossip Girl, The Clique, and The A-list are also pretty much the same story line, concept, etc, so is The It Girl. But the ages, locations, and characters are varied, and that's why people bother to read all those series, instead of just paging through the first two clique books and being done with it. It's very easy to come up with one liners, but to find characters to say them and situations to have them say them in can be very difficult. Try to just think of an interesting situation, whether it's Chick Lit or fantasy, and go from there. If you really are having trouble, modernize something(you know - make a Great and Terrible Beauty take place in the 21st century, turn Romeo and Juliet into a Vegas lounge act, whatever floats your boat).
 Pull up Microsoft word(or whatever your computer has) and go for it!

, What was it about them that inspired you? Think about what inspires you or what you want to do and write it as a book. You can make the characters have different names but be based around people who you see in your everyday life. :D

, Keep going back to it and work on it, reading it critically and always improving your technique. Go back to it after a few days and re-read. Like what you see? keep going then if not edit it again!

