 Manuals require you to be rolling forward (though, if you have difficulty performing one, you may want to practice your manuals standing still). Roll forward at slow, controlled speed in your normal riding stance. Then, in preparation for your manual, shift your rear foot back to the tail of your board. Place it in a location that's comfortable for you. Generally, your foot should cover most of the "curved" portion of the tail. Your front foot should be near the middle (or on top of) the front trucks.


It probably goes without saying, but, before attempting a manual, take all necessary safety precautions. Always wear a helmet (and, optionally, elbow pads, etc.) when skateboarding. Before you get the hang of the manual, it's not unusual for the board to slip out from under you, causing you to fall backward. This can lead to serious injury if you're not adequately protected.
Additionally, ensure the surrounding area is free from obstructions that may hinder you while riding. Flat, open spaces are best for practice.;
, Balance is of the utmost importance when performing a manual. To be able to hold your manual, you need to be able to make minute adjustments to your stance to keep your weight centered and balanced. This is much harder to do if your legs are "locked" straight. As you roll forward, make sure there's a slight bend in your knees before attempting to manual.
 Slowly and carefully begin to put weight on your rear foot. As you do this, lean forward slightly with your upper body. The increasing pressure on your rear foot should eventually cause the front wheels of the skateboard to lift. Leaning forward allows you keep your center of mass over the board, making it less likely that the board will slip out from under you.



Don't lean back, even if it seems intuitive to do so. This is a sure-fire way to fall flat on your back.
 Hopefully, at this point, you're rolling forward with the front of your board in the air (if not, practice, practice, practice!) Now, your goal is to keep doing this for as long as you can. Listen to your natural sense of balance - if you feel yourself beginning to fall forward, lean back and put extra weight on the tail of the board. If you feel yourself beginning to fall backward, lean forward. The trick here is not to overcompensate - try to keep your movements small and controlled as you adjust your weight.


Realistically, you will probably fall down many times before you're able to get the hang of this, so elbow, wrist, and knee pads may be a good idea.
Don't get discouraged if you can't hold your manual for more than a second or so at first! Manuals require lots and lots of patient practice - at first, you may not even be used to using the muscles you need to stay balanced. Stick with it!

, Being able to start and hold a manual isn't quite the whole story - to be able to say with confidence that you know how to "do a manual", you need to be able to transition from a manual back to normal riding without falling down. Shift your weight slowly from your back foot to your front foot. As you do this, slowly bring your upper body (which should be leaning forward at this point) back to its normal, upright position. The front of your board should ideally fall back to the ground.

