 Are you experiencing stresses at a new job or as a result of a job loss? By starting a stress journal, you can work towards identifying the most significant sources of stress in your life and the ways in which you are currently dealing, whether effectively or not, with these pressures. By using a stress journal, you can gain the self knowledge needed to tackle the biggest stressors in your life.You can also reflect on the specific situations within which you experience higher stress levels. Do you experience more stress at particular times of the week or in particular spaces (e.g., a conference room) at work? Are there ways of avoiding such situations entirely, or responding more effectively to them? Reflect on these kinds of questions and work towards insights on how to manage stress through journaling.
Create a list of everything you are grateful for in your life. Recognizing the good things in your life can help reduce stress and anxiety.;
, Utilizing the information from your stress journal, you may decide that you need a revised financial plan, a personal health plan or a work plan. The most important thing is to tackle the sources of pressure through a purposeful and detailed plan of action.


Talk to your supervisor to create a plan of action to reduce the stressors you experience at work.Make a financial plan with specific targets, including not only long term savings or retirement goals but also near term goals that are concrete and achievable.Build up your emergency or rainy day fund.Make a fitness plan to improve your health., A huge source of pressure in life can be the desire to be perfect at everything. Have you ever been told that you have unrealistic standards at work? Do you ever feel you will never be able to live up to your own standards? If you answered yes to these questions, you may have difficulty with perfectionism.If so, try to loosen up your standards of achievement a little bit. This should help reduce your anxiety levels.If you feel disappointed with yourself, try repeating statements like "nobody is perfect" or "I did my best"
Try to think about your situation from a different angle. Ask yourself, will this situation still matter next month? If I told my brother or friend about this situation, would they think it matters as much as I do? Gain some perspective on your situation and maybe it won't seem quite as dire as it does right now., The pressure to be always online and accessible to colleagues can take a toll on work-life balance.To manage this kind of stress, it is helpful to create boundaries for yourself such as telling your colleagues you will be away from the phone or the computer at certain times of the day or on the weekend.Tell your colleagues you will be away from email and phone connectivity during dinner hours.
 If you are feeling burned out, it might be time for a personal day or even a vacation. Taking a vacation can actually help your productivity, and has obvious health benefits.If you don't have time for a vacation at the moment, try to at least take the weekend off to catch up on sleep.
 Also, your colleagues will be more likely to respect your away time.


Include details on the days and times you are away in your 'out of office' automatic email reply.
Include a fun or wise quote in your automatic reply so that colleagues will be reminded of your personality or sense of humour. This may reduce the annoyance of getting an automatic reply.