 Whether you lost a few friends in the breakup or not, it’s a good idea to make new friends after you’ve broken up. That is not to say that you should get rid of your current friends, but that you should expand your social circle. Making new friends will open you up to new experiences and will also help you distance yourself from your ex. If you don’t share the same social circle, he won’t always be able to keep tabs on you either, which will allow you some room to heal.The digital age has really opened up options when it comes to meeting people. You can join local Facebook groups, or MeetUp groups, or participate in message boards. These groups can be about shared interests (books, movie genres, or even music), or geography (city, state, neighborhood), or even shared experiences (parenthood, divorce, military veterans).
Also, your local bookstores and coffee houses will likely have groups that meet regularly for a common interest or goal.
If you attend school, your high school or college will have social, sport, and academic clubs that you can participate in.
 You deserve to treat yourself to something that you normally wouldn’t splurge on. Go for it – pamper yourself a little, or go exploring, go on a date with yourself, or maybe get that hand bag you’ve been looking at for the longest time. Think of one or two things that you’d really enjoy and give yourself a gift.Try going on a trip or vacation alone. Take some time to explore a new place or experience something new by yourself.
Pamper yourself with self-care gifts. Maybe now is the time to buy that massage package or those new pots and pans you’ve been looking at.
Take yourself out – go to a bookstore, or dinner, or even a movie.
 You know that being kind to others is important because it helps someone else and also makes you feel better. But you can’t forget to be kind to yourself, especially now. You take care of others and now it’s time to take care of yourself. He will regret that he’s missing out on your kindness.Stop and get yourself a coffee on the way to work.
Go splurge on a new outfit, game, or piece of sporting equipment.
Compliment yourself – find one thing every day to compliment yourself about.
Be patient with yourself.
 You want him to regret losing you, but the most important focus should be your own happiness. Go out and have fun! Don’t worry about his regret. You can’t control how he feels. But you can have fun – go out with friends, go play miniature golf, go swimming, go camping – just go out and have fun., This is a little different than changing your routine. Creating new habits means developing positive new behaviors that become almost second nature with repetition. New habits that you develop should be created with the sole focus of improving your life or making you happier. After all, your happiness is great for you and attractive to others.Your habits might be learning based, such as learning two new foreign language vocabulary words every morning or spending 20 minutes reading the news.
Or they might be more physical based, such as doing two minutes of sit-ups and pushups every morning.
Or they might be spiritually based, such as reading from a religious text for half an hour every evening.

