 A walk or two around the neighborhood isn’t usually enough exercise for dogs. Most dogs need 30-60 minutes of exercise every day.Your dog can get this exercises through a variety of outdoor and indoor activities. These might include:


Walking
Running
Swimming
Climbing and/ or running up stairs
Throwing toys
Obstacle courses;
, The amount of exercise your large dog needs depends in part on its breed. Certain breeds used for hunting or herding will need the most exercise, whereas a short-nosed breed such as a boxer will need less. If your dog is in ill health, speak to its vet about appropriate amounts of exercise.Exercise breeds in hunting, working, or herding groups will need at least 30 minutes of vigorous exercise and 1-2 hours of activity every day. Breeds in this group include Labrador retrievers, hounds, collies and shepherds. Other dogs that need this much exercise are pointers and spaniels.Be aware that some large dog breeds won’t need much exercise. Aim to get the following breeds 30-60 minutes of activity each day: bulldogs, bull mastiffs, Great Danes, greyhounds, and Old English sheepdogs. In some cases, your dog’s personality and ability may warrant more or less.
Recognize that it can be difficult to gauge how much exercise mixed breeds need. If you have an idea of what heritage your dog has, follow exercise guidelines for that breed. If you don’t, consider asking your vet what breed the dog may be and adjust your exercise program accordingly.
 Dogs are very sensitive animals and can provide signals about their needs. This is true for exercise, too. Paying attention to your dog’s behavior can also inform you about if it needs more exercise or activity or is content to get some rest.Some signs your dog may want more exercise include:


Restlessness
Pacing around
Racing through the houseRough play
Excited nipping or biting
Digging
Scratching
Destructive chewing

, Dogs require physical activity as a result of their evolutionary development as pack and work animals.Your large dog may need up to 2 ½ hours of exercise and activity every day, which can be a lot if you have a busy schedule. Having a set daily schedule for exercising can ensure that your dog gets enough physical activity to maintain its health and happiness. The routine helps your dog anticipate it and may minimize unwanted behaviors.Fix a specific time each day to get 30 minutes of vigorous activity with your large dog. For example, you could schedule a 30-minute run together in the mornings before work or school. If you’re not a runner, consider taking your dog to the yard, a field, or dog park for 30 minutes. Do an activity that is vigorous for your dog but easy on you such as fetching or blowing bubbles specifically designed for dogs.Aim for a long walk of about an hour in addition to the vigorous exercise. You can also break this into two 30-minute walks.
Adjust your dog’s exercise routine as necessary. For example, if you have an early meeting, see if you can sneak out to run the dog at lunch.
 Every dog has a personality. You may recognize that your dog plays harder or is happier after certain types of exercise. You may enjoy these, too. Incorporate activities that you and your dog love as much as you are able. This can make it easier to ensure your large dog gets enough exercise and can strengthen your bond.Set aside at least one day to do an activity you and your dog both love but may not be possible every day. For example, if you have work or school, you may have off weekends. On a Saturday or Sunday, you can let your dog run as you ride your bike or go for a nature hike.
 Regular walks are important to a dog’s health and happiness. One way to make them fun is going for brisk walks where you follow your dog on a lead or leash. This can fulfill your dog’s need for exercise and to travel and explore.Follow your large dog for a brisk 30-40 minute walk at least once a day and ideally twice. This can ensure your dog’s gets enough exercise and brain releases feel-good hormones.
Allow your dog to sniff around and decide where to go as long as it is not pulling on the leash. Doing so may promote dominance and bad leash manners. Guide the dog with verbal commands if it starts to pull at the leash. A gentle “This way, Spot” gives your dog the sense that it can explore while maintaining your authority.
 If you’re very active physically, the easiest way to give your large dog enough exercise is doing activities together. This can ensure that both you and your dog stay fit and happy. Some exercises you can do together include:Running
Inline skating
Bicycling
HikingSwimmingJumping over obstacles, Many areas have designated dog parks that allow off-leash activity for dogs. This can be a great way for your large dog to get its daily recommended exercise as well as romp around with other dogs.Watch your dog while you’re at the park, which can cue you into when your dog is tired. This is also important because not all dogs play nicely with one another.
 If the weather is extremely cold or hot, it may not be safe for your dog to exercise outside.You may be injured and unable to go outside. Even if outdoor exercise isn’t an option, you can ensure your large dog gets enough activity every day with indoor activities. The following activities can provide your large dog its recommended daily exercise:Running up the stairs with your dog
Playing fetch
Hiding treats around the house
Playing keep away
Kicking around dog exercise ballsSetting up an obstacle course

, If you work or attend school, you may need to leave your dog at home. Your dog will still need activity during this time. Leaving toys for your large dog can help it get enough exercise. They can also provide entertainment until you get home. Consider providing the following toys to your dog:Hard rubber toys for chewing and carrying around
Rope toys
Balls
“Busy box” toys with hiding places for snacks
Soft, stuffed and/or squeaky toys
Dirty laundry that smells like you

, You may find that your dog needs more exercise that your schedule permits. If this is the case, consider taking your dog to doggy day care or hiring a professional dog walker. These can fill in where you can’t. A day care or walker will exercise both your dog’s body and mind.Recognize your dog should come home worn out and happy from a day care or dog walker.

