 Offering your assistance to someone who is in need can make someone's day, and it is mandatory if you are wishing to be a nice person. If a friend of yours is in a spot of trouble, it is polite to offer them a helping hand. A positive attitude does point only towards your friends and family. Instead, offer help to all who may need it.


When you see someone at work or struggling, simply ask, "mind if I lend a hand?" Even if they say no, this gesture alone is a wonderful display of kindness.;
, Holding the door for a friend is kind, but being a nice person is about being helpful and kind towards everyone. So give a little to a struggling person on the sidewalk, and offer to help out a classmate or coworker when they spill their papers in the hall. You can be the person who helps organize someone's birthday, or brings donuts in on Friday just because. Be nice just to be nice.
 Empathy is not something you're born with, it is something you need to work on. Simply put, try and leave your own head and ask, "how does this make them feel?" The goal here isn't to find a "right answer." Rather, the act of putting others before yourself will help you become a more thoughtful, caring, and kind person.
 If you see someone's dirty dishes in the sink, and you're cleaning yours, lend a hand and wipe them up. Help an elderly person put their bags in the overhead compartments on your plane. When you go grab an extra water, or napkins, or ketchup, grab a couple extra for your buddies.


This piggy-backs off of empathy -- if you're thinking of other people, it is easier to anticipate their needs and be helpful and kind., In a crisis or emotional period, your grieving friend wants to do anything but cook and eat alone -- bring them a casserole and some cookies and spend the evening with them. If a bestie just got through a tough breakup, offer to help them clean out their significant other's stuff so they don't have to go through it alone. The best friends, and the nicest people, are those who don't shy away when the going gets tough -- they stand tall.
 Don't hold grudges, and don't continue punishing or getting angry at people after they've asked for forgiveness. Remember, forgiveness is about letting the moment go instead of letting anger or jealousy continue to dominate your thoughts. It doesn't mean you have to suddenly trust them with your secrets again -- it just means you stop harboring ill will if they've asked for honest forgiveness.


Even if they don't ask for forgiveness, try and move on. Someone who hurts you and won't apologize is generally not worth a lot of your worry and anger.