 You can attempt to guide the actions and reactions of the people around you, but when all is said and done, each person has to make his or her own decisions. The only person whose behavior, thinking, and feelings are within your power to control is you.


Just as you cannot control another human being, another human being cannot control you.
Recognize that the only power another individual has over you is the power you give him or her.
 Get in the habit of talking about negative circumstances from the perspective of how you feel about them. Instead of saying that someone or something has made you unhappy, phrase your complaint by saying, “I feel unhappy because...” or “This makes me feel unhappy.”


Putting things in an “I” perspective can shift your thinking, allowing you to separate yourself as an individual from the situation. This separation can actually help make you more emotionally detached from the other people involved.
This “I” language can also help defuse a tense situation because it allows you to convey your feelings and thoughts without being accusatory.
 Physical detachment can trigger emotional detachment. Walk away from the person or situation causing you anxiety as soon as you can. This does not need to be a permanent separation, but the separation should last long enough for you to calm down from a state of heightened emotion.
 When dealing with a troubling relationship or a situation that you are unable to end, get in the habit of routinely taking the time to decompress after dealing with the source of drama. Consistently take this time for yourself even when you feel that your emotions are under control.


For example, if you need to detach yourself from emotional stress at work, take a few minutes to meditate or unwind as soon as you get home.
Alternatively, take a few minutes during your lunch break to do something you enjoy doing, like reading or taking a walk.
Entering into your own private bubble, even for a few minutes, can give you the balance and steadiness you need when you return.
 You are as important as anyone else. Understand that your needs are important, that your self-love is important, and that you have a responsibility to maintain your own boundaries and wellbeing. You may need to compromise with others from time to time, but you also need to make sure that you are not the only one making sacrifices.


Part of loving yourself means taking care of your needs and goals. If you have a goal that requires you to continue your education, you may need to take the necessary steps to do so regardless of whether those around you—your significant other, your parents—agree with your decision. However, be prepared to do it alone.
Loving yourself also means finding your own sources of happiness. You should never completely rely on any one person to make you happy.
If you feel like your partner or another person is the only source of your happiness, recognize that you need to set better boundaries.

