 This removes tangles and makes braiding easier. This type of braid is much easier to do on longer hair. If you don't have longer hair, you can use hair extensions to make this braid easier.
Make sure there are no tangles or knots in your hair before you start the braid.
Use a regular hair brush or comb to do this step.
It is much simpler to do a side fishtail braid when you are first learning. The multi-layered construction makes it difficult to do behind your back when you are not familiar with the process.
 Use a hair pick or comb to part your hair down the middle, dividing it into 2 large sections at the base of your skull.Make sure your sections are even so your braid will be as well.
If you want, you can brush out each of these sections to ensure that the hair is smooth and well divided.
This is different from traditional and french braids, which use 3 sections of hair.
 You will pull small sections of hair, about 1








Pull a small amount of hair from the front, outside of the right section of your hair.
Use your index finger to separate this smaller section of hair from the larger one on the right.
Cross this smaller section of hair over the right section of hair and tuck it behind the left section of hair.
 You will need to hold both left sections with your left hand and both right sections with your right hand.








After you merge each small, outside piece, you will go back down to two strands.
This is much more complicated than other braids. Work slowly and be careful not to drop the smaller strands of hair as you braid.
This varies from the other braids because you work with two stable pieces while creating the third strand each time instead of having three stable strands throughout the steps.
For a more intricate braid, use smaller strands of hair.
 Alternate sides as you go along.Cross the small, outside right section that is closer to your face into the center.
Merge this piece of hair with the large section in your left hand.
Cross the small, outside left section into the center.
Merge this small left section into the larger right section.
Make sure to pull the strands tight. This will ensure a tight, neat braid.
Repeat this process until all of your hair is braided.
 You can use small clear elastics or a thicker colored style if you want.Once you've finished the braid, give it a textured look by gently stretching out the braided sections to make them appear thicker.Be careful as you do this as you might risk loosening parts of the braid, making them prone to falling out.
For a messier braid, gently run your fingers along the braids and pull small strands out to create a flyaway look. 