 Cleansing your body regularly is an important part of a good hygiene routine.You should try to shower once or twice a week, as showering once a day can end up actually drying out your skin. You should also shower if you end up sweating a lot, such as after a workout or after spending a hot, humid day outside.Make sure you wash the areas where you sweat the most, including your armpits, genitals, and breasts. You should also keep your feet clean and wash them in the shower. Use a washcloth and soap to clean between your toes and under your feet.After you wash your feet, dry them thoroughly. This helps prevents conditions like warts or athlete’s foot.

Wash your hair. Your hair type will determine how often you need to wash your hair. Finer, thinner hair often requires more frequent washing. Wash your hair when it becomes visibly oily and stringy.
Finding how long you can go between shampoos may take a bit of experimentation, but it will help you build up your natural hair oils, and keep your hair strong.;
, To keep your mouth clean and encourage fresh breath, you should brush your teeth twice a day. Brushing your teeth helps to remove food and plaque that can cause cavities. In addition to brushing your teeth, you should get in the habit of flossing once a day.Brush your teeth for at least two minutes, once in the morning and once at night. Try using a timer or listening to a song all the way through each time you brush. Soft bristled toothbrushes are best because they won’t damage your gums.When you brush your teeth, hold your toothbrush at a 45-degree angle to your gums, and brush with short, up-and-down strokes. Brush the outsides and insides of your teeth, your back molars, and your tongue.
Choose fluoride toothpaste. Toothpaste with fluoride helps strengthen your enamel.If you do choose a toothpaste free from fluoride, be extra intentional about your oral hygiene routine. Avoid long-term use of whitening toothpastes, as these can be abrasive on your teeth.
 Regular hand washing will keep you healthy and clean. First, wet your hands, turn off the tap, and lather your hands with soap for at least 20 seconds. Rinse your hands under clean, running water, and dry them with a clean towel, or allow them to air dry.You should wash your hands:


If they appear dirty
Before preparing or eating food
Before and after you care for someone who is ill
Before and after treating a wound
After blowing your nose, sneezing, or coughing
After using the bathroom
After handling garbage
After handling animals or animal waste
After touching a surface frequently touched by other people, Make sure you wash your face twice a day, once in the morning when you wake up and once when you go to bed.If you sweat, wash your face right away to help prevent clogged pores.


You should also exfoliate your skin.For healthy skin, you should exfoliate once a week. Exfoliation helps slough away dead skin cells. Choose an exfoliating scrub with round granules that are small, as you don’t want to irritate your skin.
 Keep yourself well groomed so you appear clean and put together. This means upkeeping your overall appearance, from your hair to your nails to your clothing.


Trim both your fingernails and toenails regularly with sharp nail scissors or clippers.If possible, keep your nails short, as it is easier to keep short nails clean.
Don’t cut or trim your cuticles.This can lead to infection. If you have dirt under your fingernails, use a nail brush or old toothbrush to scrub it away.
You should remove peeling nail polish so your hands look clean and polished. When your nail polish begins to chip, take it off with nail polish remover. Either reapply the polish, or leave your nails bare.
You should also make sure your hair looks well styled and groomed. Schedule regular hair cuts with your stylist so your hair does not become overgrown or develop split ends.
 Body odor is completely natural, especially after exercising. It is courteous to others, however, especially in public areas like school or work, to maintain a pleasant body odor. You can prevent bad body odor by wearing deodorant regularly as well as when you workout or sweat a lot. Along with regular bathing, deodorant can help keep you smelling fresh.Many deodorants with antiperspirants contain aluminum, which some people consider harmful to your health. If you’re concerned about aluminum, try a natural alternative deodorant instead.If you choose, you can also wear perfume or cologne. Don’t use these, however, to merely mask your body odor. You may apply perfume or cologne along with deodorant to ensure you have a pleasant smell.
Some foods, such as those containing sulfur like broccoli, can make your body odor unpleasant. You may avoid these foods if you are concerned about your body odor.