 If the level you’re playing has grassy areas, do matches on it because grassy areas double up the points for whatever you match.;
, Making matches lower in the field boosts your chances of making a combo. This will also help you trigger cascades, which can make random matches that will ultimately help you gain more points.
 If you ever run out of moves for the required cropsies, try to make moves next to those crops. This will add bonus points to the adjacent required crops.


For example, if you gather three onions and one of them has a +2 bonus point, this means you will not just collect three but five onions in just a single move, thus increasing your crop yield along with the bonus points.
 Another great way to increase your points and crop bonuses is through making four or five-crop matches simultaneously.


Matching four crops yields a +2 bonus on the crops located in a specific row or column where you’d otherwise get a +1 bonus.
Matching five crops removes all similar crops from the board, thus yielding you extra points. It will send orbs flying across the level, bestowing +1 bonuses to faraway required crops.
Making a T or L-shaped match (i.e., matching six crops) will produce light to shoot out in all the directions from the match, giving you a +1 bonus point to all cropsies in that row and column.
 If you complete the level goal within moves lower than the limit, you can use the moves left in Hero Mode, where all cropsies are randomly given extra points.


After every move during Hero Mode, several goal cropsies will be given bonus points. You’ll find the points at the bottom right of the cropsies. Look for those with higher points and make matches with them. This will give you higher points in the level and help you reach 3 stars.
Since Hero Mode is untimed, you can take your time to utilize the remaining moves to look for matches that have higher bonuses.
 Limiting your moves around one area will help you gain more points by awarding surrounding required cropsies with added bonus points than the crops on the rest of the board. The more you make matches in that area, the more points will be gained. Once the required cropsies in the area reach a good score (3, 4, or above), make a match with them.

