 If you are expecting a call from anyone--a new acquaintance, an organization, or a potential employer--answer the phone with this in mind. Gauge whether the situation calls for a slightly-more-formal or a slightly-less-formal greeting--but err on the side of formality, just in case.


Answer politely and semi-formally, in this case. A simple "Hello?" will do. You do not need to identify yourself immediately--if the caller knows you personally, or has your name on a list, he or she will ask: "Hi, may I speak to Carl?"
If the call is listed as "unknown," or "blocked," you need not feel obligated to answer the phone. Answer, if you like, or simply wait to see if the caller leaves a voicemail. You can always call someone back, if it's important.
 If you answer the phone and the call quickly becomes ridiculous or offensive, you may have been prank-called. Some prank callers are vulgar and obvious, but other prank callers will try to trick you into thinking that it's a legitimately important call. Deal with prank callers as you would deal with bullies: if you stay on the line and play into their prank, it will only encourage them. It may useful to stay on the line and play along, however, if it gives you insight into who is calling. Some U.S. phone companies offer a call-tracking service: if you dial *69 once you've hung up the phone, an automated message service will give you any public information about the last number that called you., If you answer a call from an unknown number, and the person on the other end of the line begins to ask you questions about yourself, they may be trying to get your money.


Telemarketers call dozens of people each day, and many of these people are not interested in what they're selling. Don't feel bad about saying, "Thanks for calling, but I'm not interested. Have a great day!" and hanging up. Don't waste your time or theirs.
If you don't want to receive any more calls from this particular company, ask the telemarketer to place your number onto their "Do Not Call" list. Many companies will comply with your request, and they won't bother you anymore.
If you're interested in what a telemarketer is selling, feel free to stay on the line and listen to the pitch. Bear in mind that the longer you stay on the line, the more they'll try to sell you!
If they ask for you or another member of your household, ask them for their name and organization before you tell them anything—the last thing you want to do is give telemarketers too much information! If they're cagey or won't say who they are, remember—you're under no obligation to continue speaking to them.

