 Christmas trees come in all shapes and sizes, but a smaller one might look more proportionate in a bedroom. You might also want to get a fake tree as opposed to a real one. They are less likely to shed leaves and do not need to be watered.


Add a small craft tree if you have some desk or shelf space. Art and crafts stores often sell mini versions of Christmas trees, ranging between 8 and 12 inches (20.32 and 30.48 centimeters). You will also find mini lights and ornaments in the same area.
Get a 2 to 4 foot (0.61 to 1.22 meters) tall tree if you have a larger room or not a lot of furniture. You can stand the tree on a small table, a stool, or even a crate to give it extra height.
Get a "pencil" tree if you have a small room or a lot of furniture. Pencil trees can range from 3 to 9 feet (0.92 to 2.74 meters) tall, but they can be as narrow as 8 or 20 inches (20.32 or 50.8 centimeters). They don't take up a lot of space width-wise, and are perfect for corners.
If you yearn for that pine-scent, consider hiding a few real pine branches in your tree. You can also use a pine-scented spray as well.;
, If you don't have much floor space, you can hang pine branches from the ceiling in the corner of your room. You can also dress up these branches with mini battery-operated Christmas lights, tinsel, and ornaments. It might be a good idea to use plastic ornaments instead of glass ones, however.


Make sure to thoroughly rinse the branches so you don't bring home any insects.
 You can even decorate the garland with mini battery-operated Christmas lights, tinsel, and ornaments. Great places to hang such garlands include above your bed, over your window, around your ceiling, and draped over your bookshelves.
 Find some ornaments, lights, beaded garlands, and tinsel. Drape these around your tree, pine branches, or pine garland. If you are hanging your branches or garlands, consider using plastic ornaments instead of glass ones.


Mini Christmas ornaments might look better on pine garlands. You can find them in art and crafts stores, in the same section that sells mini/craft Christmas trees.
If your tree is less than 3 feet (0.92 meters) tall, use mini battery-operated Christmas lights. The plug-in lights might be too long for smaller trees.
 If you can't find any (or don't like) pin garlands, you can hang up some tinsel garlands instead. Great places to hang them include above windows and around ceilings. If you use tape to hang the garlands up, be sure to use clear tape. It will be less visible.
 Great places to hang up lights include above your bed, over your shelves, and around your window. You can get ones that plug into an outlet or battery-operated ones. If you use tape to hang up your lights, try to use clear; it will be less visible on your wall.


If your room has white walls, try to get Christmas lights with white wires instead of the traditional green ones. They will blend into your walls better and clash less.
Unless you are putting them up in your window, avoid getting blinking or flashing lights; those can be very distracting after a while.
Consider matching the lights to your room and decorations. For example, if your room has a lot of cool colors, try getting blue or clear lights. If your room has a lot of warm colors, try getting white or multi-colored lights.
Consider putting "icicle" style lights in your window.

