 Breaking the licorice X's will release the chocolate, making the level much harder. Do not do this until you have to.;
, Deal with the chocolate as early as you can. This will be the hardest part. Shoot for striped candy at the same level as the chocolates to remove them quickly.


Other special candies can also be useful on this level, like a wrapped-striped combo.
 After the chocolate has been dealt with, you can break the licorice chains and move on to dealing with the jelly.
 The candies do not move as normal and move different depending on what side of the board you're moving on. Pay attention so as not to miss out on opportunities.
 Even though the focus will be on the right, if you see the opportunity to create a special candy on the left-hand side, do it. These specials can help you on the right as well.
 One approach to this level is to start freeing the caged jelly as soon as possible and start removing the chocolate from the board. The problem with this approach is that since the grid on the right is smaller, you have less space to make combinations in. However once you start removing the cages, the chocolate is free to move through the entire grid, and will slowly reduce your working area to just a few squares. This approach works best if you have several future combinations in mind, and can see how the board will look a few moves ahead.
 One of the easiest ways to remove the chocolate is to create two horizontally striped candies in the left grid, and once they are in the lower rows, set them off. Remember that since the two boards are not the same size, this move only works from Row 2 and 3 from the bottom on the left grid. You can also use a striped candy to remove all cages from the right side grid in one move. This move requires planning and the ability to make striped candy.
 Once the chocolate is free, it will start taking over adjacent squares. Remember that if you remove a piece of chocolate, it won’t grow in the next move. So keep working on combinations close to the chocolate, and attacking it using special candy, to reduce its spread.

