 When we consume more calories than we burn each day, those extra calories are stored within our bodies. The amount of calories you need varies by your age, height, gender, and how active you are. Most women need between 1600 and 2400 calories per day. Most men need between 2,000 and 3,000 calories per day.If you are trying to lose weight, you will need to eat fewer calories.
The older you get, the fewer calories you need to consume.
If you are extremely active, you will need to eat more calories every day.
There are calorie counters available on the web that can help you determine how many calories you should eat per day., Fruits and vegetables provide necessary nutrients for your body and are low in calories.A diet heavy in fruits and vegetables can help you feel full and keep you from storing extra calories as fat. Eat a variety of vegetables that includes dark green vegetables (broccoli, spinach, lettuce), red and orange vegetables (carrots, tomatoes, red peppers, sweet potatoes), beans and peas (black beans, split peas, kidney beans), starchy vegetables (corn, green peas, white potatoes). Women should eat 2 to 2.5 cups per day, and men should eat 2.5 to 3 cups per day.If you participate in 30 minutes or more of moderate-intensity exercise per day, you need to consume more vegetables.
Fresh and frozen vegetables are preferable to canned vegetables. If you buy canned vegetables, make sure the label says "low sodium" or "no salt added".
Keep fresh cut vegetables such as carrots, broccoli, cucumbers, or green, yellow, or red peppers in a container in your refrigerator. You are more likely to choose them for a snack if you see them when you open your refrigerator.Try adding pureed vegetables to your soups, casseroles, and gravies to increase your vegetable intake.
 The Recommended Daily Allowance for protein is between 46 to 56 grams per day, or 0.8 grams of protein per Kg of bodyweight (0.36 grams per pound). If you are active or if you are trying to build muscle, then you may need to consume more than this amount. Protein is found in meat, poultry, seafood, beans and peas, and dairy products. Some animal sources of protein can be high in fat. It's important that you eat lean sources of protein such as lean cuts of beef, beans, pork tenderloin, eggs, seafood, and skinless white meat poultry.Depending on weight and activity, women should eat 5 to 5.5 ounces of protein or meat per day, and men should eat 5.5 to 6 ounces of protein or meat per day.If you do not eat meat, poultry, or fish, 1/4 cup cooked beans, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon of peanut butter, or 1/2 ounce of nuts or seeds is equivalent to 1 ounce of meat., Eating whole grain foods (brown rice, oatmeal, whole-wheat flour, and whole-wheat pasta) instead of refined grains (white rice, white flour, white bread) will help your body get rid of belly fat.Women should eat 5 to 6 ounces of grains per day, and men should aim for 6 to 8 ounces of grains per day.One ounce of grains is equivalent to 1 slice of bread, 1" mini bagel, 1/2 a muffin, and 1/2 cup of cooked oatmeal.At least half of the grains you eat should be whole grains., Cooking at home can help you control what you eat and know exactly what you are putting in your body. Be aware of how much butter, margarine, and table sugar you use when preparing food. Also, trim the fat and remove the skin from meats before you cook them.Grilling, broiling, and roasting are cooking methods that do not add extra fat to foods.
Use vegetable oils such as olive oil, canola oil, corn oil, or safflower oil. However, keep in mind that butter is an acceptable fat to use as well. Just be sure to avoid trans fats in your diet and limit your intake of fats, since fats and fatty foods are high in calories. Try to keep your fat intake between 20 to 35% of your total calories.If you eat at a restaurant, share your meal with a friend or take half of your meal home.
 Certain foods can cause bloating for some people and will make your stomach appear rounder. You do not have to eliminate these foods from your diet, but be aware of how your body responds when you eat these foods. Common foods that cause bloating are beans, broccoli, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, carbonated drinks, cauliflower, milk, onions, some fruits (apples, peaches, and pears), hard candy, and chewing gum.Reduce the amount of salt you consume. Eating too much salt can cause the body to retain water around the stomach, making you feel bloated., Sugar increases your belly fat. Many processed foods (e.g. cakes, candy, etc.) and sugary drinks (sodas, sports drinks, and fruit juices) have high sugar content. Taking some of the sugar out of your diet will help get a flatter stomach.Instead of drinking juice, eat the actual fruit instead (e.g. eat an orange instead of drinking orange juice)
Replace sugary drinks with water.
 Eating soluble fiber helps reduce belly fat.Fruits, vegetables, and beans are good sources of soluble fiber. Women should eat 21 to 25 grams of fiber per day, and men should eat 30 to 38 grams of fiber per day.Examples of high fiber foods include oats, carrots, apples, citrus fruits, cauliflower, and green beans.Make sure you are drinking plenty of water. Water helps the fiber go through your digestive system.

