 Show all people from the outset that you are really interested in what they do and who they are. People who see this behavior and recognize your kindness will be more likely to want to be your friend when they realize that your good nature could be a part of their lives for all times.
 This is simply part of the deal, looking nice and not scaring people off with clothing statements that confront people. Wear nice clothing that reflects the person you are. Keep it neat, clean and inoffensive. A little modesty is fine, although you'll also be keen to show off your athletic or well maintained self too, so find a decent balance.


Do the usual things to maintain good hygiene. Ask your parents for help if you've failed to adopt decent hygiene standards by this time in your life.

Be stylish without being a slave to fashion. Always have a flair that identifies the clothing you're wearing as your style. This might be done by the way you wear the clothes or the accessories that you add to them. Don't obsess over this though; being a good person trumps being a fashion victim.
 When people see that you are a leader and not a follower, they will respect that and respect the fact that you're not going to conform to other standards.
 Talk to people you don't know and ask them about their day. This will always catch their attention because they won't expect it. Smile at and greet everyone, even those you vaguely know. When you see people down the halls at school, or at work, just put on a quick smile and wave. This will tell people you are friendly and they may want to get to know you more.
 Keep your bad ruminations to yourself and avoid being a gossip. Nothing good comes of demoting other people in your mind and even less good comes from making it vocal.


Never bad mouth anyone! If you say mean things about any person, the person you are telling this to will automatically think that you also badmouth him/her. And it's very likely you will! Just get yourself out of any such bad habit.
Don't be a bully. Compliment people and tell them they are really cool to hang around with.
Don't get involved in other people's business. They might not want you in their business and won't want to talk to you.
 Don't rebel your way to the top, always do what is right people will respect you for that. If you're intelligent, or you're especially good at a particular skill, show it rather than hiding it. However, don't be a nerd or raise your hand to answer every question; remember to let others have their turn too. Never forget to do your homework, and don't talk back to the teacher. Most of all, don't get in too much trouble, and know when to back down.
 This will get more people to know you. Cheerleading, football, and other sports are fun, good exercise, and help to get a lot of friends.
 Be nice to the people who really don't like you, unless you absolutely can't bear them.
 Talk to anyone who you would consider a friend. Be fun, but if it gets awkward, make an excuse to leave.
 Don't date or hang around with people you don't like. People will think you're a player or just plain fake.

