 This cat has short hair that doesn't tangle or mat, and therefore, it doesn't need daily brushing. Brushing once a week is usually enough. Brushing the cat helps remove dead hair so that your cat doesn't ingest it.In springtime, you may have to brush the cat more often as it is getting rid of its winter coat.You'll only need to bathe this cat if it gets dirty.;
, Brushing a cat's teeth is not as difficult as it sounds. You'll need to start by getting a cat-specific toothbrush and toothpaste. You shouldn't use your own toothpaste, as some ingredients may be poisonous to cats.Your cat isn't going to like the idea at first. Begin by lifting its lips and just touching the gums. You can use your finger, the toothbrush, or a cotton swab. Do this action a couple of times a day to get your cat adjusted to the idea.
Move on to the toothpaste. Let your cat smell it or lick it. It should be a flavor the cat likes. Put some on the toothbrush, and apply it gently to the teeth. You may need a couple of sessions to get all of the cat's teeth., A cat's claws get too long and need regular trimming. Of course, most cats don't love having their claws trimmed, but if you make it a regular practice, it won't be too bad for you or the cat.To get your cat used to the idea, start by just holding your cat's paws several times during the day.
When it comes time to trim the claws, you may need to try several positions before finding one that works for you. For instance, you can hold the cat in the crook of your arm while trimming, or you can have the cat in your lap facing outwards. Sometimes, having another person can help.
Be sure to only trim the tip of the nail. You'll see a pink nerve/blood vessel running through the nail. Don't clip that, as it's painful for the cat and will cause the nail to bleed.
Be patient. It may take several tries to get every nail.
 Your cat's ears will need to be cleaned but only when they get dirty. Look inside for wax and other debris buildup. If they're dirty, use a bit of cleaner (ask the vet) on a cotton ball, and rub it on the inside of the ear, moving it towards the tip to remove the wax., As with any pet, this cat should visit the vet regularly. Establishing a vet while your cat is still a kitten can help acclimate your cat to the process. Plus, most cats will not show symptoms of many diseases until they are advanced, so regular checkups help keep your cat healthy.
 When picking out a food for your cat, look for foods that have protein (meat, fish, or meat byproducts) in the first few ingredients. Because cats are obligate carnivores, they primarily get their calories from meat.The food should also be about 20 percent fat and 25 to 30 percent protein.When picking out foods, get ones appropriate to each age. A kitten should eat kitten food, while a senior cat should have food formulated for it.
The term "meat byproducts" can be off-putting. However, it's perfectly healthy for your cat to eat, as it is mainly things like fatty tissue and organs. It may have bone in it, as well, but it won't have feet or fur.
If you're unsure what to pick, choose a food with a seal from the Association of the American Food Control Officials (AAFCO). This certification means the food is balanced for your cat's diet.
 Obesity in cats can lead to health problems, and the Korat can suffer from this issue just like any cat. Your cat only needs 20 calories per each pound of weight to stay the same size. Therefore, a 7 pound cat only needs 140 calories a day to stay the same weight. When thinking about calories, don't forget to consider any treats you feed your cat.To put your cat on a diet, lower the cat's intake by 40 calories a day.
 Cats are clean creatures, and they prefer to have a clean litter box when using the bathroom. You wouldn't like to wade through sewage to use the bathroom, and your cat feels the same way. Try to scoop the litter box once a day if you have clumping litter, and change the whole thing once a week or every other week. For clay litter, you may need to change it out a couple of times a week., A health guarantee is important anytime you're buying a specialized breed like the Korat. However, it's especially important with Korats, as they have a genetic disposition to GM-1 and GM-2 gangliosidosis, which is a fatal condition. This disease can be tested for in the parents, which is why a health guarantee is important. When buying a cat from a breeder, ask for the health guarantee before finishing the purchase., On average, Korats have lower body fat than other cats. For the most part, that will not present a problem. However, if your cat needs anethesia, the vet may need to adjust how much the cat gets due to this issue., These cats often attach themselves to a single person, though sometimes they divide between two people. They tend to follow their "person" around, often wanting attention. They won't ignore other people; they just have a preference for a certain person. In other words, expect an affectionate cat, and be prepared to be affectionate back., Because these cats are so affectionate, they need a lot of attention. If you expect to leave the cat home alone during the day, providing animal companionship, such as another cat (particularly a Korat), will help keep this cat happier., These cats are smart and energetic, and they love to play when they aren't cuddling. Puzzle toys are a great option for these cats, the kind that will release treats as they play. Of course, other small toys and lure toys you use to play with the cat are also good options.You can also probably teach this cat to play fetch., Generally, these cats prefer a quiet environment. They aren't skittish exactly, but if there are too many loud sounds, these cats will likely hide for a while. That being said, they do usually like children, even with the noise.