 Stress, particularly chronic stress, can be one of your immune system’s worst enemies. Studies have consistently shown that there is a direct relation between people who self-identify as stressed and reduced immunity/increased illness.Meditate or do yoga to encourage a more peaceful outlook on life.
When possible, address the source of the stress. If there is an individual person or an aspect of your job that causes you great stress, try reducing your contact with the person or activity if possible.
Try going to therapy if you feel like you need help addressing and dealing with deep-seated or long-term stress.
 People who feel happier and spend more time laughing and smiling have healthier immune systems.Finding a source of humor for yourself—and allowing yourself to have a sense of humor, even if you are a generally sensitive person—can help your emotional health and your immunity.


Find a funny TV show or movie that makes you laugh and relax.
Watch online videos of animals or babies doing funny things.
Find a comedian/comedienne who you particularly like and download podcasts of his/her standup routine.
Read comic strips or humorous print materials.
Spend more time with a friend who you find particularly funny. You could even tell her why you want to spend more time with her, which could make her proud of her sense of humor.
 Socializing can help boost your mental health and thus your immunity. While this may seem like it is higher-risk because being around other people (and their germs) exposes you to potential illnesses, the benefit of feeling socially content far outweighs any potential germ exposure.


Spending time with people whom you consider friends is preferable, but talking to coworkers or casual acquaintances also helps., If you have social anxiety or live or work in a situation in which you have limited access to other people, bonding with a special pet can be a reasonably effective substitute for human contact.Be sure you find a pet with a great personality, who interacts with you and makes you laugh for maximum immune-boosting benefits.

