 Antibiotics are used for treating infections that aggravate the inflammation in the intestinal linings. The medications include Metronidazole and Ciprofloxacin. Upon proper laboratory tests, the cause of infection can be determined and the doctor can prescribe the proper antibiotic.


If the cause of the infection is anaerobic bacteria (single-celled bacteria that thrive in environments with less oxygen), then Metronidazole will be prescribed. Metronidazole works by interfering with the bacterial and protozoal cells’ DNA. This prevents the bacteria and protozoa from forming new DNA and eventually kills them. The recommended dose for children is 35 to 50 milligrams per kilogram of body weight daily, which is given in 3 doses orally, for 10 days.Ciprofloxacin treats a wide array of infections caused by bacteria. This includes bacteria that causes inflammation in the intestines. Ciprofloxacin works by inhibiting the DNA replication of the bacteria. Prolonged inhibition leads to the death of the cells of the bacteria. For children, the recommended dose is 10 to 20 mg/kg orally every 12 hours for one to two weeks.;
, This medication works on the lining of the gastrointestinal tract by inhibiting the production of inflammatory chemicals such as cytokines, therefore preventing and decreasing the occurrence of inflammation. It is also used as maintenance to prevent relapse of the disease. The most common prescribed aminosalicylate is sulfasalazine.


For children 6 years old and above, the recommended dose is 40 to 60 milligrams per kilogram of body weight per day, in 3 to 6 divided doses., The medication suppresses the immune system response that causes the development of inflammation in ulcerative colitis. Generally, corticosteroids are safe during pregnancy.


The most common prescribed corticosteroid is prednisone. The recommended oral dose for children in order to suppress inflammation is 0.05 to 2 mg/kg/day divided 1 to 4 times., Painkillers are drugs of choice to provide relief from abdominal cramps. The medication acts by blocking the pain signal to impede interpretation of the brain, thus the pain is not felt by a person. Painkillers are classified as:


Simple Painkillers or Aspirin drugs. It can be purchased over the counter and can alleviate certain pains. It includes paracetamol and ibuprofen. Simple pain killers are usually safe during pregnancy. For children, the dosage of a simple painkiller is usually 10-15 mg/kg of oral tablets or liquid suspension every 4 to 6 hours.Stronger Painkillers or Narcotic drugs. The medication is recommended only if other kind of painkillers do not achieve the goal of eliminating the pain sensation felt by the individual. There are different types of strong painkillers that are available in the market today. It is of great importance to take safety measures or seek medical advice prior to intake of certain drugs due to its possible effects.
Examples of these drugs are codeine and tramadol. Dosage of stronger painkillers varies. Oral tramadol usual dosage for children is 1 to 2 mg/kg/dose every 4 to 6 hours.For codeine, the recommended oral dose for children 1 year or older is 0.5 mg/kg every 4 to 6 hours.