 Start by creating a magic ring to use as your base for the flower. To make a magic ring, loop the yarn around your index and middle fingers twice. Then, slide the double loop off your fingers and insert your hook into the center. Yarn over and then pull this loop back to the outside of the circle. Then, yarn over the hook again above the circle and pull this loop through the first loop. This will be your first stitch.Work five more stitches around the ring in the same fashion for a total of six stitches.
When you are finished, tug the tail of the yarn to close the ring and then slipstitch to connect the last stitch to the first stitch.;
, For the next round, start by chaining two stitches.These two stitches will mark the beginning of your next round. You will not need to do this again.
 To make your first bullion stitch, loop the yarn around your hook seven times. Then, insert the hook into the first stitch in the round and loop the yarn over your hook again. Pull this yarn through the first loop on your hook. Then, yarn over again and pull through the rest of the loops.Go slowly and just focus on working off one loop at a time.
Try to maintain consistent tension as you go.
When you finish your first bullion stitch, work another into the same space.
Continue to work two bullion stitches into every stitch in the ring.
 Once you complete the final bullion stitch for the round, you will need to connect this last stitch to the first one and then tie off your final stitch. Use a slipstitch to connect the first and last stitches.To slipstitch, insert the hook into the stitch and yarn over. Then pull the yarn through both loops.
To tie off and finish your work, snip the yarn leaving a tail that is long enough to tie in a knot. Pull the tail of the yarn through the loop to secure the final stitch into a knot. Then, tie the yarn through this stitch again to secure it. Snip the end close to the knot to finish your flower.
 The bullion stitch works well with many different types of yarn, but choosing a special color or textured yarn can alter your finished product. Try choosing a multicolor yarn for colorful flowers, or choose a fluffy yarn for soft touchable flowers.


Remember to check the yarn label for recommendations about what hook size will work best with your yarn.
 Using a latch hook instead of a crochet hook can help to ensure that your tension is even throughout the stitch. A latch hook can also make working this stitch a little easier.To use a latch hook, loop the yarn around the hook the same way that you would with a crochet hook and then pull through the first loop. Then, loop the yarn over the hook again and pull through the rest of the loops.
The latch will close and prevent the hook from getting caught on the loops as you pull through, so this should be one smooth movement.
 You can easily change the size of a bullion stitch by looping the yarn around the hook a few more times.For example, looping the yarn around 10 times will create a smaller bullion stitch than looping it around 15 times.


You can even try alternating between bullion stitch sizes. For example, you could start with bullion stitch that has seven loops and alternate with bullion stitches that have 14 loops. This will create a noticeable contrast in your flower petals.
 Adding one or more extra bullion stitches into every stitch in the round will also change the appearance of your flowers. The flowers will seem fuller and even a bit ruffled.Try doing three or four bullion stitches into each stitch in the round to change the look of your crocheted bullion flowers.

