 The simplest way to get to Denver is via Denver International Airport. The airport is located approximately 30 minutes from the city center, but taxis and shuttles are readily available to take you downtown or wherever your accommodations are located.;
, To take full advantage of the city's attractions, renting a car is strongly recommended, as public transportation is limited to buses and a small electric train system.
 Denver has a large selection of hotels for all budgets. For those who can afford it, the historic Brown Palace hotel located in the Central Business District is a popular choice. It has hosted numerous celebrities, and its lounge and restaurant are famous. There are many other, less expensive alternatives downtown. It is recommended that you book in advance, however, wherever you decide to stay.
 Denver's specialty cuisines are Mexican and Italian food. Good Mexican food can be found throughout the city, but a local favorite is The Blue Bonnet, a venerable Denver institution located on Broadway Street. Excellent Italian restaurants can be found on the Northern edge of town. There are many trendy, hip restaurants in Lower Downtown (LoDo) and the Highlands neighborhood. Popular Tapas bars like the 9th Door, Asian fusion restaurants like Swimclub 32, or even new takes on classic comfort foods like those at Bang are among the large variety of delicious choices in these areas. If you're in the mood, the Texas de Brazil is another wonderful choice, having a huge salad bar,and all you can eat meat, but it may get a little spendy. Other popular choices include Mataam Fez (a delicious Moroccan restaurant with an exotic Berber tent-themed atmosphere), Flagstaff House (in Boulder, but worth the drive for exquisite game meats), and Elway's (a steakhouse in Cherry Creek established by the legendary NFL quarterback himself which also features an excellent lounge and bar).
 There are many attractions to see in Denver, including:


Downtown Denver - this has a vibrant and exciting night life, especially in the LoDo area, which is home to the city's most popular bar scene. Downtown Denver also has a large selection of nightclubs such as The Church, Club Bash, and Vinyl.
The Rocky Mountains are also just a short drive away, a paradise for lovers of the great outdoors.

In the winter, there is world class skiing and snowboarding, and for those so inclined ice fishing, snowmobiling, snowshoeing, cross-country skiing, tubing, and any other imaginable winter sport is imaginable.
In summer, try hiking one of Colorado's many 14ers, or perhaps give mountain biking, fishing, hunting, or water sports a try. Nearby Rocky Mountain National park an excellent destination for nature lovers.


In January, Denver is home to the National Western Stock Show. Nightly events such as rodeos are always fun to watch. During the day they have all sorts of shows for things like Horses, cattle, sheep, etc. and a huge shopping area!
Vail and Aspen, as well as the historic district of the old mining town Georgetown are all good destinations for shopping year round.
Closer to Denver is the city of Boulder, the location of the University of Colorado and beautifully set beneath the backdrop of the spectacular Flatirons. Boulder's Pearl Street Mall is a good destination for shoppers, and Boulder's bar scene is also very exciting.
 you will enjoy the many animals they have on display.


The Denver Museum of Nature and Science is close by the Denver zoo. It includes an imax theater, and a planetarium.
Red Rocks Amphitheater, located just to the west of Denver, is another great place to visit. If you happen to be in town at the same time as one of your favorite bands, then do whatever you can to get tickets, it is guaranteed to be an amazing concert experience. A natural amphitheater formed within dramatic red sandstone formations, Red Rocks has hosted numerous big name bands from The Beatles to U2. Other popular concert venues include the Fillmore and Ogden theaters, as well as the Pepsi Center.
Additionally, Denver is home to professional sports teams from each of the four major sports leagues (MLB, NBA, NFL, and NHL), as well as the MLS' Rapids, the indoor lacrosse Mammoths, and the outdoor lacrosse team the Outlaws.
 Popular shopping destinations include the Cherry Creek Mall and surrounding area as well as the 16th Street Mall downtown, an open-air pedestrian mall with a free shuttle service.
 For those with children, Denver is home to two excellent amusement parks, Elitch Gardens and Water World (the nation's largest water park). The Denver Zoo and the Denver Museum of Nature and Science, both of which are located in City Park (which is also a fun place for kids), are both large and very popular attractions for children.

