 Be sure your computer has a webcam. On most laptops, the webcam will look like a small hole in the top border of the screen. The majority of laptops made in the past five years have webcams.


If you do not see a webcam, you will have to purchase an external webcam. Either go to your local computer store or purchase one online. You do not need to buy an expensive one, but if you plan to make a large amount of video calls, you may as well purchase one that will provide for high-quality videos.;
, Depending on whether or not you have a Mac or a PC, the download link is different.



For Windows users: Go to this link: . Click on the green button that says, "Get Skype for Windows Desktop."

For Mac users: Go to this link: . Click on the green button that says, "Get Skype for Mac."

, The Skype download should start automatically and the installer will guide you through how to install the program.
 After the program is finished installing, open up Skype. If you have trouble finding the program, follow these instructions for Mac or PC.



For Windows users: Press your Windows key (left of Alt key), type "Skype" and press ↵ Enter.

For Mac users: Open up Finder, search for "Skype," then click on the program.
If the program does not show up after searching for it, try installing the program again.
 In the left side of your screen, you will see a list of contacts if you have added any. Click on the name to open up a conversation with that person.


If you haven't added any contacts, you will first have to add at least one. Ask for a friend's Skype ID, click Contacts in the upper left of the window, click Add Contact in the dropdown menu, then type your friend's Skype ID.
 To start a video call, you must first be in a conversation with a contact. The instructions are slightly different for Mac and PC users.



For Windows users: Click on the icon in the upper right corner of the window that looks like a video camera. It should be a blue circle with a white video camera inside.

For Mac users: Click on the icon in the upper right corner of the window that looks like a video camera. It should be a green circle with a white video camera inside. Depending on your version of Skype, the icon may instead simply say, "Video Call."
You may be asked for permission for Skype to use your video camera, click "Allow" if you are comfortable with Skype having access to your camera.
 End the call by pressing the red button on the bottom of the video call window. The icon looks like a red circle with a white phone inside of the circle.


You may need to move your cursor around the inside of the video call window to reveal the hang-up button.

