 This may be anywhere on your computer. On most computers it will be in your User's Music folder. To access this:


Click on the File Explorer on the bottom left-hand side of the screen. You'll notice under your name (Mitchell) in the left column of the box you'll find a folder named Music.
If you downloaded the music from the internet, it may be in your Downloads folder. In that same left column near the top you will see Downloads. Click that and search for it in there.
If it isn't in there you'll have to do some searching to find out where it is.;
, Once you put the mouse over the file, it should give you a small dialog box. The first line of that box should say "Item type:" If it says "MP3 Format Sound" then you have an MP3 file. If not, then you'll have to find an MP3 file. If you have none, then look up how to convert the file to an MP3.
 Right click the file. A box should come up with many different options. Look at the bottom of the box and click the properties button. This will bring up another box with different information, such as the file type, size of the file, and so on.
 This line should say "MP3 Format Sound", followed by the extension of the file (.mp3). If it does, all is good. If not, go back to searching and repeat the steps in this Part until you have done so.
 Open up the file of the USB.
 Once you plug the flash drive into an open USB slot on your computer, open up your computer's file explorer. On the left-hand side underneath the section that is labeled as the name of your computer, seen as "Mitchell" in the photo below, click the name of the flash drive you just put in. The example one is labeled "FLASHDRIVE".
 After you've opened up the folder for the USB, go ahead and create another folder and name it anything you want. To do so, right click in the window, hover over "New" and then click "Folder". Proceed to type in the name of what you want to call it. This is more to keep everything inside the flash drive organized than anything else.
 Open up the folder where the MP3 files are. Highlight the files you want to transfer, then drag and drop them into the folder in your flash drive.
 To prevent corruption, right click the name of your flash drive in the left column. Once the box opens up, find "Eject" and click it to safely eject your flash drive.
 Turn on the PS3. On the front left of the console there are two slots that allow USB's to be inserted into them. Put your flash drive into one of them. After doing that, press the power button on the right-hand side of the console.
 Go under the music section of the XrossMediaBar, or the horizontal headings, and scroll down until you see the name of the flash drive that was plugged in moments before.
 You will notice all the music that you put onto the flash drive shows up in this folder. Go ahead and choose any song you want and press the X button on your controller once you have done so. Your music should now be playing.
 You can't put 3 Gigabytes (GB) of music onto a 2GB flash drive. Try using a flash drive with a bigger capacity.
 After that, hit X to press "Display All". Your files should show up now.

