 Yahoo has shut down its customer service phone number and now uses the Help Center as its main provider of customer service. Choose the topic that fits your situation, and you will either be linked to help articles, directed to the Help Community, or (more rarely) given a form to fill out that will get sent as an email.


Most of the email forms are only for reporting malicious activity. There is no direct email address for general customer support.
You can use the search bar at the top of the page to search for your specific problems. Be sure to include important keywords, such as "password", "locked account", or anything else related to your problem.;
, You can use the automated Password Reset tool to reset your forgotten password. You will need to have either a mobile phone number or alternate email address associated with your account in order to use this tool.
 members. You can use the community discussion pages to ask questions of other users. You may find that you get a response much faster this way than trying to go through the official support channels. Since this is a public forum, don't post any personal account information.
 a question on Twitter or Facebook. Like most companies these days, Yahoo! has a large social network presence. You can use these forums to ask questions directly to Yahoo!. Because these are public forums, a well-formulated question is much more likely to get a good response than an angry or ill-thought-out message.


Don't expect an answer right away.
Don't give out any personal information about your account over Facebook or Twitter.
See this guide for details on using Facebook, and this guide for details on using Twitter.
 If you use Yahoo Small Business, you can sign in to your account and get customer service via email or phone. This is not available for non-Small Business customers.


The phone number provided for Small Business India can only be reached from within India, and between 8:30am and 8:30pm Indian Standard Time.
 Neither the address for physical mail nor the headquarters phone number are intended for customer support. You may have better luck trying one of the methods above. If you are not seeking customer support, you may be interested in the Jobs link for job openings at Yahoo, or the Press Inquiries contact information for interview requests and similar.

