 Of course, sometimes you do want to go the most timeless birthday route of them all-that of a birthday party. Remember, there’s nothing wrong with letting yourself be a little bit self focused for your birthday, and so there’s nothing wrong with giving a party in celebration of your birthday!

, Make sure you have the necessary items, the place, and the people to have a party or get together that will be enjoyable to you and your guests.


At the very least, you’ll want to provide some refreshments to your guests. Know how many people you plan to invite and, depending on what sort of refreshments you decide on, crunch the numbers to be sure you’ll have enough food and drink for everyone.
Decide what you’ll serve. Are you having a full dinner or just drinks and appetizers? Think of who’s coming and consider what they might like. Are your guests more carnivores? Vegetarians? If you know your guests’ preferences, use that knowledge.
Is it winter? Summer? Consider the climate when planning your party. If it’s cold, warm dips and hot bread can be a relatively simple path. If your birthday falls in the warmer months (or if you live in a hotter region) cool drinks, fruits, and cold dips are great.
Backyards are made for parties. Be sure that if there’s a chance of rain, you have a backup plan-also consider whether your guests will be exposed to the sun, and look at possibilities for adding some shade if needed. Umbrellas or canopies can be rented at most party supply stores.
 Unless you’re throwing a massive ball at a French chateau, or a state dinner, and even if there’s some serious planning going into your party, i.e caterers and musicians, there’s really no need to overthink it. Parties can take some effort, but consider your guest’s enjoyment and plan a party that you would want to attend, and good times will be had.


A good birthday party involves guests enjoying themselves and celebrating the presence of the birthday girl or boy. Simple as that.
Activities and even food and drink are secondary to the general ambience-people having a good time.
Whether it’s a kid’s party, a backyard barbeque, or a champagne and hors’d’ouvres affair, creating a relaxing atmosphere where guests can mingle and enjoy life is the purpose.
No one likes to feel that something is expected of them at a party. Guests often like to help out with what needs doing at a party; enlisting offered help is great, but don’t demand your guest’s appreciation. Your guests should simply be allowed to enjoy the opportunity to spend social time with each other and you.
 If you’re hosting a house party or a shindig where you will be doing some of the legwork, enlist family and friends to come early to help with the preparations-and get to enjoy your birthday glow before the larger party gets started.
 Rather than accepting gifts, requesting contributions to the birthday party effort. Suggesting that guests bring drinks, snacks, particular dishes, plates, or even music or games is one way to involve the everyone in the putting on of the celebration, and lessen the economic burden on yourself. Also, when guests feel more involved, and feel that they have contributed to a party or gathering, they will feel more invested in the sense of camaraderie and community that a good party creates.


If you’re going for a full meal at your party, potlucks are a great way to make your friends a part of the cooking. Ask everyone to bring a dish, or create a signup sheet with an online invite service for coordination of dishes.
Know anyone who is known amongst friends for a special dish or dessert they make? Ask them if they would like to make it for your birthday-they’ll feel appreciated, and so will you!

