 As their teacher, your students will naturally look up to you. Be the person you want your students to be in the classroom.This means that you should extend to them the same respect, attention, care, and dedication that you hope to receive in return.


To encourage curiosity, for example, dig deeper into the material you are teaching. Ask open questions that you, yourself, don't know the answer to and encourage your students to help you search for the answers.
To encourage hard work and dedication, assign a class project that you participate in, as well. By working hard alongside them, you will be teaching by example.
To encourage attentiveness, have students take turns in front of the class giving presentations or demonstrations, and then stay alert and engaged. Be sure to ask questions and be generous with praise to show that you really connected with the material being taught.
 It’s okay to be strict or have pet peeves, but only if you’re open about it. Students like to know what to expect. Decide on your grading and classroom-conduct policies before the semester begins, discuss them at the start of class, and enforce the rules. If adjustments are necessary during the term, make them known, so that students are aware of the changes.


You can post rules and grading policies in your classroom or distribute them as handouts at the beginning of a term so that students have them available at all times.
This will also help settle disputes if a student tries to argue with you. Instead of looking like “the bad guy” for enforcing a rule, you can simply refer to a public poster or the handout for diplomatic back-up.
 If students are made to feel smart and capable, they tend to rise to that expectation.Don’t be afraid to set high expectations in your classroom, but be sure to give students the help and the tools they need to meet them. Most importantly, make sure your students know that you have faith in their abilities. , No one likes a pop quiz, as they tend to create both fear and anxiety among students, which is not conducive to learning. Some students may also view them as a threat, which can make learning feel like a punishment.


If you need to motivate your students to do their homework or learn material in a hurry, try offering rewards or prizes for good work. Pop-quizzes provide negative incentive for learning, but rewards or prizes offer positive incentive, which is much more effective. Plus, your students will feel flattered when you acknowledge their accomplishments.
 Students have good days and bad days, just like you. Give your students chances to make up for a bad grade or a bad day. If students make a mistake and aren’t given the opportunity to recover, they won’t have a reason to try. They will also resent you for limiting their chances at success.
 If students are overwhelmed with homework from your class, they will spend more time in class worrying about the homework than they will about learning new material. They will also resent you if your homework begins to heavily interfere with their after-school life.


Be modest with homework assignments and never assign busy work.
If you are going to assign homework, make it meaningful.
Appropriate homework loads will depend on your students' grade level, but make sure they don't go home with homework every single night and try to avoid giving homework on long weekends and Holidays. Not only does it give students a mental health break, but it gives you one, too, because you don't have endless grading!

, Tests are a fact of academic life, and students know this. Administering tests won’t make you less likeable, but be sure to use tests as a positive affirmation of knowledge. You don't want your students to see them as a threat or feel afraid or intimidated by the material you are asking them to learn.


Present tests as stepping blocks, not as traps or trip-ups.
 Throughout the term or semester, offer students the chance to anonymously express their opinions about what they like and don’t like about your class. This makes them feel heard and gives them a chance to help make their classroom experience more enjoyable. It also helps you, as their teacher, to know what you’re doing right and wrong, and how to improve.

