 All of the materials are inexpensive and can be picked up at your local builders supply store.;
, Use shelf paper or some other large sheets of paper (the plain white back of gift wrap or newspaper end rolls can work if you're on a budget), and tape the pieces together so that you have one sheet that is large enough to hold the design for the "footprint" of the coffin. Note that this is not the template for the base, which will be slightly smaller, but rather it is the template for the coffin with the side panels secured to the outside edges of the base. This template allows you to obtain the correct measurements for the sides of the coffin and the correct angles at which to cut the sides. See figure 1 for the dimensions of the coffin. Use a t-square or carpenter's square, and first draw the two perpendicular lines in the middle. Then draw the top and bottom edges, and finally connect the endpoints of the lines to form the sides as shown.
 The sides of the coffin will be 1' high, so take one of the 4' X 8' plywood panels and cut it lengthwise into four 1' X 8' pieces (you'll need three of these to make the sides). Use a circular saw to cut the side panels according to the dimensions in figure 1. Make sure to cut the side edges of the panels at the correct angles so that they will fit together. For example, the panel at the "head" of the coffin should be 24" (2') wide, and the edges should be cut at 53-degree angles.
 The side panels will be nailed to the outside edges of the base, so the base is slightly smaller (3/4" smaller on each side, assuming you are using 3/4" thick plywood) than the overall footprint you drew before. Tape sheets of shelf paper together as you did in step 2, and draw the base--once again drawing the two perpendicular lines first--according to the dimensions in figure 2.
 Clamp your paper template over the remaining 4' X 8' sheet of plywood, so that the vertex of the widest point of the coffin touches the edge. Use your circular saw to cut out the base of the coffin around the template.
 Use this step only if you want a top for the coffin. Place the base over what is left of the 4' X 8' sheet of plywood so that it fits entirely on top of the wood. Trace around the edges, and then remove the base. Cut out the top of the coffin following the lines you traced.
 Now it's time to put it all together.


Dry fit the sides of the coffin together and to the base. You just want to make sure that everything will fit together correctly before you start gluing the pieces.
Glue or screw the side panels to the base and to each other. The bottom edge of each side panel should be flush with the bottom of the base. Drive 1 5/8" screws through the side panels and into the base, and use glue, screws, or biscuits to secure the side edges of the panels together.
 If there are any holes or dents in your plywood, fill them with wood plugs or filler. Then stain the wood or paint it as desired. You can be as creative as you like in your decorations. If you wish to line the inside of the coffin with drapery or other fabric, you needn't worry about staining the inside. Simply glue or staple the fabric to the inside.
 If you're using the coffin for burial purposes, you can just nail the lid on. Otherwise, attach a piano hinge to one of the long edges of the coffin, and attach the hinge to the lid.

