 One popular rule of thumb to consider when it comes to budgeting for home maintenance is the 1 percent rule. According to this rule, you should budget between 1 and 2 percent of the purchase price of your home for annual maintenance and repairs. If your home is older or you live somewhere with inclement weather, you should budget around 2 percent or higher.For example, if you bought a home that cost $300,000, you should save between $3,000 and $6,000 annually for maintenance.
The money that you save using this method should be used to cover the expenses associated with home repair, such as the cost of supplies or contractors.
 You can also prepare for maintenance expenses by budgeting $1 per square foot of your home each year. This rule may make more sense if you own a large home with a low property value. Although your home is not worth as much, you will still have a large area that needs repairs.For example, if your home is 2,000 square feet, you should budget $2,000 a year for maintenance.
 Different parts of your home will eventually wear out and need to be repaired or replaced. You should estimate when you might have to hire a contractor or purchase something new. This will help you put together a budget that meets your needs.The average lifespan for different appliances and parts of your home is estimated at:

Roof – 20-25 years
Heating system – 25 years
Refrigerator – 20 years
Freezer – 20 years
Clothes dryer – 18 years
Range/oven – 18 years
Room air conditioner – 15 years
Clothes washer – 13 years
Water heater – 13 years
Central air conditioner – 12 years
Dishwasher – 12 years

, Once you have decided on a saving strategy, you should begin saving as soon as possible. Large home repair or maintenance projects can be extremely expensive, and it is important that you have enough saved to meet those needs and not rely on credit. Open a savings account at your local bank and begin depositing a budgeted amount of money each month for home maintenance.For example, the average roof replacement costs between $4,000 and $8,000.

