 Kissing isn't just about paying attention to what you and your partner's lips are doing. Your whole body should be involved in the act of making out to achieve the most sensual and pleasurable experience possible. The way your partner moves the rest of his/her body while you are kissing can tell you a lot about how they are feeling and what they think about your performance.



Positive signs to look for: Your partner pulling you closer, squeezing you with his/her hands, kissing and caressing with a sense of intense urgency, breaking into random smiles or giggles, or frequent sighing. If you notice that your partner reacts in a particularly positive way to certain actions, be sure to take note. Your partner will appreciate your attentiveness and definitely recognize that you are making an impressive effort to understand what makes them feel the best.

Negative signs to look for: Your partner pulling away, pushing your shoulder away, not touching you at all with his/her hands, barely moving his/her lips, or trying to close his/her lips as much as possible to force you to stop.
 A mini massage of these sensitive areas can be extremely arousing. Lightly run your fingers and gently run your thumb in a sweeping motion over these areas.
 You can be a little more rough with these areas. A tight squeeze of your partner can send chills throughout their body. If you're feeling particularly sassy, give your partner a little butt squeeze. You'll be able to tell where they like to be touched by their body language.
 Move your fingers and/or thumb gently back and forth in a swaying motion to sweetly show your partner that you're there.


While women generally put their hands on a man's shoulders and men generally wrap their arms around a woman's waist, your position will more practically depend on the height difference between you and your partner.
That being said, the placement isn't really important, the recognition of each other is what counts.
 Then go in for the kiss. This slight moment of visual recognition coupled with a light touch can be subtly pleasant.
 These gentle pulls really say "I want you."

