 One of the first steps in buying natural beef is knowing what the labels on your food mean. These labels, and the meanings behind them, vary from country to country. Understand how your country labels food in order to buy the best and most natural products on the commercial market.


In the end, food that is sold in commercial markets is only as good as the actual regulations enforced by the countries in which they are sold. That means when you go to your local supermarket, a label doesn't mean anything unless your country's leadership has effectively regulated the food according to the label. In order to know how this works, you'll need to research the applicable governmental departments that deal with food safety in your country of residence.;
, Some smaller commercial shops may sell natural beef products, and other noncommercial markets often sell local, unprocessed natural beef cuts. Find a selection of markets near you that sell natural beef products.


Often, small open markets around the world facilitate the buying of natural, local beef and other foods from local farmers to bypass the commercial process and sell their products directly to consumers. Look for these small open markets in your area for a chance of finding the freshest, most natural food products locally on market.
 No matter where food is sold, whether it is a quality shop or an open market, there is no guarantee that it will be natural. In order to buy natural beef, look for specific labels that will prove its lack of processing or alteration.


Look for non-antibiotic labeling. Beef that has not been treated with antibiotics will clearly display this fact on the packaging, in many cases.
Look for proof of the animal being fed a natural diet. For beef cattle, this means grass. Grass is the natural diet for cows and steers, but many farmers choose to feed corn, which lessens the natural quality of the meat. Look for proof of grass-fed beef products.
 Do additional research to make sure that farmers are telling the truth about their products. In some cases, the consumer may be able to visit the farm to make sure that the labels on food are correct.
 One of the things that buyers don't often think about is that without effective logistics, the products they buy are useless. Make sure that you have a strategic plan for purchasing and using perishable beef products.


Provide for transportation of meat products. This is especially important if you are buying natural beef in bulk. Many people buy in bulk as part of food co-ops, and for these kinds of purchases, transportation is a very essential factor.
Consider long-term storage for natural beef products. Usually, this consists of freezing the meat for later use. Assuring that you have freezer space is another important part of providing logistics for these purchases.

