 There are lots of summer camps around the United States that are now food-allergy friendly, either designed especially for campers with food allergies or that welcome them. Many of these camps have eliminated allergens from the premises, have guidelines for allergic crises, and have medical professionals on site who are trained to use epinephrine. Start your research online and take a look.One way to start is simply to google “Food allergy friendly camps” and sift through the results. Some camps are entirely allergy-friendly, while others like Medomak Family Camp have nut allergy free weeks.
Another good resource is the Food Allergy Resource and Education (FARE) website. FARE has compiled a list of allergy-free camps, from Brant Lakes Camp in New York State to Camp Westminster in Roscommon, Michigan.
You can follow links provided on the FARE site to individual camps. For example, Camp Emerson in Massachusetts accommodates food allergies and other dietary conditions like celiac disease. They keep a team of health professionals, registered dieticians, and special chefs and all employees are trained to use epinephrine.;
, Unfortunately, allergy-friendly camps aren’t vetted, certified, or accredited, so you’ll need to do your own follow up research. Once you’ve found a number of promising leads, look more closely at each camp to make sure that they will be safe for your child.Look more closely at websites and learn about camps’ staff, facilities, and guidelines for allergies. Are there strict no-nut policies in place, for instance? Do the camps serve special meals to allergic camps and segregate foods or are all meals allergen-free?
Try to find out more about the availability of medical attention, in an emergency. Does the camp have trained nurses on staff? Also, how far is the camp from the nearest medical facility or emergency room?

, Consider calling camps in person to communicate your concerns about allergies. Ask for specifics about things like food, facilities, activities, access to medical aid, and how the camp will accommodate your child.Ask what experience the camp has had with allergy emergencies in the past and how they responded. Also, how does the camp keep track of campers’ allergy needs? How do they ensure that campers are kept safe?
Ask as well who the camp’s primary health care worker is and what his or her credentials are. Is the person a registered nurse, for example? Who is responsible if the primary staff member is absent?
Try to confirm where the nearest hospital is located and if the hospital has a doctor on call at all times. Also, ask about possible outings and where the nearest medical facility will be in relation to the day trippers.
See if you can read reviews of the camp online or if you can talk to other parents who have sent their kids to that camp.

