 An important part of developing a more tolerant outlook is learning to appreciate and value difference. People who value difference and diversity are generally more tolerant of others, and are less stressed by ambiguity and uncertainty. Intolerance can effectively narrow down and simplify an ever-changing world, making it easier to comprehend because it ignores the variety and complexity.


Adopting a more open-minded outlook and exposing yourself to views and cultures that are different from your own can help you to become more tolerant.
Talk to people you don’t know, and read newspapers or websites that you don’t normally look at.
Talk to people of a variety of ages and cultures., Research has shown that intolerance of ambiguity or the inability to accept uncertainty, are key personality traits of people who are less tolerant of others. Research conducted on a national level has shown that countries whose people are more accepting of uncertainty tend to be more accepting of dissent, tolerant of deviance, less risk averse and more positive towards young people.You can try to become more accepting of uncertainty by thinking more about answers than questions.
The idea is that if you are always focused on finding an answer you begin to think that there is only one answer, and the answer is constant and unchanging.
There are often many different answers to the same question, and if you stay open-minded and curious you will become more aware of the differences and more tolerant of this ambiguity., A good way to become a more tolerant person is to educate yourself more deeply about other people and cultures. Often when people display a lack of tolerance for somebody, it is in part because they feel alienated or uncertain about what the other person is doing or saying. Take the time to learn about different cultures and belief systems. Don’t be afraid to ask questions, but always do this in a respectful and polite way.For example, you could find out about different ways of celebrating significant events.
You can also expose yourself to new experiences to demystify things that might have seemed strange or alien to you before.`

, Understanding the context and roots of your intolerant feelings may help you to recognize and challenge them. Think about why you've been judgmental toward others in the past. Were you raised to believe that certain people are inferior to you, or have you had negative experiences? Diagnose why you feel a certain way about a certain group of people.


For example, perhaps you grew up in a household where it was common to hear derogatory comments about people of a certain race or religion. Or, perhaps you had some negative experiences with someone from a different race or religion and those experiences have contributed to your ideas about those people.
 Sometimes people who don’t feel happy in themselves or have low or negative self-esteem are those most likely to be intolerant of others. This intolerance can be a reflection of how somebody feels about himself. If you feel more secure and confident in yourself you may find you are more open-minded and tolerant of other people., One interesting way to try to become more tolerant is to practice dealing with thoughts that you find intolerable. This is a technique that psychologists use, and it can be a useful way to address intolerance. It works on the principle that it’s hard to maintain a difficult thought, and that trying to do this will help you learn to handle difficult situations.


We tend to flee from or avoid difficult thoughts, which can lead to an intolerant, impatient or unsympathetic outlook.
Pick a difficult thought and spend at least ten seconds each day thinking about it.
For example, if the idea of changing your religion is intolerable to you, then you might think “I am going to renounce my religion and become a Buddhist (or another religion that is different from your own).”
Then analyze what happens next. Do you have a physical reaction? What are the next thoughts that come into you mind?