 You may decide to use different methods, if you are encouraging your toddlers or parents to participate in learning, than if you would do it for yourself.;
, If you are a book-lover or researcher, then this may give you the background needed to begin your understanding of Christmas. Consider the following research topics when looking into Christmas origins.


When was Jesus Christ born? Most scholars, both Biblical and otherwise, agree that Jesus was not born on December 25th. Rather, this date was chosen because The Church could use, overcome and deemphasizethe winter solstice celebrations that were commonly celebrated at the time. The Roman Catholic church is reported to have chosen this date in the 4th century.
Read about the story of the Nativity. Many books, in addition to the Bible, are written specifically on this subject. They can shed light on the customs and traditions associated with the story of the Nativity.
Study the intersection of Christian stories and pagan celebrations. The winter solstice included many celebrations to pagan gods. The customs of the Roman Festival of Saturnalia may be the common origin of giving presents. The druids brought home mistletoe decorations. St. Nicholas ("Saint Nick"/"Santa Claus") was a bishop and cardinal who was said to give secret gifts -- and is celebrated in the Netherlands and other countries as the patron saint of children.
 Our constitutional freedoms may not always continue, but our freedom in Christ — including our freedom as we suffer for Christ can. Fear the situation where you’re relying upon civic and government institutions to protect the Christian rights. They will not unless they want to. The job of the Church is to get the Christian story right, which is comprised of Christ-alive, God incarnate (in the flesh), plus transformed, believing individuals.
 You can create a fun game to play with your family, which explains common Christmas traditions and whether they are associated with pagan events or contain Christian messages.
Jesus said, "Whatever you do to the least of my children you do to me!"

, Many cultures have a rich tradition of collecting figures for the Nativity. This is an especially good way to embrace Christmas with children, because you can study each figure and what it represents.


In Italy, the Nativity scene, or "presepio", changes throughout the holiday season. They are set up on December 8th and taken down on the Epiphany, on January 6th. The baby Jesus appears in the Nativity on December 25th, and the wise men move closer and closer to him to illustrate their journey. This is an exciting way to get children to act out the Nativity story.
 Remove the modern versions of Christmas songs and regularly sing "Angels We Have Heard on High," "Away in a Manger" and "The First Noel." These hymns are uplifting and meaningful, so raising your voice may help you understand the feeling of the season, as well as its deeper significance.
 Midnight Mass, as it's often called, is a service specially made to celebrate Christmas, so it can feel more meaningful and emotional than regular church services. Bring your family, hold candles and discuss what you liked about the special event when you are done.
 Many churches and schools put on these plays, and having a part in one can create a deeper feeling of belonging and understanding.

