 Many recipes will ask you to make the sauce’s foundation and then simmer it for a certain amount of time. This will “reduce” the sauce. Essentially, this means to thicken the sauce’s consistency. When you reduce a sauce, the ingredients develop through a period of simmering into a thicker, richer, more flavorful substance.The longer you simmer the sauce, the thicker it will become and the more it will “reduce.”The most commonly reduced sauces are tomato sauce, Béchamel sauce, balsamic reduction sauce, red wine reduction sauce and most sauces that begin with meat drippings.White sauces typically aren't reduced.
 Once you’ve created the foundation of your sauce, reduce the heat to low to bring it down to a simmer. You’ve reached a “simmer” when you see tiny, continuous bubbles breaking the surface of the sauce. You’ll also see irregular wisps of steam rise up from the sauce. As you’re bringing your sauce down to a simmer, stir it frequently.








It’s best to stay with the sauce at least until a steady simmer is achieved.
Avoid turning your back to do something else at this stage. Keep an eye on the sauce.
 You may need to adjust the heat between medium-low and low to maintain simmering for an extended period of time. Once you’ve achieved a steady simmer, you can leave the sauce alone for longer periods of time without too much worry. You do need to return to the sauce to stir it occasionally. Regulating the heat properly and frequent stirring helps to prevent a sauce form getting burned. Keep a close eye on this.









If it does burn and you don't notice, you'll end up stirring charred bits from the bottom of the pan into your sauce.
Avoid scraping anything against the bottom of the pan if you've burned the sauce.
Some sauces need more frequent stirring than others, so stay with your sauce for a while until you get a feel for how much stirring is required.
Regulate the heat as needed to maintain the simmer., Some recipes will give you specific directions how long something needs to simmer. Others will tell you to simmer until you’ve reached the thickness you want. Many sauces can be simmered for hours, gradually growing thicker and more flavorful over time. Italian tomato sauce is a great example of a sauce that can be simmered over a period of hours to “reduce” it.









The longer the sauce is simmered, the thicker and more “reduced” it becomes. The flavors become infused and rich.
As long as you stir your sauce occasionally and maintain a steady simmer by regulating the temperature, your reduction will go smoothly.