 At the beginning of the ceremony, you will want to light a fire big enough to completely destroy all of the flags you will be burning. You can use a natural gas burner or light a traditional fire using wood. You may also want to consider setting up some kind of stand to hold the fire and catch the ashes.Before you begin your flag disposal ceremony, you will want to make sure that you have properly folded your flag. You can ensure that it is properly folded by incorporating a flag folding ceremony into your larger disposal ceremony.Make sure that you are following the local fire codes and ordinances.
 Lay the individually folded flags in the fire. Do not let them touch the ground. Avoid stacking the flags on top of each other. If the fire is small, only burn as many flags as you can lay in it without stacking them.Because many modern flags are treated with chemicals that can burn explosively and give off toxic fumes, burning your flag may cause an accident. Be sure to contact your local fire department to ensure that you are meeting all safety codes.
You may want to consider a placing a grate in the flames that will hold the flags. This will keep them from sliding off the fire and onto the ground.
 Depending on style of ceremony you are holding, you may want to ask those in attendance to come to attention or salute as you burn the flags. If you are burning multiple flags, this may be a long process and standing for a long period of time might be difficult for older people. Consider letting everyone sit again after a few moments or when the first flag has burned.If you are leading the ceremony, you might say something like “will those in attendance please rise and honor the flag.”

, As the flag burns, you may also state the Pledge of Allegiance. This is a highly patriotic and symbolic gesture.However, because it references “God,” this might make those who adhere to different religious views feel uncomfortable. Try creating a ceremony that is inclusive and accommodating of the beliefs of the diverse groups that call the United States home.
 A period of silent reflection might be the best option if you are disposing of a flag and want to be respectful of everyone involved. A moment of silence allows the participants the opportunity to reflect on and honor the flag in their own way. This is a more inclusive way of conducting the ceremony.Before you begin the moment of silence, say something like “please join me in a moment of silent reflection.”

, You will want to allow the flag to burn completely in the flames. There should be not remnants of fabric left, only ashes. If you are using a wood fire, you may need to add more wood to keep the flame hot. If it is a gas flame and the flags are not burning properly, you may want to turn up the gas flow.Because of the chemicals they are treated with, different flags will burn at different speeds. Some are treated with flame resistant materials to prevent people from burning the flags in protest. These types of flags may require some lighter fluid to thoroughly burn.
 Once you have fully destroyed all of the flags, you will want to extinguish the fire and collect the ashes. To kill the fire, turn off the fuel supply or let the fire burn out on its own. Once you have collected the ashes, place them in a container and bury them in an appropriate place.The ashes can also be scattered over the grounds of important places, such as military parade grounds or battlefields.

