 A previous suicide attempt is one of the biggest indicators that a child may try again in the future. Even if your child seems to be doing better now, they are still at risk, so keep an eye on their behavior and ensure they are getting any mental health care they need., Children who have been diagnosed with anxiety, depression, a conduct disorder, schizophrenia, or bipolar disorder are at increased risk for committing suicide. The risk increases even more if a child has co-occurring disorders, or more than one mental health diagnosis.If you think your child may have a mental health disorder, take them to the doctor so they can get a diagnosis and appropriate care.
 A stressful home life can increase a child’s suicide risk. So can difficulties at school or with friends. If your child seems to be struggling to cope with events in their life, keep a close eye on them for other warning signs of depression or suicidal behavior.Factors that increase stress at home include the death of a family member (especially by suicide), a divorce, or abuse.
If your child’s grades are slipping, they talk about not wanting to go to school, or they no longer spend time with their friends, it could signal that they are having problems at school.
 Bullies and their victims are both at increased risk for suicidal behavior. Ask your child whether bullying happens at their school, and keep an eye out for indicators that your child may be a victim or a perpetrator.Victims of bullying may act anxious about going to school, have unexplained injuries, or seem to lose or break their possessions frequently.
Aggressive, quick-tempered children are more likely to be bullies.
 Gay and lesbian young people are at increased risk for having mental health problems and committing suicide. This is particularly true when their family or community is not supportive of their orientation.Take note of your child's media usage and TV/film preferences to look for hints that they aren't sure about their sexual orientation.
You might also start a dialogue with your child about homosexuality by using a scene from a television show or movie. Ask, "They seem to genuinely care for one another. How do you feel about people of the same gender being in love? Is that something that comes up at school?"

, If your child talks about death, says they want to die, or makes other vague references to death such as “going away,” they may be suicidal. Writing or drawing about death or the afterlife is also a red flag., A suicidal child may start acting in strange or uncharacteristic ways. If your outgoing child becomes withdrawn and quiet, they may be in trouble. Similarly, a cautious child might start acting reckless or defiant if they’re thinking about suicide., If your child starts giving their belongings away, they may be planning suicide. Pay particular attention if they start getting rid of items they previously treasured, or if they say they won’t need their possessions anymore.Start a dialogue by saying, "Jessie, you gave your lucky baseball glove away to Rob. What made you do that?"

, If your child is thinking about committing suicide, they may say goodbye to friends and family members as if for the last time. They may also arrange to visit loved ones they haven’t seen in a while.Goodbye letters are another major warning sign that your child may be suicidal.
 Kids who are depressed may sleep too much or suffer from insomnia. They might also lose their appetite or overeat, which can cause changes in weight.You might say, "Joey, you don't seem to have much of an appetite lately. Want to talk to me about that?"

, Suicidal kids and teens may injure themselves or do dangerous things, such as driving recklessly, using drugs, or engaging in unsafe sex. If you find out your child is doing any of these things, seek help for them right away., If your child talks about dying or expresses feelings of hopelessness, talk to them. Don’t brush off their comments or assume they’re just being dramatic.While many of the kids and teens who talk about suicide never attempt it, the risk is too great to ignore. Even if your child doesn’t intend to commit suicide, the fact that they brought it up still indicates that they are in pain and need professional help.
Say, "You just said that you wanted to die. Are you serious about that?" If they aren't open to talking, you might add, "As your parent, I have to take comments like that seriously. If you don't want to talk to me, I think I will set up an appointment for you to see a counselor. How does that sound?"

, Bring up the warning signs you’ve noticed. Let your child know that you care about them and want to help them. If they tell you they’ve been struggling, empathize with them and encourage them to seek professional help.For instance, you could open the conversation by saying, “I’ve noticed that you seem really sad and withdrawn lately, and I’m worried about you. Do you want to talk about anything?”
Let your child know that they don’t have to be ashamed of seeking help. Say something like, “I know it’s hard to believe now, but you don’t have to keep feeling like this. Talking to a therapist will help you feel a lot better.”

, You might feel scared or helpless, but avoid letting your emotions get the better of you when you talk to your child. They will be more likely to open up to you if you stay levelheaded and calm.Avoid making your child feel judged or criticized. This will make them clam up, and it could worsen any feelings of guilt they’re having.
 Guide the conversation and help your child open up by asking gentle questions about how they have been feeling. If your child avoids the topic of suicide, bring it up by saying something like, “Have you been thinking about trying to kill yourself?”Gain further info that can determine how severe your child's suicidal thoughts are. This many include asking "Have you thought about how you would do that?" to see if they have an actual plan.
 Take your child to a doctor or counselor for an evaluation, regardless of whether you think they are actually planning suicide or not. If your child admits to planning suicide, take them to the emergency room for immediate help.Do not leave your child alone if you think they are planning to commit suicide.

