 Anybody can join an orchestra. However, it's not the age, but the talent in which the musician possesses. Make sure you are very familiar with the instrument that you play, as it is important to understand your part in the orchestra,;
, The conductor is the most vital part of an orchestra. He/she controls when the orchestra should start a piece, how loud the orchestra should play, and the speed in which everyone plays it. If you are not paying attention, it may hold up time for everyone else, or even worse, missing out in a concert.


It is important that you understand the hand movements of a conductor when he/she guides the orchestra. Here are some vital movements to know in order to keep up with the group:

Giant upward beginning movement: Get your positions ready! This means to prepare yourself to start a piece.
Slight movements at the beginning: This is the basic beat you will be playing. Keep this beat in mind the whole time, but make sure you still have your eyes on the conductor.
Large downward movement: Start playing the piece!
As you are playing, upward movement: This means the conductor is at the last beat of a measure.
As you are playing, a downward movement: This means the conductor has reached the first beat of a measure. If you get lost, this is the time to catch up!


When playing in an orchestra, make sure you position your music stand in a way so that you can see both the music and the conductor. You should also have the first and last measures memorized, as these are very important parts to look at the conductor,

, In an orchestra, it is extremely important that you are able to hear what the other players are doing. If you are in your own little world playing an entirely different melody, not only it would be extremely embarrassing, but you are letting all of the other orchestra members down.
 It is important that you keep your proper position/posture in an orchestra. Slouching in a chair will only make you sound worse. If you have a habit of sitting in the wrong position, train yourself.
 Always keep your legs in a formal, but relaxed position.
 Not only is talking rude, but if it were to happen at a concert, you could miss something from the conductor.
 Always look around. If somebody is playing something differently than you, try to match them. If you notice that the conductor is showing a different style than you, find a way to express with your instrument what the conductor portrays.
 Although you should play each note perfectly, mistakes occasionally occur. If you do make a mistake, just do your best to get back with the ensemble as quickly as possible.
 Always make sure your playing skills are he best you can do. Relying on the other members to pull your weight will let everyone down.

