 Face a mirror so you can watch as you practice. This is very similar to the method for how girls shake their hips, but for guys it will be less exaggerated and the move will be slightly different.This stance will provide stability as you perform the dance move.
Standing in this position will help you use your core muscles to perform the dance move.
You want to avoid using your back and leg muscles to swing your hips. The move will not look right and you could end up straining you muscles if not done properly.
 You will move your hips along with your foot to the right side. Tuck your pelvis under. This will prevent your moves from being wide and exaggerated.
Rotate your pelvis forward, then to the right.
Rotate it towards the back, then to the left again.
While you do this, keep your movements subtle and keep your pelvis tucked under.
When a guy does a hip shaking move in dance, it is typically a smaller more understated move than when a girl performs this type of dancing.
If you are doing this move correctly, your upper torso should stay still and in place. Your hips will not swing out dramatically to the side, but rather rotate in a small circle with your pelvis tucked under.
 Step out a little with your left foot to start. Then move your hips toward your foot.Tuck your pelvis under and rotate your hips forward and to the left.
Rotate the hips backwards, then back to the right.
Keep your motions smaller and not exaggerated.
 Combine the moves from the left and right to complete the dance move. Remember to keep your knees slightly bent and your movements loose.Tuck your pelvis under.
Rotate your hips forward, then to the right.
Then, rotate your hips backwards and to the left.
Repeat the same thing on the other side, and return to your original position.
Make sure your hips are moving independently. Your upper torso and chest should stay in place.
If your hips are swing too far to the side, you probably aren't tucking your pelvis forward and under as you move.
Think about how dancers like Usher and Michael Jackson move their hips. These are smaller, less emphasized motions than female dancers use, but are still full of energy!

