 Lipids are biologically important organic compounds that are highly energetic molecules. This means that they contain a lot of latent heat that is stored in the numerous C-H bonds that are abundant in these compounds. Lipids are organic esters of glycerol and fatty acids. This is the crude form of most fats that are ingested into the body as food rich in these compounds. These lipids are degraded in the small intestine into fatty acids and glycerol molecules by the action of the pancreatic enzyme that is called lipase. This is one of several enzymes that are secreted by the exocrine pancreas into the duodenum. There they are activated chemically into its enzymatically active form. This form of enzyme is responsible for the digestion of these esters into its fatty acids and glycerol constituents. These compounds in turn are absorbed in the epithelium of the small intestine into the blood circulation.;
, Fatty acids are highly energetic organic compounds that contain a lot of saturated C-H bonds. These C-H bonds contain a lot of calories that can be released by oxidation processes using oxygen in the liver cells of the body. The long chain of saturated CH bonds that are contained in these acids are used to generate many ATP molecules in oxidative metabolic reactions of these acids in the presence of oxygen and specific enzymes for this purpose. The oxidation of fatty acids is a very useful metabolic process for the generation of energy rich ATP molecules. The energetic yield in the form of ATP molecules from the metabolic combustion of one fatty acid is much more than that obtained from the combustion of one glucose molecule. This is so due to the high content of C-H bonds in fatty acids in comparison with glucose molecules.
 Fatty acids are a convenient source of energetic ATP molecules that can be easily obtained using metabolism that is specific for these acids. This metabolism is especially efficient and useful in diabetic patients who are unable to exploit their glucose molecules for the generation of ATP compounds. Fatty acids are hydrophobic organic compounds that easily cross the phospholipid bilayer of the cellular membrane of the liver cells. This physiological property is not possible for glucose molecules which are more hydrophilic in its chemical structure. Fatty acids are used biologically in the body to synthesize cholesterol molecules. These steroidal compounds are then incorporated into the cellular membrane of most cells of the body. Also fatty acids are used as convenient source of bio fuel for the production of ATP molecules for the body.
 Clinically speaking, saturated fatty acids are the less desired compounds for the body. This is so due to their insolubility in the blood plasma. This problem can trigger precipitation of these fatty acids in the various blood arteries. This can in turn cause blockage of these arteries with the consequence of blocking the supply of oxygen and nutrients to the various tissues of the body. Stroke is one form of arteries blockage that can occur due to excess saturated fatty acids in the body. More useful fatty acids to the body are the unsaturated compounds of this type of molecules. Unsaturated fatty acids with CIS configuration of the double bonds are very useful fatty acids for the body. They are usually water soluble due to the existence of dipole moment within their structure that is located across the CIS double bonds of these compounds.
 Trans double bonds are not useful in this respect due to the absence of dipole moments in these compounds. Fatty acids are used in the chemical industry to produce various types of commercial forms of soaps. Soap is an organic compound that is used for cleaning purposes. The principle behind the use of these compounds in the cleaning industry relies on its ability to solubilize both organic and inorganic materials at the same time. This fact is especially useful for removing oily material that is usually not soluble in water alone. Variable length of the saturated organic chain can impart variable chemical properties to the soap.

