 To dress nicely, it is important to have some classic pieces in your wardrobe that will never go out of style. Classic pieces are articles of clothing that are generally not too extreme or dated. Instead, they are generally simple and elegant, like a navy blue blazer or a well-crafted black V-neck t-shirt. Though they may sound simple, you can always dress these pieces up with accessories.


Basic, classic pieces are generally easier to mix and match, which means that they can be used in a variety of outfits.;
, To go along with your classic articles of clothing, buy some accent pieces that will make your outfits pop, even if they are simple. These accents could be bright colors that you don’t normally wear, or patterns that pop.


For example, you could take an outfit that is as simple as a white t-shirt and a navy blue skirt, and make it interesting with a patterned sweater.
 When going through your wardrobe, consider whether or not you can use each article of clothing in at least two different outfits. Mixing and matching is an important part of dressing nicely everyday.


While you most likely can’t purchase a new outfit for every day of the week, you can buy clothing that you can mix and match to create entirely new and exciting outfits.
 Certain clothes have cuts that look differently on different body types. Look for clothes that flatter your body and make you feel confident. Each person has their own idea of what they find flatters their bodies the most, so spend some time trying on different kinds of clothes. For example:


If you have a ‘Pear’ shape, which means that you have wider hips and a slimmer bust, you could try out an open-neck top, or a dress with an empire waist., Part of dressing nicely means giving away or selling old clothes. Clothes get worn out, especially if you wear the same piece a lot, and worn out clothing does not necessary look very classy—unless you are going for a look that involves faded clothes and torn jeans.


If you find that a shirt has a stain, try your best to get it out, but if the stain remains, it might be time to toss the shirt. Clothes with stains tend to look a little sloppy.
 Picking out clothing that complements your skin tone can make a great outfit that much nicer. Of course, always keep in mind that if you don’t like a color or don’t feel like it looks good on you, don’t wear it. Part of dressing nicely is dressing yourself in things that make you confident and happy; if a color matches your skin tone, but you don’t like it anyway, don’t wear it. General guidelines for skin tones and clothing colors include:


Very light skin tones: Ice tones, pale pinks, greys, baby blues, navies, and grass greens.
Medium-light skin tones: Pastel colors, cool reds, and blues. Avoid orange.
Medium skin tones: Metallic tones, jewel tones, plums, wine reds, bright blues, deep purples.
Medium-dark skin tones: Deep colors like dark greens, bright blues, pale yellows, warm reds.
Very dark skin tones: Bright colors like burgundies, cobalt blue, bright orange, and red.
 Another part of dressing nicely is keeping your clothes in tip-top shape. This means hanging up clothes when you can, and ironing folded clothes. If you are not sure how to iron your clothes, click here.


You can also try steam pressing your clothes.

