 Wash one medium red bell pepper, one medium green bell pepper, and peel one head of garlic and one small yellow onion. Carefully use a sharp knife to chop half of the red bell pepper, half of the green bell pepper, and all of the onion. Mince two cloves of the garlic and set it aside. You should chop the vegetables to get:1 cup (150 g) of chopped onion
3/4 cup (130 g) of chopped red bell pepper
3/4 cup (130 g) of chopped green bell pepper;
, Heat a large sauce pot or Dutch oven over medium heat and add 1 tablespoon of olive oil. When the oil shimmers, add 1 pound (450 g) of lean ground beef. Cook the beef and break it up with a spoon as it cooks. Once it's brown and cooked to 160 degrees F (71 C), scoop it out of the pan and set it aside. Drain the grease from the pan if there's more than a tablespoon.For an even leaner soup, consider substituting ground turkey breast for the beef. This will also cut out some of the grease that ends up in the soup.
 Add another 1 tablespoon of olive oil to the large sauce pan and keep the heat on medium. Add the chopped vegetables and stir them. Saute the vegetables for 3 minutes or until they begin to soften a little. Add the minced garlic and cook the mixture for another 30 seconds.The garlic should just begin to smell fragrant. Avoid overcooking the garlic since it can burn quickly.
 Return the cooked beef to the sauce pan with the vegetables. Add the remaining ingredients and stir them well so that the seasonings are combined. You'll need to add:2 14.5-ounce (about 825 g total) cans of petite diced tomatoes
1 15-ounce (450 g) can of tomato sauce
1 14.5-ounce (428 ml) can of beef broth
2 1/2 tablespoons of chopped fresh parsley, plus more for garnish
1/2 teaspoon of dried basil
1/4 teaspoon of dried oregano

, Taste the soup at this point and add salt and pepper to taste. Turn up the heat to medium-high so that the soup comes to a boil. Turn the heat down to low and cover the pan. Simmer the soup so it bubbles lightly for about 30 minutes.Take off the lid and stir the soup every once in a while to keep it from sticking to the bottom of the pan.
 You'll need to cook the rice while the soup simmers. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for preparing 1 cup (185 g) of uncooked rice. Once the rice is cooked and fluffed, you can add it directly to the soup or let people stir the rice into their soup bowls. Garnish the soup with cheddar, mozzarella or fresh herbs just before serving it.You can use any type of rice for stuffed pepper soup. Consider using Jasmine, long-grain white, brown, or wild.
 If you won't be around your house to simmer the soup or you'd just like a hands-off method, you can carefully pour the soup into a slow cooker instead of simmering it on the stove. Cover the slow cooker and cook the soup on low for 5 to 6 hours or on high for 3 hours. Add the cooked rice before you're ready to serve the soup.Wait to garnish the soup with any fresh herbs (like parsley) or cheese until right before you're ready to serve it.

