 The mind loves creativity and if you will do the things which you love most there are chances that your mind will grow much rapidly than others. You must have seen children doing non serious tasks. For you these tasks can mean nothing but they are really helpful for the mental growth of children. Do some non serious activities and feel free to have fun with them. This mental growth comes as result of the intensity with which you are involved in your task. For being creative you need not to be a very good poet, singer or writer. What you've to do is the tasks which you enjoy doing. You can write a poem, draw a picture, can dance and it doesn't matter how bad they are!!, the only condition is that you are enjoying doing them.


Some of history's great personalities were in fact the most creative people. For example: Einstein, Pablo Picasso, Beethoven, Michelangelo ,'Leonardo da Vinci ,Vincent Van Gogh, Isaac Newton, Thomas Edison and many others. These people did what they wanted to do and attained great peak of success. Try to find about the life of these people and read their biographies and you will probably find the clue of their success.

Vincent Van Gogh was a very ordinary person and belonged to a poor family. The only interest in his life was to draw the pictures. He used to draw pictures whole day and night. It is the fact that Vincent Van Gogh wasn't able to sell even a single artwork in his lifetime. After many years his artwork was recognized by world. And today his artwork is so expensive that even rich people will not be able to buy it. His paintings are of million dollars worth.
Another great personality was Leonardo Da Vinci who made some of world's greatest art work like the Mona Lisa painting. Even today the scientists and various researchers are trying to find the secret of the smile of Mona Lisa painting. The one of great feature of Mona Lisa painting is that if you look from any of side the woman in painting will seem to gaze and smile at you. Leonardo was also an ordinary child and was very curious about world. It is said about him that he wanted to know everything. He was born in fourteen century but he was very ahead of his time. He was first to gave the idea some of the great discoveries e.g. contact lenses, airplane and many other machines. The main motive of telling about him is that Leonardo had done what he loved to do without taking any formal education in school or colleges.
 Notice and analyse carefully what you love doing most. There must be some activity, art or skill which you are master in. Develop those of your skills and talent. It doesn't matter what other people say and like what matters is that what do you like. It is your life and you will only decide what to do with it. But you need to be firm and disciplined in order to develop your passion. Knowing that you are mortal and you will die one day will help you in finding your purpose and goal in life. According to Steve Jobs- “Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life.


Almost everything--all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure--these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. -Steve Jobs
You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart. No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. And yet, death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it, and that is how it should be, because death is very likely the single best invention of life. It's life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new.”-Steve Jobs

, Patience plays a very important role in your journey to attain success. Sometimes your speed can be fast and sometimes slow. In both the cases you have to maintain your patience. Many a times things can be out of your control then you have to remain cool and calm. If you take decisions impatiently at that time ,the things can go even worse. You have to understand that nature has its own way and you have to respect it. Take gradual steps and wait for the right time. You will surely attain success with flying colors.
 A person's coolness can be measured by how he handles the embarrassment feelings or situations. There are times when the things doesn't happen as we expected. At those times our coolness can be considered. A cool person takes things casually and don't let the situations overwhelm him. He is the one who will not get distracted even in the worst situations.If you are a cool guy then you know how to ignore small things and take enjoy of every moment. A cool person shows maturity in moments where other people usually got hurt or emotional. He is one who know how to deal with the people of all ages. He may not be so intelligent but he is usually smart in his ways.
 This experience is full of joy and it can also help you to expand your mind. Discussion are also very helpful for getting new ideas and to solve our various problems. While discussing we should be careful not to convert the discussion into futile argument. While discussion can be very helpful, argument will take you nowhere!


In a discussion, we can solve problems by sharing our ideas with others, but in arguments we usually forgot the real purpose and we start focusing on proving ourselves right.
 Many situations will not be favorable for you, and you often won't get what you expected. But don't lose hope! Keep fighting and things are far more likely to turn out your way, and you'll also find that the very process of struggling strengthens and enhances your mind.

