 A lei can be made from any kind of fresh flowers — plumeria, roses, daisies and carnations are all popular choices — but you can choose any blooms, leaves or ferns from your garden.









You'll find it easier to make a lei from medium-sized flowers with sturdy stems and durable petals. Flowers with delicate petals that fall off or bruise easily are not a good choice.
To make one, single-strand 40" lei you will need approximately 50 blossoms. Try to pick each flower at the base of its stem to make sure the stamen remains intact.;
, Leave about 1/4 - 1/2 inch left.
 Cut a piece of thread, cotton string or fishing line 100" in length. Doubled over, this allows for a 40-inch lei with 5 inches at each end for tying together when you are finished.
 Take a large needle and thread the length of string through the eye, until it is doubled over. Tie the two ends of the string together to form a knot — this will act as a stopper for the threaded flowers.









Make sure to leave 4 or 5 inches of string hanging below the knot — this will be necessary to tie the lei once it's finished,
In Hawaii, they use a 12'' to 18'' steel lei needle to string the flowers — so if you can get your hands on one of these, that's great. Otherwise, any large needle will do., Take your first flower and pass the needle straight through the center of the face of the flower, all the way through to the back. Gently push the flower down along the string.









Alternatively, you can pass the needle up through the stem and out through the center of the flower. Which method you choose will depend on the type of flower you're working with.
Be very gentle when pushing the flower down the string — if you push too forcefully you could damage the flower or even rip it off.
 Continue to string the remaining blooms in the same fashion, passing the needle through the face or stem of each flower. You can have all of the flowers facing the same direction, or alternate for added texture.









Some lei-makers prefer to slide blossoms to the end in groups of five or so, which accelerates the process but can cause wear and tear on the flowers if you're not careful.
If you're working with different colored flowers, it's a good idea to separate them out into different bundles — this will allow you to work more quickly and avoid mixing up the order of the colors.
Continue adding flowers until the lei is approximately 40" in length. Hold it up around your neck in front of a mirror to ensure that you're happy with the number and placement of the flowers.
 When you've finished stringing all of the flowers, adjust the placement of the first and last flowers so they're nested together, and then tie the ends of the string in a square knot.









Leave the hanging ends of your knot in place until just before you present the lei – this way you can hold it by these strings and avoid touching the flowers.
Cut off the excess string and, if you like, add some curling ribbon for extra adornment. Now your lei is ready to be presented to its recipient!
A lei can be worn more than once. Store it in a plastic bag in the refrigerator between uses to keep it fresh. Mist lightly with water to keep it hydrated.

