 Dry skin is common in the winter, especially when the heaters are on and the moisture is being sucked out of the air. Moisturize unbroken skin with a thick cream to relieve itchiness at least twice a day, especially right after bathing.Keep baths and showers short and not too hot to reduce further drying of your skin.
 Soaps and household chemicals, certain fabrics, and cosmetics can elicit allergic reactions that cause your skin to be itchy. If you suspect one of these culprits, change or eliminate them one at a time to determine which is irritating your skin.Environmental allergens such as grass and pollen, plants such as poison ivy, and pet dander can cause skin irritation and you may want to discuss allergy testing with your physician.
Food allergies can also manifest as skin irritation. If you suspect you have a food allergy, begin a food journal where you write down everything you eat, and make an appointment to see your doctor to discuss allergy testing.
 Dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, scabies, lice, and chicken pox are common skin conditions from which you get itchy.Scabies is particularly common in children and is often overlooked as a diagnosis. Also called the itch mite, the scabies parasite burrows under the skin and its bites mimic an allergic reaction.Your doctor can recommend treatment for all of these conditions. Be sure to act promptly for greatest relief and to prevent spreading.
 If you know you have celiac disease, anemia, a thyroid disorder, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, shingles, cancer, or kidney or liver disease, consider that the itchiness might be a result of your illness.Itchiness as a result of these illnesses usually affects the entire body.
 Itchiness is a common side effect of many medications. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you are concerned about the medications you are taking.Antibiotics, antifungals, and narcotics commonly cause itchiness.
 If you are pregnant, you might be particularly itchy across your abdomen, breasts, thighs, and arms, as your skin accommodates the new life growing inside., Be sure to connect with your physician particularly if your itching persists more than two weeks and is not eased by home remedies or life-style changes.See a doctor sooner if your itch is associated with redness, fever, swelling, sudden weight loss, or extreme fatigue.
Talk to your doctor if you have vulvar itching. Yeast infections and vulvar psoriasis and eczema can be difficult for you to distinguish yourself and you need proper medical treatment via prescribed creams and oral medications.Males with jock itch may need antifungal medication. Men can get yeast infections, too. See your doctor for a check up.Anal itching can be a result of dietary irritants, hygiene, dermatological conditions such as psoriasis, pinworms (common especially in children) or hemorrhoids. See your doctor for a diagnosis and appropriate treatment.