 Learn the different styles, such as shonen (boys) and shoujo (girls), and the differences between them. Understand the techniques used.;
, A manga tells a story in pictures, and your story will be a little limited if all your characters are stick figures. Using your knowledge of the manga styles, develop an individual style instead of sticking to the stereotypes of manga. If you can't draw, find an artist, but you have to be an excellent writer to stand a chance finding a good artist.
 As with all stories, you'll need to plan well. Know exactly what's going to happen in your story, view it in your head like a movie or an anime before writing it out. If you are working with an artist, you'll need to give them a precise, vivid description or a basic storyboard for them to understand your script.
 When you were writing the script, you should have known exactly how you were going to lay out your manga, but if not, draw out the panels and draw sketches onto paper to represent characters. If you're working with an artist, ask them if they want to do this or if you should do it for them. At this stage, since you're not making the details, it doesn't matter if your artist doesn't fully understand the script and gets something wrong, as you'll be able to correct them or change it without destroying any solid work. Do not add in the speech bubbles yet.
 Flesh out the characters, turn your basic plan into a work of art. If you're working with an artist, leave this stage up to them. Still do not add in the speech bubbles.
 Alternatively, take a picture with your webcam or smartphone (it will be lower quality).
 A graphics tablet is an extremely good idea for using this, so you can edit anything with the same precision as with a pencil. Again, leave this stage to the artist if they have any graphics experience.
 If you intend to make a lot of manga on a weekly basis, you probably will not want to colour it, but a one-shot manga or a short graphic novel would be good in colour.
 Keep it clean - do not colour-code your speech bubbles or add in unnecessary effects. If you're working with an artist, you may want him or her to do some of the more complicated effects, but anybody can make ordinary speech bubbles.
 Full time Manga artist usually average out to about $30k to $35k yearly. obviously the more publicity you get the higher you will get paid.
Find a publisher in your own country. If this is your first manga, this is definitely the way to go. You may think that it will not sell, as it is not of Japanese origin, but with the increasing popularity of manga across the world, you may be surprised.
If you are determined to publish in Japan, however, prepare yourself for dedication and disappointment. Becoming a manga artist in Japan is not an easy thing to do, however, it isn't impossible. Try taking part in a contest that manga magazines hold. This is the easiest way to establish yourself in the Japanese manga industry.

