 The Na'vi people worship Eywa, who is considered connected to the whole of their land. They believe that all energy is borrowed from Eywa. Their daily life circulates around the ways of Eywa. Eywa is the very center of their lives, and they do everything according to Eywa's will. If you aren't religious, remember to stay spiritual.;
, Get outside and get 'wild fit.' Running, hiking, climbing trees, archery, self defense classes, swimming, gymnastics, horseback riding, and other outdoor activities are great.
 They hunt very often and are always moving, for survival. Build up your body to top standard and it is better to do this outdoors, not in a gym. Try learning free-running/parkour. It can help to become fluid in your movements.
 Again, the Na'vi people are very close to their land; it is the most important thing to them. Protect the land, make it one of your main priorities to keep Earth and its animals healthy. Our Earth is beautiful. Make the effort to help save our world.
 If you want to get extreme you may want to learn the language. It is called Na'vi (easy to remember). There is even a website and forum dedicated to this: .
 Think about your future and how your actions affect others.
 If you live near forests or woods, explore them.
 You need to realise that nature is a complex, living organism. To do this, you should observe it every day. Even if you live in a city, you can connect with the flora and fauna in your surroundings. People connect with their pets and plants every day without realising.


If you're a girl you can use blue eyeshadow. Use it normally on your eyelids and use it as face powder on the rest of your face. Don't use too much highlighter on your face, and make sure the final look seems "natural," not painted on (this works best if you have a pale complexion). If you don't like the effect, then use the eyeshadow only on your eyelids. Also try braiding your hair in any way.






For boys and girls: if you can, dye your hair black. Wear natural-looking clothes but nothing too revealing. You don't want to get into any trouble.
 The most important thing is to remember that you are a human, and the Na'vi aren't real. The movie Avatar has many lessons, and can teach the human race many things, make sure you watch it.

