 The pricked ear (upright, as opposed to drop-eared) of a cat is usually normally no more than 3-4mm thick, and is shaped into a gentle concave cone whereby the "dish" of the ear faces forwards to collect sound.


A newly formed ear haematoma is equivalent to large blood blister, and the pinna becomes rounded and swollen. The ear flap is often tender to the touch, and feels warm or hot.
When you apply gentle pressure, you may get the impression of fluid beneath your fingertips.;
, Once the haematoma has been present for 5-7 days, blood clots form and the body starts to reabsorb serum (the fluid that remains once the blood has clotted).


Scar tissue then forms but as this contracts it distorts the ear flap. An untreated haematoma heals to form the cat equivalent of a "cauliflower" ear. The ear flap is thickened, wrinkled, and shrunken. In itself this is not painful, but it is cosmetically displeasing.
There is also a chance that the contracted pinna can shrivel down and block the entrance to the ear canal. This reduces air circulation in the ear canal and is a predisposing factor for ear infections.
 We have already learnt that trauma causes an ear haematoma, but how does this happen? To understand it, it helps to know a little anatomy.


The prick ear is supported by an inner core of stiff cartilage. This cartilage is lined on either side by skin (the cartilage is the cheese in a cheese sandwich, with the bread being skin). Small blood vessels nourish the skin and attach it to the cartilage.
When the cat scratches she may shear the skin away from the cartilage, which ruptures the blood vessels and causes blood to seep into the space between the skin and cartilage. It is this blood that causes the ear to swell and a haematoma to form.
The bleeding is usually self-limiting, and stops once pressure builds up in the haematoma, which compresses the small vessels and stops them bleeding.
 There are two methods of treating an ear haematoma. Both have advantages and disadvantages.


Surgery provides a guaranteed outcome but involves a general anesthetic and the cat wearing a buster collar to 2, possibly even 3, weeks.
The other option is medical management, which carries around a 50% success rate, but does not usually involve an anesthetic, and can be repeated if unsuccessful the first time.
Surgery is more expensive, but if the medical therapy needs to be repeated, costs can mount up. Also, not every cat tolerates a needle being put in the ear and may need sedation, and this cost needs to be taken into consideration.
 Surgical correction involves general anesthesia. The cat is starved overnight prior to the anesthetic.


Once admitted to the clinic she is given a pre-med injection which provides pain relief and sedates her.
Once the premed has taken effect (usually after 20 minutes) she is given a general anesthetic and the fur is clipped from the ear flap.
 Surgery is performed under sterile conditions. The aim of the operation is to cut a 2–3 centimeter (0.8–1.2 in) incision on the inside of the ear flap to allow the blood to drain out.


Then the empty pocket (between the skin and cartilage) is flushed to remove blood clots. The final step is to compress the skin against the cartilage so that it heals firmly scarred together, so that the haematoma cannot recur.The surgeon does this by placing multiple sutures, offset from one another in a staggered pattern, each separated by about one cm. A thick suture material is used so that the compressive force is spread evenly over the surface of the ear.
 Once the surgeon is satisfied with the suture arrangement the cat is allowed to wake up. She must wear a buster collar in order to protect the ear from scratching.


This is because if a claw got caught in a suture, not only would it be very painful, but it could tear the suture out and rip the ear.
 Some cats are a bit sleepy for 24 hours after an anesthetic. It is best to keep her indoors (she will need to do this anyway because she could get stuck in a tree wearing a buster collar) in a warm environment.


Offer her bland food such as chicken, or white fish, the evening after the anesthetic. This is because some cats may feel nauseous after an anesthetic, and bland food is better tolerated by the stomach.
 During this time scar tissue forms that bonds the skin back to the cartilage to form a permanent adhesion.


The sutures can be removed in the clinic, and unless the cat is fractious, no sedation or anesthesia is required.
The buster collar can then come off and the cat resume her usual lifestyle.
 The vet may suggest you gently wipe the incision site with salt water (a teaspoon of salt to a pint of previously boiled and cooled water) once a day.


This helps to clean away any ooze from the incision and reduces the amount of bacteria on the skin surface, which in turn reduces the risk of infection.
However, infection is rare and if the cat is sore and hisses when you try to touch the area, it is best to leave well alone rather than distress the cat and get yourself bitten.
 Medical treatment involves aspirating (sucking out) blood from the haematoma, and replacing some of the fluid with 0.5ml of injectable steroid. The cat needs to be of a placid disposition to do this.


The vet applies local anesthetic cream (eg EMLA) to the ear prior to inserting the needle. This does help to numb the pinprick, but as you can imagine many cats do not appreciate you fiddling with an already sore ear flap.
If the cat does not tolerate a needle being inserted into the haematoma then sedation may be necessary. If this is the case, then it is worth re-assessing the surgical option, since sedation increases cost and lessens one of the attractive advantages of medical therapy.
 In preparation for medical treatment, the veterinarian assembles a sterile 10ml syringe and attaches a 23-gauge needle. In a separate 1ml syringe he draws up 0.5ml of Dexafort (an injectable steroid).


The cat is restrained in a sitting position by a vet tech, and the ear swabbed with surgical spirit. The needle attached to the 10ml syringe is then introduced into the most swollen part on the ear, on the inner surface.
Suction is applied to the syringe and as much blood aspirated as possible. To do this the needle tip is moved around within the haematoma pocket whilst gentle suction is applied.
Once satisfied that all the blood is aspirated, the vet carefully anchors the needle tip inside the ear by grasping the hub with a finger and thumb, and then detaches the syringe with his other hand.
The 1ml syringe is attached to the syringe hub and the dexafort dripped into the dead space/ pocket. The needle is removed and a spirit swab held over the puncture hole for 1-2 minutes.
 The cat does not need to wear a buster collar and can go about her daily routine undisturbed. No specific post-procedure care is needed. She is checked again in the clinic 7 days later.


Around 50% of ear haematomas treated in this manner refill. The owner then has to decide whether to repeat the process (with a 50% success rate), opt for surgery, or leave the haematoma to contract into a cauliflower ear.
However, after two attempts, there is little chance of success and either surgery, or benign neglect is the order of the day., Ear haematomas usually result from scratching or head-shaking. Common causes of this are ear infections or parasites such as fleas. You can decrease the risk of haematoma formation by regularly checking your cats ears for signs of infection.


These include a bad smell from the ears, skin redness when compared to the other ear, or discharge from the ear. Ear discharge may consist of thick, black-brown wax (often associated with ear mites or yeast infections) or a yellow-cream purulent material (which indicates a bacterial infection.)
Either should prompt a visit to your veterinarian for treatment.
 Regular parasite control with effective insecticides is a recommended precaution against haematomas.


Those products from the ivermectin family, such as Revolution (US) containing selamectin, have the bonus of not only treating fleas but killing ear mites. This product is designed to be applied to the back of the neck, once a month, every month.
Head shaking is most commonly the result of the irritation associated with ear mite infection, and regular application of a selamectin product should kill ear mites that are present and prevent re-infection.

