 This method is great for those pairs of jeans that need to be made a lot longer. Because of the wide, colorful cuff you'll be making, this method is great for children's jeans. Here's what you'll need:


Jeans
Tape measure
Scissors
Thread
Sewing machine
Fabric
Sewing pins

, Don't worry, your jeans will be longer by the end of this tutorial. The bottom hems adds a lot of bulk. It will be easier to sew without it.
 You will be sewing a fabric band or cuff to make the jeans longer. First, however, you will need to draft the pattern for your cuff. Here is how to figure out the measurements for your cuff:


Measure around the cut edge of the pant leg (the circumference). Add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters). You will need this for your seam allowance.
Decide how wide you want the band to be. Multiply that number by 2 (you will be folding the fabric in half later) and add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) for the seam allowance.
 You will end up with something that looks like a rectangle. You can use any fabric you want, but a lightweight fabric (such as cotton) may be easier to sew with than a heavyweight fabric (such as canvas). Choose something with a contrasting color. You can even pick something out with a fun pattern.
 Make sure that you are sewing the right sides together. Use a ½ inch (1.27) seam allowance. You will end up with a squat tube.
 You should now see the right sides of the fabric on the outside and on the inside of the tube.
 Align the cut edge of the cuff with the cut edge of the pant leg. Rotate the cuff so that the seam is aligned with the inseam of the jeans. Pin everything in place.
 Slip the pant leg onto the sewing machine and sew along the raw/cut edge. Rotate the pant leg as you go so that it does not get tangled. Snip off any excess thread and tie the ends into tight knots.
 Press the hem against the jean fabric and away from the cuff.
 Slip the pant leg back onto the sewing machine arm and sew the hem down. Try to get as close to the seam as possible. Be sure to rotate the pant leg as you go so that it does not get tangled. When you are done, tie the threads off into tight knots and snip off any excess.
 Your pant legs will now be much longer. The bright band of color along the bottom hem will add some contrast and flair.,