 Coloring books geared towards adults have enjoyed a recent surge in popularity, so you have many options to choose from.Note that you are not necessarily limited to actual coloring books, as there are many printable coloring pages designed for adults are available online, many of which are free.
 Popular options include colored pencils, colored pens (e.g. Sharpie brand fine point markers), or art markers (Artist’s Loft Triangle Markers are a good cheap option, while Copic markers are a popular higher-end product).If you are using pencils, be sure to sharpen them before you begin your coloring project, as this will allow you to have more precision in your coloring.
 If you are using a loose leaf coloring page you will want to find a hard surface to work on, while coloring books allow you more flexibility.


When using on loose sheets of paper, you may want to cover your work surface in newspaper depending on the coloring utensils you’ve chosen (permanent markers, for example, may bleed through your paper and leave stains).
When using coloring books, you can use your lap as a coloring surface if you’d like to draw while in bed on the couch, for example.
 You might, for example, choose to only use cool colors (blues, purples, and dark greens) or only use warm colors (reds, oranges, yellows, and light greens) for your project, or you may choose to mix many different hues together.


No matter what colors you ultimately choose, having a rough idea of how you’d like your completed piece to look will help ensure that you are satisfied with your final product.
 Some drawing utensils (such as gel pens, colored pens, or markers) are more likely to smear than others.


If you think your utensils could cause unwanted smudging, it can be helpful either to color the center of your picture first and work your way outwards, or to start at the top of your page and work your way down.
If you aren’t worried about smudging, begin coloring wherever you’d like.
 Coloring along the edges of a distinct area first and then working your way work way in will help prevent you from coloring outside of the lines.


You may also find it helpful to filling in one distinct section completely before moving on to another section.
 This technique, referred to as shading, adds depth and dimension to your picture. Simply vary the amount of pressure that you are apply with your coloring utensil depending on how light or dark you’d like a given area to be.


Pressure shading is easiest to do with pencil.
While shading is completely optional, creating depth or shadows in your picture can make it appear more realistic and detailed.
 Another way to add depth is to blend different shades or colors together to achieve different values.


Example: if you want to create the appearance of shadow, try using a deeper blue (or red, or yellow, etc.) to create darker areas and a lighter blue for highlighted areas.
This method can work with pencils, pens and markers.
 Crosshatching is a popular and fairly simple way to create depth using variation in strokes. Crosshatching is done by drawing overlapping sets of lines at right angles (this pattern should look mesh-like). For darker areas, draw these lines closer together. To create highlights, leave more space between each line, or don’t draw any lines at all.