 One of the worst things you can do when you are having difficulties during the holidays is to isolate yourself.While you don’t have to attend every holiday party there is, make sure you are spending time with the people you care about.


Spend time doing something fun or relaxing with them that’s not related to the holiday at all. For example, take a hike, go for a swim, or grab some frozen yogurt.
You can ask someone to just be with you without doing anything.
You might say, “Could you come by and just be with me? I don’t want to do anything, but I don’t want to be alone, either.”

, You might suffer from anxiety in general, or you get anxious during the holidays, or you might be just anxious about the party. Whatever your reason, holding how you are feeling inside will only make you feel worse. The best way to cope with holiday anxiety is to express how you are feeling in some way.Write about your feelings of anxiety in your journal. Write about exactly what you are feeling and why you think you are feeling that way.
Do something creative like draw a picture or write a song about how you’re feeling.
Talk to someone close to you about what you are feeling.
 It’s easy to lose sleep, develop bad eating habits, and skip physical activity because of the stress and activity of a holiday. But you will cope with anxiety the holiday causes you if you make sure you are taking care of your health.Go to bed at a regular time each night and wake up at about the same time each morning.
Eat healthy meals and snacks to give your body the nutrients it needs to keep you energized, focused, and calm.
Make sure you do something active like taking a five minute walk each day or stretching before you go to sleep.
 Sometimes feelings of anxiety and holiday stress can become overwhelming.If this is your case, the best way to cope is seek the help of a professional like your doctor, a therapist, or a counselor.


A professional can teach you effective coping strategies for handling your anxiety in any situation.
They can also let you know if medication is an option for helping you cope with how you are feeling.
Ask someone you trust for a referral to a professional that you can talk to.

