 Paid-to-drive programs have become less popular recently because of increased gas prices and the rise of Internet advertising. Companies are now more selective in wrapping cars. The best candidates drive newer vehicles long distances through populated areas during busy traffic hours, ensuring maximum exposure. To improve your chances of being hired, you’ll need to: Drive 1,000 miles (1,600 km) per month.
Commute through areas relevant to the advertiser’s market.
Complete an interview and pass a background check.
Drive a car with lots of ad space such as SUVs, vans, and VW beetles.
Have a car with GPS so the company can monitor your movement.
 Search for advertising companies in your area via the Internet or the Yellow Pages. Ask about any partnerships they have with local businesses. Read the proposed contract carefully. Most importantly, make sure that the company legitimately advertises in your area and that it isn't just a scam.



Spot car-wrapping scams. Fraud is on the rise. A common technique scammers use is to send prospective clients a substantial check and then request that a portion of the check be wired back to them to cover the cost of wrapping. The catch is that the check will eventually bounce, but your wire transfer will not. As a rule of thumb, never pay someone money just to get them to pay you. In other words, if the plan sounds convoluted, don’t trust it. Avoid sign-up fees. If an online site claiming to represent a car-wrap advertising company asks you to pay them in order to register, then it is probably a scam. , If you're willing to go all out, order a full wrap. If you wish to retain some autonomy, a half-wrap might be more appropriate. If you just want to dip your toe in the water, aim for a windshield decal or even a modest bumper sticker. The more space you offer, the more you’ll get paid. A full wrap can earn you from $200 to $900 a month, while a bumper sticker might bring in about $5 a month. , See the information on this topic outlined above. , Competition for big-name car wrappers is getting stiff. If your car or route isn’t up to their standards, think about local businesses your commute might appeal to instead. If you drive around a college campus, for example, a store that buys and sells textbooks may be just the thing. Put an ad in the paper or on Craigslist describing your car, commute, and monthly mileage to see if anyone else steps forward with an offer.

