 One of the best things about having a sister is knowing that you have someone to tell your secrets to who will keep them (most of the time). Unless your sister is awful at keeping secrets, tell her everything and let her tell you everything- but keep all of it between the two of you. Besides strengthening the bond between you two, it's simply an enjoyable thing to do.


Try playing truth or dare. This game really brings you closer and also brings a good laugh. Plus, it's a more comfortable way to tell each other secrets.;
, You can replicate a sleepover, from playing games to staying up. Watch a lighthearted movie, such as a good comedy or chick flick (with popcorn), play games such as charades, order pizza, paint nails, and stay up late, along with other activities. You can even bunk together like an actual sleepover.
 The shared experience of meeting new people who enjoy the same artists as you and watching your favorite band or singer perform is priceless. Plus, you'll have made an experience to talk and laugh about for years to come.
 You can create whatever variation you want, from a classic chocolate chip cookie to a decorative one, complete with cookie cutters, coloring and confectioners sugar. Once done, enjoy with a glass of milk or juice. You can talk or watch a movie while eating your fresh cookies too- whatever seems enjoyable for you and your sister.
 Go through old photo albums together and pick out pictures of you together when you were younger. Then, find some recent photos and put them all together in a scrapbook, keeping it in chronological order if you two want, starting with the oldest photos at the beginning. Decorate with stickers and drawings to finish it off., You can style one another's hair with your own products and/or gadgets and irons, or visit a salon. If you aren't visiting a stylist, you can look up hairstyles and the tutorials for them on wikiHow or YouTube.
 Pick out a great book you both are interested in (perhaps one you've already read), and read one or two chapters to her every day. You can even take turns each day to help her improve her reading skills. Not only will your sister be introduced to a new book that will enhance her reading, but you both will have created memories to fondly look back on.
 Regardless of age, this can be an enjoyable and cooling activity for everyone. Gather your supplies (bathing suits, water guns, water balloons) and have fun! You can have the water fight in your own backyard or drop by a pool or beach if nearby.
 You can play tag or variations of it, such as freeze tag, hide and seek, Frisbee, etc. You can play anywhere, from your own backyard to a local park, where you can sit and talk on swings or, if younger, play on the equipment.

