 If someone is undervaluing you, it's very likely you are doing the same. Respect yourself and know what you deserve.


Give yourself credit for your achievements and think about those who love and trust you. This will help dial up your confidence.
Physically care for yourself because a healthy body makes a healthy mind. Eating clean and getting some exercise generates positivity.;
, If you find yourself insecure in a high-pressure situation, rise up and act confident anyway. Keep faking your confidence and eventually you'll realize you are actually achieving what you've set out to do.Try using more confident body language by opening up. Pull your shoulders back and relax your arms. Your physical biology and psychology alters when holding a power pose. Testosterone levels rise, and cortisol levels (a stress hormone) lower.If you know you are walking into a high-pressure situation, take two minutes to strike a power pose. Do the superman/woman stance, or lift your chin and raise your arms like you would after winning a race.
If you are already in the situation, stand strong and avoid folding your arms and touching your neck. These gestures make you look smaller and are signs of passive defense.
 If your bully or manipulator is coming toward you and your heart begins to pound, make this stress your friend. Your body is rising to the challenge, and preparing you for the high-pressure situation. Don’t fear your manipulator, your body is strong!


Studies show if you view stress as a positive reaction, your blood vessels will relax in the same way it does when you are happy or confident. Choose to see stress as helpful and you will find courage. , Trust yourself to handle life's challenges, but you don't have to face them alone. If you are feeling used, reach out to someone. This person can objectively look at the situation and give you the support you need.Human connection releases oxytocin a neurochemical known as the “cuddle hormone”. It releases feelings of trust, relaxation and psychological stability, allowing the body to adapt to highly emotive situations. So it you are in a stressful spot, finding someone to support you is a wise choice.

This could be a coworker, teacher, parent or friend.



