 This is the usual method for treating external hemorrhoids, especially if they are large or haven't responded to less invasive procedures. Your surgeon removes hemorrhoids with various tools such as scissors, scalpels, or a ligasure (device that delivers electrical current to seal bleeding hemorrhoids). You'll be sedated using a local anesthetic combined with sedation, a spinal anesthetic or a general anesthetic.Hemorrhoidectomy is the most effective and complete way to treat severe or recurring hemorrhoids. It can be painful, but medications, sitz bath, and/or ointments can be prescribed or used after the procedure for comfort.
Compared with hemorrhoidectomy, stapling has been associated with a greater risk of recurrence and rectal prolapse, where part of the rectum protrudes from the anus., Your doctor will insert a probe through an anoscope (plastic device inserted in anus to view rectum). He will then attach a rubber band-like device at the base of the hemorrhoid. The device will cut off blood circulation and lead to the hemorrhoid scarring, which shrinks and eliminates the hemorrhoid after a time.You may feel uncomfortable after the procedure. Get some relief by using a sitz bath, warm water soaks, and/or topical ointment.
 Your doctor will use a plastic device inserted into the anus to view the rectum (anoscope). The doctor will use it to inject a needle with chemical solutions such as 5% phenol in oil, vegetable oil, quinine, and urea hydrochloride or hypertonic salt solution at the base of the hemorrhoids. These chemical solutions will cause the veins to shrink.


Sclerotherapy is considered less effective than rubber band litigation., Your doctor may use infrared lasers or radio frequencies to coagulate the veins near the hemorrhoids. If the infrared method is used, a probe is applied to the base of the hemorrhoid. If a radio frequency is used, a ball electrode is connected to a radio-frequency generator. This is placed on the hemorrhoidal tissue, which causes it to coagulate and evaporate.


Infrared treatments are more likely to result in recurring hemorrhoids, compared to rubber band litigation., Your doctor will use a probe capable of applying cold temperatures to the base of the hemorrhoid. This should cause destruction of the tissue. But, this method isn't used very often, since the hemorrhoids usually return., Your surgeon will use a device to staple slipped or prolapsed internal hemorrhoids back within the anal canal. This will cut off the blood supply to the hemorrhoids so the tissue eventually dies and stops bleeding.The recovery time is usually faster and involves less pain than a hemorrhoidectomy.