 Use a slicker brush to get between hairs and gently detangle your dog’s fur. If this is not effective, you can also apply mineral oil or detangling solution to the mat. Massage the solution into the tangled area. Then, try to brush the tangle out with the slicker brush. In extreme cases, you may have to use scissors to remove mats., Once your dog’s fur is detangled, you’ll want to smooth it out evenly. Use a bristle brush, and go over your pet’s fur in the direction that their coat should naturally fall. You should brush your dog’s hair at least once a week to ensure they don’t have too much oil buildup, to remove debris trapped in fur, and to keep the coat healthy., If your dog has hair that gets in its eyes and mouth or drags on the ground, you may want to remove some of this to make it easier to keep your pet clean. You can use special dog clippers or baby scissors to complete this task. Simply snip off enough fur to prevent the coat from interfering with your dog’s daily activities., If you’re struggling to keep your thick furred pet clean, this may be the best option. Removing the bulk of the thick coat can do a world of good when it comes to maintaining your pup’s hygiene. This is also a good idea if you live in a very warm climate where the thick fur may be uncomfortable. Talk to your vet or a professional groomer before shearing your dog on your own. You can purchase pet shears or use human hair clippers for the task.


Simply set the blade to the length you desire and gently run the shears over your dog’s fur from shoulder to tail. Continue this process over your dog’s entire back, legs, belly, and tail., This is especially important if your pet will share your home with you, since long nails can scratch or damage floors, furniture, and skin. However, keeping nails trimmed is beneficial for your pet too. Trimmed nails make it easier and more comfortable for your dog to walk, and long nails can get caught or break. This can be very painful and even dangerous for dogs, who have a sensitive vein running through their nails known as the quick.


Use baby nail clippers or those specially crafted for dogs.
Remove tiny amounts of the nail at a time to avoid cutting the quick.
You can see the darker pink quick in dogs who have white nails, but for dogs with darker nails, you'll need to check for the quick between snips. On the end of the nail, you will see a gray colored oval appear. This is the quick. Stop trimming at this point.
If you do cut to the quick, use styptic powder to stop bleeding and numb the area., This is the ideal, but any time spent caring for you pup's teeth will help improve its oral hygiene. Use a toothbrush and toothpaste made for dogs. Let your dog get used to the sight, smell, and taste of the toothbrush. Once your dog seems calm and unafraid of the toothbrush and paste, gently lift their lips to reveal the teeth. Brush each tooth from the gums to the tips inside and out.


The younger you start your dog out brushing their teeth, the better behaved they will be during brushing.
 Dogs can get any number of foreign materials trapped inside their ear canals. This can lead to infection or hearing loss, so it's important to keep your pup's ears free from debris. Only clean out those parts of the ears that are visible. Do not use cotton swabs or other materials to clean deeper into the ear canal as this could cause unintended damage. Instead, use a cotton ball coated in mineral oil to gently remove dirt and other debris.


You may also want to use an over the counter or prescription ear drop, if your pup shows signs of chronic ear health concerns.