 Sweetening your blackberries before freezing them helps keep the berries' natural color and texture intact through the freezing process. It also makes the berries last longer in the freezer.Freezing sweetened berries requires the same washing process as for unsweetened berries: gently rinse and drain the berries, then allow to air dry or gently pat with a soft towel to remove any moisture.


As above, you'll also want to remove any unripe or overripe berries before proceeding, as well as any leaf matter or debris.
 Next, add your berries to a large mixing bowl and add about 1/2 to 3/4 cups sugar for every quart of berries (as a reminder, one quart is equal to four cups). Mix the berries and sugar thoroughly, but very gently — your goal is to coat the berries with sugar, not to mash them into a jam or paste. The sugar should combine with the natural moisture of the berries (along with the juice of any berries that do break) to form a syrupy mixture that should cover the berries.
 Next, pour the berries into seal-able, airtight plastic containers (like, for instance, Tupperware. Try to fill the containers nearly to their tops — leaving about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of head space or less is ideal.The less air remaining in the container, the better, but resist the urge to force the berries into a container that's too small for them, as this can crush the berries.


You can also use plastic freezer bags as described above, though, with sweetened berries, this can become somewhat messy.
There's no need to freeze sweetened blackberries separately, since the sugar helps protect their appearance and texture from the effects of freezing. However, if you especially want separately-frozen berries, you can still use the baking sheet method described above without harming the berries.
 Sweetened blackberries should last for a minimum of nine months, though some sources say that they can last up to a full year.The sweetened berries can be used like unsweetened berries in a wide variety of baking recipes or enjoyed on their own. However, if using the berries in baking recipes, it's important to remember to take the sugar you added to the berries into account and adjust your recipe accordingly.


Because of this point, you may find that it's a wise idea to label your freezing container with a volume of berries in the container and the amount of sugar added along with the date of freezing.

