 Nothing is more tragic than the oh-so-cliche' friend-likes-friend-who-doesn't-like-her-that-way drama. Be sure that you aren't considered "one of the guys" or just his "bud". Of course, you have to get to know him first and you may possibly just gain an amazing friend in the process (which is all right, some pursued crushes could turn out to be one of your best friends) but be a little more flirty with him, in a way that you're sure one of his "buds" wouldn't be.For example, to set yourself apart from “one of the guys”, maybe give him a hug, a playful peck on the cheek, or play with his hair.
 Your crush may be attracted to you if you let him share details about his life. This shows that you’re really interested in him and what he has to say. Try not to always talk about yourself; he wants to know about you but give him a chance to share about himself.


If he asks questions about you, answer them but don’t focus on yourself for too long. You can steer the conversation toward him by asking questions like, “How many siblings do you have?” or “What is your favorite thing about your family?”
Ask about his interests or hobbies by saying something along the lines of “Have you read any good books recently?” or “What videogames do you like to play?”

, One of the best ways to demonstrate to a guy that you like him and enjoy his company is to laugh at his jokes! This boosts his confidence and signals to him that you have a similar sense of humor and find the same things funny. For many people, a sense of humor is one of the most important qualities they look for in a significant other.If he says something that you find funny, join in or add your own joke. For example, if you’re talking about a celebrity, you could add something that you find to be amusing to the conversation.
Avoid being too mean, such as making fun of other people’s appearances or mocking individuals you both know. You don’t want to come off as someone who will make fun of him behind his back or come off as cruel.
 If you know where your crush likes to spend his time, you can get yourself noticed by showing up there every so often. For example, if he has a favorite coffee shop in the area, you could go there with a friend or two on the off chance you might see him there. You could also study or do your homework there.


If you know that he’s going to a concert, see if you can get tickets to go as well. This can provide a chance for you to bump into him and say hello. This could even give you a reason to hang out together.
Try joining a club or activity that he is a part of. This could also give you a reason to talk and hang out.
Be careful not to show up where he is all the time or he may get annoyed or think you are stalking him. Just be yourself and if he happens to enjoy the same activities as you, even better!

