 If the Control Panel doesn't appear on the start menu, you can search for it using the search bar., There should be an option called Region and Language. Click the link to go to that window.
 You should see an option called Change Keyboards. Click that to open the Text Services and Input Languages menu. If it doesn't open automatically to the General tab, click to go there.
 A window with a complete list of keyboard layout options will appear. Scroll through the list to see what your options are, and think about which keyboard offers the best way to prank your friend.
 Click the plus sign next to a language and then the plus sign next to Keyboards to open the complete list of keyboards available in that language. Once you have clicked and highlighted a keyboard, you should be able to click OK in the top right corner of the window.
 It should show up along with the language that is already enabled. Click "Apply" in the bottom right corner and exit the Text Services and Input Languages window.
 It may already be enabled. To check, right-click on the taskbar at the bottom of the screen, and go to the Toolbars menu. Make sure that the Language toolbar is checked off. Depending on the version of Windows, you will either see a floating Language bar or a Language toolbar icon in the bottom right corner on the task bar.
 It should be on the left side of the bar. Select the language that you want to use from the drop-down menu.If you're using an older version of Windows, click the Language toolbar icon. It will probably just be the letters "EN," if you're working in English. Just click the language option and that should switch your keyboard layout.
 This menu offers you the keyboard layout options. If you haven't enabled multiple keyboard layouts for the language you selected, you might be able to skip this step.
 To close the Language bar, just click close. To hide the Language toolbar icon, right-click the taskbar, go to Toolbars, and make sure that the Language toolbar is deselected.
 Only do this if you have enabled a keyboard that has all the standard English characters. Otherwise, they won't be able to get back into their computer.
 Once you've had your fun, simply reopen the Language toolbar by right-clicking on the task bar and making sure that the Language toolbar is selected under the Toolbar menu. Follow the same process you used to switch the keyboard language, but change it back to the original language and layout that your friend was using before.

