 Try this version of the plank if you are not yet strong enough to do a full plank. Keep your legs in the push-up position, shift your weight to your forearms. One by one, bend your elbows and rest them on the floor in front of you. Hold the pose just like you would if you were planking on your hands.


This modification is suitable if you have carpal tunnel syndrome. It puts less pressure on your wrists., This is a much easier version of the plank, so if you're just getting started or you find the standard plank too challenging, this is a good modification. Doing a plank with your knees bent is also beneficial for those with shoulder pain,and can also put less stress on your lower back.


Keep your spine neutral by looking at a spot slightly ahead of you on the mat.Keep your abs tight and your body in a straight line.
 This version will really work your obliques — the side muscles of your core. It also improves balance, stability, and will engage your upper body more than a standard plank.Lie on your side with your legs extended, your feet stacked. Prop your body up on your elbow or, for a greater challenge, on your hand with your arm extended and holding your body weight. Keep your body in a straight line, your core engaged.


Keep your head in line with your spine by looking straight ahead. Your hip should not be tilted towards the floor/mat in this position. If you feel your hip sinking, adjust your form.If you are having difficulty holding this position, unstack your feet and cross the upper leg in front of your body.To make the position more challenging, raise the upper leg or arm in the air and hold.If you are having difficulty holding this position, unstack your feet and cross the upper leg in front of your body.Try alternating side planks with standard planks or elbow planks. For instance: one minute of elbow planks, one minute of left-side planks, one minute of elbow planks, one minute of right-side planks, and one more minute of elbow planks.
 Single-leg planks are more challenging and cause your body to work harder — instead of supporting your body in four places (both feet and hands or elbows in a standard plank), you will support your body in only three places (one foot and both arms), reducing your stability. Begin in a standard plank position, then raise one leg toward the ceiling. Don't allow your body or hips to turn — you should remain parallel to the floor. Hold for 20 seconds, then switch to the other leg.

