 As a CNA, you can work in a wide array of facilities, from nursing homes to hospitals to hospices. Do your research and decide which path is right for you.


Check local job listings and look online. See where CNA's are in high demand. This can be a great start to narrowing your search.
What are your career goals? Do you want to be a lifelong CNA? If so, a nursing home or hospice may be right choice for you. You'll be working with patients for longer terms than you would in a hospital, where patients come and go quickly. If you're looking to become a registered nurse or doctor someday, hospital experience may be a better option.Be careful. Some hospitals and health care facilities have been known to hire CNA's in replace of registered nurses, which is illegal.Websites like Nursing Home Inspection will provide information on a facilities recent inspection, allowing you to identify any concerning complaints or issues., Once you've gotten a sense of your options, you can begin the application process. Apply for a multitude of positions to give yourself a variety of options when you begin hearing back.


Online job boards, like Indeed and SimplyHired, can be great resources for finding positions. However, they attract a high volume of applications. Do not get discouraged if it takes quite a few applications before you hear back from anyone.
Ask around. Use the connections you gained during training and the certification process. If you worked in a hospital during training, check in to see if that hospital is hiring. They're more likely to select a candidate they know and trust over a stranger's application.
Network with fellow CNA's you met during training. If a colleague finds a job, they might be able to put in a good word for you if their place of employment is hiring.
 Once again, requirements vary from state to state but many states require you to continue your education each year to maintain your license. This means taking further classes at health care facilities and community colleges. Check with your state's governing board to make sure you meet all the requirements to keep your license up-to-date through the years.