 Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C). Get out a large baking dish and spray it thoroughly with cooking spray. Set the pan aside while you prepare the potatoes., Heat 1 tablespoon of salted butter in a large pot or saucepan. Melt the butter over medium heat and add 1 medium thinly-sliced onion. Stir the onion and cook it for about 5 minutes. The onion should soften and turn a little golden., Add 2 tablespoons of flour to the onion and stir the mixture so the onion is coated. Slowly stir in 2 cups (473 ml) of skim milk. The flour and onion will create a sauce for the scalloped potatoes., Thinly slice 2 pounds (907 g) of Yukon gold potatoes and add them to the sauce in the pan. Keep cooking the potatoes in the sauce and stir it occasionally until the mixture comes to a boil.You'll need to stir the mixture, so the milk doesn't scorch on the bottom of the pan.
 Turn off the heat and add 3/4 cup (75 g) of the reduced-fat shredded cheddar cheese. You'll also need to stir in 1 teaspoon of table salt and 1/4 teaspoon of black pepper.Taste the sauce and adjust the flavorings according to your taste.
 Transfer the potato mixture to the prepared baking dish and use a spoon to even out the potatoes. Put the dish in the preheated oven and bake the casserole for 1 hour.Avoid covering the potatoes at this point. This will let the potatoes become golden and thicken the sauce.
 Carefully remove the hot dish from the oven and cover the pan with aluminum foil. Return the pan to the oven and bake the scalloped potatoes for 20 more minutes.The potatoes should be completely tender once they've finished cooking.
 Carefully remove the baking dish from the oven and take the foil off. Sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup (50 g) of cheese on top of the potatoes. Turn the broiler on and broil the casserole for about 1 to 2 minutes. Let the scalloped potatoes rest for 5 minutes before you slice and serve them.Ensure that the potatoes are about 6 inches (15.25 cm) away from the broiler.
Store the leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for a few days. Keep in mind that the potatoes will soften the longer you store them.

