 Tonic is important because any given set of sharps and flats could correspond either to a Major or Minor key. The first note of a tonic note is often (but not always) the tonic note. If there is a chord that the rest of the composition appears built around, the tonic note is probably the root note of that chord.


The tonic note in C Major is C, for instance.
This is especially important if there are no flats or sharps in the notation. Purely natural notation will either be keyed in C Major or A Minor. Look for patterns building around one of these two notes.;
, Musical keys have chords that suit them. Look at the notation and identify the chords in use. Next, you can use a chord map to associate the chords with a key. Chord maps are a dictionary of the chords that apply to a given key. Identifying three or so chords should give you enough ammunition to figure out the key with a chord map.


Chord maps outline the chords of each key clearly.For example, the chords in the key of C are: C Major, D Minor, E Minor, F Major, G Major, and A Minor.
 The Circle of Fifths is a shorthand way of remembering the sharps and flats in a given Major key.In many ways, it's the most important tool in Western music theory. To know how many sharps there are in a key, count the number of spaces between a note clockwise from C. C is at the top of the Circle of Fifths, making it easy to count. Take the number of sharps and count it clockwise. The pace you stop at will be your Major key.


For flats, do the opposite with E, located at the bottom of the Circle. Count counter-clockwise from E based on how many flats are in your key signature.
The Circle of Fifths is designed for Major keys. A Minor key will use the same accidentals, except the tonic note will be three steps down from the Major.The Circle of Fifths tells you the number of sharps or flats, but not where they are. Use this mnemonic to remember them:Sharps: Father Charles Goes Down And Ends Battle.
Flats use the same phrase backward, since Charles gets "flattened" in battle: Battle Ends And Down Goes Charles Father.
For example, since D major has two sharps, you read the first two words: Father Charles → the two sharps are F♯ and C♯.
 Many composers will end with a tonic note to give their work a sense of completion. Cross-reference the final note with the given sharps and flats and see if the accidentals line up with the note in question.


If the final note is a chord, look for the "root note", or lowest in the chord.
This technique may not work if the music you're trying to decipher is experimental or avant-garde.
 Although a chord map and list of accidentals should give you all the answers you need, it nonetheless helps to play out the song. If there was any doubt whether a piece if Major or Minor, those confusions should be laid to rest when you hear the music aloud.


Major keys are so-called because they sound "happy". Minor keys sound naturally sad in contrast.

