 When making unpasteurized juice, using organic vegetables ensures that you do not accidentally take any potentially hazardous chemicals into your body. Pasteurization may sterilize many fruits and vegetables even if they are not organic, but when making unpasteurized juice, organic produce is the way to go.
 One of the easiest ways to ease yourself into juicing is to use flavors that you already know you like. Most fruits and vegetables have at least some nutritional value to offer, even if they are not as beneficial as others might be., When made into juice, though, these vegetables may seem difficult to drink alone, so they are often paired with sweeter vegetables or fruits., The reason why fruit juice is so commonly available and vegetable juice isn't is simply because fruit juice tastes better and is more marketable. Plenty of fruits offer vitamins and minerals that can benefit your raw juice, however. You can either create your own raw, unpasteurized fruit juice and drink it by itself or you can add it to your vegetable juice for a fruity, sweet twist of flavor. Grape juice can make an especially flavorful addition., These vegetables tend to have a more tolerable flavor and may seem more palatable to people who are new to raw juices. Cucumbers and celery are both good choices. Tomatoes, while technically a fruit, are also very juicy and tend to have a flavor that pleases most taste buds., Wheatgrass is a popular and beneficial choice for homemade juices. Dandelion greens also make a good option. These greens are rarely consumed in their solid form but are easier to ingest as juice., Lemon and lime both pack a punch of flavor and vitamin C, but they can be overwhelming on their own. They do, however, make a great addition to other juices, especially if the juices are somewhat bland in taste., Herbs and spices are used to flavor cooking and can be used to flavor juices, as well. Parsley and cilantro make notably good choices for most vegetable juices, especially those made with leafy vegetables or those mixed with a little lime juice. Spices, like cloves or cinnamon, tend to work better with certain types of fruit juices, like raw apple juice., Adding a little ground flax seed, almond milk, coconut milk, or walnut oil can give your juice new dimension while contributing a dose of healthy fatty acids to your diet. The phytonutrients in plants are often fat-soluble, and as a result, they are absorbed into the body's bloodstream better if digested with a little healthy fat.