 When you complete your law school applications, answer all questions as thoroughly and honestly as you can. It can be tempting to leave out things that you feel are unflattering. However, admissions officials know that no one is perfect.It will look worse if something is later uncovered that you failed to include on your application.
Keep in mind that information you provided on your law school application often is later compared to your bar application.
You may face problems being admitted to the bar if you lied or omitted information on your law school application.
Before completing your application, you probably read a paragraph that described your duty to disclose everything you think might impact your fitness to practice law.
The duty to disclose is particularly important when it comes to incidents or experiences you think could negatively impact your chances of getting into law school.;
, The fact that you sought out rehabilitation treatment voluntarily can work to your advantage when you're applying to law school. Explaining your choice to seek treatment shows that you are proactive and in charge of your life.You don't have to write paragraphs, and you shouldn't over-explain. It's enough to say that you began abusing a particular drug, recognized that you had a problem, and sought treatment.
Avoid sugar-coating or downplaying your reasons for seeking treatment. Keep in mind that if you're honest about your reasons for entering the rehab program, you won't need to remember what you wrote on your application if you're asked about it later on.
The voluntary nature of your decision to go into rehab can work in your favor. Emphasize that the decision was yours, and that you wanted to make a change in your life.
 Most law schools require you to send a cover letter along with your application. You'll also typically have to write a personal statement.You may want to downplay rehab as a negative experience, but you will present yourself as a stronger applicant if you don't shy away from it.
The admissions staff reviewing your application want to know that your problems with drug abuse are in the past – that you are strong, capable, and in control now, and know when to seek help before things go to far.
When addressing your drug rehabilitation in your personal statement, try to think of two or three lessons you learned as a result of the experience, or ways in which the experience made you a stronger or better person.
Focus on the future, and how you've moved on from the past. You don't want to dwell on it. Rather, present it as a challenge that you've overcome – in part because you were smart enough to recognize when you needed help and humble enough to seek that help.
 Law schools typically ask for a few academic or character references along with each application. Make sure those you choose know about the challenges you've faced.This is especially true since you're mentioning it in your application and personal statement. It's a significant experience in your life – your references won't seem authentic if they have no knowledge of it.
If you have professors writing references for you who aren't aware that you were in drug rehabilitation, make an appointment during office hours to talk to them about it.
Give them a brief explanation of what happened, and the dates you were in treatment. Be prepared to answer any questions they may have about your experience or your current situation.
Practicing lawyers who've agreed to write references for you may have more, and different, questions than professors do. They will be focused on your current and future ability to continue to maintain a drug-free life.
Attorneys probably will discuss with you how stressful and intense law school and the practice of law will be. They will want to make sure you're prepared and confident in your ability to handle it before they recommend you.
 Many law schools have an interview as part of the application process, which takes place either in person or online. If you're contacted for an interview, choose your clothing and accessories appropriately.Generally, you want to wear non-revealing, conservative clothing. You don't necessarily have to wear a suit, but if you have one it would be a good bet.
Groom yourself conservatively as well. If you have long hair, you may want to pull it back – especially if you have a tendency to play with your hair.
If the law school is doing the interview online, set up your system beforehand so you're not rushing to download necessary software at the time of the interview.
Check the area around your computer and get rid of anything vulgar, suggestive, or controversial.
During the interview, look at the camera to simulate eye contact. Don't look down at the keyboard or anywhere else. It might help to move the image of the person calling in so that it's near to your camera.
 The interviewer will have looked over your application and marked anything of interest. While you can expect questions about anything you included, your rehab experience probably will be at the top of the list.Answer the interviewer's questions in a calm, straightforward manner. Focus on the fact that you took charge of your life and got help when you needed it.
As hard as it may be, avoid seeming ashamed of your experiences. It takes a lot of strength to admit you have a problem and seek help to deal with that problem. You will impress the interviewer by showing that strength.
 When you're asked questions about your previous drug use or rehabilitation, provide a direct, factual answer and then move on to something else. There's no need to belabor the point.Stick to the facts, and try to connect the experience to a lesson you learned or a strength you found in yourself that you will bring to your legal studies and your eventual practice of law.
If your experience is part of your motivation for wanting to go to law school or practice law, mention that. For example, maybe you want to bring your experience to bear in representing disadvantaged clients.
Resist the urge to tell horror stories. They won't help you or impress the interviewer, and may hurt you.
 For the purposes of your law school application, the most important part of your drug rehabilitation is the fact that you recognized you had a problem and took steps to correct it.Undergoing rehabilitation empowered you to take control of your life and make something of yourself, which is what you're trying to do by going to law school.
During the interview, focus forward rather than dwelling on the past. Any problems you've had in the past aren't going to disadvantage you relative to other law school applicants, provided you can demonstrate that you've risen above those difficulties.
The interview is your chance to show the interviewer that you've moved on from a relatively low point in your life, and that going into rehab helped you to do that.
The way you present yourself and the way you speak can demonstrate this to the interviewer. Speak in clear, short sentences and keep your language positive and focused on the future.
 Law schools want to admit students who have the potential to become good lawyers. Good lawyers are confident and secure with themselves. Show your confidence by owning your past choices and mistakes.Your confidence also shows in your body language and presentation. Even if your interview is online, the interviewer will be able to tell if you are slumping in your chair or distracted by other things.
When you make excuses for your actions, this sends a message to the interviewer that you are trying to evade responsibility.
The interviewer will be impressed if you take responsibility and ownership for your past actions and mistakes, and focus on your effort to constantly improve and do better.
 Asking about substance abuse resources won't make you look weak. On the contrary, it shows the interviewer that you are realistic and are prepared to seek help if necessary to keep from getting into problems again.Asking what resources and support programs are available at the law school also sends a message to the interviewer that you understand how challenging and potentially stressful law school can be.
You don't want to make the mistake of thinking that after everything you've experienced in your life, law school will be easy – it won't. You likely won't endear yourself to the interviewer by giving off that impression.
 Law school is characterized by intense workloads and competition among students that can be grueling. The grinding stress caused by the demands of teachers and fellow students alike can cause difficulties for even the most balanced students.Law school can be particularly difficult if you got relatively good grades by coasting through undergrad, without having to study a lot.
Law school professors expect you to know the material well, and they typically aren't going to move on to someone else just because you miss a question or seem unprepared.
On the contrary, they'll often stick with you – much to the consternation of your classmates – to hammer home the lesson that you should be prepared for class.
This means that after classes are over, you typically face several hours worth of intense reading to prepare for the next day.
 You probably learned during rehab that one of the most important ways to avoid a relapse is to eliminate people who abuse drugs from your life. Carry this same attitude and commitment with you to law school.Study groups can be a big part of law school, as well as social anchors. Stay away from study groups with members who seem like the "partying" types.
By the same token, law schools often have social events and mixers at local bars or wineries. Alcohol is frequently served at legal social functions.
If you have a problem with alcohol, you'll want to either avoid these events or find a sober buddy you can go with.
 Most law schools sponsor support groups to help students cope with the demands of law school, as well as additional resources for people struggling with alcohol or drug addiction.You should get information about support groups during orientation for first years. These groups can be especially valuable if you're going to school far away from home, in a strange city where you don't know anyone.
A support group connects you to people you can trust, and lets you know that you're not alone.
 Despite the significant time commitment of law school, there are activities that can reinvigorate you and help you release stress in productive, fulfilling ways without resorting to drugs or alcohol to escape.Don't let law school become your entire life and identity. You were more than a student before you entered law school – you are more than a law student while you are in law school.
Find opportunities to do some of the things that you enjoyed doing before you went to law school, even if you can't do them as often because of the demands of school.
For example, take the time to go out to a movie once in awhile, or visit a nearby museum.
Many law schools have intramural sports and other activities in which you can take part. Since your team members also are law school students, the demands of law school are taken into account.
Exercise can be one of the best ways to combat the negative effects of stress, so make time in your busy schedule and make a morning walk or jog a part of your regular routine.
 Many law school students develop problems with drugs or alcohol and resist getting help. Typically, they are afraid admitting they have a problem will harm their chances of being accepted to the bar after they graduate.Keep in mind that bar examiners are more concerned with your current activities than those that happened in your past.
You won't be penalized for seeking help or support when you need it. Better to err on the side of caution and get help, rather than try to stick it out on your own and risk a relapse or other problems.
Throughout law school, maintain your focus on yourself, your mental stability, and your health.

