 Find out if the school you’re applying to uses the common application. If so, be sure to select one of the current year’s common application essay questions. Most college application prompts can be identified as one of several “types” of question:


Tell us about an event in your life that changed you. Be sure to answer this type of question with a specific, detailed narrative and follow it with analysis. Tie it in to who you are now, and be sure to add details about how you think it will shape your future.
Tell us how you would contribute to the diversity of the student body. Remember that there are different kinds of diversity: racial, gender identity, sexual orientation, and family history. If you are a first-generation college student in your family, that may contribute to the school’s diversity. Find the student body statistics on the college’s website to see if there is a way you would stand out.
Tell us why you want to attend this school. Be specific and complimentary, but try not to use too much flattery. Use the schools website to find specific programs that are unique to the college that you are interested in participating in. Be sure to tie your goals at college in to your personal strengths.
 Rewriting a prompt in your own words ensures that you really understand it and know what it is asking you to do. If any questions come up while doing this, consult a teacher, guidance counselor, or parent for a second opinion.
 Do not just select the topic that jumps out at you on the first read; give the topics some time in your mind.


Narrow the list down to a couple of options that you think would make good essays.
Pre-write a list of ideas or draw a mind map for each of the selected topics.
 While there may be many topics that you could write a successful essay about, if you choose the one that just “feels” right, you’re more likely to put an intuitive personal spin on your essay.
 Instead of selecting the essay prompt first, try writing down a list of personal accomplishments, attributes, and stories that you want to include in your essay and then selecting the topic that will help you shine as an applicant., The key to being successful at a college essay is standing out and providing the student body of the college with value of some sort.


Avoid generic topics or stories and try to really find something to say that highlights who you are as an individual.
Integrate your strengths and goals into the answer for the question, but be sure to answer the question as well.
Find out if there are any overused or cliché experiences that may not be successful as a college essay. An example of an overused topic is a charitable mission trip. Your guidance counselor may help you determine what has been overdone.
 This is a common mistake in college admissions essays. You can be in such a hurry to tell the admissions committee all of your accomplishments that your essay reads more like a list. Use concrete examples with personal relevance to back up all of your claims.For example, don't just say "I have strong leadership skills." This is telling. Instead, use a formula such as this: "My experiences in ____ have developed strong leadership skills." Then write about how you organized cookie sales for your Girl Scouts troop or served as a camp counselor in the summer (or whatever is germane to your claim).
 Determining what seems to be important to the college (such as diversity, community service, or personal integrity) and emphasizing that quality in yourself can make you seem like a good fit for the school.Search the college president’s page for a “strategic plan” for the coming years.
Look at the college mission and vision and try to weave these into your personal values.
Check the website for special programs or initiatives such as service learning, global leadership, or environmental conservation and integrate these ideas into your own.

