 Identify what is causing your nerves to fray. This can help you better manage your stress by developing strategies. Some of these stressors will be external (such as dealing with a looming deadline at work), while others will originate from within (like feelings of inadequacy).;
, Mindfulness can be practiced anywhere, at any time. It involves slowing down to notice your surroundings, engaging your senses, and avoiding judgments. It is about truly experiencing the current moment, no matter how ordinary. Here are a few examples of simple mindfulness exercises:Pick a flower and examine it. Look at the shapes and colors of the petals. Smell the fragrance of the flower. Feel the ground under your feet and the wind around your face.
Eat a meal mindfully. Smell the aroma of your meal. Look at the steam rising and swirling. Feel the textures of your food and taste the depths of flavor.
Shower mindfully. Feel the temperature of the water. Listen to the sounds the water makes as it hits the floor. Inhale the steam and feel the water trickle off your back.
 Meditation helps to focus your thoughts on the present moment without worrying about the past or the future. Awareness of your breath and body posture centers you in the moment. There is no “right” way to meditate, but there are some basic practices you can try.


Locate a quiet, private place to meditate. Be sure that you can mediate uninterrupted for a minimum of ten minutes. Absolute silence is not necessary as ambient noises (traffic, people outside, barking dogs) are part of the present moment.
Find a comfortable position to rest. This may be sitting or lying down on the floor. Close your eyes or allow your eyes to gaze towards the floor.
Pay attention to your breath. Feel your breath fill your lungs as you slowly inhale. Push it out of your diaphragm as you exhale. Try counting your breaths backwards from ten to one. When you’ve reached one, begin at ten again.
If thoughts or feelings enter into your mind as you meditate, bring your attention back to your breath. Focusing on your breath will help keep you from getting caught up on any one thought., Visualizing yourself in a comfortable and relaxing place, like on a tropical beach, can help calm nerves and improve your mood. A simple technique, it can be done anywhere and requires only your imagination. Here are some steps to guided visualization:


Find a comfortable position in a quiet, private place. Closing your eyes helps you block out your surroundings and focus on creating another space.
Take a few deep breaths. Begin to imagine yourself in a relaxing setting. This may be a warm beach, a lush tropical rainforest, or a gently rolling meadow.
Begin adding details to your scene. Visualize a path through the meadow or forest. What do the trees look like? Are there clouds in the sky? Can you feel the breeze on your skin? If you really immerse yourself into your scene, you will feel all the tension in your body - especially the shoulders, knees, and neck - start to disappear.
Maintain slow breathing. When you are ready to come out of your visualization, slowly begin to listen to the sounds of the room and street. Open your eyes slowly.Guided visualizations can be done using your own imagination, but you can also turn to audio recordings, a visualization instructor, or a script.

