 If you can, try not to wash your hair every day. Daily baths and showers will strip your hair of its natural oils. That being said, if you apply products such as hair spray, mousse, gel, and anti-frizz products, these build up in your hair and inhibit the distribution of your hair’s natural oils. It's advisable to wash hair products out of your hair as regularly as is required. If you never use hair products, you may get away with never using shampoo and just rinsing your hair occasionally.


Massage your scalp with the shampoo, not with conditioner. Do this for about 40 seconds before washing it out. If you have oily hair, repeat the process once more (with the shampoo, not conditioner). When you massage the top of your head, the circulation increases and it also helps prevent dandruff. Use a sulfate and silicone free shampoo if your hair is curly or wavy. Sulfate-free shampoos help to prevent frizz.
Pour conditioner into your hand and rub from the tips of your hair to the roots. If you want softer silkier looking hair, leave the conditioner in your hair for a few minutes before you rinse it off.
Try to wash your hair on the coolest setting that is comfortable or at least try giving it a final rinse of cool water. This seals the hair cuticles (the outermost layer of the hair shaft) and locks in moisture, making it shinier. Hotter water may be used occasionally to wash hair if you have very oily or dirty hair. Either way, try rinsing in cool temperature water for the final rinse.;
, Blow dryers can be more benefiting than air-drying if you use them correctly. When you blow dry your hair, put it on a cool setting and hold distance it away to protect it from any heat. If you hold the blow dryer too close, the water in your hair can heat up and damage your hair. This is why hair dryers are known to be bad, but if you use it correctly it is very good. If you can, avoid drying your hair with heat as much as you can; it will only damage your hair.


Avoid wringing your hair with a towel after you get out of a shower. Wet hair is more fragile, and wringing it could cause your hair strands to break or fall out.
Use some heat protection spray when you blow-dry your hair. You should also use protection spray when you use hot rollers or a flat iron or a curling iron or GHD type straighteners.
 Wet hair is stretchier and has a tendency to break. Also, don't brush your hair too much. People say that brushing your hair 100 strokes a day will make it smoother, but this is a myth. Brushing your hair this much will only cause breakage to your hair.


When you do brush your hair, try a natural bristle brush like a boar bristle brush. These brushes distribute oils throughout your hair to make it softer and shinier.
Only use a wide-tooth comb on wet hair. Apply leave-in conditioner or detangler to make your hair more pliable.
 Treating your hair with some special restorative products can help to improve your hair’s health.


Apply a deep conditioning treatment. You can use deep conditioning treatments like egg oil, olive oil, argan oil, avocado oil or coconut oil.
You can also purchase a hair mask or hair cream and apply it.
Use a natural treatment like olive oil, mayonnaise and an egg or a soak in full-fat milk. Leave these treatments in for 2 to 3 hours and rinse them out thoroughly without applying shampoo or conditioner. You can do this once or twice per week if you see good results.
Use a leave-in conditioner at least once a week. Leave-in conditioners penetrate deep into your hair cuticles to heal them more completely.
Try a spray leave in conditioner/ detangler after you shower. The conditioner will make your hair more pliable and manageable.
 Styling products can dry your scalp if you use it directly at the scalp. Try not to use it often, but if you must, apply to hair strands and not the scalp. Then, style your hair at most four times a week to avoid damaging it.


Make sure to avoid using any products that contain alcohol. Alcohol can dry out your hair.
 Clips or barrettes can compliment beautiful hair. Coordinate them with your outfits or your personality. If you use elastics, use fabric-covered elastics to prevent breakage and tangles.
 Your diet can also prevent hair loss.


Essential fatty acids, especially omega-3 fatty acids, promote healthy skin, hair, and nails. You should eat some of these foods, which are rich in omega-3, every day:

Salmon, tuna, mackerel, and other fatty fish
Flax seed oil
Walnuts, almonds, and milk


Vitamins B-6, B-12, and folic acid are also important to your hair. You can always take a multivitamin to get more of these nutrients, but you can also add foods rich in these vitamins to your diet.

Vitamin B-6: bananas, potatoes (both white and sweet) and spinach.
Vitamin B-12: meat, poultry, fish and dairy products.
Folic acid: citrus fruits, tomatoes, whole grain and fortified grain products, beans and lentils.


Protein also promotes healthy hair. Eat a daily serving of fish, chicken, eggs or soy.