 Fill a safe, clean receptacle with roughly three inches of warm water. The water should be between Between 90 °F (32 °C) and 100 °F (38 °C). Once you have the appropriate amount of water, shut it off and swirl the water to ensure there are no especially hot spots.Touch the water with the inside of your wrist. The sensitivity of your wrist is a more trustworthy temperature indicator than your hand. The water should feel warm, not hot.
Never add water to the tub with your baby in it. The water can quickly become dangerously hot.
You may want to set your water heater to 120 °F (49 °C). This will still allow you to get hot water, but will prevent potentially scalding water from collecting in the water heater.;
, Wet babies are especially hard to hold. To prevent your grip from slipping, place your baby along one of your arms. Make sure the baby’s head, neck, and back are supported. Always use one of your arms to support them while you bathe them with your other arm., Start by cleaning your baby's face with disposable cotton pads or a freshly laundered and rinsed cotton cloth. Wipe from the inside corner of one the baby’s eye outwards. Repeat the process on the other side. Don’t rub or push too hard. Dab softly but repeatedly if necessary. Next, wipe the rest of baby’s face, from the middle outwards.Make sure you clean around their nose and mouth, behind their ears, and in the creases of their neck.
Do not put anything inside your baby’s ears, nose or mouth.
Periodically pour cups of warm water over your baby’s body to keep them from getting too cold.
 After washing their face, wash the rest of the baby top to bottom and front to back. A soapy washcloth cloth is best. Use only cleansers meant to be used on babies. These will be very mild, and will minimize irritation.Do not use regular soap or shampoo to bathe your baby. Some very mild soaps may also be appropriate for use on babies. Ask your pediatrician if the cleanser you have is ok for babies.
Avoid getting any type of cleanser in your baby’s eyes or mouth.
 Wet the baby's hair and massage in a small portion of baby shampoo in a circular motion. Then rinse with your hands or a cup of warm bathwater., For both baby girls and boys, wash the diaper area from front to back. Be especially gentle when washing a baby’s genitals, but make sure they are cleaned. Soaps can irritate this sensitive area so just using warm water is best. Do not pull back the foreskin on an uncircumcised boy.Don’t forget a final rinse of your baby’s full body. Use several cups of warm, clean water.
 Use one of your arms to support your baby’s head and neck. Reach beneath the baby’s bottom, and wrap your fingers around one of their legs. Use this arm to support the baby’s weight as your lift them slowly. If possible, have another adult take the baby from you in a clean, dry towel., Always use a clean, dry towel to dry your baby. Make sure you dry them well, as moisture on your baby’s skin can cause a rash or other irritation. Pat instead of rubbing with the towel. Be sure to get inside of all of your baby’s creases!