 Choose a wall that’s smooth and flat. Next, place a rigid wooden, metal, or plastic ruler perpendicular to a wall. The ruler should form a ninety degree angle with the wall. Make sure the lowest numerical part of the ruler is closest to the wall.


The end of the ruler should be completely flush with the surface of the wall. Otherwise, your measurements will be incorrect.;
, Place your foot on the ruler. Your heel should be touching the wall but not pressed against it. Next, measure your foot from your heel to your longest toe. Record this number and measure your other foot. Use the larger measurement to determine your shoe size.Measure your feet at the end of the day or after a long run. Your feet will be at their biggest., Look on the Vibram Five Fingers website to find the shoe size calculator.This chart will show several foot measurements (in inches) and their corresponding US and EU shoe sizes. These measurements are displayed in both men’s and women’s sizes.


For example, if you buy men’s shoes and your foot is 12 inches long, you will buy a 13-14 US men’s shoe (48 EU).
 The toes and heel should comfortably fit into their respective sections. Your longest toe should barely brush the end of its toe sleeve. It’s okay if the ends of your smaller toes don’t touch the shoe at all. However, you should have more than enough room to stretch your toes out.


If you don’t have enough room in the shoe, try on a larger size. Similarly, if your foot slides around in the shoe, try on a smaller size.
Walk around in them to make sure they’re comfortable.
 The male shoes are slightly wider at the ball of the foot and longer in the toes than the female shoes.Regardless of your gender, if you have wide feet, you may want to consider getting the men’s shoes. Similarly, if you have very narrow feet, consider buying the female shoe.


When in doubt, try on both models. Many people with wide feet find that both models are comfortable., If you’re going to be wearing the shoes inside a gym or around your home you can buy the minimalistic models. Look for shoes with thin soles and breathable material. Retailers sort the shoe models by activity, so look for models that are in the “Running” and “Casual” categories.


The Blklla and KSO models are popular choices for everyday use and light indoor exercise.For casual indoor use, choose the Classic and VI-S models.
 If you’re going to be wearing your shoes while running outside, doing water sports, or climbing, choose one of the heavy duty models. Look for shoes with thick soles and protective covering over the top of the foot.When looking at model categories, choose shoes that are listed as “Training & Fitness,” “Watersports,” and “Outdoor” shoes.


The Spyridon, KSO and V-RUN models are popular choices for heavy duty use.
The Signa shoe is the most popular water sport model.
 Velcro attachments are easy to put on and usually endure the elements better than laces do. However, laced shoes can accommodate a larger range of foot shapes.By tightening the laces, people with high arches or flat feet can wear these shoes more comfortably.


If you have high arches, flat feet, or another foot concern such as Morton’s foot, talk to a doctor before wearing these shoes.Otherwise, you may injure your feet.
 Search for retailers that are listed as authorized Vibram Five Fingers retailers. These stores will sell you the authentic product as opposed to flimsy imitations or second-hand shoes. Find authorized retailers by visiting the Vibram Five Fingers website and clicking on the “Store Locator” option.Whenever possible, buy the shoes in person. You will be able to try on a variety of sizes and models before purchasing a pair.
 You can buy these shoes directly from the manufacturer by ordering them online. Some people prefer to do this because the price is generally lower. However, if you buy a pair of shoes and they don’t fit, you will have to ship them back to the manufacturer for a refund.


If possible, visit a local retailer and try on a few pairs of shoes to see which size fits. Use this information to help you order shoes online.
 Some people prefer to buy their shoes from other online sources to take advantage of coupons and gift cards. However, be aware that some online stores sell cheap fakes or stolen products instead of the authentic shoes. Look for the words “official distributor” in the product description or website title to determine the validity of the seller.You can find discounts and coupons for many online stores by doing a simple internet search.

