 Move any furniture that is on the terrazzo floor out of the way so you have no obstacles to clean around. If there is other clutter like papers, toys, or containers, move those out of the way too.Before cleaning a terrazzo floor, make sure it is has been commercially sealed. It should have a smooth, glossy look. If it appears rough or dull, consult a flooring professional before doing any cleaning.
 Before you do a deep clean with a steam cleaner, run a dust mop across the entire floor to pick up hair, dust, and dirt first. Cleaning with steam will not be effective if there is a lot of debris still on the floor., Follow the instructions on the steam cleaner for how much water it needs and where the water goes. If you know that your tap water has a lot of mineral content, it’s best to use distilled water. Water with lots of mineral particles cannot clean effectively.Mineral-filled water will also leave residue on the inside of your steam cleaner which will eventually make it ineffective for cleaning.
Some steam cleaners require you to add detergent, but the best type to use for terrazzo floors are steam cleaners that do not use soap.
 Position the steam cleaner in a corner and pull it outward in a straight line. Continue to pull the steam cleaner back and forth in straight lines. Slightly overlap the previous line to make sure you don’t miss any spots.
 Steam cleaners are not meant to be pushed and pulled quickly. Be sure to go slowly, allowing it to sit on each part of the floor for two to three seconds, or eight to ten seconds for especially dirty floors.Do not leave the steamer sitting on a spot for more than 15 seconds as this can begin to damage the floor.
 After you have steam cleaned the whole floor, it’s important to make sure people are safe. If you have a yellow “Wet Floor” sign, set this up. If not write some kind of sign so that people know not to walk on the floor, or to be extra careful.
 Let the floor air dry once you have cleaned it. It helps to turn on an overhead fan, or set up fans or blowers to get the floor dry faster.

