 This is a list of all your academic, extracurricular, and social goals, desires, and obligations. Do this both for short- and long-term goals you’d like to meet. This will allow you to clearly see what your goals and interests are at the moment and will give you an idea of how you should be dividing up your time.Include anything that you want or need to devote time to in your list. If you have a project due next week, write it in. If you have in mind to complete a college application by next month, put that on the list as well. And yes, playing that awesome new video game for an hour the day it comes out should also be factored into your list.
Create a realistic timeline you will use to meet your goals. Set a due date next to each item, and organize your list by due date. This way, you can hold yourself accountable for meeting your goals by the dates you have established.;
, Stick strictly to your due dates. If you follow your timeline, it will be easier to keep track of what you still need to do. It will also relieve you of the stress that often comes with not having strictly set deadlines. Cross off each task as you complete it. This will help you keep track of the work you have done and what you have left to do. You will also feel a great sense of validation when you look back and see all that you’ve accomplished!
Reward yourself occasionally. You’re meeting your goals! Keep up the great work.
 A timetable will propel your productivity by allowing you to clearly see what you need to do and when you need to do it. Angle it more towards daily tasks rather than long-term goals, and make it as detailed as possible (e.g. do homework from 5:00-6:00, eat dinner from 6:00-6:30, and so forth).Leave a bit of a cushion for unexpected events and for transitions between different activities in your timetable. You never know what could arise, and you want to be prepared and flexible enough so that unforeseen circumstances don’t throw your schedule and your productivity out of sync.Schedule breaks into your timetable. Breaks are conducive to mental acuity - don’t underestimate their power!Go for a nice walk or watch a funny animal video - just get your brain out of “work” mode for a few minutes.



Consider the type of planner you will use very carefully. Planners come in all shapes and sizes - from daily to weekly to monthly- and you should pick the format that works best for you so that you get the most out of its usage.
