 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook with a slip knot, then work 13 chain stitches from the loop.

This chain sets the width of the neckline as it sits on the shoulder of the garment. Use 13 chain stitches for a sweater measuring 35 to 36 inches (89 to 91 cm) across the bust.
If you plan to adjust the bust size of this sweater, adjust the number of chains until the foundation row is roughly one-ninth of your total bust measurement plus three chains.;
, Double crochet once into the fourth chain from the hook, then double crochet once into each of the remaining chains across the row.Turn the work when you reach the end of the row.
Your stitch count should be three fewer than your foundation row, making this first row approximately one-ninth of your total bust measurement.
 Chain three, then double crochet once into each stitch across the row.

Turn the piece when you reach the end of the row.
 Repeat the pattern of the second row six more times (rows three through eight).

For each row:

Chain three.
Double crochet once into each stitch across the row.
Turn the work at the end of the row.
 For the ninth row, begin by chaining three. Double crochet once into the next stitch and twice into the stitch after that; repeat this pattern across the row.

Turn at the end of the row.
 Chain three. Double crochet once into the next stitch and twice into the stitch after that; repeat across the row.

You should end with one double crochet in the last stitch.
Turn at the end of the row.
 Chain three and double crochet once in the next stitch.

Double crochet twice in the next stitch, then once into each of the next two stitches; repeat across the row.
Turn at the end of the row.
 Work one single crochet into each stitch around the entire piece.

Try to space the single crochets apart as evenly as possible.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to tie off the yarn.

Weave the excess tail into the stitches, hiding it from sight.
 Follow the same steps to produce another piece identical to the first.

You should have two triangular pieces. When the bottom rows are lined up point-to-point, they should form the v-neck of your sweater.
 Attach new yarn to the hook with a slip knot, then work a foundation of 43 chain stitches.

If you've adjusted other parts of this pattern, you'll need to adjust this foundation chain, as well. The length of the chain should match your shoulder span (measured shoulder to shoulder), plus three chains.
 Double crochet once into the fourth chain from the hook, then once into each remaining chain across the row.

Your total stitch count should be three less than your foundation row.
Turn at the end of the row.
 Chain three, then double crochet once into each stitch across the row.

Turn at the end of the row.
 Complete five more rows (rows 3 through 7) by following the pattern used for your second row.

For each row: chain three, double crochet once into each stitch across, then turn the work.
 Chain three. Double crochet once in each of the next two stitches, then twice into the stitch after that; repeat across the row.

The row should end with two double crochet in the last stitch.
Turn at the end of the row.
 Chain three. Double crochet once in each of the next two stitches, then twice into the stitch after that; repeat across the rest of the row., Work one single crochet into each stitch around the sides and top (foundation) of the piece, but not into the bottom (ninth) row.

Try to keep the stitches evenly spaced apart as you work around the piece.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the work.

Weave the remaining end into the stitches.
 Tie new yarn to the crochet hook with a slip knot, then work a foundation row of 63 chain stitches.

If you adjusted the size of the pattern, note that this foundation chain should also be adjusted. The chain should be double the length of the final row in one of your front neck pieces, plus an extra three chains.
Also note that you'll work two separate pieces for the body. This foundation is only for the front portion of the sweater body and should not be long enough to include the back.
 Work one double crochet into the fourth chain from the hook, then work one double crochet into each of the remaining stitches.

Your stitch could should be three less than your foundation chain, and the length should now be double the length of the final row in one front neck piece.
Turn at the end of the row.
 Chain three. Work one double crochet into each stitch across the row.

Turn at the end of the row.
 Make as many rows as needed to create a sweater with your desired length. Each of these rows should be identical to the second row.

For each row: chain three, double crochet once into each stitch across, and turn the work.
For a sweater measuring 16 inches (40.5 cm) long, you'll need a total for 24 rows. Adjust the row count as desired, accounting for the height of the collar in your calculations.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the yarn.

Weave the remaining excess into the stitches to hide it and further secure the yarn.
 Follow the same steps to create another identical rectangle of crocheted fabric. This second piece will become the back body piece.

Everything about this second piece should match the first, including the stitches per row and the number of rows.
 Attach new yarn to the hook with a slip knot, then work a foundation row of 76 chain stitches.

This foundation row will determine the length of the sleeve. Adjust the number of chains so that the foundation row matches your desired sleeve length, plus three chains.
 Work one double crochet into the fourth chain from the hook, then once into each of the remaining stitches across the row.

This first row should have three fewer stitches than your foundation, and it should more accurately match your desired sleeve length.
Turn at the end of the row.
 Chain three, then work one double crochet into each of the stitches across the row.

Turn at the end of the row.
 Repeat the second row pattern for another 12 rows (rows 3 through 14).

Adjust the number of rows as needed. When the long sides (row lengths) are matches together, the opening should be wide enough for your arm to fit through.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull the tail through the loop on your hook to tie it off.

Weave the excess yarn into the stitches.
 Fold the newly created rectangle so that the foundation and final rows (long sides) meet. Whip stitch the long sides together using new yarn and a yarn needle.

The right sides of the sleeve should face one another as you stitch it closed.
Leave the short sides open.
 Follow the same procedure to create a second sleeve that is identical to the first.

Both the foundation row stitch count and number of rows must match.
 Lay the two front collar pieces on the front body piece. Whip stitch the pieces together with a yarn needle.

The bottom rows of the collar pieces should line up with the top row of the body piece. Make sure that the collar pieces form an open v-shape between them.
Keep the front sides facing as you stitch the pieces together.
 Place the back v-neck collar on top of the back body piece. Whip stitch the two pieces together using a yarn needle.

Keep the right sides facing. The bottom row of the collar piece should line up with the top row of the body piece.
 Lay the front portion on top of the back portion. Whip stitch around the sides and shoulders to sew them together.

Make sure that the neckline, bottom, and armholes remain open.
When stitching around the armholes, make sure that you leave enough open space for your arms to fit through.
 Line up each sleeve with its respective armhole. Whip stitch the top opening of the sleeve to the stitches around the armhole.

Both the sleeves and the sweater body should be right-sides in as you stitch them together.
 Once all of the pieces have been stitched together, you can turn the sweater right-side out.

The sweater is essentially finished at this point. You can wear it as it currently is, or you can add edging and other embellishments before wearing it.
 Attach new yarn to the crochet hook with a slip knot, then join the new yarn to the bottom opening of the sweater with a slip stitch.

Join the yarn to the bottom opening just beneath the side seam. Do not join it in the center of the front or back.
 Single crochet once into the first stitch. Chain five, and slip stitch into the bottom of the chain to create the picot.To create smaller picots, you could work a chain of 3 or 4 stitches, instead.
 Work four single crochet across the row, then create another picot into the last of those single crochet stitches.

If desired, you could space the picots together more closely by working only two or three single crochet stitches between them.
 Continue working additional picots around the rest of the bottom opening. When finished, fasten off the yarn and weave in the excess.

Use the same number of chains in each picot and keep the same number of single crochet in between separate picots.
 If desired, you can also add the picot edging to the openings of both sleeves, too.

Follow the same steps to complete the sleeve edging. You can vary the size and spacing of your picots for the sleeves so that they differ from those on the bottom opening, but use the same pattern for each sleeve.

