 Seasoning your wok helps create a natural non-stick surface, so food glides easily around when you're cooking. Before you start seasoning your wok, though, it’s important to ensure that the kitchen has adequate ventilation because the process creates smoke. Open all of the windows, and turn on an exhaust fan if you have one.Make sure that there are no flammable materials near the stove while you’re seasoning the wok.
 When you first purchase it, your wok have a factory coating of oil on its surface that protects the material and prevents rust. Before you can season it, you need to wash the oil away so it doesn’t burn off during the processing. Use a steel wool scrubber, dish soap, and hot water to carefully scrub the entire surface, both inside and out the wok.After you’ve washed the wok, make sure to dry it thoroughly before moving on in the seasoning process. Place it on a burn set at low heat, and let it sit for a couple of minutes -- or until you no longer see any water droplets on its surface.
 While the wok is still warm, use a heat-proof brush, such as the kind you would use for barbecuing, to apply a thin layer of fat or oil to the entire surface of its interior. Lard is a traditional choice, but you can also use an oil with a high smoke point, such as grapeseed, canola, peanut, or palm. Once the fat has been applied, place the wok on a burner set at high heat.Avoid using sunflower oil, safflower oil, flax oil, fish oil, or margarine to coat the wok. They leave a sticky coating.
While you’re heating the wok with fat in it, make sure to rotate it on the burner so that it’s heated evenly.
You’ll usually know that you’re done heating the wok when you start to see wisps of smoke coming off the surface.
 After the fat has burned for several minutes, remove the wok from the burner and allow it to cool completely. Once it’s at room temperature, use a paper towel to wipe its entire surface and soak up an excess fat or oil., While your wok is ready to be used after you’ve completed the seasoning process, you’ll get a better cooking surface if you repeat the process several times. You’ll know that the wok is properly prepared when its interior becomes dark and shiny.You can also tell that the wok is fully seasoned when the paper towel that you wipe it down with no longer comes back with brown or black ash.
When you’re heating the oil in the wok, you can also add aromatics, such as scallions, garlic, or ginger, to help with seasoning process.

