 You can add a delicious sweet and spicy flavor to your sunflower seeds by combining 3 tablespoons of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon of chili powder, 1 teaspoon of ground cumin, 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon, a pinch of ground cloves, 1/2 teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 3/4 teaspoon of salt and 3/4 teaspoon of dried chili flakes. First toss the hulled sunflower seeds in one beaten egg white (this will help the spices to stick to the seeds) then add the spices and toss to coat. Roast as normal.

Make ranch flavored sunflower seeds. Ranch seasoning for your sunflower seeds is so easy to make, and provide a deliciously "more-please" snack. Simply mix 3 tablespoons of melted butter with 1 1/2 tablespoons of dry Ranch dressing mix. Toss in the sunflower seeds to coat, then roast as normal.

Make lime toasted sunflower seeds. These lime flavored sunflower seeds make an excellent addition to salads, noodle dishes and soups. Just toss the hulled sunflower seeds in a mix of 2 tablespoons of fresh lime juice, 2 tablespoons of soy sauce, 1 teaspoon of agave syrup, 1/2 teaspoon of hot chili powder, 1/2 teaspoon of paprika powder and 1/2 teaspoon of canola or olive oil. Roast as normal.

Make honey roasted sunflower seeds. These make a scrumptious sweet treat, perfect for lunch boxes! Simply melt three tablespoons of honey (which can also be substituted for date syrup or agave nectar) in a small saucepan over a low heat. This should only take a minute. Add in 1 1/2 teaspoons of sunflower oil and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Toss in the hulled sunflower seeds to coat and roast as normal.

Make salt and vinegar sunflower seeds. If you're more into savory snacks than sweet treats, this recipe should be right up your alley! All you need to do is toss your hulled sunflower seeds in a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar and a teaspoon of salt and roast as normal.

Make sweet cinnamon sunflower seeds. Adding a little ground cinnamon to your sunflower seeds is so easy to do and is sure to satisfy cinnamon lovers cravings. Just toss your sunflower seeds in a 1/4 teaspoon of cinnamon, 1/4 teaspoon of coconut oil and 1/4 teaspoon of artificial sweetener for a sweet treat that won't pile on the calories.
 There are tons of other seasonings you can try, either in combination or on their own. If you're looking for a really quick fix, just try adding a 1/4 teaspoon of any of the following to your sunflower seeds before roasting: Cajun seasoning, dry barbecue seasoning, garlic powder or onion powder. You could also try drenching your roasted sunflower seeds with melted chocolate for a really flavor-blessed snack!

