 You may be an adventurous type who’s willing to try something totally new with whatever’s available. You could also be looking to expand your horizons but feel more cautious in your approach. Or you may want to make your $10 or $20 count with a purchase that you won’t regret. Whatever your temperament is, start narrowing down your search by either:Sticking with a varietal (the type of grape a wine is made with) that you know and love, like Riesling or Merlot.
Exploring other varietals from a region that you’re familiar with, like Barossa Valley in Australia or Abruzzo in Italy.
 Narrow your search that much more by ignoring jugs, large bottles, and boxed wines. When looking for something new, always stick with the 750 ml bottles. If you find something you like in this size and see that it’s also available in a larger bottle, go with that next time around. But for now, stick to a size that won’t feel quite as wasteful if you decide after one sip that the rest is undrinkable.This isn’t to say that you can’t find a good wine in other packaging, so if you’re carefree and curious about a jug or boxed wine, go for it. However, be aware that many of these are mass-produced for mass consumption and typically don’t measure very high in expert ratings.
 If you have a preference between light, dry wines and bolder ones, look for the wine’s ABV (Alcohol by Volume) as an indicator of which is which. Expect richer flavor from wines containing more alcohol. Use 13% ABV as a dividing line to pick a wine that will suit your personal taste. For instance:Choose a wine with 13% ABV or higher if you enjoy rich, bold flavors.
Go with a wine whose ABV is 12% or lower if you prefer light, dry wines.
 Check both the front and back labels for descriptions that detail the wine’s character beyond merely “Shiraz” or “Chablis.” Whether or not you have the palate of a 5-star chef, look for any keywords that might put you off, like “vanilla,” “sweet,” or “buttery.” Obviously, if the tasting notes are trumpeting flavors you don’t like, put it back on the shelf.Tasting notes are generally a more helpful tool in determining what not to get. Remember that these are created by the wine’s producer, who wants to sell the wine and make some money. Therefore they’re always going to write it up in a way that sounds positive. So just because the notes tout a flavor that you really like doesn’t mean that you’re going to like it., You’re probably aware that certain vintages of specific wines are prized commodities, like the 1945 Chateau Mouton-Rothschild. Although it’s highly unlikely you’ll find that specific wine at your local Walmart, beware older wines in general at the grocery store. Remember that wines need particular care when it comes to long-term storage, which grocery stores lack. Always check the vintage and stick to:White wines that are two years or younger.
Red wines that are three years or younger.

