 Choose a high-quality brand of fabric softener for the best effect. Pour some fabric softener in a bowl or cup. How much you need depends on the amount of hair on the doll. You should have enough fabric softener to completely soak the doll's hair.








To avoid wasting fabric softener, start off by adding a small amount. Add more fabric softener as you go along, adding enough to soak the doll's hair.
Place the doll's hair in the bowl. Work the fabric softener into the hair using your fingers. Keep going until the hair is completely coated.Set the doll aside. Keep the doll in a safe place, where it will not be disturbed. Leave the fabric softener in for at least an hour. If the doll's hair is in particularly rough shape, consider leaving the softener in overnight.;
, After soaking the doll's hair for your chosen time period, comb the hair out with the fabric softener still in place. The softener should act as a conditioning agent, smoothing out the doll's hair and loosening tangles.








You should use a wide-toothed wig brush, as these brushes tend to work out tangles best. If you do not have a wig brush, any wide-toothed brush should work. Go slowly to avoid breaking the doll's hair as you comb.However, with a smaller doll like a Barbie doll, a fine-toothed comb may work better.
If you're working on a doll with very long hair, consider working out bigger tangles or knots with your fingers before brushing., Once the hair is brushed, rinse out the softener. You can simply rinse the doll's hair out under cool tap water in your sink. Make sure to get all the fabric softener out. If any softener is left in longterm, it could damage the hair. Periodically squeeze the hair to see if you notice any softener oozing out. Keep rinsing until no fabric softener is present.








You can pat the doll's hair slightly dry with a clean towel. You can also let the hair air dry in the sun.Do not blow dry doll's hair. Doll hair is delicate and will not respond well to being dried with a hair dryer.
 Once the hair is somewhat dry, brush it out again. Use a fine-tooth comb this time, as this will straighten the doll's hair and work out small tangles. Brushing the hair one last time can also aid with the drying process.







