 Invest in cookware that is “non-stick,” and you won’t have to use butter to grease pans for cooking.For a little needed glide, use a teaspoon of olive oil.
 Frying your food is the quickest way to increase its fat content. Avoid frying, and instead use other healthier methods of cooking. There are many cookbooks and websites that can teach you how to cook with various methods.Choose similar methods of food preparation when eating out at restaurants.
 Instead of using butter, cream, and cheese to flavor foods, experiment with different herbs and spices. This will decrease the fat-content of your meal, provide more nutrients, and expand your kitchen repertoire.Citrus flavors like orange, lime, and lemon juices can add nice flavor and vitamins to a meal.


You can usually buy spices and herbs in bulk at good prices in certain stores.
Many Asian, Indian, and Latin American recipes use delicious seasonings. Wherever you live, it can be fun to experiment with cuisine from other nations, or with new recipes from your native country.
 Meat is graded by its fat content, with “prime” cuts being the highest in fat. Lower cost cuts of meat have less fat, and are healthier options. Loin and round cuts are good lower-fat selections.Cut visible fat off of meats before cooking, and drain the grease afterwards.
Broil or grill meats on a rack so that fat can drip off of them., Red meats like beef, pork, lamb, and veal contain the highest amounts of saturated fats of any meats. Skinless poultry and seafood are much lower-fat options if you opt to eat meat. Choose surf over turf whenever possible.
 Chicken and turkey meat are pretty low-fat options, but the skin of poultry has lots of saturated fat in it. Remove the skin before or after cooking to minimize fat from poultry. If your chicken is fried, definitely take the skin off before eating it.


Removing skin before cooking can make the end product drier, so it is best to marinate the meat or cook it in a liquid such as stock.
 Whatever animal-protein is in your meal, whether it’s fish, poultry, or red meat, limit the size of your portion to that of a deck of cards or the palm of your hand.Base meals on vegetables, whole grains and other sources of protein like tofu, nuts, and beans, with only small portions of meat.
 Substitute beans or tofu for meat in soup, sandwiches, and salads. You can make delicious meals without using any meat, while still getting the nutrients and protein your body needs.Aim to replace one to three meat meals a week with a meat alternative such as quinoa, beans, lentils, soy, or textured vegetable protein (TVP).Try different brands of veggie burgers to find one you like. Some are made with black beans, quinoa, or vegetable blends. If you can’t go vegetarian, replace ground beef with ground turkey for burgers., When you make your side dishes and snacks at home you can control how much fat goes into them, versus high-fat frozen and processed foods. For instance, instead of buying frozen french fries to add to your meal, make your own fries. Cook fries with a little bit of olive oil, season with salt and pepper, and bake them in the oven.


Think about what sides and snacks you usually buy or get at a restaurant, and write your own low-fat recipes for them. If you enjoy potato salad or coleslaw, make it with low-fat mayonnaise. If you find yourself snacking on sweets like cookies, get a cookie recipe that uses bananas instead of butter.

