 Always aim to make a good impression on other people by being upbeat and having something positive to bring to the conversation. This will help others to think of you as a nice person and not another one of those mean girls who trash talk or give them a hard time.


Have kind words to say to others. Be ready to compliment people on the good things you notice about them, even if it's just one thing.;
, People enjoy being around someone who is happy more than someone who acts like the world is ending.
 For one thing, it feels good, and for another, it makes others feel good. Don't laugh at others though. Making fun of other people isn't funny.
 Pay attention in class and be on good terms with your teachers.
 People like those who are quieter and have respect for what another person has to say.
 Especially befriend the other nice people. Make friends with people who are mostly honest and friendly, or who stick up for other people in a friendly way.
 Make friends with everyone you possibly can.
 Everyone wants to be wanted, and you are making sure that they are want

, This way, people will get to know you for who you really are.
, If somebody is mean to you, give yourself a minute to cool off, don't go right ahead and punch them. This will give a bad impression on your side.
 If someone is mean to you, send them a gift or a card for no reason or speak up for them in class or in the school grounds. They will be so dumbfounded that they will likely realize how mean they have been.
 If somebody you know, like a friend, is trash talking somebody else, don't be afraid to step forward and say "Hey I don't think you should be talking about that person that way" or "Why don't we let this drop, it wasn't a big deal anyway". Stopping mean-spirited gossip is a role a nice person will always take on.
 If your friends support you in any way they can or always is nice to you, you know they are your true friends. But if somebody is making you chose sides or is sucking you into drama, they aren't your real friend... trust me I know.

