 When you're a tomboy, it doesn't matter what you like and don't like. A tomboy is a girl who doesn't mind hanging with the guys, and likes boys sports or video games, and doesn't wear a hot pink mini-skirt all the time. Choose whatever you want.;
, Tomboys don't only wear sneakers, jeans, and a t-shirt 24/7. Being a tomboy/girly girl means you can wear whatever, whenever. If you feel the girly girl inside you coming out, then wear dresses and skirts. But if you feel the tomboy in you, then maybe wear some dress pants and a nice top, too.
 It's okay to be feminine. It's okay to wear pink, just don't overdo it or wear it all the time. There's no law against tomboys wearing pink. You are just as strong as a tomboy who doesn't wear pink, or as a guy.
 Consider pink, black, accessories, and the Riot Grrl style. Dressing like a girly punk and not losing your attitude complements your girly tomboy personality big time.
 Try normal tomboy colors like red, blue, orange, brown, etc. You could wear some basketball shorts and a bikini top. If not, then a tank top would do.
 Different routines work for different people. You might be a wash-and-go kind of girl, or you might like to spend a little extra time to look your best. There is no right or wrong answer (as long as you're hygienic). You have no obligations about your appearance.
 Shower daily or every other day, and brush your hair and teeth at least two times a day. You don't have to give up personal hygiene to be a girly tomboy.
 Experiment to find your personal style.
 Try various updos, and consider accessories such as hair clips. Find something practical and cute that makes you smile. This complements your girly side.


Flowers, ribbons, bows, and other cutesy things are all okay to wear if you like them. Remember, you can be tough and feminine at the same time!

, Try a rough sport if you're interested in it. If you don't like competition, try backyard sports, shooting hoops on the driveway, or playing in the water with friends. Being active is an important part of tomboy culture, and it's also fun!

, Lots of tomboys love sports, such as basketball, soccer, football, and baseball. Or video games like Halo, Call of Duty, sports games, and so on. Make sure you have a reason to be tomboy.
 Be nice to them and they will do the same for you!

, Being a tomboy takes time. But it's not impossible.

