 You can be creative with your writing by choosing topics that will inspire you and motivate you. Writing about a topic that scares you or freaks you out can infuse your prose with passion, humor, and tension. Maybe you choose to write about your worst fear or about your biggest moment of anxiety in your life. Focusing on a subject that makes you uncomfortable can force you to get creative and write through your fears on the page.For example, maybe you have a fear of heights and decide to explore this topic in your writing. You can try to channel your fear and anxiety into a non-fiction piece about how you have been challenged by your fear of heights in your life and how you have managed to overcome it or work around it.;
, You can also get inspired to be creative in your writing by choose an interesting setting and sitting down to write in this setting. Bring your pen and paper with you so you can take notes as you observe what is going on around you. Use the setting as inspiration and get creative as you take notes.For example, you may choose a unique setting like your local zoo or the arrivals area of the airport. You may then write down your observations and pay attention to how people interact with each other and the setting. You may then use some of your observations or even the conversations you overhear as raw material you can use creatively in your writing.
 You can also look to history for ways to get creative in your writing. You may do research at your local library or online to find forgotten moments in history. You may narrow down your research to a particular group of people in history or a particular time period and dig around for events or figures in history that have been forgotten or ignored.For example, maybe you feel inspired to research the role of Native Americans in United States history. You may then use resources at your local library and online to look for stories of Native American historical figures that you can explore in your writing.
 You should be creative with how you choose the themes you write about in your work. Though there are many classic themes out there that appear in writing all the time, you should try to put a new spin on familiar themes so your writing feels unique and creative. You may use a classic theme as a jumping off point and see how you can approach it from a new or different angle.For example, you may decide to write about the classic theme: “love and friendship.” You may then consider how you can approach this classic theme in a way that feels unique to you. Perhaps you recall a childhood moment where you betrayed a best friend and explore this classic theme in a darker, more cynical way.
 You can push yourself to being more creative by setting up a writing challenge for yourself. You may make your own writing challenge or do a writing challenge with other writers. This could force you to get creative at least once a day or for a set period of time.


For example, you may challenge yourself to write 500 words of creative writing a day. This could be adding words to an existing story you are writing or writing short stories or scenes.
You could also do at least one creative writing prompt a day, devoting 30 minutes to one prompt or to multiple prompts. You may then challenge yourself to turn the prompts into stories or longer form pieces.
A fun challenge could also be to write a story and then destroy it. Doing this could help you let go of your ideas and force you to come up with new, creative ideas on a consistent basis.

