 Once again, take care to cover your extremities when removing a bee threat manually. You’ll need to get quite close to the bees to dispatch them with pesticide spray. The fewer openings you leave for stings, the less danger you’ll be putting yourself in.
 Run to the store and grab a can (or two) of a high-strength insecticide like Raid. Environmental experts recommend against using spray insecticides because of their effects on the environment, but if you need to kill a bunch of bees in a hurry, they will do the trick. Insecticides work on airborne pests like nerve agents, paralyzing the cells of the insect’s body and shutting down the nervous system.Insecticides contain highly toxic chemicals. Always use them in a well-ventilated area when possible and keep your nose and mouth covered to prevent breathing in the spray yourself.
Insect sprays will be less effective at killing bees in open spaces where the chemicals quickly dissipate.
 Approach cautiously and spray a small amount of insecticide directly onto the thickest cluster of bees. The poison in the insecticide should take effect almost immediately. The bees will slow down and their movement will become clumsy and erratic. Continue spraying in short bursts until you’ve eliminated all the bees around the nest.Don’t be too heavy-handed with the insecticide spray. Use enough to neutralize swarming bees, but remember that the more poison you release, the more you’ll have lingering in the air and on surfaces around your home.
If the bees become agitated and begin to swarm, make a break for it and try again at a later time or call a bee removal service. Better safe than sorry.
 It’s likely that you won’t be able to neutralize every last bee with a household insecticide spray. As long as the comb of the nest remains intact, bees may return and rebuild. Remove the hive or comb and break it apart or burn it.Use a pressure washer to take down a hanging beehive from a safe distance or flood hard-to-reach crevices.
With the nest destroyed, surviving bees will move on and look for another place to build.

