 Place into a bowl of warm water. Leave to soak for 6 to 8 hours.
 Place the drained cashews into a food processor. Add the half a cup of water. Process until the cashews form a smooth paste. While processing, you'll need to turn off the processor, lift off the lid and scrape down the sides to ensure that everything has been fully processed., Place the processed cashews into a bowl. Set aside., Add the 1/2 cup of sugar, chickpea flour and cornstarch. Stir through. Add the salt, vanilla bean pulp and pods., Bring to a low boil, continuously stirring. Keep stirring as the mixture thickens, boiling for 2 minutes. While it is boiling, use the stirring spoon to pull the mixture off the sides of the pan and back into the stirred mixture. This helps the flour and cornstarch to properly form part of the mixture and cook.

Don't neglect to stir the mixture or it risks burning. If it does burn, you'll need to start again or the dessert will taste unpleasant. The only burnt part you want is the topping.
 Set aside to cool for 10 minutes. Retrieve the vanilla pods from the mixture when it has cooled., This readies the dishes for adding the mixture to. Do not line the baking sheet––the blowtorch will burn paper or anything else; just rely on the metal to protect the work surface., Process the two mixtures together until combined and smooth. This forms the crème brûlée custard., Ensure that the surface of each dish is even; smooth out if needed, using the back of a spoon or a spatula. Cover with plastic food wrap or food foil. Place in the refrigerator to chill for 3 to 5 hours minimum, to set firmly. The custards can be refrigerated for a couple of days if needed but keep well wrapped to ensure they don't soak up fridge smells.,, Tilt the ramekin dish to distribute the sugar across the surface evenly. Alternatively, spread the sugar granules gently using the back of a teaspoon, taking care not to break the skin of the custard.

Don't overdo the sugar. If there is any excess, tap it off. Scrape off the edges too, otherwise it risks burning these edges when you use the torch.
 Blow the flame over the sugar surface to melt it, until it bubbles and changes to a golden hue., The custard has to remain at room temperature now, as it will melt if chilled. Serve with some whipped tofu cream and some fruit, especially berries.