 Make sure that you have enough paper towels to absorb the excess stain remover. These towels should also absorb some of the stain. You may need more paper towels as you work, so keep a roll of paper towels handy.


You should also work on the stain on a surface that will not be damaged by the stain remover. For example, you could work on the stain while the item is in top of your washer or dryer.;
, Apply stain remover to the underside of the stain. You can do this by turning the article of clothing inside out, but make sure that you place paper towels between the layers of fabric. Applying stain remover to the underside of the stain will push it out through the top instead of pushing it further into the fabric.
 If the fabric you are cleaning is something that you can throw into the washer, then you will want to do so right away. After applying the stain remover, wash the fabric in cold water with detergent. Do not use warm water, do not dry in a dryer, and do not iron. Heat can cause the stain to set.









If you cannot wash the fabric because it is part of a chair or other piece of furniture, then you may be able to just dab the area with some cold water to remove the fabric cleaner. Follow the label’s instructions for how to treat this type of fabric.
If the item is all white, then you may consider adding about ¼ cup of bleach to the washer as well. Make sure that you add the bleach using your washer’s bleach dispenser. Do not just pour the bleach into the washer.
 Some items cannot be washed in a washing machine and they require dry cleaning instead. If your item label specifies that it is “dry clean only,” then you will need to take it to a professional cleaner instead.

You may also consider taking your item to the dry cleaners if the stain remover did not work. If none of these methods worked, or if you are working with a delicate fabric, then your best bet is to ask a professional to remove the stain for you.
Make sure that you explain that the stain was from a Sharpie when you take the item to the dry cleaners.