 When you’re sick you spend most of your time in bed, so cleaning your sheets should be the first priority. You sweat a lot more when you’re sick and your sheets are covered in unhealthy germs, so killing the bacteria on your bed is very important. Strip your entire bed, including pillowcases, and wash them in hot water with color-safe bleach. Treat any stains with a stain remover before washing. Let your mattress breathe for a few hours before putting any new sheets on., Regardless of the type of illness you had, you probably spent a lot of time dealing with the symptoms of your flu in the bathroom. Whether you were just there to grab more tissues or slept in there for two nights vomiting, giving your bathroom a deep clean is another top priority after being sick. Some tips for sanitizing your bathroom:Wash any bath towels, hand towels, rugs, robes, or other fabrics in hot water with color-safe bleach.
Disinfect all surfaces, focusing mainly on the countertops and the toilet. You can use a store-bought product with bleach, or you can make your own with one part water to one part rubbing alcohol or full-strength vinegar.
Empty the trash can, and then disinfect the trash bin.
Replace your toothbrush or soak your toothbrush head in hydrogen peroxide for 30 minutes to kill any bacteria.If you used a sponge to wipe everything down, throw it out when you’re done. If you use a cloth wipe, wash it with the towels when you’re finished.
 You might not have used your kitchen much while you were sick, but even just making a pot of tea can leave a trail of germs that can spread your sickness to other people. Disinfect your kitchen with disinfectant wipes, a product with bleach, or a homemade sanitizer with 1 part water to 1 part rubbing alcohol or full-strength vinegar. Key places to wipe down in your kitchen:Countertops
Refrigerator handle
Faucet handles
Pantry, cabinet, and drawer handles
Any dishware used

, It’s hard to remember everything you touched in your house while you were sick, but it’s important to try to sanitize anything you may have had contact with. This will help you stay healthy and reduce the likelihood of you getting anyone else sick. Just be sure to use disinfecting products that are safe for use on a variety of surfaces, such as electronics. In addition to the areas you have already cleaned at this point, the most common points of contact in a house include:Thermometer
Bathroom cabinets and drawer handles
Door knobs
Light switches, including the light switch plate
Electronics like laptops, cell phones, landline phones, TV remotes, and the computer keyboard and mouse

, Now that your bed, bathroom, kitchen, and points of contact are clean, you have to remove the last location of your sick germs: the clothing you wore. Take all of the pajamas, sweaters, and comfy clothes you recuperated in over the past days and weeks and do one last load of laundry using hot water and color-safe bleach. This will ensure that you have killed all the bacteria you possibly can and will have a clean, healthy slate., After you’ve been sick and cooped up in your house with the windows closed and the blinds drawn, it’s a great idea to air out your house. Open any windows and let a cross breeze move some fresh air in and around your house for a little bit. Replacing the stale, sick air in your home with fresh air will get rid of any airborne particles and it will leave you feeling refreshed and energized. If it’s really cold outside, only do this for a minute or two; otherwise, keep the windows open for as long as you like!