 Get all your ingredients ready to cook.;
, Take your large knife and firstly top and tail the potatoes, then slice in half. If they are a little small, slice more off both ends and make one half instead of two.
 Taking your melon ball maker and one half of a potato, scoop out the centre.


Place the ball of potato into a bowl.
Repeat with all the potatoes.
 Place the saucepan under a medium heat, halfway filled with water, now add in the halved potatoes and allow to cook for 15-20 minutes or until they are soft.


Check to see if they are cooked by taking a knife and softly piercing through the skin.
When cooked, using the slotted spoon, carefully drain and transfer them to a baking tray covered in kitchen towel. There is no need to salt at this stage as you will be seasoning later on.
 Place a small saucepan under a medium-high heat, now add one tablespoon of olive oil, green chilli, chopped garlic and slowly mix it in. Add the chopped tomato, stir in, season with salt and pepper and cook for 5-7 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until you achieve a nice thick consistency. If you are going to serve the potatoes soon then you will need to pre-heat the oil. So pour in the litre of vegetable oil into a large pan and bring to high heat.
 Before frying, you can test to see if the oil is hot enough by placing one potato in the oil using your slotted spoon. If it bubbles, it is ready. You will need to cook the potatoes in 3 batches, so place the first batch using your slotted spoon into the hot oil. And allow to fry for roughly 3 minutes.


When the first batch is ready, remove them using your slotted spoon and place them onto a tray with some kitchen roll to drain. Now, place the second batch of potatoes into the hot oil and when ready, remove with your slotted spoon and transfer to the tray to drain. Then place the final batch into the hot oil and fry. Remove when ready and once more drain on the tray.
 With your potatoes still on the tray now season with salt.




Garnish with crème Fraiche and caviar. Place four halved potatoes onto the tray. With a teaspoon, heap a dollop of crème fraiche into the centre of each potato. Place a generous dollop of caviar on top and finally sprinkle some chopped spring onion on top.

Garnish with tomato sauce and spring onion. Place four more halved potatoes onto the platter and with a teaspoon heap a generous amount of tomato sauce into each centre. Now garnish with the chopped spring onion.

Garnish with sour crème and bacon. Again, place four more potatoes onto the tray and heap a generous dollop of sour cream into each centre. Place a few bacon bits on top.
 Tidy up the tray and present to the table or serving area.

