 One of the best exercises you can do on your day of rest or recovery are water-based exercises (like water aerobics or swimming). The water of the pool helps alleviate weight from all the joints in your body.


Water exercises are great for recovery due to the buoyancy provided by the water. Studies have shown this can make you feel 90% lighter when you're in water up to your neck.When you're in the pool you can do water walking, swim a few laps or do a intro to water aerobics class. These are all low-impact and also low-intensity. Stick to an activity for about 30 minutes. You don't want to overdo it.
Note that some forms of water exercise are still difficult and shouldn't necessarily be done on your day of recovery. Don't use water weights or paddles that would increase resistance or the difficulty of the exercise.;
, Although cycling in the form of a spin class or intense road biking isn't recommended for a day of recovery, a leisurely and enjoyable ride is. Hop on your bike with friends or family and enjoy a day of recovery on your bike.


Similar to swimming, biking is considered a low-impact exercise. It's very easy on your knees, feet and hips. You're also able to control how fast or slow you go. This makes it a great recovery exercise.Choose a route that's not overly long and doesn't have many hills. This helps keep your bike ride low-intensity while allowing your body to be active.
Also, make sure you're not doing a fast ride. This needs to be slow and leisurely. The goal is to not work up a big sweat or spike your heart rate. Find a route that will take about 30 minutes to do.
 A commonly recommended exercise for recovery is walking. It's a great exercise that's easy to perform, it's fairly low-impact and its very low-intensity.Studies have shown that one of the benefits of walking is that it helps support and strengthen joints (great for recovery). It's through movement that your body circulates joint fluid around your cartilage which brings more oxygen and nutrients to these areas.
To make sure that your walk is comfortable and low-impact, wear supportive walking shoes. Flip flops or slip ons aren't supportive enough. Walking or running sneakers are your best bet.
Choose a route that won't take you a long time and doesn't include a lot of hills. Again, 30 minutes is a great time for recovery days. Take it at a slow pace (instead of power walking) to make sure your exercise stays at a lower intensity.
 Although not an exercise per se, household chores are a great way to stay active. Plan to do housework or chores on your recovery day to keep your body active.


You may not think that household chores are a way to stay active. However, many studies have shown that activities like household chores (called lifestyle activities) have similar benefits to more structured aerobic exercise (like a 30 minute jog).Some lifestyle activities are great for keeping your body moving and active on your rest day. Save some of these common household chores for your rest day to help you stay active.
Chores you can do include: sweeping the floor, mopping, vacuuming, gardening, cleaning the bathroom or mowing the lawn with a push mower.
All of these activities keep you walking and moving but aren't done for long periods of time and do not spike your heart rate very high.
 If you want to follow a more structured class or routine on your recovery day, consider taking a restorative yoga class. This helps your body recovery but also helps relax you mentally.Restorative yoga is similar to a more traditional yoga routine; however, the poses use more supports — like blankets or blocks. In addition, the poses performed are generally designed to bring comfort to the practitioner, not to be difficult.
Studies have shown that restorative yoga provides similar recovery benefits to the body as sleep does.
If you follow a difficult exercise routine during the week, a regular restorative yoga class may beneficial to you long-term. It's truly one of the best recovery day exercises to do.
 Tai chi is another great exercise to include on your weekly recovery day. Like yoga, it's designed to be restorative, but at the same time an active exercise to keep your body moving.

Tai chi is a unique exercise. During class, you move fluidly throughout different poses. It doesn't require a lot of work in regards to straining your muscles or your heart rate.
Studies have shown that there are a variety of recovery benefits to tai chi. Some have shown that practitioners could walk farther and aerobic endurance improved with regular tai chi practice.
Consider including one tai chi session weekly. You can do this on your recovery day to stay active but also to help improve your overall fitness ability.
 Consistent stretching is something you may overlook during your normal weekly exercise routine; however, it's an essential part of a well-balanced exercise plan. Remember that our bodies need to be warmed up, fluids circulating before we stretch. The connective tissues need lubrication and synovial fluid supply to prevent overstretching and tearing.


Take advantage on your rest day to include more stretching. You can spend time thoroughly stretching every muscle group for a little bit longer than what you do during the week.
Stretching is low-impact and low-intensity. You're not really working your body, but you are staying active and moving through different poses. In addition, fitness professionals recommend regular stretching to help prevent injury.Stretching is great to do on your recovery day because it can help relieve muscles soreness and has been shown to improve overall athletic performance.
Work through every muscle group carefully. Do not bounce while stretching — hold the stretch steady. Spend about two to three minutes stretching every major muscle group.
 Another group of exercises that can get overlooked during your regular exercise routine are balance or range of motion exercises. These are also very important to include for a well-balanced weekly routine.With consistent weight training and aerobic exercise, your muscles can become tightened. Without focusing on flexibility and other range of motion exercises, you may become overly tight during the week.
Try including a mix of some balancing and range of motion exercises on your recovery day. Try: arm circles, shoulder rolls, neck rolls and ankle rolls to keep your joints mobile. Also try basic balancing exercises like: standing on one foot or standing on your tiptoes.
Both yoga and tai chi can be considered range of motion and balance exercises as well.
 Including a recovery day in your weekly exercise routine is important. To help you plan the best day to use as a rest day, try writing out and keeping an exercise schedule.


To start keeping an exercise schedule, purchase a journal or a journaling app for your smartphone. You need to be able to take notes and write out your schedule in your journal.
Every week sit down and write up your planned exercise schedule. Write in each exercise you plan on doing, how long it should take and on what day you think you'll do it.
Then, pick out one or two days during your week where you think you'll need a rest and recovery day.
Keep your schedule flexible. You may want to change when your rest day is depending on how you're feeling throughout the week.
 One important concept to keep in mind when planning your rest day is how long you'll be exercising on your days off.


When taking a rest day, it's not only important to choose low-impact and low-intensity exercises, it's also important to focus on how long you're doing these exercises.
Even if you choose an exercise like a leisurely bike ride or walk, if you end up walking or biking for one or two hours, that length of time may not allow your body to truly recover.
Keep recovery exercises short. A 30 minute walk, bike ride or swim is enough time to keep you active, but also allow your body to recover appropriately.
 When you're planning to fit your rest day in your exercise schedule, look for the best days for rest and recovery.


Take a look back over your proposed exercise schedule. Note what days you're planning on doing longer bouts of exercise or more intense or heavy exercises.
It's typically recommended to alternate days of rest after one or two days of more intense or longer exercise sessions.For example, you may want to include a rest day after two days of 4 or 5 mile runs. That way your body, especially your legs, can get a chance to recover after two days of longer runs.
 When planning your rest days and which activities you're going to do, make sure to listen and pay attention to your body's signals. This can help you figure out what you should or shouldn't do.


Without adequate rest, your body will have a hard time continuing to perform well. You may feel more tired, fatigued, have slow recovery of previous injuries or you may notice your overall performance declines over time.These are signals that you need a rest day. If you these symptoms continue or do not improve, this is a sign that you need additional rest.
Whenever you're feeling any of these symptoms, include a rest day immediately. It's not wise to try to push through these symptoms. You'll actually see better results by including a rest day instead of pushing through.

