 While all UC sufferers must cope with sensitivity to certain foods, the specific sources of your sensitivity can greatly vary. As a result, there is no one “UC diet.” Keep track of the foods you eat and how they make you feel. Use this information to develop the diet that works best for you.


Try to eat a balanced diet whenever possible. If you find yourself unable to consume certain types of foods, consult your doctor about vitamin supplements to help you replace key nutrients.
Note any preparation tweaks that make foods easier to consume – steaming vegetables, for example, or consuming low- or non-fat dairy products., Many UC patients experience relief during flare-ups when they maintain a diet that produces less “residue,” or leftover waste. Essentially, following a “low residue” diet means you’ll have smaller and fewer bowel movements, and consequently less diarrhea, cramping, and pain. Bear in mind that if you can handle higher “residue” foods such as whole grains, you should eat them. When you’re struggling with your UC symptoms, however, try:


Grain products including refined white bread; plain crackers; Melba toast; cooked cereals such as cream of wheat, farina, or grits; cold cereals such as corn flakes or puffed rice; white rice; noodles; and refined pasta.
Soft fruits with any skin or seeds removed, including bananas, soft cantaloupe, honeydew, canned or cooked fruit, and avocado.
Well-cooked fresh or canned vegetables without seeds, including asparagus tips, beets, green beans, carrots, mushrooms, spinach, squash (remove seeds), pumpkin, and tomato sauce.
Potatoes without skins.
Milk products in moderation, as long as you are not lactose intolerant.
All meat, as long as the cuts are tender, soft, and lean. Eggs are also okay.
Many condiments, including butter, vegetable oil, ketchup, mayonnaise, sour cream, smooth sauces, soy sauce, clear jelly, honey, and syrup.
Decaffeinated coffee or tea, decaffeinated carbonated beverages, milk, strained vegetable juices, and fruit juices made without seeds or pulp such as apple juice., Drink plenty of fluids each day. Water is best. Alcohol and beverages containing caffeine stimulate your intestines, which will increase your discomfort. While carbonated drinks are allowed under a “low residue” diet, they can often produce gas – an uncomfortable addition to your already-problematic symptoms.Plan to carry a bottle of water with you to make it easy to stay well hydrated.
 Your body may find it easier to digest small amounts of food throughout the day rather than coping with three larger meals. When developing a diet plan, think about snacks that you can easily take along when you’re out and about., Seeds, nuts, and coconut; whole-grain products; raw or dried fruits; raw vegetables; beans, lentils, and tofu; tough or cured meats; crunchy peanut butter; chunky jams or marmalades; pickles and other preserved foods; pop corn; and fruit juices containing pulp or seeds may all cause problems for UC sufferers. Note that many of these foods are exceptionally healthy under other circumstances. Again, experimentation is key. If you find you can tolerate some of these foods, you should certainly continue eating them. Eliminate ones that cause you distress.While dairy products contain no fiber, many UC patients also suffer symptoms of lactose intolerance. Your food diary should help you determine whether you are able to tolerate dairy products.