 When you’re wearing a bold lip color, every flake or dry patch on your lips will be more obvious. Massage a lip scrub over your lips to gently exfoliate before applying any lip products. You can also use a clean washcloth or toothbrush to gently scrub your lips.You can mix up a DIY lip balm by combining 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of organic coconut oil, 2 tablespoons (26 g) of brown sugar, and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of organic honey.;
, Once your lips are smooth, you want to keep them that way by applying a hydrating lip balm. Smooth it over your lips, and allow it to sit for 5 to 10 minutes so it has time to sink in.Choose a waxy lip balm rather than an oily formula. Oily balms can cause your lip color to slip right off.
 After you’ve allowed the lip balm to sit for several minutes, there may still be some excess product that doesn’t sink into your lips. That residue can make it difficult for your lip color to last all day, so use a tissue to gently blot away the excess.It’s a good idea to blot your lips several times to ensure that you don’t leave any lip balm residue on the lips that might interfere with your lipliner and lipstick application.
 To create a base for your lip color to stick to, it helps to apply some concealer to your lips first. Your lipliner and lipstick will adhere to the concealer so the bold color lasts longer. Apply a thin layer of concealer to your lips with your finger or a sponge.Don’t apply too much concealer -- you don’t want to erase your lips completely.
For the best lasting power for your bold lip color, use a waterproof concealer.
You can substitute foundation for the concealer if you prefer.
 Bold lip colors have a tendency to bleed beyond your natural lip line. To keep your color in place all day, reverse line your lips by using concealer to line the outside of your lips. That creates a barrier that prevents your lipstick from feathering and bleeding beyond your lips.Reverse lining is easier if you use a pencil or stick concealer. You can also use a cream concealer or even foundation on a small concealer brush.
Make sure to blend the concealer into the skin lightly with your finger to ensure that it looks natural.
 As another way to keep your bold lip color from bleeding and make it last all day, it helps to layer a lip liner beneath your lipstick. Follow your natural lip line with the liner, and then use it to fill in your lips as well.You don’t necessarily have to match your lipliner exactly to your lipstick. Instead, use a nude liner that’s as close to your natural lip color as possible. Keep in mind, though, that using a liner in a shade that matches your lipstick usually results in a more intense color on your lips.
 For the longest wearing lip color, you should use a matte lipstick. The drier texture keeps the color from fading as easily as glossy shades do. To get the boldest color from your lipstick, though, apply it directly from the tube to your lips.If you’re worried about not getting your bold lip color on precisely enough, you can apply it with a lip brush. You can also do a combination of applying from the tube and with a brush. For example, apply the color from the tube to the center of the lips and use a brush to apply it the edge where you want more precision.
When it comes to choosing a bold lip color, there are a wide variety of options to consider. For example, a dark lipstick shade, such as a deep burgundy or wine, can look bold on fair skin. If you have darker skin, you may prefer going bold with a bright shade, such as a hot pink or cherry red. You can also go bold by choosing an unexpected lipstick color, such as black, blue, or green.
 After you’ve applied a first layer of lipstick, lightly press a tissue to your lips to blot the color. That will remove any excess product or oils to help ensure that the color lasts longer.Instead of a tissue, you may prefer to use a blotting paper that’s usually used to remove oil from the face to blot your lips. These papers are designed to lift off the oil from your skin without disturbing your makeup, so they can remove any emollient residue from your lips without removing the pigment.
 After you’ve blotted your lips, take another tissue and separate the layers so you have just a single sheet. Hold it over your lips, and use a fluffy powder brush to lightly dust your mouth with a thin layer of translucent powder.You can apply the powder directly to your lips, but that may leave you with cakey-looking lips. Applying it through the tissue helps set your lipstick without leaving a layer of powder behind.
 Once you’ve set your lipstick with the powder, apply another layer of your bold lip color. Keep the coat light, though, so you don’t have to worry about your lipstick smearing.