 Every alpha has to have a good beta. This is a girl who is highly trusted and is usually the girl the alpha knows the most. She is the alpha's best friend and second-in-command! You don't need to focus on looks, but make sure she's pretty. She should be able to get you gossip as well, and make sure she's not annoying!;
, You are in charge and no one else should try to take your job. If they try, have your own sneaky way of getting back at them.
 You have to care for your friends and support them. Never ever let anyone get away with teasing them; if you have their back, they have yours. And if they've ever been mean to you, maybe they shouldn't be in your clique.
 (Hair down on Fridays, no bootcut jeans, matching charm bracelets on Wednesday. no Walmart apparel,etc.)

, People will try to put you down in the beginning so practice how to evil grin, and say something mean without sounding stupid.
 You have to learn how to manipulate anybody at any time

, Of course this can't happen overnight. Start working out/join a sport. MAKEUP.
 The tighter your circle the stronger you become.
 Read some of the flirt wikiHows and how to handle a boyfriend.
 If you've ever heard the phrase fake it till you make it; well now is the time to use it.
 If they aren't, please help them! If they have blackheads, get them Biore pore strips etc.
 Have your friends wired at all times and if you sense anything wrong like if your friend needs a partner, invite her to be in your group and if she lost something, help her find it.
 Alphas cannot look like clowns.
 Seventeen, Teen Vogue, and Cosmo GIRL! are suggested magazines.
 I'm talking about the basics here. Wash your face, brush your teeth & hair, shave your armpits/legs/and arms are a must. Wash your hair regularly. Hygiene is thoroughly important.


Brittney Spears Perfumes are nice: Fantasy, Midnight Fantasy, Curious, Believe
Vera Wang Princess and Rock Princess
Dior: Miss Cherie and Miss Cherie L'eau for sure!
Clinique Happy is good.
Paris Hilton perfume is very good too!
If you buy gift sets, they generally also come with body wash and body shimmer lotion so you won't have any conflicting scents.
Body sprays work too! If you buy the kind by Secret, you can match it with your deodorant for the best effect.
,,, In Pretty Little Liars, Alison and the girls had a secret that bounded them forever! Don't have something like The Jenna Thing that could get someone in SERIOUS trouble as your secret, and never blackmail anyone!

