 Close your eyes and turn off distractions. The objective is to think clearly. Imagine the happiness you wish to achieve.;
,, Writing them out will help you visualize the process of success. Starting with the “do not” list, write out all the negativity you do not wish to have, keeping your main goal in mind. Then using that list as inspiration, write out the positive things you want to incorporate in your life.


For example: You don't want to be lazy and inactive. You want to wake up early, eat right and exercise. All in order to achieve the goal of being physically fit, for this will bring you happiness. The lists will help you manifest your goals.
 And try to do something that will bring up these feelings of happiness and accomplishment as often as possible. IF your goal is to be more physically fit, start taking walks everyday, experiencing the feelings of accomplishment will release positivity which then brings like vibrations back to you.
 The people who have what you want. What do they have in common that they do habitually. Bloggers, for instance, research daily on what interests them, maybe you shouldn’t watch much TV and Google something. Rich men like to play golf. So if that is who you want to become, pick up the hobby.
 If you know how to see this you can make choices that will make that recession period less difficult on your life plans .This feeling of recession could be anywhere in your life such as finances, relationships or it can be emotional. which brings you to your final step.
 If you see something dwindling, give extra attention to that particular aspect. You must Push past the negative to turn the situation around to where you are again happy with the circumstances. The goal is to have big ups and little downs.
 You can do everything you can to fight for what you desire, or you can sit back and wait for a better opportunity. Since balance is important in our lives, I would choose from my heart to decide which direction to take. Knowing that there is no right or wrong choice.
