 Trust is an integral part of making any sort of relationship work. Yet, in other types of relationships, the ability to see each other physically can keep insecurities at bay. In long-distance relationships when you’re only seeing your partner every couple of weeks or months, it’s easy to become envious of the time they are spending with others.


Unless your partner has given you any reason to have distrust, give them the benefit of the doubt and try to keep your jealousies in check. Checking their Facebook or worrying about who’s talking in the background during a phone call can cause resentment. Reconsider if a long-distance relationship is a good choice for you if you continuously have trouble trusting., Normal, face-to-face relationships count on seeing one another and engaging regularly to keep the spark alive. Since you and your partner don’t have the option to do that, it’s important that you are consistent and committed about putting time and effort into the relationship. Establish a pattern or “routine” with your partner in which the both of you can depend on the other to be a constant part of life.Coordinate your schedules so that you know when the other is available. Make an effort to stick to your “routine,” such as calling each other around the same time each day.
 In order to feel fulfilled in your long-distance relationship it’s essential that the two of you are actively involved in one another’s lives. This doesn’t mean you have to talk all day long, but it does mean you should be willing to share what’s going on in your everyday lives, express your thoughts and opinions, and ask for your partner’s input.
 A successful long-distance relationship equates to both partners having an understanding of the other’s expectations. Being miles apart becomes even more difficult when you don’t know where you stand in the relationship. This creates an environment that is susceptible to distrust, jealousy, and even infidelity.Have a talk with your partner to discuss what both of you want from the relationship. Are you in it for the long haul or just casually seeing how things go? Clearly communicate your expectations to your partner and be willing to listen as he or she does the same.
You should also discuss romantic boundaries. Some couples opt to allow each other to have physical relationships with others if they are going to be apart for months or years, while other couples would see this as a betrayal. Discuss this with your partner, as you might have different ideas about what is allowed in long-distance
You can broach the subject by saying “I really like you and I hope you feel the same. Where do you see us going?” and then being patient as your partner communicates their goals for your long-distance relationship. If your goals do not align, you may have to decide if you want to end the relationship.

