 To ensure your doorknobs don't get primed or painted during this process, you should remove handles and any other features, like clothes hooks, from your door.If you do not plan on removing these from your door, you might:


Prevent hardware from being painted by taping around the edges of fixtures, or even taping the entire fixture.
 Use fine grit sandpaper, between 180 and 220-grit, while stripping old, flaking paint and smoothing rough edges.A power sander or coarse sandpaper might cause scoring in your door, leaving unsightly notches or lines in its surface.
 Take a clean rag or paper towel and wipe your door free of any dust, dirt, or grime.


Do not use water. If water soaks into the material of your door, it can have a negative effect on how the primer and paint bond to the surface., By tackling your door one side at a time, you accomplish two goals at once. Your careful attention to one side at a time will help ensure evenness and consistency for the whole door. This will help you achieve a professional looking finished product.
 Primer helps to prepare the surface of your door for the actual coat of paint. Some surfaces, especially those that are rough or absorbent, can be difficult or expensive to paint if unprimed.You'll certainly want to prime your door if:


Your surface is unfinished.
Your door is made of bare or stained wood.
You want to paint the door a color lighter than its current color., The specific brand of primer that you bought should have instructions for how long you should let your primer dry before applying paint. Follow these directions for best results, but when in doubt, allow 48 hours to pass before applying your paint.
 But first, you should give it a once over to make sure that it is clean. Dirt or dust that might have been on your sawhorses could have rubbed off on your door. Using a clean rag or paper towel, wipe any dust or grit off the door before priming.


Be sure not to get your door wet. Wetness on the door can prevent your primer and paint from bonding with its surface.