 For successful air layering, you'll need a toothpick, a sharp knife, rooting hormone, some sphagnum peat moss, twine, rubber bands, and plastic wrap. As an alternative to acquiring these materials individually, you can purchase complete air layering kits at many nurseries and florists.


Before starting the layering process, you must moisten the peat moss. Do this by soaking it in water for about an hour, and then wring it out thoroughly so that it is moist but not dripping.;
, Begin by choosing the area along the plant's stem where you want the new growth to form. This location should be just below a node (the point where a leaf joins the stem). Prepare the area by plucking away any leaves on the stem within about 3 inches (7 cm) of the point you've selected.
 Using a very sharp knife, make a cut into the plant's stem. The cut should be made upwards at an extremely shallow angle so that you are not cutting too deeply into the center of the stem. The cut should ideally be about an inch (2.5 cm) deep.
 After making the cut, gently place a toothpick into the wound so that it is held open and will not heal. Apply a small amount of rooting hormone to the wound, trying to get most of it onto the exposed surfaces of the cut. This hormone will encourage the new root growth that will be the beginning of your new plant.
 To provide an ideal environment for the new growth and to prevent infection, you'll want to wrap the wound. Begin by piling the peat moss around the wound into a roughly spherical shape about 4 inches (10 cm) across. Secure the peat moss onto the stem using twine. Then, wrap a sheet of plastic wrap around the peat moss to keep in the moisture. Secure the plastic wrap with rubber bands.
 After several weeks, you will be able to see new root growth emerging through the moss and brushing up against the plastic wrap. At this point, remove the plastic wrap and the peat moss gently. Make a clean cut at the point where the root attaches to the plant's stem. Pot this new root in a container filled with potting mix, and water it as you would a normal seedling of that plant species. As the plant grows, it can be cared for just as you would a normal seedling.

