


Start with a single project for your business. Most businesses fail at designing their internal mobile apps because they try to do too much in the first try. Pick something doable where you can measure results. Some ideas are:
Time sheets. Get an app for your employees where they can report the time spent at work, combined with GPS location you can track if their time stamp happened at work
Map the location of customers and their potential sales information
Keep a list of key contacts in your organization
Build an Inventory app which includes requests for replenishment directly by employees
Create a simple expense report request
Create an app to inspect sites for constructions, cleanups, or service requests
There are hundreds of potential projects and you are the best judge of how to get started;
,


Most likely you are already keeping your data in spreadsheets or a database. Whichever the case, make a list of the different fields you want to collect from your internal app. Is it only the timestamp per employee? Do you want the inventory app to also include a picture or location data as part of your project? A mobile app can help you with that. A list of requirements will be the best tool to move into the next step.
Avoid apps that look good on the front end but are not truly connected to your data sources. Apps that require extra steps to dump data to your own needs are going to be costly to maintain and will keep you burning cycles downloading CSV files, managing the right order of uploads. Request apps that have direct connections to your data sources.
If you are mostly keeping your data in spreadsheets (Excel or Google Sheets); don't worry. There are solutions that help you connect your spreadsheet data without having to move into complex databases just yet. You can try services like AppSheet or Sky Giraffe for internal apps driven from your data.



Building the App In house. If you don't have developers in-house but would still like to manage the project directly, you can consider a code-free business app builder service
Business App Building Services are web applications that will help you connect your business data and build mobile apps with certain degrees of complexity. This is a growing industry and searching for providers is easy. You can find providers searching for terms like: Apps from Business Data, Apps for Internal Business, Apps from Spreadsheets.
Evaluate the cost of those providers. Some providers will require that you subscribe and pay 12 months to host your app.
Evaluate the licensing rules. Is the licensing per user of the app or per number of apps? Decide which one is more beneficial for your business.
Multiple of unlimited apps is beneficial for organizations that want a more dynamic mobile app process and want to create and expire apps on the go.
Limited numbers of apps is beneficial for organizations that have a more static view of processes. Simply have one process set up, assume it won't change and have a single app manage the process.
Hiring external developers can be time consuming and costly. Apps usually go from the low thousands to even hundreds of thousands depending on the size of your business.
One of the benefits of external developers is that you will delegate the technical details of your app to a third party.
One of the problems with external developers is that you will need to make a high initial investment and commit to an app that may or may not fit your business by the time is ready
If you want to try the Developer route for a small business.Like online Freelance directories will be a good resource. You can post your job and freelance developers will pitch solutions for your project. Keep in mind some key elements for your internal business app:
Make sure that they pitch to your requirements and not only slap a nice design. Sometimes you get a promise with a nice looking app that is not actually connected to your data sources. That will force you to add steps to make sure the data in the app is always up to date.
Always start the process with your list of requirements, don't only publish a project for a business app without listing requirements, you'll get several requests that will not be valuable or you are waste time
Always check that your business data will be in sync with the app. If they cannot provide a reasonable explanation of how that will be achieved, then look for another developer.



If you choose the in-house process, the app building platforms will let you share the app with a small set of stakeholders to collect feedback. The distribution of the app usually happens via e-mail and the app is loaded on the mobile device via a "wrapper" application. This allows for almost immediate results and skipping the need to submit each app for review with the managers the target app store (iOS, Android, Windows, etc)
Check how much coding the App Building platform requires to access advanced features. Some basic functions are generally available automatically but check if things like GPS, search, and camera access, require code scripts to be written or if they can just be selected from an editor. You'll want to select the platform that has less o no coding required.
When testing your app, evaluate if the end user of the app will understand what's required of her/him. Are they supposed to submit data? Are they supposed to review the app daily? Do a few test runs of the complete workflow and see if the results they produce will be satisfactory for the business.
Most of the testing should be completed in-house. This is one of the most critical parts of the app building process and most of the time should be spent on this stage in order to refine the app.
External developers have a weakness in this stage as they don't fully know your business and it's never always clear how the requirements translate into a fully-fledged app.
On the other hand, using an app building platform can help you by reducing the time to get a prototype live and spend most of your time testing the app, finding the sweet spot of functionality for your employees.



Most of the Business App Builders include simple methods to deploy. For example, they use a link sent via email to each end user. The end user follows a few steps to install the wrapper app and then the business app. The deployment process usually takes less than five minutes.
Check if the App Builder solution includes additional security such as user access control. External developers will charge an additional fee to provide user access control in the app, this can increase the price of the app, if built by an external developer to the tens of thousands of dollars.
In-house app building platforms usually include the security options or are linked to a cloud provider that will manage access control. This will help you reduce the cost and keep high levels of security for your app

,


Rinse, wash, and repeat.
Once you have an app running and you notice the benefits of better data that is always up to date, you'll identify new areas of improvement.
In-house app building platforms will help you quickly iterate new versions and explore new opportunities at a very low cost. Simply put the tools in hands of your employees for better data collection and management and they can come up with great solutions. Some of the app building platforms can let you provide App Creator accounts to your employees where they can create their own solutions at a very low cost.
You want to evaluate the cost of upgrading and maintaining the app. If there is a high incremental cost to upgrade an app that you know will iterate in many versions, you may want to explore lower cost solutions so you can iterate often with different views of your data.

