 The way your foot falls onto the ground is one of the most important things about your gait. The foot strike impacts the way you absorb shock and how fast you run. It also helps you choose running shoes. The way your foot falls on the ground also leads to certain runner’s injuries. The different types of foot strikes include:Heel strike. This occurs when you put the ground with your heel first. After your heel hits the ground, you follow through with the middle of your foot, then the front, then the toes.
Midfoot strike. This occurs when you land around the ball of your foot. Usually the heel hits next, then follows through to the toe.
Forefoot strike. This occurs when you land on the front of your foot, around your toes. If you have this foot strike, your heel rarely touches the ground. This is common for people who sprint.;
, Studies and experts disagree about which foot strike is the best. Some say that a heel strike should be avoided because it causes more impact and injury and leads to overstriding. Others think forefoot strikes should be avoided unless you sprint while some think forefoot strikes are the best. Despite this conflicting information, many professional and recreational runners believe that foot strike isn't as important as stride length.Generally, heel strike running is slower than forefoot running.
Forefoot running generally leads to less impact and strain. However, forefoot running may cause problems if you don't have proper hip extension. This might lead to overstriding.
Heel strikes are associated with more impact, strain, and overstriding. However, if you shorten your stride and still heel strike, you may be using your best gait. The key is to not overstride and keep your feet close to your body as you run.
 No matter what kind of foot strike you use when you run, making sure you land with your feet closer to your body will improve your stride. Shortening your stride so it’s closer to the body helps reduce the risk of stress on your muscles and bones, along with helping make you a more efficient runner. Many experts believe that a shorter stride length is the key to a successful gait, not foot strike.Most shorter strides result from midfoot or forefoot strides.
Focus on shortening your stride as you run. Think about where your feet land. If they are landing too far out in front of your, whether you strike on your toe, midfoot, or heel, you need to shorten the stride.
Overstriding leads to decreased performance, along with higher risk of injury.
Some people think a midfoot strike is best for a shorter stride, while others think a forefoot strike is better, but people with a heel strike can also have a shorter, more efficient stride. Since some experts claim a midfoot strike is better, you may want to try changing to a midfoot strike. However, the most important thing to consider when you run is keeping your legs closer to your body, as close to underneath your hips and shoulders as you can, as you stride forward.
 Getting the right stride and foot fall may depend on the shoes you wear. Try wearing lighter shoes that have a flatter angle from heel to toe. This doesn't mean to buy minimalist shoes. The flatter shoe bottom can help improve your gait.You should also buy shoes that fit properly. Your feet expand when you run, so buying shoes that accommodate that is important. You should also buy shoes that keep your foot in place. Many specialty running stores and some sports stores provide help fitting you with the proper shoes.You can also go to a running store to have your gait analyzed. This can help you determine what strike you have, if you are overstriding, and what kinds of shoes may be helpful for you.
 Think about the reasons you want to change your stride. Did someone tell you that you are running wrong? Do you want to improve your speed? Are you getting injured? Figuring out why you want to improve your gait can help determine if you really should work on it.The main reason you should change your gait, stride, or foot fall is if you are getting injured repeatedly.
Most running experts suggest working on cadence to improve running. Stride length can also influence speed.If you are running, improving, and not getting injured, there may be no reason to change your gait.
 You can’t change your foot strike or your stride length overnight. You have to retrain your body to work with the new muscle movements. Your body is used to the stride and strike you use now, so prepare to spend two to three months working on changing your stride.If you are shortening your stride, your muscles are going to have to adjust. They will tighten and shorten as you run differently. Let your body slowly and naturally adapt to the new muscle movement and needed length.
Changing your foot strike and stride will take some mental awareness. This can be difficult, especially if you let your mind relax or focus on your music as you run. You will have to think about each step you land, such as making sure you use a midfoot strike instead of a heel strike.
Spend one to two minutes at a time focusing just on your form. Try it after each ten minutes you run or after each mile.

