 If you're used to wearing flats, you might be accustomed to putting your whole foot down at once with each step. Shoes with high heels need a different movement. Imagine yourself gently setting your heel down, then letting your toes settle after. This will keep you from stomping., You’re already leaning back a bit, but when you take your first steps in your heels, imagine yourself being led by the hips, not by the shoulders. This will also help to further enhance your posture. No need to pull your shoulders back too much--this is a subtle movement., When you walk, imagine that you’re walking on a tightrope or a straight line. Place the heel of each foot directly in front the toes of the other. If you keep your feet apart when you're walking, you end up with a bit of a waddle. If you cross your feet over too much, you might look a little tipsy.To add to the straight-line visual, focus on your goal and simply walk toward it. This may keep you more naturally focused than you would be staring at your feet.
 Long loping strides are not going to look graceful. For most, a higher heel means a shorter step. Experiment until you find a step length that comes naturally to you, and then practice until it becomes part of your muscle memory.Some find it helpful to watch videos of models walking for inspiration.
 Heels are known for being attractive not just because they make you taller--they also encourage your hips to move more than they might in flats. Don’t fight the swing! If you’re trying to figure out how to replicate a high-heel swagger, try subtly moving your hips in a figure-8 pattern., Take your time. Your heels are great, and with some confidence and practice, you’re sure to look great in them. However, they’re just not built for running, so try to walk with a measured step if you can.This will make you look more purposeful, too.
 Practice! Wear your heels around the house to get them used to your shape, but also to get you used to theirs. Check yourself out in the mirror, or ask a swaggery friend for feedback. Be aware of how you are walking until your heel-wearing gait becomes natural to you--which it will.

