 If you think that your dog may have leptospirosis, then take him to see a veterinarian right away. Tell the veterinarian about your suspicions as well so that the veterinarian and veterinary technicians can protect themselves.Avoid contact with the dog’s urine as well and wash your hands after having any contact with the dog (petting, holding, etc.).
 The vet may want to run a blood panel to confirm a diagnosis of leptospirosis and also to look at your dog's liver and kidney function. If a blood test is negative and leptospirosis is still suspected, then the vet may need to repeat the test in two weeks to see if there is an increase in the antibodies. This may indicate the dog’s body is trying to fight off the disease., Another way to confirm leptospirosis is for the veterinarian to run a PCR on your dog’s blood or urine. This test can also confirm a diagnosis of leptospirosis, but it may take a while longer because samples often have to be sent to a lab., A third option is to examine a urine sample under a low-light microscope. Inspecting the urine this way may allow the lab technician to see the spiral shaped leptospira and give a positive diagnosis. However, this method is not as accurate or as safe as the other methods of checking for leptospirosis., If you or your veterinarian suspect leptospirosis, then the veterinarian will need to isolate your dog. This is due to the danger that the disease poses to other animals and humans. The veterinarian and veterinary staff will also need to wear protective clothing when caring for your dog., A round of antibiotics are the most common treatment for canine leptospirosis. Your dog’s veterinarian will most likely administer antibiotics even if a diagnosis of leptospirosis is not yet confirmed. Your dog will need to be on antibiotics for two weeks.Doxycycline is often administered to dogs with leptospirosis, but penicillin may also be given at first if the dog does not tolerate doxycycline well. However, the dog will need a full two week dose of doxycycline to recover.In some cases, a dog may need to be kept at the veterinary clinic for treatment and monitoring, so you may not need to worry about administering the antibiotics yourself. But if you are allowed to take your dog home, then make sure that you administer the antibiotics exactly as your veterinarian has instructed. Do not stop giving them until the medicine is gone and your veterinarian has said it is okay to stop.
 Kidney and liver failure are possible complications of leptospirosis and these conditions may require treatment as well. To treat complications of leptospirosis, your dog's veterinarian may:Balance your dog’s fluids to regain normal electrolyte balance.
Give your dog medicine to stop him from vomiting.
Administer medications to help support your dog’s liver.
Perform hemodialysis if your dog’s kidneys have failed.

