 In poetry, verses are called stanzas. Stanzas typically have four or more lines with a fixed length, meter, or rhyme scheme. Stanzas are similar to a paragraph in an essay or in prose. Stanzas often appear as the first section in a poem. There are many different types of stanzas, including:Couplets, where there are stanzas of two rhyming lines.
Tercets, where there are stanzas of three lines that may or may not rhyme.
Quatrains, where there are stanzas of four lines that may or may not rhyme.
Cinquain, where there are stanzas of five lines that may or may not rhyme.
Sestet, where there are stanzas of six lines that may or may not rhyme.
Septet, where there are stanzas of seven lines that may or may not rhyme.
Octave, where there are stanzas of eight lines that may or may not rhyme.
 Stanzas are often grouped together in a poem and set off by a space. Look over the poem and notice how the lines are grouped together. Count the number of lines in each grouping to identify each stanza and determine how many lines are in each stanza. This can help you identify the stanzas in the poem and the structure of the poem.If the lines are grouped together in sets of two, each grouping will be a stanza of two lines. A poem with stanzas of two lines that rhyme is called a couplet.
For example, a couplet would be “True wit is nature to advantage dress’d;/What oft was thought, but ne’er so well express’d," from "Essay on Criticism" by Alexander Pope.
 Some poems have no sections and appear as one long grouping of lines. In this case, the entire poem would be a stanza. This is a popular technique in modern and contemporary poetry.For example, the poem “America” by Walt Whitman consists of one stanza that is six lines long., The term “stanza” means “stopping place” in Italian. Each stanza will comprise of its own unit in a poem and when read out loud, there is often a paused placed between each stanza. If you know the poem has been grouped a certain way on the page, read it out loud and listen for pauses between each group of lines. Based on the pauses, you should be able to identify the stanzas in the poem.For example, if you were reading a quatrain poem, you would pause every four lines as the stanzas would consist of four lines each.

