 To become a Texas resident one must first establish a home in any town in Texas. This entails buying or renting property and subsequently receiving mail at that address.


If you do not have a license from another state, you will need to prove that you have been in the state for 30 days before you can get an ID. If you do have a license from another state, you can bring it in and switch it out for a Texas ID less than 30 days after arrival.;
, You will need to show the Department of Motor Vehicles that you do live in Texas. This is done by bringing specific documents to one of their offices, all of which need to have your name and Texas address on them. You will need to bring two of these documents:Deed, mortgage, or rental documents
Unexpired Texas voter registration card
Texas registration or title for a motor vehicle
Texas registration or title for a boat
License to carry a concealed handgun
Current utility statement: an electric, water, natural gas, satellite TV, cable TV, or home phone bill. It needs to be dated within 90 days of the date you apply.
Selective Service card
Medical or health card
Current homeowner’s or renter’s insurance policy or homeowner’s or renter’s insurance statement
Current automobile insurance policy or an automobile insurance statement
Texas high school, college or university report card or transcript for the current school year
W-2 or 1099 tax form from the current tax year
Statements from a financial institution: including checking, savings, investment account, or credit card statements dated within 90 days of the date of application
Mail from a federal, state, county or city government agency dated within 90 days of the date of application
Automobile payment booklet that is current
Paycheck or payment stub dated within 90 days of the date of application
Documents issued by the U.S. military indicating residence address
Document from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice indicating the applicant's recent release or parole
Current Form DS2019, I-20, or a document issued by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

, All residents must procure a Texas state driver's license or ID card within 90 days of moving to Texas. This can be done at any office of the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV).One must complete an application for a Texas driver's license or Texas ID card and pay the required fee.
A minor will need a parent or legal guardian to sign their application for a driver's license. That parent or guardian will need to attest that the answers on the minor's application are true., If you want a driver's license, as opposed to an ID, you will need to prove that you know how to drive. This can be done by showing that you have a valid driver's license in another state or by passing a driving and written test at the DMV. In addition, all new licenses require an eye exam.


If moving to Texas with a valid out-of state or out-of country driver's license, you will need to bring this document with you to the DMV. This will be proof of license and thus the written and driving license exam will be waived. However, a vision exam will still be required.
When you get your new Texas license, you will need to turn in your existing license from another state. If you do not wish to do that, you can choose to take the written and driving test in Texas, in which case they do not need your old license.
If you would like to transfer an endorsement, such as a motorcycle endorsement, you will need to fill out an additional form. You will also need to pass a motorcycle safety course and pay an additional fee for the endorsement.