 Because boys’ gross motor skills develop faster than girls’ once they hit pre-school age, boys tend to be more physically active and fidgety in class than girls do. They may have greater attention problems as well. These issues cause significant distraction in the classroom, as demonstrated by the following statistics:Boys are 4-5 times more likely to be diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADGD) than girls
Boys are 30% more likely than girls to not complete high school
Boys make up ⅔ of special education students
Boys make up 85% of discipline referrals, If you notice consistent issues with your male students, talk with their parents. There may be issues going on at home, or it could be something as simple as the boy not getting enough sleep. Don't approach these conversations as punitive; instead, offer and ask for collaborative ways to help your student improve his performance and behavior.
 Boys tend to learn better by moving around and using their hands, because it harnesses their natural energy rather than forcing them to ignore it. Whenever possible, include kinesthetic and hands-on activities into classroom time.For example, using manipulatives (usually hands-on physical objects) in math instruction has been demonstrated to increase students’ understanding of math concepts.Designing and building models, moving or clapping to the rhythm while learning poems, and participating in acting out scenes for history, English, or theatre classes can also be helpful in directing boys’ physical movement toward learning.
 Boys are usually taught that competitiveness is a positive thing, and they often experience more “achievement stressors” (elements that cause stress because of the pressure they cause) than girls do. (Girls tend to experience more interpersonal stressors.) Because of this pressure to compete and achieve, boys are more likely to act out in class in the hopes of impressing their peers.Leverage that need to compete into academic performance by framing classroom etiquette as an achievement.


Structuring your lessons as games with levels and achievements may also help engage your male students.<ref.http://www.teachthought.com/teaching/6-strategies-engaging-boys-classroom/</ref>
Behaviors such as defiance and lack of engagement may also be a way for boys to assert their masculinity.Many societies privilege these behaviors in adult males, so boys may feel as though they need to misbehave in order to seem more like “men.” Help them understand that things like engaging in class and acting well with others don’t threaten their still-emerging masculinity.
 While boys are generally highly competitive and out to show off for their peers, they should also learn the importance of collaboration as well as competition. Including team or group activities in your lesson plans will help encourage your male students to learn the value of teamwork -- and that playing as a team doesn’t have to be limited to the sports field.
 Boys of all ages tend to be more easily distracted than girls. Teenagers in particular have a difficult time thinking about long-term consequences and may experience problems with impulse control. In addition, cultural and social conditioning may encourage them to disregard authority, especially female authority -- a difficulty compounded by the fact that there are far more female than male school-teachers. Set clear expectations for behavior and establish clear consequences for what happens when those expectations are not met.


Try to keep your expectations reasonable. For example, if you have a boy in class who can’t stop fidgeting, give him some space as long as it is not distracting to other students in your class.

