 Like many other physical problems, being overweight can make sleeping worse. Snoring is associated with obesity. People who are overweight or obese (especially men) tend to have bulkier throat and neck tissue and poor muscle tone, which can lead to a narrower airway (and excessive snoring) during sleep. Worse, however, is the fact that obesity is a contributing factor in potentially serious sleep disorders, like sleep apnea.To eliminate these harmful effects, work to lose weight with diet and exercise. Usually, your general practitioner will be able to recommend a diet and exercise regimen to help you lose weight or may even refer you to a specialist for extra help. Some helpful tips include:


Increase the fiber in your diet. More fiber increases bowel regularity and helps you feel “full” longer. In other words, fiber can help decrease the amount of food you eat because you don’t get hungry as often. Good sources of fiber include brown rice, barley, corn, rye, bulgar wheat, kasha (buckwheat) and oatmeal.
Eat more fruits and vegetables. Get more leafy vegetables like Swiss chard, collard greens, spinach, lettuces, beet greens into your diet. These are full of fiber, vitamins, minerals and are low in calories. Fruits are also great sources of vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and other essential nutrients and make a great snack.
Limit the amounts of fatty or red meats in your diet. Increase the amounts of fish and skinless poultry you eat.
Avoid foods that are “white” like white bread and white rice. These foods have been processed and have lost a significant amount of their nutritional value. In general, try to avoid pre-packaged or prepared foods as well as most “fast foods.” These tend to have higher amounts of sugars, salts and fats added to “improve”their taste., Some evidence suggests that getting a healthy amount of exercise every day can make snoring more manageable. Obviously, exercise can help you lose weight and slim down, making your throat tissue less bulky and reducing your chance of snoring and sleep apnea. However, by improving your overall muscle tone, exercise can also help your throat maintain its proper shape during sleep. If your soft palate and upper throat do not collapse downward into your tongue, your chance of snoring is greatly reduced.Everyone's exercise needs are different. However, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommend that adults get at least two and a half hours of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise (like brisk walking) per week, along with two days of moderate strength-training exercise.If more intense exercise is performed, the total amount of time spent exercising can be smaller.
 When people are dehydrated, the secretions in their nose and throat naturally become thicker and sticker. In some cases, this can translate to a more obstructed airway and increased snoring. Drink lots of water (8 to 10 8oz. glasses per day). Staying hydrated can keep the tissues inside your mouth and nose moistened, which can help control breathing difficulties.Different people's daily water needs can vary greatly based on their sex, size, and level of activity. In general, you'll know if you're getting enough water if you rarely feel thirsty and your urine is colorless or a light yellow.
If you have trouble getting more water in your diet, try drinking a glass of water with each meal and then between each meal. Be sure as well to drink water before, during and after any exercise you may do.
 Any sort of drug or chemical that helps you get to sleep can potentially become an addictive crutch with repeated use. Even short-term use can cause episodes of excessive snoring. The same sorts of chemicals that make it easier to get to sleep also usually relax the body's muscles, including those in the throat. This causes the soft palate to collapse on the back of the tongue during sleep, leading to snoring.


Note that this includes alcohol, which, like sleeping pills, can have a depressant effect on the nervous system, making the airway collapse during sleep.
 Make sure that your nasal passages are clear so that you can breathe through your nose rather than your mouth when you sleep. Having allergies or a deviated septum can limit airflow through your nose and so it's important to address these conditions. If you are suffering from allergies, you can try taking an antihistamine or using a nasal spray, as recommended by your physician. In cases of a structural defect, like a deviated septum, you may need to have surgery to fix the problem.Do not use an oral or spray decongestant to clear your nasal passages for more than three days in a row. Long-term use of decongestants can have a rebound effect and in fact cause the congestion to worsen, such that you build up a reliance on these medications. Ask your doctor about a prescription steroid spray if your congestion does not improve.
 In addition to many other well-documented health problems, smoking can increase the likelihood of snoring. Though the cause-and-effect relationship isn't perfectly understood, it's thought that the throat irritation from smoking can lead to swelling and inflammation, narrowing the airway during sleep. In addition, if the smoker suffers from overnight nicotine withdrawal, his or her sleep may be interrupted, raising the risk of airway obstruction.Note that being exposed to second-hand smoke has been found to have the similar snoring-causing effects as actually smoking tobacco.

