 If technology is more your forte as opposed to arts and crafts, then starting a scrapbook on the computer may be your best option. Also if you have tons of pictures to go through that are stored to your computer or a smart phone device, then this may be the more simple option for you.


There are several programs available that will allow you to create a digital scrapbook. You can do a quick search online for those available programs. There may be a fee associated with the program you choose. Because of that, some programs allow you to test out their product before you commit to it. This will help you determine which digital scrapbook program will work best for you.
Each program likely has different step-by-step methods for carrying out an action. The following instructions can be applied generally to any program.
 Once you’ve picked your program, you can begin to work on your scrapbook. Start the program and then click “New” to start a new scrapbook.The file may be given a generic name, such as “Untitled,” so feel free to give the file a name that references your project, such as “Sam’s First Birthday Scrapbook.”

, Similar to starting a scrapbook that’s bound, you’ll have to determine the size of your digital scrapbook. You can determine the size based on the amount of pictures you plan to use, or by what seems visually appealing to you. You can also follow the sizing of a physical scrapbook and choose standard sizes, such as 12x12, 8.5x11, 8x8, or a miniature size.
 Before getting started, it’s best to have a general idea of how you’d like to place your pictures in your scrapbook. If you grouped your pictures together in the planning stage, then you should already know which pictures you’d like to include on each page. Now that you’ve determined the size of your scrapbook, take a sheet of paper and sketch out about 4 to 6 different layouts, or rearrange some of your pictures on a blank computer screen to determine what will look best.
 Unlike a physical scrapbook, you aren’t limited by the amount of materials available in your scrapbooking kit or by what you’ve purchased when designing your scrapbook.


You can set the background for each page by choosing from the program’s available choices. Select your preferred background and either drag it onto your layout, or click “apply.” You can apply a different background to each page or apply the same background to all of your pages.
You’ll likely have to work through your scrapbook sequentially, starting with the front cover and working through page by page. However, depending on the program you may be able to insert new pages before and after an already existing page, which will allow you to work on your scrapbook out of order.
 Select and upload your pictures for each page, and then arrange them into your preferred layout design. Click the “file” tab to find the option to upload an image. Depending on the program you’re using, there may be an image icon for you to click to access your images without clicking the “file” tab. Use your mouse to drag the pictures into position. You can also resize your pictures, making them bigger or smaller, if necessary.
 Once your pictures are set, you can play around with the features of your design software to add designs. You can add frames to your pictures, insert design elements, and word art to create the layout you want.


If for example you’re making a scrapbook to celebrate your daughter’s first year, you could add images of her favorite animals or toys, you could include a sweet message for her to read when she gets older, or you could include an image of a birthday cake.
Let’s say you’re memorializing your trip to Africa, include decorative images of an airplane, maps, and special quotes about traveling or a safari.
 Once you’re finished designing your scrapbook, save it. You can then either prepare to have it printed, or you could email it to your family and friends.

