 Don't do this again if you already have it. Download if you have John GBA or the Lite version.;
, Go to Settings-->Other Settings--->and turn off "Auto Load State". This is very important if you use John GBA.
 Enter MyBoy and it should load all your game saves on your phone.
, Once you have over 2 Pokémon, you can trade with other accounts. Head to the nearest Pokémon Center (excluding the one in the Pokémon League), head upstairs and go to the Trading Entrance.
 Press A to interact. You will be given the option to save the game; do so if you wish. A message will appear.
 Open your phone menu with a key (normally near the Home Key), select Link Local (in the extended menu) if you wish to link with another Pokémon save on your phone.
 This will load that game.
 Another message will appear when you talk to the lady.
 Using the key used to open the menu for linking in step 7, select Switch Game. Then select your first game and load it.
 You will then enter the Trade Center. If you don't, switch games again and press A to confirm messages on the other game.
 Self-explanatory. Use directional arrows to navigate and face the computer on the chair.
, With one game, choose a Pokémon you wish to trade.
 Select a Pokémon to trade for the one you selected in the previous step.
 Then switch games and repeat this step.
 Your Pokémon will switch accounts with a short cutscene.
 Once you have traded, you can repeat as you will with the previous steps, otherwise select cancel at the bottom right of the screen. You will have to then switch games and repeat the step. Then simply walk out. It says the link will be terminated, confirm and you can exit.
 You can then save the game by pressing Start and selecting "Save".
 If you use John GBA, then save and, using the menu used to Link Local, select Close. That version will close. Repeat for the other game., This is where that Auto Load State step comes in handy. If you had left it on, when you load your Pokémon version, it will load the state last saved on John GBA, not the ROM saved game in MyBoy. You can simply load again and your Pokémon will be traded.

