;
, Measure the length of the cable that is appropriate for this task and cut the wire by using a wire cutter tool. Make sure your cable is the correct length before cutting.
 Remove carefully one or two inches out shielding of cable at each end with a wire stripping tool. Then untwist the wires from each other so you can work with them. Don’t untwist them beyond what you have exposed; the more untwisted wire you have the worse the problems you can run into.
,, Trim all the colored wires the same length, about ½” to ¾” left exposed from the sheath.
 Insert the rubber boot on both end of the cable.
 Make sure each wire is fully inserted into the front of the clip.
,,, Connect the two computers together with the cable to the Ethernet card in your laptop.
 To start the connection, you will have to assign IP address for both computers. To change the IP address you should make changes in both computers.


Open control panel from the start menu and click on ‘network and internet’ and click on ‘networking and sharing center’.






From the left side bar, click on ‘change adapter settings’.






Select the icon ‘Local area connection’ and right click on it, then choose properties.






From the Local Area Connection properties select Internet Protocol Version 4(TCP/IPv4) and click on properties button.
 Set the IP address on each laptop.


From the Internet Protocol Version 4(TCP/IPv4) properties select the option “use the following IP address”






Then
Laptop 1:
 IP address: 192.168.0.1






 Click on Subnet Mask space then it shows like: 255.255.255.0






 Default gateway: 192.168.0.2






Laptop 2:
 IP address: 192.168.0.2






 Click on Subnet Mask space then it shows like: 255.255.255.0






 Default gateway: 192.168.0.1






Then click OK.
 To share the information and resources we need to change some settings.


Select computer from the start menu and select properties of folder that you want to share by right clicking.






Then choose Share with -> Advanced sharing. Then select the button advanced sharing and choose the option share folder and select the name of folder. Then click OK.
