 You don’t necessarily need to make your final purchase from a local store, but seek out expert advice in person when browsing bats. Visit a store that specializes in cricket so you can ask experienced staff about which bat is best for your personal needs. Keep in mind that the best reviewed cricket bats that you find online are still just pictures as far you’re concerned. You’ll want to physically handle bats beforehand to find one that feels right for you personally.Follow up with some online research after hearing recommendations. Read customer reviews, online ratings, and forum comments on particular brands and products.;
, Ask yourself what level of play you intend to engage in. If you’re looking to take part in some serious competition, prepare to invest in a quality bat that’s durable enough to stand up to constant hard-hitting use. However, if you’re just looking for some light weekend action in the backyard, don’t worry so much about getting a high-end bat.Expect bats to cost anywhere from $20 to hundreds of dollars. Obviously, a $300 bat could be a waste of money if you hardly ever use it, but constantly replacing cheaper bats due to heavy use can be just as wasteful in the long run.
 If you’re taking part in competition play, you’ll likely be using a heavy ball made of leather or polystyrene. For these, plan on getting a higher grade bat since the impact will be harder. But if you’re just knocking around a rubber ball or tennis ball, save your money and look for a bat designed for casual use with lighter balls., If you’ve never played cricket before, hold off on purchasing a top-of-the-line bat for now, even if you intend on playing full-time. Expect the design of one bat to favor a certain style of play over another. Wait to see what type of player you develop into before investing in expensive equipment. For now, content yourself with something cheaper that will serve for the time being.This is especially true for kids. As they continue to develop physically, they will need new, larger bats to match their size, regardless of how much life is left in their old bat.
 If you’re totally unsure of what to buy, rely on other people’s experience. Check customer reviews and ratings for popular brands. Join online forums to find out people’s recommendations for your intended use. Go with trusted brands like:Kookaburra
Gray Nicolls
Reebok
Puma
Adidas

