


Ask, in class, for clarification of a particular concept. If the answer doesn't really shed any light on the subject, speak to the teacher after class. They may have some suggestions, one-on-one, that they couldn't go into during regular class time.;
, Math, beyond simple addition and subtraction, is generally a collection of separate operations. For example, multiplication also involves addition, and division also involves subtraction. Before you can grasp a concept completely, you need to understand the meaning of all the operations involved. For each word used in a math problem (for example, "variable,") try this:


Memorize the definition from the book. "A symbol for a number we don't know yet. It is usually a letter like x or y."
Practice examples of the concept. For example, "4x - 7 = 5," where x is the variable, while 7 and 5 are "constants" 4 is a coefficient of x (another two definitions to look up).
 Properties, formulas, equations, and methods are the tools of math, and will make math and computation much easier when you understand all the tools work. Learn to rely on them like a good carpenter would his saw, tape measure, hammer, etc.
 If you don't know the answer to a question, ask for clarification. Explain what you do understand, so that the teacher can focus on the parts that are confusing.


For example, using the variable problem above, say "I understand that 4 times an unknown variable (x), minus 7, equals 5. What's the first thing I need to do?" Now the teacher knows how to help bring you into the discussion. If you had said, "I don't get it," the teacher might think they need to explain constants and variables first.
Never be afraid to ask questions. Even Einstein asked questions (and then answered them)! You're not going to suddenly understand it by staring at the problem. If you don't want to ask a teacher, ask a nearby student, or friend.
 If you still need help, and the teacher is unable to explain things in a way you understand, ask them who they would recommend for more in-depth assistance. Find out if there is a study hall or tutoring program, or ask if a teacher could give you extra help before or after class.


Just as there are different learning styles (auditory, visual, etc.), there are different teaching styles. If you're a visual learner, and have the best teacher in the world—for auditory learners—you will still find it difficult to learn from them. It's not impossible, but having supplemental help from somebody who teaches the same way you learn will be a great help.
 For example, when working out equations, divide your solution into steps, writing down what you did you get to the next step.


Writing out your work helps you to keep track of the work as you do it, and it may help you get partial credit if you make a mistake somewhere.
Writing your steps out will show you where you went wrong.
Writing your steps out will also help reinforce and strengthen what you already know.
 After attempting a few examples, you may get the hang of it. If not, you'll have a better idea of where you are getting hung up.
 Read the teacher's notes, and learn where you went wrong. Ask your teacher to help you review any problems you still don't understand.

