 Establish a routine time and place. You can have a prayer mat in a quiet place with no interruptions. Have environmental cues: light a candle, play reverent music (e.g. a CD of Benedictine Monks of Santo Domingo de Silos).;
, We all have a lot on our minds every second of the day. Write out your cares, worries, daily to-do-list, then trust it under God's care and control. Ask God to help you let go to trust Him and connect with Him.
 There's no special formula. Praying is about communicating with the God of the universe and the one who loves you more than you'll ever know. Pray aloud or write down prayers in a prayer journal, leaving room to come back and fill in how God answered your prayer requests.


If you want structure: Jesus, gave this example to pray, "Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread. Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one." (I encourage you to not just repeat these words found in Matthew 6:9-13 of the Bible, but to also use the format to base your personal prayers, i.e. to start by glorifying God for who He is to you, to submit to God, then to ask for your requests and God's daily provision, etc.)
You can also use books such as 31 Days of Prayer by Ruth Myers, Warren Myers, or 31 Days of Praise by Ruth Myers. These are great because they walk you through simple daily prayers that are powerful and personal.
 God is personal and can connect in unique ways with each person He created. Some people connect most with God by talking aloud while showering. Some people talk aloud with God while driving alone, acting like He is sitting in the passenger seat of their car like a listening friend. God is our most faithful listener.
 Communication goes both ways, and God speaks. He can speak through a still, small, reassuring voice of peace and love as you pray, but He also wants you to read all that he wrote in the Bible. The Psalms are excellent to read as you pray!

