 While a kitten is very young (less than 2 months at least) she should be kept by herself someplace safe and warm. As she gets older, you can expand the amount of space she has to move around and play.Make sure the location doesn’t have any hiding spots that your kitten can get into.
You can use a cage if you don’t have a room small enough.
Make sure their space has a bedding area, a litter box (when she's older), and a place for food and water dishes.
The bedding should be setup in such a way that the kitten can comfortably hide in the blankets should she feel scared.
 Whenever you’re around the kitten, move slowly and quietly. You should also speak to her often so she gets use to human voices — but speak softly. Make sure the room she's in doesn’t have a lot of outside noise (if possible) and don’t play music in that room until she's really comfortable.Once the kitten has been in your house for a little while, consider leaving a radio playing softly in her room when you’re not there.
If the kitten isn’t scared, put her cage or bed in a more common area of the house (when you can supervise) so she gets use to the hustle and bustle of the house.
 A kitten is not going to know any better, so she may do things that you consider to be “bad.” If this happens, do not punish or scold her. Instead, reward her for good behaviour so she begins to realize the type of behaviour you’d like her to have. Once she catches on, she’ll start to repeat that good behaviour over and over., Depending on how old the kitten was when you brought her inside, it can take a while to socialize her and get her use to humans. Don’t rush the process. If you’re taking care of more than one kitten, consider separating them and spending one-on-one time with each of them., All kittens love food — so you can use it as an incentive to help encourage your kitten to be more social. While you can leave dry food out for the kitten all day, only feed her wet food when you’re in the room. Get her to associate the wet food with you (the human) so she appreciates a human’s presence.Put the wet food bowls as close to you as possible while the kitten is eating.
Gently pet and touch the kitten while she’s eating to get her use to your touch.
Feed the kitten with a spoon to help them get use to you as well.
You can also use pure meat baby food as a treat for a kitten. It cannot have anything else mixed in, only meat.
 You should spend at least 2 hours a day with your kitten. This can be all at once, or multiple short periods, whatever works for you. Play with your kitten at ground level. If you have more than one kitten, take the time to handle each kitten individually everyday. Hold the kitten as much as you can, especially cuddling her close to your body. Introduce toys once the kitten becomes interested., If a kitten is comfortable with you and not stressed, you can start introducing her to other pets. You should always supervise these interactions as you cannot predict how anyone will behave. You can also start introducing the kitten to other humans, so she gets use to humans other than you., Once your kitten get older and starts to play with toys, you can make her play area larger and include more fun stuff for her to play with. In addition to toys, you can add a scratching post or cat tree (start with a short one), tunnels, cardboard boxes, etc.