 Many times a marriage can result in you forming a very deep relationship with your in-laws, to the point of them becoming like family. It's obvious once you go through a divorce with their child, that relationship has to change. It is unfair to expect them to make a choice between you and their son or daughter, but you can still be amicable and even affectionate with in-laws after a divorce.


Be clear about your desires. If you want to still have a relationship with them, tell them how important they are to you but you understand how difficult the situation is.
If kids are involved, staying amicable and overall positive can be particularly important. You will want your kids to have grandparents in their lives in a positive way. Make sure to communicate that whatever differences you may have, it's extremely important that the children come first., While lawyers may be able to divide up properties and material belongings, friendships can be far more tricky. If you had mutual friendships, such as couples you'd regularly double date with, it can be difficult to manage these relationships after your divorce. You may be unlikely to hang out with those couples in the same way again and they may feel an urge to choose either you or your spouse, or even to remain neutral.Communicate and be open about difficulties. Talk to your friends about what they feel awkward about, what is giving them difficulties and what make your friendship work, given the circumstances.
Don't use your friendships as leverage or competition with your ex. This will only put your friends in a more difficult situation. Avoid talking negatively about your ex, and don't display resentment or jealousy if your friend is still communicating with your ex.
 Children can make guilt even more intense. You may feel like you're depriving your child of a full family, or that the divorce will have a severe detrimental affect to their life. Even though you may feel guilt, it's important to continue to serve as a parent and role model for children who are already dealing with the difficulties of divorce.Keep a child-centered divorce. Be consistent and reliable in time spent with your children and do not let difficulties between you and your spouse affect your parenting.
Don't try to be your children's best friend and try to win them over with gifts and bribes. They will need support but you shouldn't let your guilt promote bad parenting habits. But be empathetic to what they're experiencing.
 You can help assuage some of your guilt by making sure that your child will continue to have stable, loving parents, despite the divorce. Rather than trying to outdo your ex, communicate with them on ways you can both help your children.


Avoid putting the blame on either partner involved. Do your best to co-parent in the early stages so that the shock is not too great for the children. , If your child is of an age that they are able to influence who they will live with, no matter what do not make the child feel guilty for their decision. Also, do not let yourself feel guilty if they choose the other spouse. The child is in a difficult decision and any decision they make is hard.