 This is important because under Alaska Statute 09.55.010, the Superior Court will not grant a name change request unless 'the court finds sufficient reasons for the change and also finds it consistent with the public interest.'Note that terms of the statute state that these requirements are met if you are changing your name because of marriage, dissolution of marriage, or divorce. When filling out the relevant form, you will need to state your reasons for requesting a change of name.;
, The form (CIV-700) is available here. This form may be filled online before printing or may be printed first and then filled in black ink.Write the name of the city in which the court in which you are filing your petition is located in the very first blank at the top of the form after the word “AT”.Write your current legal name in the blank marked 'Petitioner.'
Leave the line marked 'CASE NO.' blank.Recall from Step 1 above your reason(s) for requesting a change of name and write down your reason(s) in the appropriate blanks.
Fill in the rest of the blanks (which should be self-explanatory), leaving the signature line blank for now.
 The form (CIV-708) is available here and should only be filled out if applicable to your case. A change of name request requires posting notice of your request on the Alaska Court System’s legal notice website.If, however, you feel that publishing your name change request will compromise your security, fill out this form in order to request the judge to be excused from this requirement. The relevant rules also state that 'you can ask that your case be kept confidential and that fake names (pseudonyms) be used to identify you in the court’s public index on the Internet.'If you fill out this form, leave the signature line blank for now.
 You must sign CIV-700, and (if applicable) CIV-708 in the presence of a notary public, affirming the veracity of the information you provide in these forms. If you wish to use the court-provided free-of-charge notary service, take the unsigned form(s) to the court and sign in the presence of a court clerk, who will serve as the notary public. Be sure to bring a photo ID for the notarization., The form (VS-405) is available here. Fill out lines 1 through 7d. Sign and date in the blank marked “Applicant’s Signature” and leave the remainder of the form blank to be filled out by the court clerk.
 You should make a copy of all the forms filled out in the steps above for your own records. Keep your own copies in a safe place and remember where you kept them in case you need to refer to them during the application process or thereafter.
 Take the original forms filled out in the steps above to your nearest superior court filing location. A list of superior court filing locations is available on page 5 of CIV-699.File the original forms at the superior court location.
Pay the filing fee. The fee is $150. Note that you can request to be excused from paying this fee in the case of financial hardship. If this applies to you, request the court clerk for a Request for Exemption from Payment of Fees (form TF-920).If you intend to request such a waiver, it would be advisable to download and fill out this form (available here) beforehand, as the form asks you to provide information about your income, assets, and other related information.
 This form (CIV-701) will instruct you on when you must appear in court for your hearing, whether or not the court system will post notice of your name change request, and whether there are any additional steps that you need to take in order to meet the notice requirements.The additional steps that may be required of you to meet these notice requirements include 'publication in a print or online newspaper, e-mail, posting on a social networking account, posting in public places, or as otherwise ordered by the court.'Follow the steps that are relevant to you.
 This hearing will normally take place at least 40 days after the day you filed your original documents in the Superior Court.The date of your hearing is provided in CIV-701, given to you by the court clerk at the time of filing your petition.


At this hearing, you will be asked by the judge the reason(s) for changing your name. The judge will also seek assurance that you are not changing your name 'in order to avoid debts or defraud anyone.'Your request will be granted if the requirements of Alaska Statute 09.55.010 (namely that there are sufficient reasons for the name change and that the change is consistent with the public interest) are met; note that changing your name upon marriage, dissolution of marriage, or divorce meets this statutory requirement.If the judge grants you permission to change your name, do not begin to use your name just yet as there are additional steps that need to be followed before your name change will become effective., The judgment may require you to take additional steps to make public your change of name before your Certificate of Name Change (CIV-705) is issued. These steps are the same as those covered in Step 8. Find out what steps are required of you. It may take several days for you to complete these steps. If the judgment does not require you to take any additional steps, then the clerk will issue a Certificate of Name Change (CIV-705) on the same day., You must begin to use your new name on the date provided in your Certificate of Name change. This date will normally be at least 30 days after distribution of the judgment., You must change your name with government agencies and private institutions to avoid confusion and potential problems in the future. In particular, you should change your name with the following agencies and institutions:


Social Security: notify the Social Security Administration (SSA) of your name change to avoid tax, employment related, and other issues that may result from your social security number continuing to attach to your old name.Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV): if you own a vehicle registered in Alaska or have an Alaska driver’s license, you are required to send written notice of your name change to the DMV within 30 days. You will be required to present your Certificate of Name Change in person to the DMV in order to get a new driver’s license or Alaska ID card.Vital Statistics: contact the Vital Statistics office of the state in which you were born if you wish for your name change to appear on your birth certificate.Other Accounts: you should also change your information with your bank, insurance provider, Alaska PFD Division, and other important account providers in order to reflect your name change.