 Set it up near your television, with access to power, and if using a wired network (optional), to an ethernet port.


Don't place Apple TV on top of other electronic equipment, and don't place objects on top of Apple TV. Doing so could cause overheating or interference with the wireless signal.;
, Insert one end of the cable into the HDMI port in the back of Apple TV, and the other end into the HDMI port of your television.


Note: this article will describe a direct connection to your television. If using a receiver, refer to the manufacturer's instructions, though generally the receiver will simply be inserted between Apple TV and your television.
Apple TV also provides a TOSLink digital audio output. If you are using that, connect one end of the TOSLink cable to Apple TV, and the other end to the TOSLink digital audio input on your television.
 If you are using a wired network, connect Apple TV to the ethernet port with the proper cable.


Apple TV has built-in 802.11 Wi-Fi that you can connect to your wireless network during the setup.
 Once your other connections are in place, plug the small end of the power cord into the Apple TV power port, and the other into a nearby power outlet.
 It's time to jump into the world of Apple TV! Using your television's remote, set the input to the HDMI port that Apple TV is using.


If this is your first setup of Apple TV, you should see the setup screen. If you do not, check to make sure everything is plugged in correctly, and that you've selected the correct input.
 You will use this to perform virtually all functions on Apple TV.


Use the black ring to move your cursor up, down, left, and right.
The silver button in the center of the ring is the "Select" button, which you will use to select menu options, enter text characters, and more.
The Menu button pulls up the menu, or backs you out to the previous screen.

Press and hold Menu to return to the main menu.
Press and hold Menu while watching a movie to access closed captioning


The Play/Pause button does just that!
Press and hold the Menu and Down arrow to reset Apple TV. When resetting, Apple TV's status light will blink rapidly.
To pair a remote with Apple TV, press and hold the Menu button and the Right arrow for 6 seconds. This will prevent Apple TV from being controlled by other remotes.
Note that there is free app, in App Store (cleverly named "Remote") that give you all the functions of the Apple Remote, and more. If you have an iPhone or iPad, it's a great addition to the Apple TV experience.
Note that the Apple Remote is not a universal controller. You'll still want to control volume and other functions with your television or receiver's remote.
 Using the on-screen prompts, select your wireless network from the menu. If your network is hidden, enter your network name. When your network is selected, enter your password (if you use one), and when prompted, click Done.


If you don't use DHCP for your network, you will need to assign the IP address, subnet mask, router address, and DNS address at this time.
 To access the music and videos on your computer using Apple TV, you will use Home Sharing.


Set up Home Sharing on Apple TV. From the main menu, choose Settings, then select Home Sharing. Enter your Apple ID and password.
Set up Home Sharing on iTunes. From the File menu, select Home Sharing > Turn On Home Sharing. Enter the same Apple ID and password that you used for Apple TV.
 With iTunes on Apple TV, you have access to the latest movies in full 1080p resolution (v3) or 720p resolution (v2). Using the onscreen browser, you can preview movies, rent them, or buy them for your collection.While virtually all content in iTunes can be previewed, many movies cannot be rented—only purchased—for the first weeks after release to iTunes. Subsequently, most can be rented. Occasionally, a movie will only be available for rent or for purchase.
Television shows from iTunes are purchase only, though you can subscribe to an entire season. Current television series offered on iTunes are usually delayed by a day or two from initial airing.
 On select content, you can use AirPlay to wirelessly stream movies and photos stored on your iPad, iPhone, or iPod Touch. You can also use mirroring to use your television as a giant screen for your iPhone 4S or iPad!

, With Home Sharing, you can browse and play your entire iTunes library. This includes all playlists that you've created, as well as the Genius feature. You can also view your photos using iPhoto in your computer, or simply dropping the photos you want to share on Apple TV into a folder, and connecting to that folder through iTunes Home Sharing.


To access music, movies, photos, and videos on your computer through Apple TV, click on the green "Computers" button in the Main Menu screen. Any relevant content on your computer can be accessed there.
To access all music stored in iCloud using iTunes Match, press the orange "Music" button in the Main Menu screen.
 You'll need a Netflix and/or Hulu account to view content, but with that in hand, you can stream enough content from the past and present to keep you entertained for the rest of your days—even if you were just born yesterday! To access that content, click on the Netflix or Hulu buttons on the main menu, then select your options.


If you have another iOS device, download the app for Netflix. If you're watching a movie on Netflix, and you decide you'd rather finish it in bed as you fall asleep (not recommend for a shoot-em-up), turn off your television (it will pause Apple TV), then launch Netflix on your iOS device. The movie will be queued up right where you left it! Hulu+ offers similar features.
 If you're a sports buff, subscribe to MLB.TV, NBA.com, and NHL GameCenter. You can watch the games live and in HD as they happen, and watch previous games from the archives "on demand." If you don't have a subscription to these services, you can still check schedules, scores stats, standings, and highlights of previous games.
 Use Wall Street Journal Live for market and financial news, listen to experts share their opinions, and watch summaries of the latest news. It's on 24-hours a day!

, Check out YouTube, Vimeo, and Flickr from the Main Menu. There's a world of user-generated content out there, and it's easy to access with just a click of a button.
 Using Radio, you can choose from hundreds and hundreds of internet radio channels, sorted by category. Ready for some Classic Blues? Classical? Radio talkers? Click on the desired category, then pick your pleasure. Some of it is commercial-free, some of it interspersed with promos, but all of it is free and hi-resolution.