 Take a measurement from the ceiling down to the place on the wall where you want the shelf to end. Multiply that number by two, so you can double each piece of rope. Add eighteen inches (45 cm) to that number for the knots you’ll make in the rope.For example, if your ceiling is eight feet (2.4 m) tall and you want your shelf to sit five feet (1.5 m) from the floor, you’re designating three feet (91 cm) of space between the ceiling and where the shelf ends. Double three feet (91 cm) and you get six feet (1.8 m); add eighteen inches (45 cm) to that number. Thus, you’ll want two pieces of rope that are 7½ feet (2.3 m) each.;
, Cut a piece of paper into a square with one and a half inches (38 mm) on each side. Place the paper on the end of each board and mark a dot at each corner of the paper to indicate where you’ll drill.You can buy a wood plank cut to size at a local home and building supply store, or cut your own.
 For a rustic look, you can leave your plank as is. Alternately, sand your plank by starting with coarse sandpaper and working your way up to fine grade sandpaper, rubbing with (not against) the grain. Paint the plank with any medium compatible with wood. Distress it by using contrasting coats of paint, and wiping the top layer with a damp cloth when it’s almost dry.


For example, you may want to paint the whole board with acrylic paint in a fun accent color, or paint just the edges of the board. Dilute the acrylic paint with water if you want the wood grain to show somewhat., Take note of the distance between the holes you drilled. Using that measurement, lightly mark those places on the ceiling with a pencil. Screw in screw eye hooks into the ceiling where you’ve made markings.If you’re inserting the hooks into drywall or sheet rock, use anchor bolt inserts as well., Pull the rope through the hooks. Adjust the rope so that both sides hang equally. Run the rope through the four holes in your plank. tie an overhand knot in each of the four rope ends underneath the plank.If you want to prevent fraying, place tape around the rope ends before you pull them through the holes.The rope tails don’t have to be even, but if you want them that way you can use shears to even them up.

