 If you are new to fishing, you will want to fish local ponds, rivers, lakes or streams with which you are familiar. You need to learn the basic elements of fishing such as how to tie a lure and bait a hook. You can only do this through practice.;
, Fishing clubs are a great way to meet others close to your skill level and above. The individuals in the clubs will have tips, techniques and will turn you on toward the bite. They often hold their own small tournaments.
 Different types of fish require different types of fishing techniques. It is difficult to be successful at them all without mastering a few.


Certain species like certain baits. Don't fall into the trap of using catfish baits on bass, for example. There are thousands of manufacturers that make a wide variety of bass baits. Even the same bait in a slightly different color pattern can make all the difference.






Many fishermen make the mistake of not understanding the importance of fishing line selection. Don't skimp on quality for a cheaper price.
 Almost every area of the country, no matter how large or small, has a body of water that is inhabited by one or a few predominant species. Master the art of fishing for these species. Sooner or later, there will be a small tournament for these that are your specialty.


You will need some small tournament wins in order to qualify for the top dollar tournaments.






You will learn from more experienced tournament contestants and this knowledge will eventually give you an edge in your future career endeavors.
 Most professional fishing tournaments use a pro-am type of field. There are normally two men to a single boat. The boat owner is the professional and is fishing for the big bucks. The co-angler is the amateur, or the inexperienced professional, that is fishing for the smaller, alternate purse. Many times, the alternate purse includes a boat and possibly a truck to pull it.
 You will need to get some endorsements in order to make your career as a professional fisherman lucrative. Tournament wins are nice, but you can easily spend as much on the quality equipment you need as you will win in any given tournament. Once you are endorsed, your name becomes viral and that is the true sign of a professional fisherman.


The fastest way to get endorsements is to market yourself to local bait and tackle stores in your area. These will not likely amount to much cash in hand, but if you adorn yourself and your boat with advertising stickers, these places might give you free equipment, if not money.






You will have to win many local tournaments, and at least one major, to get the lucrative endorsements from the major brands and outlets. The more tournaments you win, the more the local shops will be willing to endorse you as well.







