 A lawyer can be a stable sounding board during a confusing and turbulent time. Even if you can’t afford a lawyer, at a minimum you should meet with a lawyer who offers a free consultation. Custody determinations are complicated and important. A competent attorney is invaluable and necessary to make a strong case for custody.


Even if costs are concern, some attorneys provide “unbundled services,” which means that they will provide limited services such as document preparation, legal advice, or coaching for a flat fee. Although not all states allow unbundled services, Michigan does.You can also visit a Self-Help Center. A list of centers is located here.
Legal aid organizations provide free or low-cost legal assistance to needy people. You can find a list of Michigan legal aid organizations here.
If at any time you are confused about how to proceed, you should seek out a lawyer’s assistance. To find an experienced, local family lawyer, search your yellow pages or perform an internet search for “child custody attorney” and your city or county.;
, If you are asking for a prior order to be changed, you will most likely return to the court that issued the order. If you are seeking an initial custody order, then the appropriate court is the Family Division of the Circuit Court in the county where your child lives. If you are seeking a divorce and custody order, then it must be in the Family Division of the Circuit Court in the county where you or your spouse live.
 The forms you need are online. Access the appropriate toolkit and interactive document preparation program (for free) at the Michigan Legal Help website, which is endorsed by the Michigan Judiciary.


If you are getting an initial custody order with your divorce, then choose "I Need a Divorce and I Have Children."
If you and the child's other parent were never married and there is no existing custody order, choose "I Need a Custody Order."
If you have an existing custody order that you want to change, then choose "Motion Regarding Custody."
To access the forms, go to the right-hand side of the page and look for “Forms.” Click on the link. You will be taken to the online interview.
 The program will ask you information about you, the other parent, the child or children, your location, and the type of custodial arrangement you are asking the court to provide.


You have two hours to complete the interview, which can be quite detailed and time consuming. If you find that you have trouble focusing, you should register by creating a user name and password. If you register, you can save your information and return to it later.
Depending on which form you select, you will be asked for a variety of information, such as where you and the other parent reside, your income, your employment history, how long you have lived in Michigan, and any court actions between you and the other parent.
When you complete the interview, the computer program will generate the appropriate forms.
 Once you have completed the appropriate forms, you will need to sign them in front of a notary.


You can find a notary by visiting Michigan’s Department of State website and clicking on “notary search.”
You must bring sufficient personal identification to prove to the notary that you are who you say you are. Acceptable identification includes a driver’s license, a passport, or a state-issued personal identification card., File the original set of documents with the clerk of court. Keep several copies for your records as well as to mail to the other parent. You must pay $150 filing fee. Ask the clerk to stamp your copies with the filing date.


If you cannot pay the fee, ask for a fee waiver and complete it. It is form MC20.Do not be embarrassed to ask for it if you cannot pay.
The clerk will also need to sign your summons, which will be returned to you.
 Attach the original summons to the copy of the documents for the other parent. The other parent must receive these documents within 91 days of the filing date.You may serve them in a variety of ways:


You can pay the sheriff's office to serve them.
You can pay a private process server to serve them.
You can arrange for a friend or relative (not involved in the case and over the age of 18) to serve them. This person must complete the "Proof of Service" on the back of the summons. Make sure the Proof of Service is subsequently filed with the court.
Arrange for a friend to mail the papers registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, with delivery restricted to the other parent only.
Note that you may not serve the documents using any method.
 The other parent has a maximum of 28 days from the date of service to file a written answer to the petition. You should receive a copy of the answer. If you don’t, then call the clerk and ask if it has been received.
 If you want to avoid going to court, then you can request mediation. Alternatively, the judge may order it. At mediation, both parties meet with a neutral third party and work together to come up with a result that is acceptable to both parties.Mediation can bring emotional closure and healing.


Statements made in mediation are confidential and may not be used in court.Mediation often involves giving something up. Each party must make concessions in order to find a middle ground position each can endorse. There is no cost when a friend of the court conducts the mediation.Mediation may happen earlier. For example, if no initial custody determination has been made, then the court may order mediation before deciding initial custody. If you are attempting to change a prior custody order, then you could propose mediation after filing the lawsuit.
 The court will look at a variety of factors when determining whether to award you full custody. What the court looks at will differ slightly depending on whether you are attempting to modify an existing custody order or whether you are trying to establish an initial custody order.



Modifying a prior custody order. To change a custody determination, the court must first decide whether an “established custodial environment exists.” A custodial environment is one where, over time, the child naturally looks to that parent for parental comfort, guidance, discipline, and the necessities of life, such as food and medical care.You must show by “clear and convincing” evidence that one does not exist.

If an “established custodial environment” does exist, you must then show by clear and convincing evidence that there has been a “significant” change and a change in custody is in the child’s “best interests” based on the factors discussed below.Initial custody determination. You must show that it is in the child’s “best interests” for you to have full custody.To determine what is in a child’s best interest, the court looks to a variety of factors, including: the love and affection existing between the parties and the child; the ability and willingness of the parties to provide food, shelter, clothing, and medical care; moral fitness of the parent; stability of the custodial environment; and mental and physical health of the parties.You can find a full list by reading the Michigan Child Custody Act.
Understanding what you must prove at court will clarify the kinds of evidence you should seek during the discovery process. For example, you will need to prove your physical health, your willingness to provide food and medical care, as well as a stable home environment. You will also need to fend off attacks to these same characteristics.
 After a lawsuit has been filed, the parties may engage in a process called "discovery," where each party requests information from the other party. As part of discovery, you can serve Requests for Production of documents in the possession or control of the other party. You may also request that the other parent answer Interrogatories, which are written questions.


You should think about what documents you want. Revisit what you need to prove in court. If you need to show that the other parent’s home is a poor “custodial environment,” then you will need evidence that the home isn’t stable or loving, or that the custodial parent cannot meet housing and health care needs.
To prove that it is the child’s best interest to live with you, you will need evidence that shows your ability and willingness to provide parental affection and a stable home. You also will need proof of your mental and physical fitness.
You also should think about what evidence you will need to rebut the other parent’s arguments. If the other parent claims you have an inconsistent work history, bring pay stubs or a work contract that shows regular employment.
 The other parent may want to depose you as part of discovery. This can be a stressful experience, especially if communication has broken down with the other parent and you anticipate his or her attorney to be hostile. You will also be asked potentially embarrassing questions about your finances, your job, as well as your home environment and criminal history. The attorney will be gathering evidence to use at trial.


A lawyer can help relieve some of the stress by preparing you for the deposition. You should meet and raise areas of concern, particularly aspects of your life that would suggest you are not a fit parent. Examples include felony convictions, domestic abuse allegations, as well as the lack of a permanent, stable home.
Your attorney should sit down for a mock deposition, during which she peppers you with questions. Afterwards, you can discuss how to refine your answers. Just the experience of going through one deposition prep could settle your nerves as you approach the real thing.
 As part of the discovery process, you will be required to voluntarily disclose various sorts of information: financial affidavits, a list of witnesses you intend to call at the hearing, any exhibits you intend to use.


Failure to make timely disclosure can result in the court disallowing the evidence at trial.
If the other parent has an attorney, then make disclosures to the attorney.
 Before the court can decide custody, both parties must meet with someone who evaluates their fitness to parent. The evaluator does not decide custody. Instead, the evaluator gathers evidence to help the judge determine what will be in the child’s best interest.You may be called to meet jointly with the other parent or separately. If there has been a history of domestic violence, the evaluator will schedule separate interviews.The evaluator will ask questions based on each factor used in determining the best interests of the child. For example, you may be asked, “How do you show love for the child?” You may also be asked how the other parent shows love for the child., The evaluator may want school records, such as disciplinary violations, or a record of community activities that the child participates in. You will need to sign a release for the evaluator to access them.The evaluator may also want a “home record.” This consists of information about the child’s behavior (outgoing or withdrawn), as well discipline problems and relationships with siblings., If the other parent contests the quality of your home, the evaluator may need to visit your home to inspect it.Home inspections can be announced or unannounced. You should ask the evaluator which one you will be subject to.To prepare, clean up the house as best you can. Get rid of trash, garbage, spoiled food, and animal feces. Hide racy reading material and firearms. Also address any hazards, such as exposed electrical wires or broken railings on stairs.Have one fire extinguisher on each floor and keep prescription medicines out of the reach of children.Stock your refrigerator and pantry with healthy foods., If possible, try to take notes during the evaluation. Jotting down the kinds of follow-up questions that are asked can provide insight as to any concerns the evaluator has about your fitness as a parent.
 If mediation fails—or if one party refuses to participate—then you should prepare for trial. You need to think about what the other parent will argue as well as how best to make your case. To find out the other parent’s strategy, take out a copy of the answer that was filed and read it. In the answer, the other parent will list why you shouldn’t have full custody.


Honestly self-assess. This may be the most difficult part of seeking full custody. In a contested custody case, the other parent will use anything potentially embarrassing or damaging against you. If you’ve had drinking, money, or anger management problems in the past, you should expect that those issues will be raised in a contested child custody hearing. You should think about how you can prove that you are able to provide a stable home environment for the child.
If you have had charges (or convictions) for domestic violence, alcoholism, or drug use, then you should seek a lawyer’s assistance. A lawyer will know best how to prove that you have rehabilitated yourself.
Look at the notes you made when you met with the Friend of the Court evaluator. The evaluator’s questions may tip you off as to what the judge will consider most important. For example, if the evaluator continually circled back to ask questions about your patchy employment history, you can safely assume that this will be something you need to address in front of the judge.
 In court, you will need evidence to prove your assertions. A bare claim that “I have turned my life around” will be unconvincing.


Match up everything you need to prove with at least one piece of evidence. For example, if you need to show that you are no longer an alcoholic, then you will need someone to testify that you have completed AA or another program.
Likewise, you will need evidence to rebut any claim made by the other parent. For example, if she claims to have provided health care for your child, then you should have evidence of the time she didn’t pay to have a tooth fixed or of other health needs that went unaddressed.
 To assure that your witnesses attend court, you need to issue them a subpoena. You can get the subpoena from the clerk of court.


Serve the subpoena using an acceptable service of process, such as mail or personal service from the sheriff.
If you know the witness and are on friendly terms, also be sure to call them and remind them as the court date approaches.
 Contact the court clerk and ask to schedule your hearing; provide an estimate of the amount of time you anticipate needing. The clerk may schedule an initial conference, during which the judge will ask questions to make sure all issues are ready for trial.


Provide a Notice of Hearing to all parties. The other parent must be served notice in the same manner that you served him or her a copy of your initial complaint.
 Give yourself enough time to get to court. If you are unfamiliar with the courthouse or the parking situation, give yourself an extra hour.


You may have to go through a metal detector at the court. Prepare for this by not wearing a lot of jewelry.
 Since you are asking the judge to give you full custody, you should look as professional and pulled-together as possible.


If you can wear a suit, then do so. If you can’t, then wear clean dress pants and dress shirt. If you can only wear jeans, then make sure that they are clean and in good repair. If you need to borrow an outfit from a friend, then do so.
Under no circumstances wear shorts, flip flops, tank tops, mini-skirts, or sagging pants.
 You or your lawyer will need to give the judge a roadmap of what the evidence will show. The opening statement should be brief, but should summarize what evidence will support your claim to full custody.


Do not engage in argument. Emotions can run high in a custody hearing, but there is nothing to argue about during the introduction because no evidence has been admitted into court yet.
 As the petitioner (the person seeking full custody), you will present witnesses first. The respondent (the other parent) will then have an opportunity to cross-examine the witness.


Do not ask leading questions.A leading question states a fact and then asks the witness to agree. For example, “You never spank your child, do you?” is a leading question. Instead, the lawyer should ask a series of questions such as “How often does your son misbehave?” “Do you punish him?” “How do you punish him?” Then the attorney can ask, “Have you ever spanked your son?”
Also consider what documents will be necessary to help make your case. For example, you may want to introduce financial documentation or medical records.
You must ask witnesses to identify any documents you want introduced into evidence. You must first elicit testimony that a document is what you claim it is before it can be admitted into evidence. If you want to enter medical records, for example, then you will need someone familiar with the doctor’s record-keeping (such as a record’s custodian) to testify as to how the records are kept., The purpose of cross-examination is to either discredit the witness or to minimize the testimony by showing that the witness is biased or lacking in sufficient knowledge to testify about the matter.


You can impeach a witness with a prior inconsistent statement. If a witness ever praised you as a parent, then that statement can be introduced if the witness now claims on the stand that you are a bad parent.
If someone testifies that you and your child fight, then you can minimize the damage by highlighting how infrequently the witness sees you with your child.
Always try to remain calm. If you feel anger overwhelming you, close your eyes for five seconds and breathe deeply.
 You or your lawyer will summarize your case, explicitly linking evidence to the best interest of the child factors provided in the Michigan statute.


Counter bad facts as best as you can. If you don’t have a clean criminal record, then concede that fact before highlighting the evidence that shows you have lived responsibly for the past several years.
 If you prevail, then you or your lawyer will have to prepare an order. Locate the appropriate blank form and complete it. Make two copies.


If you disagree with the ruling, you have 21 days to file a Notice of Appeal in the trial court. Cases are appealed to the Michigan Court of Appeals.