 On your computer, go to the download page of Memopal, and click the download link for the version you need for your computer.;
, Look for the setup file on your computer. The filename is “SetupMemopal.exe.” Double-click on it.
 In order for you to use Memopal, you need to have an account. Once the installation completes, you will be presented with an option to create an account. Fill up the required data and click on the “Next” button.


If you already have an account, click on the “Login” option and enter your email address and password. Click on the “Next” button to continue.
 A screen will ask “What to back up?” with two options: “My Documents” and “Custom.” Click on the “Custom” option to set your own folders to back up.


If all the files you wish to back up are inside your My Documents folder, click on this option instead and skip the next step.
 A small table will appear on the right side where you can list the folders you want to back up. Click on the “Add folder” button to start adding folders. Navigate through your computer’s folder directory and click on the folder you want to add.


Repeat this step to add more folders to the list for backup.
 Click on the “Next” button. The backup will start immediately. You will see the Backup Status on your Dashboard as it progresses. Once the progress meter reaches 100%, your backup is completed., This is located on the header of the application.
 If you want to change which folders are synced and backed up to your Memopal storage, you can do it from the Settings screen.


Adding folders—A small table will appear on the right side. It lists all the folders you’ve set in Part 2 to be backed up. Click on the “Add folder” button to add more folders to this list. This folder will be backed up to Memopal.
Removing folders—If you want to remove a folder from the list of folders being backed up, click on it from the small table, then click on the “Remove folder” button. The folder will not be synced and backed up anymore.
 Your changes are saved. The updated list of folders will now be used by Memopal for backing up this computer.