 Before you insert your contact lenses, it’s important to clean your hands to remove any dirt, hair, great, or bacteria that may have accumulated on them.If these contaminants are put into your eyes, they may cause serious irritation.


You should also put down a towel on your bathroom counter. This will help keep the area dry, and will give you a clean space to set out your contacts before you put them in your eyes.;
, You should always leave your colored contact lenses in their storage case overnight, and the case should be filled to the proper volume with contact-lens solution.


Make sure the contacts are still wet with the cleaning solution before you put them in your eyes. Dry lenses can crack, and will be harmful if applied directly to your eye.
 Both your lens and your finger should be wet with contact-lens solution at this point. Make sure that the lens is balancing in the central part of your finger, with the outside (the colored/printed side) pointed downward.The lens will be soft and malleable. If part of the lens’s circular edge folds down, gently push it back up with your other index finger.
To make sure the lens is right side out, pay careful attention to the edges. If the edges turn up like a bowl it is correct. It the top edges flare out then it is inside out.
 Your eyelids will need to be wide open for you to insert the contact lens. It’s most effective to use the thumb and index finger on your non-dominant hand to hold the lenses open, so that your dominant hand can place the lens over your eye.


For example, if you’re using your right hand to put the lens in your eye, hold the eyelids open with your left hand. Place your thumb on your lower lid and index finger on your upper lid, and gently pull your fingers apart.
 The lens should be centered in your eye at this point, and should have adhered itself to your eye due to its wet surface and concave shape. Blink your eye to adjust and center the lens.If you find it difficult to look straight ahead while placing the lens in your eye (if you flinch when your finger gets close to your eye, for example), try looking up or to the side. Make sure that the lens is centered after you blink.
 It’s common practice to put the lens in your right eye first, using your left hand to hold your eyelids apart. Once the first lens is in, use your right hand to put the second lens in your left eye.If you are left-handed, you may find it easier to put in the left lens first.

