 In order for your budding to be successful, you must cut a scion (small piece for grafting) from a healthy, disease-free cultivar (origin tree) as well as a suitable growing tree (rootstock). The rootstock in this case is an established tree that the scion can be spliced into. For T-budding, the bark of both trees must be "slipping." This means the bark is easily peeled off and the green layer underneath is moist, which usually occurs in the spring. Try irrigating them well to help them along.


T-Budding is typically used for fruit tree propagation.;
, For T-budding, you must cut into the branch 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) below the bud to 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) beyond the bud. Make the cut as deep as needed to include the soft, green layer beneath the bark but not any deeper. This green material must be exposed on your scion for a successful graft. If you must store your scion bud, wrap it in a damp paper towel, place it in a polyethylene bag, and store it in a refrigerator., Choose a space on a branch or sapling that is 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) to 1 inch (2.5 cm) in diameter. The space must be free of any buds, ideally far from any buds. Make a vertical slice in the bark about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long and deep enough to expose that green layer. Make a horizontal slice of the same depth that is about one third the distance around the rootstock. Twist the knife in the juncture of the slices to create flaps of the bark, making the green layer visible.
 Slip the scion containing the bud under the flaps you've just created on the rootstock, taking care not to introduce any dirt or germs. If part of the scion's bark sticks out above the T-cut, slice it off so that everything fits together snugly.
 Wrap a stretchy rubber material such as grafting rubber around the rootstock to hold the scion in place. Be careful not to jostle or cover the bud.
 In about a month, the rubber you wrapped around the rootstock may loosen and fall off. If it doesn't, gently remove it yourself so that the area will not be constricted.
 If the bud looks plump and healthy, it is probably alive. If it looks shriveled, then it has died and you'll have to start again.
 The next spring, once the bud has begun to sprout leaves, make a sloped cut 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) above the successful bud. Remove all other side shoots below the bud. This will promote growth of the grafted bud since it will be the only thing bing nourished by the rootstock.

