 It is much easier for children of all ages to learn impulse control when they know what is expected of them.This way they know what is acceptable and what isn’t and can work on controlling their inappropriate behavior.


Make sure your expectations are age appropriate. For example, asking a three year-old to sit still for a two hour talk is unrealistic.
Tell the children what your expectations are upfront. For instance, you might say, “I expect you to follow my directions and be respectful while we are here.”

, Part of developing impulse control is accepting that there are consequences for our behavior.You can teach younger and older children impulse control by giving immediate consequences for their impulsive behavior.


For example, it might be unreasonable to tell a toddler to clean up a spilled drink without any help as a consequence for pouring it on the floor. They’d probably try, but you’d most likely still need to clean up after them.
Your consequences should be age appropriate just like your expectations. For instance, time-out could be an appropriate consequence for a pre-schooler that is using toys inappropriately.
Explain the consequences of their behavior in advance so children can think through the cause-and-effect of their actions. For instance, tell them, “If you start yelling we will have to leave so we don’t disturb other people.”

, Just as children need clear expectations and consequences to learn impulse control, they also need positive support.No matter what age they are, acknowledging it when children are successful at controlling their impulses reinforces their good behavior and can make them want to act that way again.


Give them specific positive feedback. For example, “I’m proud of how you patiently waited for your turn. I know you really wanted to ride the pony.”
Praise them frequently and for large and small things. For instance, praise them for sharing their toys at the play date and for their good sportsmanship award.
 When you are teaching children impulse control you should make sure that you are consistently providing consequences and praise. This gives children of any age a sense of security because they know what is expected of them and what to expect in most circumstances. Consequences should be immediately implemented each time the inappropriate behavior occurs. Don’t discipline the children some times, but let it go at other times.

