 Coping with this condition can be very difficult. It is useful to gain a clear understanding of what is going on in your body. This will help you understand how to deal with the symptoms. Endometriosis commonly affects women in their 30s and 40s, and the causes are not yet known.Common symptoms include painful menstrual cramps, consistent pain in the low back, and pain or discomfort during and after sex.
Once you have been diagnosed, work with your doctor to come up with a treatment plan. Make sure to candidly discuss your lifestyle and whether or not you plan to become pregnant in the future.
 Dealing with a chronic illness is very difficult. Make sure that you surround yourself with friends and family who are kind and supportive. You will likely need someone to talk to during the toughest days, so let your best friend know that she is on speed dial.It can often be helpful to discuss your condition with others who suffer from endometriosis. Look for a local support group. Your doctor should be able to provide you with some suggestions.
 Your body and mind can benefit from frequent breaks. Regulating your stress levels can improve your overall physical and mental health. Everyone has different calming methods that work for them, so try several relaxation techniques to find one that is most effective. Focus on your breath. Deep, calming breaths can be very helpful in lowering your heart rate and helping you to feel calm.
You can also take a relaxing bath or listen to some feel good music.
 Your illness is private and you should not feel obligated to discuss it if doing so makes you feel uncomfortable. However, endometriosis symptoms may interfere with your daily life, so it is a good idea to let your closest friends and family know what you are dealing with. Remember, you also need their support, so you will want to consider sharing your diagnosis with those you trust.You may want to let your boss know that you have a medical condition that might require you to miss work occasionally. Explain your illness in a professional manner, and ask that she keep the information confidential.
Ask your doctor for information that you can share with your friends family. She may be able to provide you with pamphlets.

