 It may be difficult to remain calm when a parent tells you they don't like your partner, but it's important not to lose your temper. Getting angry will only make things worse for everyone.Take a deep breath and consider your words before you speak. This will help you remain calm and will prevent you from saying something you don't actually mean (and may regret later).
 If your parents disapprove of your partner, you and your parents probably both have a lot to say to one another. It's important that you listen openly to one another, and try to address the specific concerns your parents have with honest and respectful answers.Try to be an active listener. Don't just plan what you're going to say. If your parents are trying to tell you something about your partner, try to listen actively and acknowledge what they are saying.Let your parents speak their minds, and don't interrupt them. When it's your turn to talk, ask them to be respectful and allow you to speak without being interrupted.Respond to your parents' concerns with calm, clear, and respectful responses. Ask them to respond to you in the same way., If your parents don't like your partner, perhaps they don't know him or her as well as you do. Ask your parents if you can invite your partner to dinner, and let them get to know one another.Ask your partner to be on his/her best behavior, and encourage your partner to be as polite as possible to your parents. Encourage your parents to be polite to your partner as well.Facilitate a conversation that lets your parents see what you find interesting and likable about your partner. Ask your partner to tell your parents about things he is interested in, and see if they can find some common ground., If you go behind your parents' backs, they will eventually find out. Keeping big secrets, like hiding a relationship that your parents don't approve of, will only strain your relationship with your parents.Keeping your relationship a secret creates a time bomb between you and your parents.
Keeping your relationship a secret is also unfair to your partner. Your secrecy might imply to your partner that you are ashamed of your relationship., If your parents still don't approve of your partner, it's important that you avoid taking sides. If you side with your parents, you will hurt your partner's feelings. But if you side with your partner, your parents may get upset or angry. The best way to deal with this situation is to try and reach some kind of responsible compromise that will let everyone be happy.Ask your parents what their specific concerns are. Then try to work out some way that would allow you to be with your partner while proving to your parents that they can trust you.

