 Excess salt can make you retain water, which exacerbates edema. Cut as much sodium from your diet as you can to help reduce any edema you are experiencing.The daily sodium recommendation for pregnant women is 3,000 milligrams, which you may want to reduce to help minimize edema-related swelling.Avoid sodium rich-foods.Processed and prepared foods, for example, contain high amounts of sodium.
Another way to get rid of excess sodium in your body is eating potassium-rich foods such as bananas, apricots, oranges, sweet potatoes, and beets., It seems counterintuitive, but staying hydrated is one of the best ways to flush out excess fluid. Drinking plenty of water throughout the day will help you stay hydrated, support your pregnancy, and can help minimize edema.Water is your best option to help flush out excess fluids.Aim to drink about 10 cups (2.3 liters) per day or more if you are active or feel you need it.Avoid sugary drinks, especially soda and processed fruit juices.
 Having regular bowel movements will also help flush excess sodium and water from your system. Removing these elements and other waste will contribute can help control your edema.


You need fiber to stay regular to help flush out salt and water. Aim for 20 – 35 mg of fiber a day from soluble and insoluble sources.Soluble fiber is in food such as oats, legumes, apples, pears, and flax. You can get insoluble fiber from foods like whole wheat and brown rice, broccoli, zucchini, carrots, and kale.Regular exercise will also help keep you regular because it puts force on your intestines to move., Doing cardiovascular exercise can help get your circulation moving and flush out excess fluids. Aim to get some form of physical activity every day to help minimize edema. Discuss your with your doctor before you start to ensure it’s safe for you.Try and get at least 30 minutes of exercise per day. If you were more active before your pregnancy, you can continue at the same pace as long as your doctor approves of it.You can do any type of cardio training to help reduce edema and support your health. Beyond walking, consider running, swimming, rowing, or biking., If using lifestyle and home treatments don’t reduce your edema, speak with your doctor. She may want to check for underlying conditions such as preeclampsia or may prescribe medication to help flush out excess fluids.If you notice a sudden increase in swelling or edema that seems unusual, call you doctor immediately. Swelling can be a sign of high blood pressure or preeclampsia, which are serious conditions that require prompt treatment.Other things to look for include headache that doesn't improve with rest or acetaminophen, seeing spots, new onset nausea and vomiting, severe pain in the upper right side of your abdomen. If you experience any of these things, contact your doctor.

