 Though many of us turn to the Internet for nearly all of our research, real world recommendations can be just as rewarding. We all have at least one or two people in our lives who have similar music tastes to us and so you should always look to these people as a resource.


If you know any music experts, be sure to seek their guidance. If they are knowledgeable about the area of music you are interested in, tell them who your favorites are and write down any suggestions they have. They will likely be able to steer you in the right direction based on your current tastes.
Ask your friends what they listen to. In all likelihood, your friends will have similar taste in music to yours, and the recommendations they give will be helpful.
 If you are serious about rock n roll or jazz, you may want to take your music appreciation to the next level by taking a class. You can enroll in online classes or community college classes. This may be a good option if there is one genre you are a die-hard fan of as you are sure to not only find new music, but come away from the experience with a deepened knowledge of and appreciation for that particular style of music.
 Libraries are still an incredibly useful resource for finding new music, especially if your access to the Internet is limited. Public libraries tend to have CDs and sometimes other music formats as well.


Libraries can also be a resource if you are interested in doing more in depth research about music. You could ask as a librarian for books about the musical styles you like and read up on the history and influences of your favorite artists.
 Exploring other art forms, such as reading books and watching documentaries about the artists and music genres you like can be a great way to learn more about the music influences and related or significant artists.


When doing this, it is helpful to keep a notebook handy to jot down notes and look up the artists to listen to their songs later.
 Many stations just play the most current songs or the Top 40, but there are also stations which play older songs in a variety of genres.


Use a search engine to find stations in your area and their genre(s) of choice, or just dial around. Many stations keep records of what they played on their websites, and some even allow you to text or call in with questions about the artists they have played.

