 Mealtime can be a significant period each day that allows for enriching conversation and family bonding. In addition, it can be a relatively short time commitment in your own home that does not detract significantly from other obligations.Focus on making dinner time with your family enjoyable. Tell jokes, have light conversation, and pay compliments to one another.
Set a goal to have positive and productive conversations around the table. Perhaps every member of the family can share one good part of their day, or can ask family members for constructive feedback or support if something went wrong that day.
Turn off all technological devices during dinner, including the television, phone, computers, and tablets. Make sure the attention is only focused on each other and the meal at hand.
Have special family dinner nights. Once a week, cook a meal together, or have a “themed” night, such as homemade pizza night, or a taco bar. Include the family on planning and executing these meals so that each member feels ownership over this quality time spent together.
 Set aside one night per week that is spent with your family, and no one else. Have one person plan the activity each week, and alternate who picks the activity from week to week. Be proactive in blocking off this night and telling friends and colleagues that you are unable to participate in other activities during this particular evening.
 If you and your significant other work within a few miles of one another, make plans to have lunch together once a week. It's all about finding creative ways to spend time together. If you make a schedule of how you use your time, you will probably realize you have pockets of time throughout the day that are ineffectively utilized, such as lunch hours. If you are finding yourself never seeing your family, use these stretches of time to fit in family activities!, Many places throughout the city have discounted or even free tickets on weekdays since most people do not frequent site-seeing locales throughout the week. If you find out that a museum has free admission on a Thursday, or a botanical garden has discounted tickets on a Monday, see if you can arrange an outing with one or more members of your family that have flexible work hours or a day off!

, Bonding with your family and becoming more family-oriented is not about planning out every interaction. It is about simply living and honoring every bit of time you have with your children or partner. Our bonding and connecting experiences with our immediate families are not just about the trips we go on or the outings we plan. Some of the warmest, most charming and emotionally enriching experiences occur in ordinary, everyday life.

How do we become more mindful of these ‘in-between’ moments? It’s about listening to your partner and children to honor and give thanks for the things they share with you. Do your best to avoid giving commands or criticism during simple daily conversations. Show non-verbal signs of affection such as smiling, a pat on the back, a kiss on the cheek or a hug.
 You don't have to wait for a special holiday or birthday to bond with your family. Together you can create little, simple, and fun traditions. This could be going out on the weekends for breakfast, or making an extra special Sunday dinner. It could be a day of shopping each month, or a movie night at a favorite theater. If the weather is warm, purchase some flowers and plants, and have a family gardening party. It doesn’t matter what tradition you and your family invent, just make it special by incorporating something that everyone will get some enjoyment out of., Grocery shopping, cleaning the house, and yard work are all opportunities to get the family together! If one of your kids loves cooking, ask them to help you in the kitchen. If your spouse is just watching television, ask them if they’d like to come with you to run a few errands. These seemingly boring tasks are sneaky avenues of bonding with your family members.