 While you don't want to be lethargic every day, being cool is not about being hyper. Remember though, this doesn't mean you can't talk or chat. In fact, it's helpful to involve yourself in many conversations. Find a few relaxing things to do, for example taking a warm bath or listening to music.
 Have your own interests and opinions, and don't be afraid to voice them. Be passionate about what you believe!

, Being happy is beneficial for a number of reasons. Most applicable here, though, is that being happy lets other people know that you'd make a good friend. Beyond that, it'll make you feel better, too! Although, everyone has tough times so don't worry if you are occasionally upset.
 You'll never get anywhere as someone who always has their arms crossed and is frowning. Open up and smile at people! If you're in a room where you don't know anyone, introduce yourself. Cool people are the ones who talk a lot.
 Enter talent contests and competitions, but don't get excessively competitive or be a bad sport. Sports especially are very cool. If you play a sport, or are interested in playing a sport, try out for your team at school. Sports are a great way to make new friends, exercise, and get noticed. If you aren't really the athletic type, though, find a club you like. If you like to paint, join the art club. If you're into acting, try out for a play. If you like to sing, join the choir, and so on.
 Don't spend the whole time talking to just one person. Have fun and run around to different people to make conversation. Make the conversation light and friendly, but not too intense. Some possible topics are movies, school assignments, current events, books - anything that you think the other will like to talk about. Keep your excitement controlled, though. Also, be sure that you have variety in who you talk to. You don't want to accidentally start stalking people!

, Don't let it get too messy. You don't have to keep it sparkling clean, though. For example, some posters, a desk, wall paint/paper that reflects your style, etc.
 Do you have many of them? Having friends shows that you are kind and capable of creating and holding bonds with other people. Try to have an overlap of friends from different schools or camps.
 Don't use your computer too much! Myspace and Facebook are social networking websites, but it's much better if you can actually talk face to face with somebody instead of messaging/emailing them. Instead of stalking your crush online, spend time with your real friends/crush outside of your computer screen.
 Create a facebook profile, but get your parent(s) approval first. Make sure to use proper spelling and grammar. Remember, proper grammar and typing shows that you are well-read and have class. Never give away personal details online.
 Everyone loves music, and you can too. Listen to music that you like. Don't worry about listening to a certain genre of music simply because everyone else is listening to it. The kind of music that you like shows your personality and uniqueness - it's okay to stand out!


If you want to find out which songs are "in" right now, go to either MTV or iTunes (if you have an account) and look for the top 10 list.
 If you have time, consider watching one or two TV shows. Here are some of the popular shows for teens:


One Tree Hill
Make it or Break It
Gossip Girl
Dance Moms
Pretty Little Liars
American Horror Story
The Vampire Diaries
The Next Step
True Blood
Hit The Floor

, Going to the gym improves your body shape. That being said, if you are naturally big-boned or slender, don't worry too much. Get comfortable with your weight and outer appearance. It boosts your confidence. Get involved in a sport that you enjoy, all sports are healthy, so don't just go to the gym.
 Have you ever disliked how that popular, prissy, fashion-freak girl in your class treats you? Have you ever envied her? You may have envied her before, but if you were that girl, treating other people like that, people wouldn't like you. So don't envy her, and don't try to be like her. Just be yourself, because if you're an outgoing, kind, down-to-earth kind of girl, everyone is bound to like you!

, This doesn't mean you have to be friends with everyone, just be nice and it will help your reputation!

, If the chain of gossip that "So-and-so likes So-and-so" comes around to you, stop it right there. Don't tell anyone else, because then you'd just be continuing the chain, even if you know it's true. It would just be plain mean if you helped other people spread a rumor that may be true but that person doesn't want anyone to know, or even worse, that's just a plain, flat-out lie.
 If you tell one of your other close friends, tell her not to tell, and then she tells one of her other close friends, and then the chain goes on, pretty soon almost everyone will know, and your friend will not be happy about that. Keep all secrets between you and your friend, unless you feel that the person is in danger. In that case, tell a trusted adult, not other peers.
 Remember, you never want to go to school smelling bad, with greasy hair, dirt in your nails, or things stuck in your teeth. Shower daily. If you have a problem with dirt stuck in your nails, then paint them or work hard to clean them. Brush and floss your teeth to avoid stains. If you have acne, try using an acne face wash, such as Proactive, Clean & Clear, Neutrogena, etc. Also remember deodorant! Secret and Degree are good brands to try.;
, Feel comfortable in your clothes. Make sure that the colors don't clash. Know what's "in." Some cool places to shop are Abercrombie & Fitch, Hollister, Aéropostale, American Eagle, H&M, Forever 21, and even the juniors department at Target. The following are all good items of clothing to own:


Skinny jeans/jeggings are comfortable and fun to wear to school.
If you have pierced ears, wear big earrings. Pearl and hoops are both good options.
Hoodies are a cute way to keep warm on a chilly day. Sweaters (especially those with ruffles) are also acceptable.
Big belts are definitely a necessity, especially if you have low-rise jeans.
Invest in some floral skirts for summery days. Hollister has some cute ones!
Scarves are another way to add spice to your wardrobe, especially in the winter.
Wear long necklaces. Aeropostale and American Eagle have very pretty jewelry.
Try short blue jean skirts. These are stylish and will match with anything. American Eagle has some cute ones.
Graphic tees are great to throw on when you don't feel like putting too much effort into your wardrobe. All of the stores above have very cute graphic tees.
 Here are some popular/cool shoe brands:

,, Better stuff are offered by Nike, Hollister, American Eagle, Forever 21, Reebok etc.
 Try to contrast them with bright colors like baby pink, white, yellow, light blue, green if it's summer.


Shorts with stripped leggings look good during winters.You can try contrasting them with dark colors like dark red,purple,dark blue,aubergines,forest green,black etc.
,


Uggs are warm and very cute in the winter.
Rainbows are very stylish in the summer and will great with just about everything. They are also made very well and will last a long time without wearing out.
Converse are very cool and you can wear them anytime of the year. Consider buying a white pair and letting your friends draw on your shoes, or trade colorful shoe strings.
Try Wallabees by Clarks.
Sperry's are great spring and fall shoes.
Any kind of cute flat shoes are also popular to wear with skirts or dresses.
 Layered hair is in right now, but layers don't necessarily look great on everyone. Side bangs are a cute alternative. Highlights are hip, but only if done well. The ones that stand out always look fake and cheap. Different styles of hair look good on different people. Mix it up — don't wear your hair the same every day to school. Here are some ideas for hairstyles:


Wearing it down and straight. That is very stylish. If your hair is wavy or curly, you can achieve this look by straightening your hair in the morning. Just be aware that straightening your hair too often can damage its natural beauty overtime.
Wearing it down and curly. If your hair is really straight, you can achieve this look by curling your hair in the morning.
Wearing a high ponytail. Ribbons and bows look great in a ponytail. Try a bow or some ribbon that contrasts your outfit.
Wearing it in a side, low ponytail. These look great if they're a little messy.
Wearing it in a bun. Wearing your hair in a bun is a great option if you're having a bad hair day.
] Another trick for a bad hair day is by putting a cute beanie on top of neatly brushed hair.
 This is optional, but perfume (when used in moderation) can be very cool. Juicy Couture has some cool, good-smelling perfume.
 Makeup is very cool if you use it the right way. A little bit of mascara, eyeshadow, and lip gloss is all you need. Great Lash is a great mascara brand. Try Bobbi Brown brand for eyeshadow, but really any eye shadow works. Try BabyLips by Maybelline for your lips - it has pretty colors, has SPF, and all the while it's moisturizes, too. If you need foundation, Cover Girl is a good brand. And of course, don't be afraid to get nice, pretty eyeshadows from Claire's, Barry M or Rimmel.
 They're just ideas! Make sure that whatever you wear fits your style. Be you!

