 The first step to litter training is watching your guinea pig. Most guinea pigs have a certain area of their cage where they eliminate. If you set up a guinea pig's litter box in this space, it's more likely to use the box.Watch your guinea pig for a few days. Take note of where it tends to eliminate.
You can also pay attention when you're cleaning the cage. You may notice a lot of droppings and urine in one area of the cage.;
, You can buy a litter box online or make one yourself. Make sure the litter box is easy for your guinea pig to get in and out of. Place it in the corner of the cage where your guinea pig usually eliminates.Make sure the box you choose is large enough that the guinea pig can fit its entire body in the box.
Make sure the sides are low enough. The guinea pig should be able to climb in and out of the box with ease.
 Go for organic paper-based litters. Wood litters can sometimes cause respiratory problems. You can find guinea pig litter online or purchase some at a local pet store.If you can't find a litter box that works for you, you can always place litter in the corner of the box.
 Some guinea pigs have more than one corner where they eliminate. If this is the case, they are less likely to start using a single litter box. If your guinea pig eliminates in more than one corner, set up a box in each corner the guinea pig tends to use., For the most part, litter training is fairly hands off. Some guinea pigs will take to the litter box and others will not. When starting out, try to see if the guinea pig approaches the litter box on its own.Many guinea pigs will realize they're supposed to eliminate in the box. With luck, your guinea pig will take to its litter box right away.
 If your guinea pig is unsure of the box, place a small amount of hay in the box. The guinea pig may be enticed to enter the box by the hay. If it smells any lingering feces or urine, it may then realize its supposed to eliminate in the box.Some people advocate leaving food in the box. The guinea pig will eat and then eliminate. This method is only likely to work if you've seen your guinea pig defecate or urinate near its litter box before. Many guinea pigs will not eliminate near a food source to avoid contamination., If your guinea pig starts using its box, change the litter regularly. Try to change it about every three days. A guinea pig will not eliminate in a dirty litter box.Only wash the box every other week. You want some of the scent to remain intact so the guinea pig knows to use its litter box.
 Clumping cat litter can be dangerous for guinea pigs. Guinea pigs may eat clumping cat litter, and can choke on it. Clumping cat litter also contains chemicals meant to reduce scent, which can be toxic to a guinea pig.It may be a good idea to ask your vet about safe litters before choosing a litter for your guinea pig.
 Never scold a guinea pig for failing to use its litter box. Your guinea pig is unlikely to understand why it is being scolded. Scolding will not encourage your guinea pig to use its litter box. It will only create stress.You should also avoid other forms of punishment, especially physical punishment. You should never hit your pet.
 Not all guinea pigs take to a litter box. As guinea pigs are less domesticated than other household pets, they're difficult to train. Despite your best efforts, a guinea pig may never learn to use its litter box. Do not try to force a guinea pig to use a litter box if it seems unwilling.If your guinea pig does not tend to eliminate in a single corner, it is less likely to use its litter box.

