 French women like to shampoo and then air dry their hair and then wait a day. They think their hair looks better on day two, and they’re not fans of blowouts.


If they do choose to dye their hair, they will likely keep it very close to the original color or to hide any gray.The look is natural and a little tousled. They get their hair cut frequently, and prefer short crops or hair that just hits the shoulder. They also don’t wash their hair every day. You will sometimes see French women pull their hair into a messy bun.
Parisians think healthy hair and a good haircut are key and don’t load their hair with styling products or use a lot of heat on it. Keep the accessories out of your hair. No bows, headbands or clips! They also don’t leave the house with wet hair.
Parisian women don’t worry that their hair is not immaculately kept in place. One natural hair mask they use is to mix together rum, honey, two egg yolks and lemon juice. Apply it to the hair for 30 minutes, and then rinse with cold water. French women rarely use hair dryers. Instead, they air dry their air and towel dry it as much as they can.
 French women aren’t big into eyeliner. They’re more into using the lips as the dominant feature when it comes to makeup.Classic red lipstick is used as a fashion accessory.


French women don’t think they need a lot of other makeup if they’re wearing red lipstick. It makes the only statement they need!Don’t wear lip liner though. Keep your teeth white and clean by brushing them with baking soda once a week. White teeth with red lipstick is a better combination than coffee or cigarette-stained teeth would be.
Play up your lips or eyes, but never both at the same time. If you play up both, the makeup will seem too obvious.
 To Parisians, great skin is a fashion statement, and they take care of their skin from an early age. Skin care is more important than makeup to Parisians. Skin should look natural.


It’s about accenting what you have naturally. Don’t contour your face. Dark shading ruins natural beauty and glow. French women might add highlights to the face, but they aren’t fans of contouring.
Protect your skin. Parisians take great pride in trying to have healthy skin. They understand how dangerous the sun can be and don’t go out without a hat or sunscreen.Use a mask on your skin once or twice a week, such as an acacia honey mask. Apply it, and then rinse off with cold water.
French women don’t wear a lot of foundation. They wear a lot of moisturizer and do use concealer to hide imperfections.
 It’s considered very French to wear a smoky eye. Parisians will go for a messy looking smoky eye that has a cream-based texture to it.


Avoid glittery eye shadows, perfect lashes or too much makeup. French women are likely to use a single product. They will dab on a little blush and a little concealer and maybe some mascara.
To create a smoky eye, apply kohl or gray eye shadow under the lower lash line and on the top lash line, and smudge it a little bit.
French women also groom their eyelashes with brown pencil. They might add on a little lip balm. They aren’t fans of powder eye shadows.

