 The only USB-to-USB cable that should be used to connect two PCs is a called a “bridging cable,” sometimes also referred to as a “USB data transfer cable,” “USB networking cable,” or “USB link cable.” The correct cable has an electronic circuit at the center (you’ll see the bulge) and male USB connectors at both ends.;
, The cable likely came with a CD or DVD containing software. Insert the disc and run the installer when it appears on the screen. If it doesn’t launch automatically, press ⊞ Win+E to launch the File Explorer, then navigate to your CD/DVD ROM drive on the left side of the screen. Double-click on the file called “setup” or “installer.”


If the cable didn’t come with software, go to the manufacturer’s website and look for a section called “Software” or “Drivers.” Download the software made specifically for your cable. Do this on both computers.
If you are given the opportunity to select a “mode,” select “link” mode (may be called “bridge” or “transfer” mode).
 Try not to stretch the cable out too much. If the cable must be pulled taut to connect the computers, move the computers closer to one another to avoid breaking the cable.
 No matter how the software was installed, there should be an entry for it in the Start menu. Click “Start,” go to “All Programs” or “All Apps,” and select the software from the menu. From this point, you won’t need to keep switching back and forth between computers to transfer files—everything can be done from one computer.
 Notice that the software looks like a file manager with two windows (called “local” and “remote”)—one for each computer. The Local window displays files on the computer you’re currently using, and Remote shows the files on the other computer.
 If you’d like to copy something from the remote computer to the one you’re using, drag the desired file from the Remote window the desired destination in the Local window. You’ll also be able to drag files from the local computer to the remote computer the same way.

