 This is also known as the "consonant system" or "phonetic system." You build associations between each individual number and a sound. Since words are easier to remember than numbers, you construct a word from each group of numbers and then memorize the word(s).The associations you choose to make are up to you. There is no right or wrong answer as long as you continue to make the same associations as you continue to use this technique.;
, Each number is assigned a consonant based on some kind of recognizable relationship between the two:0 - z, s, soft c - "z" is the first letter of zero. The others have a similar sound
1 - d, t - t has one downstroke d has as similar sound (some variants include th)
2 - n - n has two downstrokes.
3 - m - three downstrokes, also "3" looks like "m" on its side
4 - r - last letter of four
5 - l - L is the Roman numeral for 50
6 - j, sh, ch, soft g - a script j has a lower loop / g is almost a 6 rolled around
7 - k, hard c, hard g, q, qu - capital K contains two sevens
8 - f, v - script f looks like a figure-8 (some variants include th)
9 - b, p - P is a mirror-image 9, b sounds similar

, The system goes by sound rather than spelling, and the unused sounds (vowels and the consonants "w," "h," and "y") can be put into a word anywhere without changing the value.
 After a few minutes of this, you will know the system."ledge" = 56 (sound rather than spelling)
"Editing Memorize Numbers (section)" = 1123340239400762

, Add vowels between the consonants to make meaningful words. Use your imagination and try to make them funny and outrageous (which will make them easier to remember). After a short while this becomes automatic, and you will be surprised how easy it is to form memorable words out of seemingly random numbers.31415926 (the first 8 digits of pi) = "my turtle, Pancho"
7713370 (a made up phone number) = "cooked mom eggs"
Break that into chunks. Try the following game:-
Two phone number are given. Say which is easier to remember. After that, remember the following number.
It may be hard for you to remember.
 If the number is very large, break it up into a series of words, and then memorize the list of words using any of the following techniques:How to Memorize Lists Using the Pure Link System
How to Remember Lists of Words With the Roman Room Trick
How to Build a Memory Palace

