 Once you’ve got the VIN number, you should log on to the internet and visit the manufacturer’s website. The carmaker’s website will contain resources that will help you decode the VIN and understand what each number means.


Find the VIN decoder or search section of the website. Almost all manufacturers have a VIN decoder or similar tool on their website.
Search through the tabs or search bar for "VIN decoder" or "VIN search."
Click on the page or .pdf file that gives you information about decoding the VIN. For example, visit estore.honda.com/honda/parts/use-your-vehicle-vin.asp., The world manufacturer identifiers are the first 3 letters or numbers at the beginning of the VIN. This will give you information about the type of vehicle and where it was produced.


The first number/letter tells the region the car was manufactured in, for example, “North America.”
The second number tells the country.
The third number tells the type of vehicle, for example “light truck.”
Many different vehicles will share their first 3 numbers/letters., The second sequence, numbers and letters 4 through 8, tell you more information about manufacturer options. By decoding these numbers, you’ll learn about the features the vehicle was manufactured with. These numbers will tell you info about the:


Engine
Model
Body style., This is the digit used to verify that it is not a fraudulent VIN. It cannot be used to find information about the car.


If you suspect the vehicle has a fake VIN number, contact the manufacturer.
To decode this number, you may have to bring your car into a dealership., The tenth digit will tell you the model year of the vehicle. This is important to knowing the options on the vehicle, as different model years are equipped with different option group packages.


This does not indicate what year the car was built. For example, if the car was a 2010 Chevrolet Equinox, it might have been constructed in late 2009
This information should also be available in the vehicle’s manual or on other paperwork associated with the car., Along with the second sequence of numbers, these last digits are perhaps the most important for finding the options of the vehicle. They will give you all the car specific information you’re looking for.


You’ll only be able to decode this information on the car manufacturer’s website.
These numbers should give you information like that listed on the original sticker of the car.
The numbers will also tell you what specific plant the vehicle was built as well as production specific information., While manufacturers use different codes to represent different options, the information encoded in the last 7 digits of your VIN number will provide specifics about a number of options. These numbers will give you info about common options like:


Trim color
Power seats and windows
Entertainment system
Seat covering material
Sunroof
Equipment packages like off road or towing