 Even if a distraction doesn’t seem like it’s occupying your time, the cumulative effects could be affecting your productivity. Instead of answering an unimportant text message, or catching 15 minutes of your favorite show, turn off all distractions until you are done with everything that’s on your list. If you like playing video or computer games, save it for after your homework. You want to keep your mind sharp so you can get good grades and still get it done as fast as possible.
Social texting is pretty normal, but every time you break your concentration and do something else you’re making the time you have to spend on homework longer. Text the person back and let tell them that you’ll get back to them when you’re done.
 You might be tempted to wait to do your chores, but you shouldn’t. Some chores, like cleaning your room or washing the dishes build up over time and will take you a longer time if you wait. Doing your homework as soon as you get home will make it so you don’t get distracted before finishing it.


The more you procrastinate the more that you’ll be stressed about not having enough time to finish all of your chores and your homework. Do it early so you can sit back, relax, and have a good time with your friends.
 Some things are more important, and some chores take longer to do than others. It’s important to get the most important chores out of way first.


Even though chores are important, education comes first. Do your homework before you do your chores when you get home.
 Peer pressure can sometimes pull you away from actually getting homework accomplished. Getting good grades is crucial to a successful future, so you should learn to say no if someone is trying to pull you away from doing homework.


Don’t be rude. Explain to the person that you need to get your homework done or else it will affect your grades. You aren’t trying to be mean, you just want to stay on task.
If you’re not used to telling people “no,” the only way to get used to it is to practice. Your friends will understand.
 Sometimes our parents can assign us chores without thinking of our school workload, but education should always come first. Try talking to your parents about the amount of chores that you have, and explain to them how they are interfering with your school work and social life.


Offer something in return for less chores, like better grades or A’s on your report card.
If you have siblings try to trade chores with them.
Don’t get mad at your parents if you realize that you have too many chores to get everything done. Simply explain to them first and then negotiate the alternatives.

