 This size is usually easy to find, as it's the one used in most printers.;
, This means that the short ends will be folded in half, while the long ends will stay the same length.


Make sure that the opposite corners match up to each other perfectly, so that each side is exactly the same.
 Lay the paper down so that one of the short sides is closest to you and so that the raised part of the center crease points up., Crease these folds.Once folded, these two corners should meet each other at the center crease but not cross it. Keep these corners folded in.
The point made at the top of your paper by these corners being folded down will eventually form the front of your dart paper airplane.
 This time you will fold both of these edges down and in to line up with the center crease.


These folds basically make your top point skinnier (and stronger) and the outer edges longer (from about 5 inches long to about 10 inches long).
Remember to keep the edges lined up with the center crease but don't go over it. You are going to refold the paper airplane along this fold again, so you need to have symmetrical folds on both sides for proper balance.
 If you refold the center line and both of your sides are totally smooth, you have folded it the wrong way. Open the paper airplane back up and make the center fold in the opposite direction, so the previous folds are not concealed inside.
 It should be shaped like a really pointy triangle right now, with one edge the original length of the paper and one edge half the original width of the paper. The other edge should be the longest of the three and should be opposite the right angle of the triangle.


Have either of the sides facing up. It doesn't matter which one because you will do the same steps to both sides.
 In essence, you are just folding one wing of the paper airplane in half.


Repeat this same process on the other side as well.
 The center crease you have had all along will now be at the bottom of your paper airplane.


Your finished airplane should be about 12 inches long and 4 inches wide at the widest point of the wings.
 You now have a dart paper airplane.


If your airplane has problems flying, experiment with changing its weight distribution. Attach a small paper clip to the bottom crease, pointing up toward the wings. Try positioning it in different locations up and down the center crease to determine where the weight helps the most.

