 Double that amount. We bought 18m of tubes based on our tripod and track needs. This is how we measured. If you’re using the same length as we did, you can skip this part. Example: I need a dolly of 6m:I need 12m of tube);
, For transport, you’d probably want them to be 1m or 1m50. How many individual tubes will you have? Multiply this number by 30 centimeter (11.8 in) and add to the first number. These will be the joints locking the tubes together. Example: 12m of tube divided by 1m50 pieces, is 8. 8 x 30 cm= 2m40

, Round up and add. Example: a = 75 centimeter (29.5 in), rounded up to 80 centimeter (31.5 in); b = 66 centimeter (26.0 in), rounded up to 70 centimeter (27.6 in); Total: 1m50.
 Example: 12m + 2m40 + 1m50 = 15m90 + a bit of extra: 18m

, Ours had one thick and one smaller ending, so we had to adapt ourselves. If your tubes have both endings the same, some steps will be much easier for you. Some hardware stores might sell tubes with two small ends, but our stores in Venezuela only sold these. Same applies to your T-sections: ours had to connect on two sides to the small end and on one end to the big tube end, which made a difference in the sawing and measuring.
 Cut the other larger tubes in the lengths you want for your track part. Example: 4 tubes of 3m, cut in pieces of 1m50 = 8 track parts

, Take one and saw off a piece with a big end, equal to the top of the T of your dolly. Take the other tube, and saw off a piece of about 30 centimeter (11.8 in) with a big end. This will be the lower part of your dolly cart. You should have two tubes, each with a big end and a small end. Now, saw those two in half, mark them as dolly cart parts and put them aside.
 Saw off the centerpiece of the cart with two small endings. Mark it and put it aside with the other dolly parts. Example: Our tripod measured, rounded up, 70 centimeter (27.6 in) in between. That’s the length of the centerpiece.
 Mark and put aside with the other tracks parts.
 Cut them in pieces. Put these aside for the joints (amount of track parts minus 2). The rest will be used for testing. Mark and put aside. Example: 8 track parts, require 6 joints of about 20 centimeter (7.9 in). We should have 60 centimeter (23.6 in) of tubing left for tests.
 Mark and put aside.
 This is where the tripod will actually stand on. Saw the pieces, mark them and put them aside.
 Choose a drill head corresponding to the size of the screw. Take a track tube from the pile.
, It’ll be easier to handle.
 Leave some space, so the screws won’t touch each other in the tubes.
, Take the pieces of your dolly that require wheels and place them next to the test tube. Draw the first line over the complete length of your dolly cart tube. Keep the lines aligned, and draw the second line. Do this for all the 4 dolly cart tubes.
 opening. Drill on this mark and add the wheels.
 Put your dolly cart together. Align the wheel lines you made earlier with each other, over the T-sections.
, Give the whole some time to dry to make sure they’re fixed.
 Mark the middle of the joint, and put one line of glue on the opposite side of the opening, from the rim to the center you just marked. Place this half inside the tube. Repeat this for the other track parts until you’re out of joints. You might have two tubes without joints, which is fine. Put the tracks aside.
 Put it aside. Example: We taped two pieces of 80 centimeter (31.5 in) to each other in a T-shape.
 Line it with foam or some other soft material to serve as shock absorber. Example: We used a yoga mat.
, Your dolly is ready, and you can now think of a cool way of painting your dolly. We chose not to paint, so none would attempt at stealing our equipment.
 Example: We decided on 6 rails, because that was the amount of useful wood we received for free. Rails will give the dolly track more stability and keep the tracks more evenly aligned. Think about building these when filming on uneven streets or in nature.
 These will keep the dolly track tubes in place on the plywood.
 Put the pieces of plywood and 2x4 under the track, where you want them to be. The tubes should be tightly nestled in between the 2x4 bits, but you should still be able to take the tracks easily.
 Drive your dolly cart of the tracks and check if the wheels aren’t touching the wood. Adjust until they fit.
 Your rails are ready.

