 Failure of brakes, steering linkages, or Power Take-Off (PTO) connections can cause injury or death in seconds. If you are not able to maintain your own equipment, have it inspected periodically by a mechanic. It might save a life, but at the very least, it will likely prevent costly breakdowns.
 Make sure all individuals operating a machine know how to engage and disengage moving parts, and that they keep all guards and safety features in place both during and after use., Do not operate dangerous farm machinery when you are taking medications that may impair you, such as allergy or cold medicine, or prescription pain relievers. These often have a warning label, and the warning is there for a reason., Do not let individuals ride on fenders, drawbars, or other attachments not meant for riding on. A sudden fall could result in someone being run over, or a person falling into a cutting attachment, a running PTO shaft, or any other moving mechanical part., Nothing's worse than you standing where someone who is operating a machine in close proximity to you does not know where you are. Make sure that the operator makes eye contact with you to verify that he or she has indeed noticed you. If this is not possible, move into an area where the operator will see you, either by mirrors or by moving out of their blind-spot. If it's not possible, stay away until it's safe to go near., Always walk around the machine to get to the other side. If you have to work in the area where the PTO shaft is, turn off everything first or ensure that the tractor is out of gear (where the unit where the PTO hooks up is not spinning), before working in that particular area.,, Also, be aware of what's around you before you turn the machine on or start moving or even operation. See the "Special Children Rules" below for safety rules for children around machinery.,, You will easily get caught up and even sucked up into the machine before you even knew what happened. Survivability of such accidents is extremely rare. Most people who survive from such an event often die of traumatic shock shortly after.

Always keep shovels, pant legs, sleeves, collars, loose hair, etc., away from a running auger or PTO shaft or any other moving machinery part.
Wear proper clothing when working around and with machinery and working with animals. You should never operate machinery or work with farm animals in high-heels or loafers. Safety boots, tight or regular-fit work-type blue jeans, a shirt and a jacket, as well as gloves and a hat, are the best for working on the farm. Overalls or coveralls are also ideal.
 A loader bucket can suddenly come crashing down on you if such a thing occurs. This will most likely happen if one of the hydraulic rams (or hoses) are worn to the point where they may fail soon, or a hydraulic hose is improperly connected., Never ever let a child climb up in a tractor by him- or herself and expect the child to know that anything he or she pushes or pulls won't cause the tractor to move or start to operate. If necessary, remove the keys from the ignition when the machine is not in operation. You may even want to consider locking the doors as well if it's imperative., You could get caught up in the auger shaft by doing so. People have lost legs, arms or feet doing such a thing, and sometimes die just from the shock alone., All farm machinery can conduct electricity when it comes into contact with power lines, resulting in the operator sustaining serious or fatal injuries from electrocution. Always ask yourself, "Where's the line?."