 Scientists claim that tea can help reduce stress. Drinking tea daily can help reduce stress and anxiety when put in stressful situations.Try replacing your morning coffee with black tea, or drink a soothing herbal in the evening.


Try passionflower tea to help calm anxiety. Also try peppermint, chamomile, and lemon balm teas, which are all caffeine free.Drink green tea. Green tea contains L-Theanine, which is a calming agent.Many green tea varieties are caffeinated, so try not to drink those at night. If possible, get a decaffeinated green tea. This helps the L-Theanine work better.
Add honey to your tea. Honey also is considered a relaxant., According to a recent study, chewing gum during stressful situations can help reduce the symptoms. Scientists found that chewing gum lessens negative moods and the stress hormone cortisol.When you feel stressed, pop any kind of gum in your mouth and chew for a few minutes. Take a break and try to clear your mind while you chew to help yourself relax even more.
 A good way to relax is to talk to someone about what stresses you. Letting go of what's bothering you instantly makes you feel better. A kind, supportive word from a friend or loved one can make you start to relax.Talk to your friend in person, call her, or send a quick text. Reach out via social media. The action of telling someone about your stress can have immediate effects., Sometimes, relaxing means getting something done. That's one less thing for you to worry about. To make this relaxing instead of stressful, focus on the task at hand. Then focus on the end result, which is to cross one thing off your list. That frees up space in your life and helps you relax.


Cleaning is a great relaxation technique. Change your sheets, wash your windows, or wash the curtains. Mop or vacuum your house.
Declutter your things. Clearing away the junk in our space is as important as clearing our minds. Try donating old clothes and shoes to charity. Go through your books and donate ones you've read. Clean out your desk drawers.
Attend to your finances. Don't put off dealing with bills or other things another day. Cross that off your to do list. Allow yourself to feel good and relax because of what you've accomplished.