 When you eat a large meal, you put pressure on your stomach that could lead to heartburn. This is because having a lot of food in your stomach makes your stomach produce more acid. To avoid this, eat small, frequent meals throughout the day, rather than three large meals.


Eating small meals throughout the day can help to keep your stomach working efficiently without the production of extra acid. It also makes it less likely that gastric backflow will occur because your stomach will not contain us much contents after each meal.
 Laying down puts your stomach at almost the same level as your esophagus. When you eat too much, or if the food your do eat is too rich, the food may press down on your esophageal sphincter with the aid of gravity. This can cause the contents of your stomach, as well as you stomach acid, to flow back up into your esophagus.


If you must lie down within two to three hours after you have eaten, prop yourself up so that your upper body is at a 45 to 90 degree angle with the lower half of your body. You can prop yourself up like this with pillows. Propping yourself up will decrease the chances of the contents of your stomach flowing back up into your esophagus.
 When you get a little bit of exercise after a big meal, you can help your body to digest the food you have eaten more efficiently.
 Smoking is a trigger of heartburn. Stopping smoking can help you to prevent heartburn, while also making your healthier in general. The ways that cigarettes increase your chances of getting heartburn include:


Cigarette smoking decreases your production of saliva. Saliva is basic, which means that it can neutralize acidic substances. Saliva acts as a defense against the acidity of your stomach, but if you do not have any saliva, it cannot protect you.
Cigarette smoking also increases the production of acid in the stomach.
Cigarette smoking has a relaxing effect on the esophageal sphincter.
Cigarette smokers have slower gastric motility. This leads to an inefficient emptying of the stomach.
 Being overweight can increase the pressure placed on your abdomen and stomach. This happens because fat is stored around your belly and chest, which causes the stomach to become squeeze. This squeezing action not only decreases the space within the stomach, but it also increases the pressure put on the stomach. The increased pressure will force some gastric content to move back up into your esophagus.


In order to lose weight, you will have to create a healthy eating plan for yourself.
You should also try to exercise regularly.
 Anything that puts pressure on your stomach can act as a catalyst for heartburn. Because of this, you should try to wear loose-fitting clothes and keep your belt wearing to a minimum. Clothes that can lead to heartburn include:


Slenderizing undergarments.
Tight-fitting belts.
Tight pants.
 When and if you do experience heartburn, write down everything you ate that day. Doing this may help you to determine the foods that are irritating your stomach. This diary can also help you to determine what sort of lifestyle changes you need to make.


For example, if you ate a stomach-friendly salad but were wearing slimming tights and experienced heartburn, writing this down may help you to realize that you should probably stop wearing tights.

