 If your hair growth is associated with a medical condition such as hirsutism or polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), you may be able to take birth control to help reduce hair growth. Since these two conditions produce an overabundance of androgens, birth control is used to decrease the production of these in the body. The decrease in androgens will slow down hair growth and make it finer and softer than before.Consult your doctor about hair growth issues associated with these conditions. If you don't have one of these conditions, you should not take birth control to reduce hair growth unless it is prescribed by your primary care physician.
 Electrolysis is a procedure where a small needle in placed into a hair follicle and it is zapped with an electrical current. This damages the hair at the follicle level, which reduces hair growth in the area. These treatments are typically suited for small areas, though larger areas can be treated over multiple treatments. Look for a qualified electrologist in your area, but be aware. These treatments are expensive.


If you have PCOS or hirsutism, these treatments will help at first, but the body hair will eventually come back., Laser hair removal is more effective, faster, and long lasting than electrolysis. Typically, you would need four to six treatments which are spaced about four to six weeks apart to gain satisfactory hair removal. During this process, body hair production is reduced. Dermatologists and skin specialists perform these treatments, but they are expensive.It is possible to permanently stop hair growth in certain areas with laser hair removal. Be advised that PCOS and hirsutism can still make the hair grown back, even after these treatments., There are some new medicated, prescription creams that help reduce hair growth. These products, such Vaniqa, help reduce the production of body hair in women along the face and neck. It blocks the production of a natural enzyme in the skin that causes hair to grow. This effect makes hair grow slower and can make the remaining hair lighter and finer.