 If you don't have any commercial wax handy, don't worry! It's easy to clean up your eyebrows with a homemade recipe that uses just a few common ingredients. To begin, combine one part water, one part lemon juice, and eight parts sugar in a mixing bowl. We've provided measurement suggestions above, but the recipe is very easy to adjust as long as you keep the ratios of the ingredients the same.


This recipe is similar to an ancient Egyptian technique known as "body sugaring."This old technique works the same as modern waxing — it just uses ingredients that were available thousands of years ago.
 Pour your slushy mix into a saucepan and start to warm it over low heat on the stove. Use a candy thermometer to monitor the mixture's temperature carefully. You don't want it to boil over, so it's important not to heat it too quickly. Heat the mixture to 250o F (121o C) before continuing.


At this temperature, the sugar enters what culinary experts call the "hardball" candy stage, gaining a thick, tacky, adhesive quality — perfect for waxing.
 At 250o F (or when bubbles appear), remove the sugar mixture from the heat. Pour it into a clean bowl. Allow the sugar mixture to cool to a temperature that isn't painful to the touch but is still "liquid" enough to use for waxing. This should take no more than fifteen minutes.
 At this point, you can use your homemade sugar wax basically the same way you would use ordinary artificial wax. Use a clean applicator like a piece of silverware or a popsicle stick to apply a thin layer of wax to the hair between your eyebrows in the same direction as the hair growth. Press a thin strip of cloth into the sugar wax. Wait for the sugar wax to harden, then tear the strip away from the skin opposite the direction of skin growth.


You'll probably have some leftover sugar wax when you're done — you can save this in the refrigerator in a sealed container. When you want to use it again, you can simply warm it in the microwave. You don't need to warm it on the stove again., The great thing about this recipe is that it's extremely versatile — it's easy to change it to fit your needs. For instance, to give your sugar wax the scent of your choice, all you need to do is add a little of your favorite fragrance during the cooling phase. Below are just a few things you may want to consider adding to make your wax more appealing:


Crushed lavender petals
Shredded mint leaves
Shredded basil leaves
Peppermint extract
Orange peel
Sandalwood extract

