 As you walk out of the airport you will find many trusted taxi services and shuttles to take you anywhere you wish.;
, Plan on spending between $25-35 American dollars to get you to Antigua depending on how many passengers there are. You will find many travel services branching out of Antigua to take you anywhere in the country.
 You will be able to find hostels as low as $8 per person a night to 5 star hotels that will easily run you $300 per room a night. You´re bound to find something in your budget range and you'll enjoy Antigua regardless of where you stay. La Antigua is a walking town so your won't need much money for transportation once you get there. If you ever get caught in the rain and want a quick ride back to your hotel just catch a tuk tuk for 10 Quetzales which is around $1.25 and can take you anywhere within the city limits. There is a lot to do in Antigua so don't waste a minute! It's a good idea in the beginning to just take a walk, you will be able to find a map in most any shop. Take time to sit in the park, get your shoes shined by a local shoe shine boy, buy a few scarves and necklaces from the Mayan girls and breathe in the fresh mountain air. Don't forget to tour the ruins. The main ones being San Francisco, La Merced, Las Capuchines, the Main Cathedral by Central Park and don't miss Santo Domingo!

, There's nothing stateside quite like it! If you buy any of the fruits or vegetables make sure to wash them really well and dry them before consumption. For all the coffee lovers out there, there are several local coffee farms just waiting for you to take a tour and enjoy a freshly roasted cup of goodness.
 It shouldn't cost you any more than $20 round trip per person. Plan to stay at least 3 days here as well to really enjoy it! Lake Atitlan is a must see! All the natural beauty is to say the least, breathtaking! There's no other place quite like it. If you start your journey in Panajachel, I recommend taking a boat taxi 25Q which is around $3 to San Tiago and from there taking a tuk tuk to Posada de San Tiago. It's located beautiful on the lake and the service is wonderful. For a couple, expect to pay $40-90 a night depending on what you want. If you have a group of 10 or more you can stay for $15 a night per person. Make sure to reserve ahead of time! Once settled spend your first afternoon nestled by the pool which overlooks the lake. There is also an outdoor hot-tub & sauna to be enjoyed. Take out a canoe, go around the bend and see the Mayan women washing their clothes and children in the lake. The next day, take a boat tour around all the surrounding villages. Each village has something different to offer. If you plan on buying a painting while in Guatemala, this is the place to do it as the prices are unbeatable!

, It's a 10 hour drive or 45 min. plane ride. You can book a trip/tour with most any of the travel agencies in Antigua. A private tour is best so that you can spend time doing what you're really interested in. I would set aside at least 3 or 4 days to truly enjoy this majestic piece of history.
 Usually you can better deals if you do multiple trips with the same agency. Have a great trip!

