 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “HP All-in-One Printer Remote” on the search field.
 Locate the correct app and download it. Tap the “Install” button beside the app; it’s free.
 Locate the app on your iPad and tap it to open. Its icon has an HP logo on it with a printer and a tablet.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the gear icon for Settings on the left panel toolbar. Tap the HP ePrint menu.
 Enter your email address and tap the “Send” button. HP ePrint will validate your email address by sending you a PIN code.
 Go to your email account and look for the email from HP ePrint.
 The email from HP ePrint will contain an activation link and a PIN code. Click on the link to activate your account.


If you can’t click on the link, copy the PIN code and enter this on the app where you left off.
Tap the “Send” button to complete your registration.
 Make sure the printer is powered on and connected to a Wi-Fi network. Make sure also that the printer has been registered with HP ePrint.


Refer to your printer’s user manual and HP ePrint for more details.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the printer icon for My Printer on the left panel toolbar. Tap the right arrowhead beside the printer icon near the top of the screen, and then tap “HP ePrint”. It will search for HP ePrint-capable printers within the network.
 Tap the printer you’d like to add. The app will link with the printer and retrieve its information.


If the app cannot find the printer, you can search for it using its HP ePrint email address. The HP ePrint email address of your printer is assigned when you registered the printer with HP ePrint from Step 1.
 Once the link is successful, you will be able to see the printer model, its network connections, and the ink levels of the cartridges inside it. Tap the printer icon for MY Printer on the left panel toolbar to view this information.
 If the printer has gone to sleep, wake it up or turn it back on. Make sure it’s still connected to a Wi-Fi network.
 Lift the lid of the printer to reveal the flatbed scanner.
 Lay the document or photo you will be scanning facing down on the scanner. Close the lid.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the scanner icon for Scan on the left panel toolbar. You will see a blank sheet on the screen.
 Before you do the actual scanning, you can do a preview of what the output will look like. Tap the “Preview” button at the bottom of the screen.


The app will link with the printer and process the request.
 The preview will have an adjustable blue border around it. Use your finger to resize this box to determine the actual size and area to be scanned.


There are also some predefined sizes available. Tap the drop-down list found at the upper left side of the preview to see the available sizes. Tap on the size you want and the box will be adjusted to fit it.
 Tap the gear icon at the upper right side of the preview, and select “Input Type.” Choose between Document and Image.


The scan will be optimized based on the type you chose. The output file type will also be determined by this.
 Tap the gear icon at the upper right side of the preview, and select “Quality.” Choose between Normal and Draft. The quality of the scan will be based on what you select.
 Tap the gear icon at the upper right side of the preview, and select “Color.” Choose between Black and Color. The color of the scan will be based on what you select.


If you chose Black, the output will be in black and white. Otherwise, the output will be colored.
 Once you’ve set all the parameters and are ready to start the actual scan, tap the “Scan” button at the bottom of the screen.
 After the scan is completed, the final output will be displayed on screen.
 If you don’t like the scan and will like to delete it, tap the trash icon found on the upper right toolbar. Confirm your action by tapping the “Discard” button.


The scan will be removed and you will be brought back to the Scan screen, Step 1.
 Tap the “Save” button found on the upper right toolbar to save the scan. The file will be saved locally on your iPad under the folder defined by the file type set from Step 4.