 This will depend on what stage your business is in. If you're just starting out, you may want to spread the word that you're open. If your sales are sluggish, advertising promotions might be a good route to take. If you're revamping your business, telling potential customers about new features may be a tactic to use. You can tweak these goals as you move forward.;
, Facebook, Twitter and Myspace are good for both pictures and delivering information in a timely fashion. YouTube works well for businesses that sell a product that needs to be explained or demonstrated. If your product is targeted to a very specific group of people, specialized sites like Chowhound, LinkedIn and Yelp might be the better choice. Use as many social media sites as you think will bring you business.
 You may be able to just post information about your business and nothing more. Other sites allow you to interact with your customers, post pictures and videos, offer special discounts or place ads on other pages on the site. Some of these options cost money, depending on the site.
 This greatly depends on the goals you have set.


When you first arrive as a business presence on a social networking site, you want to announce that you're there. You do not want to go straight into sales mode and start pitching to your audience. Social networks are about building relationships with your customers and it takes time.
Let your customers know who you are and what you're about while finding out about their needs. Interact with the users and ask questions to get feedback about their previous experiences with your business and what they would like to see from you.
 If you're using Foursquare, offer a discount to the "mayor" of your business. You could also give discounts to people who "retweet" your Twitter posts or link their Foursquare accounts with their Facebook and Twitter accounts, letting their friends see that they're patronizing your business. If you use LinkedIn, consider rewarding your contacts for every new contact they refer to you.
 Try not to allow the ad to come off as a sales pitch; perhaps simply encouraging people to come check out your website is enough to get your foot in the door.

