 Your friend asked you out on a date, but you don’t want to join him. Instead of lying and potentially getting caught in that lie, just give him a quick reason why you can’t. Choose something that doesn’t allow room for interpretation. Just a simple explanation will suffice.


For instance, when he asks if you will go to the movies with him, just say, “Sorry, I’m busy,” and leave it at that. Eventually, he will get the message.;
, No one likes to be rejected. Unfortunately, the rejection can hurt even worse when it comes from a friend with whom you want to take things further. The truth is the situation is going to be awkward no matter what. You’ll just need to accept it and hope things return to normal.


Bring up the weird feelings to your friend. You could say, “I hate that things are awkward between us right now. I really don’t want you to feel weird around me and I hope we can get back to how we used to be.” Saying this lets him know you are aware of the awkwardness and that you want to retain the friendship. Now the rest is up to him., You owe it to your friend to be up front about your feelings. Simply tell him you’re not interested, but do it in a kind way, especially if you want to keep the friendship intact. He may not be able to only be friends with you, but you’ll feel better knowing that at least you tried.


You could say, “I’m flattered you feel like that, but I don’t want to risk hurting our friendship. You mean so much to me that it would break my heart if we broke up and then weren’t friends anymore. I think that’s how we need to keep it: just friends.”, Because of your relationship, you will likely see and talk to each other frequently. Therefore, it is even more important that you draw a clear line in the sand. Let your non-feelings be known so that he doesn’t continue to ask or try to pressure you into a relationship.


You can say, “Now that we’ve talked about it, I don’t want to discuss it anymore. I think it’s best if we just close this topic for good.”