 Chicken can be stored in the coolest part of your refrigerator for two days; if you plan on cooking it a few days later or even a long time later, you should freeze it right away. Don't partially cook the chicken and then place it in the fridge; this will promote bacteria growth., Whether you're cooking a full chicken, chicken legs, chicken thighs, or any other part of the chicken, you should wash it under cool water first. If the chicken has already been marinated and prepared, then it has already been washed. Make sure you wear gloves when you wash the chicken so you don't contaminate the chicken or get bacteria over on your hands. You should thoroughly wash your hands before and after cleaning the chicken.When you're done, you should also thoroughly wash all surfaces that have come in contact with the chicken, which includes knives, cutting boards, and the sink.
 Pat the chicken dry with a paper towel to eliminate any excess moisture.
 Once you've washed and dried the chicken, it will be ready to cook. Whether you bake, grill, or sauté the chicken, make sure to use a meat thermometer to make sure that it reaches the appropriate temperature before you eat it. The chicken should reach the temperature of 165ºF (74ºC).Here are a number of tasty chicken recipes to try:


Popcorn Chicken
Chicken Katsu
Boneless Chicken Breast Steaks
Chicken Mole
Broiled Chicken Breasts
Blackened Chicken Breasts
Teriyaki Chicken
Baked Chicken
Sesame Chicken
Roasted Chicken

, When freezing chicken, wrap parts separately in foil or freezer wrap. This makes it easy to defrost only the amount you need. Proper wrapping prevents "freezer burn," which results from drying and oxidizing when in contact with air.


Fried chicken - 3 to 4 days in refrigerator, 4 months in freezer
Cooked poultry casseroles - 3 to 4 days in refrigerator, 4 to 6 months in freezer
Pieces, plain - 3 to 4 days in refrigerator, 4 months in freezer
Pieces covered with broth, gravy - 1 to 2 days in refrigerator, 6 months in freezer
Chicken nuggets, patties - 1 to 2 days in refrigerator, 1 to 3 months in freezer

