 Frostbite can be a relatively innocuous discomfort for your chickens, but can also lead to significant health issues. Aside from pain, frostbite can cause disfigurement, reduced mobility, and decreased fertility.Effects on fertility are usually temporary. A rooster suffering from frostbite will have a reduced sperm count and decreased interest in sex. Hens suffering from frostbite will see a drastic reduction in egg production. Fortunately, both sperm and egg production will return to normal once your chicken heals.;
, Frostbite usually first develops on chickens’ toes, comb, or wattle (the fleshly head-dressing and beard equivalent, respectively). Areas that are affected by frostbite may initially feel warm to the touch, but will later turn cold and hard.If you’re wondering whether your chickens may be suffering from frostbite, look for the following symptoms:Color changes, especially blue or black.
Swelling and blisters.
Limping or an inability to stand.
Disinterest in eating or general listlessness.
 The type of treatment you will give your chicken depends on the degree of frostbite they are suffering from. You want to treat chickens affected by frostbite before there is permanent damage to their body tissue, and immediately if there is any evidence of infections.1st degree frostbite will irritate your chickens and make their skin softer, lighter colored, and warm to the touch.
2nd degree frostbite will lead to hard, white skin that feels frozen to the touch. Chickens will also start to suffer from swelling, blisters, and loss of sensation, though will usually not suffer significant tissue damage from 2nd degree frostbite. If you’re chickens are showing these signs, take steps to prevent the worsening of their frostbite, as noted in the section in this article on preventing frostbite.
3rd degree frostbite will lead to skin that feels hard and waxy, is swollen, and has blackened. At this point, permanent tissue and nerve damage has occurred.
 If they go untreated, or are treated too late, frostbitten areas will dry out, shrivel up, and fall off. If free of infection, however, do not rush to treat frostbite that is not getting worse, as it may be effectively protecting flesh underneath the affected area.


Begin treatment as soon as you notice frostbite spreading, or an infection. Crust, weepiness, blood, or puss on or around the affected area require treatment immediately.
Remove chickens suffering from frostbite from other chickens, as others may peck at the injuries.

