 Place a small table in a clean corner. Cover it with a pretty white lace tablecloth.  Place perfumed candles or  tealight candles upon it and add a tiny pot containing a small, healthy flowering plant.  Put a happy picture of the birthday girl or boy near the flowers, and surround it with little things she or he holds dear - a favourite ring or jewellery set bought with the person's own money, beloved mementos and souvenirs, and cheerful photographs of family and friends.;
, Your friend can keep refreshing the items on the table and meditate before it every morning and evening. Soon, the good vibes of  prayer and meditation beaming out from the Meditation Corner will bless the whole house with a feeling of peace and inner sunshine.
 You can take a little inward journey yourself and you might just be surprised at the reflections you see inside!

, Use a gold glitter pen to hand-write the invitations and see that they are sent off well in time.
 If the answer is yes, a joint visit to a cake-maker is next; do a tasting and decide on the  flavours the cake will have. The cake can be designed to look like a Wiccan symbol, or a thatched hut with a cauldron boiling over a wood fire outside it. Cake experts are willing and eager to bake new, unusual and exciting cakes for their clients and the more unusual the design, the more of a challenge it is!

, If you can turn the event into an evening outdoors in a wooded area or on a beach, so much the better, as long as you don't disturb the neighbours. 

, Carry a portable battery to the spot and attach battery-operated fairy lights to the surrounding trees and bushes or lay the lights in a giant circle around the party area on the beach for a truly magical effect. Arrange for a makeshift bar and collapsible tables and chairs to be placed inside the circle of lights. Finally, don't forget the birthday person's favourite music and CDs with foot-tapping dance numbers and a portable music system.
 Remember to pack paper plates, cups and napkins, disposable cutlery and a sack to collect the after-party discards.
 If they can't find any, no worries. The traditional bottle of good wine is always very welcome!

,, Gift your friend a packet of sage incense sticks you made yourself.
 You've made a very big, selfless effort to make your friend happy! Just relax and enjoy the evening!

