 If you have access to the internet you can search certain websites for information about pay phones near your. There are now a number of websites that list pay phones in most states of the United States, as well as a few places overseas. These websites are creations of a community of online users who want to create catalogs of useful information--sounds familiar, right? That is both the advantage and disadvantage of these sites; in places where many users want to make information accessible, they are often quite good, but where there are few people engaged with this sort of online activity the quality is lacking. Still, you are looking for options, and so here are a few examples:


The website Payphone Directory offers a list of pay phones by city and state. The search options on the sight are a bit limited, but the list of phones is extensive.Waymarking.com is a site that is great for finding information on things near your location. If you are searching for something nearby--including a pay phone--just type the name of the item in the main search box and then add the name of your location. A list of options will appear, and a map will show you where they are located., Because of the increasing scarcity of pay phones, you may have your best luck by simply asking the people who know the area well. For rural areas where the population tends to be older and internet connections are harder to have at home, there will be little information about payphones on any website. If you are in an emergency or have an urgent call to make, you will probably have to ask people for help.
 If instead of looking to make a call you are hoping to find out who is calling you, then you need a different kind of website. If you are receiving harassing phone calls and you find out they are coming from a pay phone, you can sometimes look up the location of the phone by using the number.


Mcpayphone is an example of one such site. It lists pay phones throughout the U.S. with a focus on the phone number of that pay phone. There are also physical addresses on the site, and this can be especially useful if you are trying to identify the location of a stalker.

