 While many restaurants accept credit cards, this particular one does not. In addition, some menu items are on the expensive side, so make sure you have enough cash (or enough money in the bank - balance that checkbook!) to cover the meal and tip.;
, Lambert's offers a large selection of home-cooked food, with free refills on most entrées and drinks.The important thing to remember, however, is to save room in your stomach for pass-arounds and thrown rolls:


Sample some of the pass-arounds. The restaurant offers several foods that are carried from table-to-table, and anyone interested can take as much as they want. Traditional pass-arounds include:

Fried potatoes and onions
Macaroni and tomatoes
Black-eyed peas
Fried okra - Don't expect a plate! Grab a few of the paper towels provided at your table and the server will spoon the okra right on.
Sorghum molasses
Apple butter


Watch for the rolls! Every so often, a waiter (distinguished by the blue shirt, red suspenders, and bow tie) will wheel out a cart of freshly baked rolls. If you want one, stand up and wave your hands and the roll thrower will throw one to you. Be warned, they are hot and some do get dropped. If you drop yours, just jump back up and ask for another one. Then, smear some butter on it and eat it or wait for the pass-around apple butter to come around. Or get the sorghum (a thick molasses), offered by a server who comes after the one who throws the thrown rolls.

If you're not catching rolls but people close to you are, hold onto your drink to avoid accidents if the roll strays in your direction.
 This is just another part of the Lambert's experience... don't be surprised if a waiter threatens to dump iced tea over your head or squirt your shirt with ketchup. It's all part of the fun, and no harm will actually come to you or your property. Be a good sport, but don't let your guard down, and beware, they're huge supporters of the critter in the candy box trick... be wary if they offer you candy or gum, as something much creepier may jump out at you!

, Before you leave, purchase something to remind you of this eating experience, or even take some of the special foods home with you. The gift shop offers, among other things, 34 oz. insulated mugs like the ones you drank out of during the meal, Lambert's apple butter and sorghum molasses, jelly, honey, and the ever popular "stress roll".