 The first thing to do if you think your child has OCD is to make an appointment to talk with a General Practitioner. The doctor will be able to evaluate your child, screen for the disorder, and help to make a diagnosis. She can then recommend options for treatment.The doctor will likely ask your child a series of questions, i.e. “Do you have thoughts or fears that worry you?” “Do you have to check things over and over?” “Do you wash your hands a lot?” or “Do you have to do certain things before you go to bed?”
Be aware that the doctor has to try to make sure your child’s behavior is actually OCD. This means trying to rule out other explanations. She may have to ask about how often and severe the behaviors are or even whether your family has a history of Tourette Syndrome or other motor or vocal tic disorders.
Be ready to cooperate with a full examination once a diagnosis is made. This can include a review of your child’s medical and school records and diagnostic tests, like the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale test, to determine the exact symptoms and severity.
 You’ll want to know what your child’s options are for treatment. Talk to the doctor and be ready to ask for a referral to a therapist. One of the most common and effective forms of treatment for OCD is Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. It’s recommended by institutions like the American Academy for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, the National Institutes of Mental Health, the Mayo Clinic, and the Harvard Medical School.Ask your doctor to suggest a mental health professional who is trained in CBT. Make sure that the person is licensed to work with children – not everyone is, so this is important. Also try to ensure that the therapist can work outside the office, i.e. in your child’s school, at your home, or by telephone, if need be.
You can also try to find a qualified therapist by contacting your local mental health association. Ask for local psychologists, psychiatrists, or counselors who are trained in CBT therapy for children.
Also consider contacting nearby hospitals, mental health clinics, or psychology departments at colleges, universities, or medical schools. You can do this by phone, email, or in person.
 Make sure that any potential therapist is a good fit with your child before committing. Set up a preliminary interview in person or over the phone, and have questions to ask. You and your child need to be comfortable with this person above all, since you’ll be working together.Ask whether the therapist has a background in child and family therapy, but also whether they are trained to work with OCD. Follow up by asking what techniques he or she uses to treat OCD.
Ask about credentials and education, too, as well as how the therapist will work with your child’s family, general practitioner, and possibly teacher and school counselors.
Inquire if the therapist is willing to conduct sessions outside of the office, whether by telephone, Skype, or house-calls.
 Your child may also be able to take medication to help control OCD and its symptoms. Usually, though, doctors prescribe meds alongside therapy and not as the sole treatment. Work with your doctor, who can help you determine if your child may need to this kind of treatment.People and children with OCD can benefit from antidepressants or anti-anxiety medication, especially if the OCD coexists with other disorders like depression.
Ask the doctor about any drugs that she recommends, including the possible side-effects and effectiveness. Also, ask about dosages and how long your child might have to take the medication. In many cases, drugs for OCD are discontinued when kids learn to manage the symptoms better.

