 Even from just a few months old, infants can be brought into a swimming pool with their parent and experience what the water is like.


Floating them around and teaching them to splash are early tools that can have big payoffs later on.
You can also try placing a small child is a secure flotation device to let them explore the water in a new way.;
, Even playtime in the bathtub can help babies and young toddlers adjust to water.


Give your child a chance to experiment with water in the tub and provide toys to show him it is fun, not scary.
Don’t try to shield the water from your toddler’s eyes when you wash his hair, as getting used to the sensation of water in the face will be beneficial when it comes to swimming.
 When you bring an infant or toddler into the water with you, always keep them in your arms and stay in the shallow end of the pool.


Keep an eye on inflatable toys and other pool equipment that can pose a drowning risk and always keep emergency equipment nearby in case of emergency. Your emergency equipment should include basic first aid supplies, as well as a flotation device and CPR equipment.
To make sure your child is extra safe, learn proper CPR technique and become CPR certified at your local fire station or community center.
 By the time a baby becomes a toddler, they are much more active and curious about the water. Before they get in the pool, teach them about water safety.


Make sure your child is familiar with the pool rules, such as not running and only going into the water with an adult. Help your child understand that it is important to follow the rules to be safe and not get hurt.
Each time you go to the pool, repeat the rules so your child is clear on the expectations.
 When teaching a toddler to swim, it is important to do it in a controlled and safe environment. An indoor pool is the most ideal location because of its controlled atmosphere and safety from the elements.


Don’t teach your child to swim in a lake or ocean, as currents, animals, and unpredictable situations can make things dangerous and scary for your child.
If you are using your personal pool to teach your toddler to swim, make sure it is safe with a tall fence and a self-locking gate that children can’t reach. Always remove toys after playing in the pool so your child isn’t tempted to go in after them, and cover your pool with a hard pool cover, not a soft, flexible model.
Remember to always keep a close eye on your child and to not bring things that could distract you from your child’s safety.
 When teaching a child to swim, water wings and other inflatable floating toys can give parents and toddlers a false sense of security.


They can be useful in helping children get into the water, but if the devices were to lose air, your child would be in serious danger of drowning.
The best flotation device is a well-fitting life jacket with an adjustable strap between the legs, although it is not a necessity in a pool.
 The American Association of Pediatrics recommends that children take an organized swimming lesson to teach them basic skills, but recommend that children younger than age 4 only enroll in classes where their parents are in the water as well.Having parents in the water with them helps toddlers be more comfortable in the water, and taking the class from a trained instructor helps ensure they learn age-appropriate skills in a safe environment.
Swim lessons are offered at most recreation centers or through private businesses.
 Ask around for recommendations and visit each location and instructor before signing up. If possible, take a trial class to see if it is a good fit for your and your child.


Toddler swim classes should focus on getting your child comfortable in the water and teaching basic skills like blowing bubbles, floating, kicking, and putting his face in the water. Smaller classes tend to be better for toddlers, as they get more attention and are safer because the teacher has less to distract them.
Look for a teacher who understands proper swimming technique in a pool that is safe and clean. Pools should have multiple lifeguards as well as CPR and emergency equipment at the ready.
 When your toddler is learning to swim, always stay positive. Create a welcoming environment in the pool where your child feels safe and free to learn and explore. Praise your child after even success and don’t push too hard if he is scared or uncomfortable.


Toddlers are fickle, especially about the water, so he may jump in one day and be scared of the pool the next. Stay calm and patient and do things on your toddler’s time.
Don’t rush into learning new skills if your child isn’t ready as that can create anxiety and an unsafe situation.
 If your toddler has a traumatizing experience in the water or they are startled and don’t want to continue, let them have a break from the water. Although swim skills are important, they won’t do any good if your child is scared or anxious around water.


Water fear is a real issue, especially for young children—don’t dismiss their fears quickly, but rather take the time to listen to them and calm them down. Take a break, which can be as short as a few hours or as long as a few weeks, until your child is ready for the water again.
When you bring them back, start slowly and gradually put them back in the water. Bring toys and have a good support system, such as friends or family members, to encourage them to stay in the water.
 You can also teach your child how to swim on your own or supplement their swimming lessons with other activities. Get toddlers excited about the water and remove any stress or fear by using fun games and activities to teach swimming skills.


When trying anything new with a toddler, be sure to fully explain what you are asking them to do in simple terms, such as “I want you to chase after the ball, then I’ll help you kick your legs”.
Always give your toddler a countdown before the activity so they aren’t caught off guard.
 Help your child get comfortable in the water by starting them on the steps of the pool and sitting by them or giving them a toy.


Make sure they start on a level where their head and upper body is safely out of the water.
Slowly encourage them to move down the steps so more of their body is covered with water.
 Show your toddler how to blow bubbles by taking a deep breath and sticking your face under water. Have your child practice the buzzing motion out of the water, and then encourage him to put his face into the water.


It can be scary for kids to put their face in the water, so go slowly and take it at your child’s pace.
Place a small toy or ball in the pool and see if your child can blow it all the way across the pool while you support his body.
 Have your toddler sit on the edge of the pool and show them how to kick with their legs out straight in front of them. If needed, stand in the pool and hold your child’s legs and move them in the right motion.


Have your child pretend they are different animals, such as a dolphin kicking its legs. Tapping into a child’s imagination can help them feel much more comfortable in the pool.
Once they are comfortable, you can also hold them on a kick board and have them kick their legs as you move them around the pool.
 Throw a ball or inflatable toy around the pool and help your child chase after it by holding onto their waist and letting them kick and glide. This prepares toddlers for floating and gliding on their own.


Once you get to the toy, turn around and throw it again before chasing after it.
 Hold your child or sit them on a step. Explain to them what you are going to do and that you want them to go all the way underwater for a few seconds. Count down from three and then either dunk your child by holding them under the armpits or have them go underwater on their own.


Children should take a deep breath and close their mouths. For younger toddlers, you can give them a sharp tap on the forehead right before you put them underwater, which will automatically make them close their eyes and plug their nose.
Take a break after each time your child goes underwater and don’t push them to do it too much in one session.
 Support your child and have them rest their head on your shoulder. Support each half of their body equally so they are floating straight on top of the water.


Floating on the back can be difficult for kids, especially as they get water in their ears, so make sure they know you are holding them and that they are safe.
Start by only floating for a few seconds, then work up to more time as they get comfortable.
 Once your child has mastered the float, prepare him for the glide. Start with your child 3–5 feet (0.9–1.5 m) away from the wall of the pool and support his chest and legs.


Have him put his face in the water and gently glide him to the edge of the pool. As he gets comfortable, increase the distance to the wall and encourage him to kick his legs and move his arms.
Once you are comfortable letting your child go in the water, have him glide from one adult to the other. Give him a good push or have him push off your legs and glide to another adult standing 3–4 feet (0.9–1.2 m) away.
 Have your child sit or stand at the edge of the pool. On the count of three, encourage him to jump into your arms in the pool. This teaches him how to get into the water and makes him comfortable with water splashing in his face.
 As children get more comfortable in the water, you can practice their skills with games such as Simon Says, Follow the Leader, or Wheels on the Bus. You can also take any classic children’s song with actions, such as “London Bridge” or “If You’re Happy and You Know It” and have children do the actions in the water to practice skills and make them more comfortable.

