 It’s totally alright if you have no intentions of being a teacher when you grow up. Either way, picture yourself as a teacher. Remind yourself that your teacher chose to make a career of sharing new ideas and information with kids like you. Chances are, watching you learn is deeply rewarding for them. Ask yourself: If you were a teacher, what sort of relationship would you want with your students?

, Remind yourself that your teacher has a job to do. If they take that job seriously, that means they’ll need to correct and even discipline you and other students from time to time. For instance, if you make an error in class and your teacher points it out, don’t let it bother you. It’s not an attack on you personally, they’re simply teaching you by pointing out something that is incorrect.Similarly, if you’re caught passing a note or otherwise not paying attention, don’t overreact. Your teacher is not attacking you, they are simply bringing your attention back to the classroom.
Apologize after class and know that your teacher will forgive you.
 If it feels like you and a teacher don’t get along, stay calm. Sometimes, personalities clash. Simply fulfill your responsibilities as a student and don’t worry too much about a teacher that is unfriendly. If a teacher is aggressively mean or rude to you in any way, tell both your parents and/or a guidance counselor. If you feel the need to do so, request a meeting with the teacher and another adult. This can be helpful to discuss any potential problems and create a more comfortable atmosphere for both you and your teacher.
 Think of your relationship with your teacher as your first “professional” relationship. For the rest of your life, you’ll need to be able to interact with other people, and you won’t necessarily enjoy everyone you interact with. Understand that you don’t need to be friends with someone to have a healthy relationship with them. Focus on paying attention in class and behaving, and your teacher will likely recognize your efforts., You may find yourself getting along particularly well with one of your teachers. Recognize that their position as a teacher, and yours as a student, requires that certain types of relationships are illegal. More specifically, you cannot become romantically involved with your teacher. Ethics and morality aside, a romantic relationship places your teacher's career at risk, and may even result in criminal proceedings.Do not attempt to flirt with your teacher. This places them in an uncomfortable position, and is disrespectful to them and your other classmates.
If a teacher makes romantic comments towards you, politely point out that you are their student. If you are in any way uncomfortable with what a teacher says to you, tell your parents as well as a another school employee.

