 In most cases, “No, thanks” is enough as an answer. Don’t feel like you have to provide an explanation if you’re not asked to. This will make you sound defensive, while your goal is to show you don’t have to justify yourself. In most cases, the explanation is implicit.


This is the best course of action when you’re offered something you don’t want to, like a drink, a cigarette or even drugs. Try not to sound rude. If your friend is simply suggesting you do something you don’t want to, as bad as it may seem, being polite will make it easier to move on and change the subject. Just add a “thanks” after your “no” and smile.
 Make your explanation short without making a big deal about it. If someone offers you a cigarette, you can simply say “No, thanks, I don’t smoke”: that is a good enough explanation. This strategy works very well when you’re asked to do something you don’t want to, or when you want to avoid a specific situation. For example, if someone asks you to go to a party where drugs are involved, you can say “I’m not going, sorry, I know there’ll be drugs and I don’t want to find myself in that situation," or “I’m not going, sorry, I don’t like the people who’ll be there."
You can also make up an excuse if providing the real explanation can make things awkward: “I’m not going, sorry, I already have plans for tonight."
Do your best to make your statement as positive as possible. Try not to sound condescending or judgmental. You might not agree with someone’s actions or habits but respecting their decisions will make them respect yours. , Humor is often best way to get out of an awkward situation and helps release the tension. A good way to do this is by exaggerating the consequences of the action. If you’re offered a drug, possible jokes can be “No thanks, you don’t want to see me naked jumping around the room!”
Another option is to give a sarcastic explanation. If you’re offered a cigarette, you can say “No thanks, I’ve had five cigars already," or “No thanks, I’d rather smoke my pipe."

, Again, this works better when you want to turn something down. Changing the subject will not only give little importance to your rejection, but also to the action itself.


For example, if someone offers you a cigarette, you can say “No, thanks. Did I tell what happened today?” or “No thanks, what are you doing tonight?” By starting a brand new conversation that doesn’t involve cigarettes, both your friend’s smoking and your choice not to smoke won’t look like a big deal.
 This works best when what you’re being asked to do is an action that takes longer time, like smoking pot, getting drunk at home or having sex when you don’t want to. In this case, you can simply suggest an alternative activity; your “no” will be implicit.


Possible suggestions could be “Why don’t we go to the movies instead?" “I’d rather go shopping," or “I think we’d better focus on our finals."
Whatever you suggest, make sure to be specific. Avoid generic statements like “Let’s do something different”; suggesting an alternative that your friend might actually like better will make it easier and faster to get past the situation.

