 Figuring out how much money you realistically have to work with is critical, or you’ll feel the pinch right before Christmas. Your budget will help determine where and how far you go, by what mode of transportation, where you'll stay, how you'll eat and what you'll do once there. Knowing tricks-to-the-vacation trade will make creating and sticking to a budget easier, and your vacation more enjoyable.When thinking about your budget, always consider currency exchange rates. What can your dollar get you in different places? Will you get a nicer hotel or the opposite? Check out XE.com for exchange rates, currency converters and travel-expense calculators.;
, Is your vacation meant to be a solitary retreat, but to where you’re still not sure? Will it be a family beach adventure? Do you want to be active and always on the run, or do you want to relax a lot? Are you fine around large crowds? Thinking about what you want and do not want will make your vacation much more enjoyable., Traveling during what is called the “shoulder seasons,” just before and after the peak seasons, is often the best time to take a vacation. For one, the prices are lower. Yet because these times are just off a peak season, the weather is still nice, there are fewer tourists and crowds and locals are happy for your business. For instance, April through May and mid-August through October are the shoulder seasons for most of Europe.


Also be flexible about the precise location of, say, the family beach adventure. You want to go to the Bahamas, but there’s an amazing package deal to Key West. Would going to Key West give another area of your budget that was a little lean the boost it needed?Another thing to think about: Many cities are considered “jump-off cities.” For instance, if you fly to Las Vegas, you can spend a few days there and drive to the Grand Canyon., Being flexible on dates is greatly to your pocketbook’s advantage, so pick a 2-week time frame (say, in next September) for your vacation. You'll search for and compare prices on travel, lodging, food and entertainment rates during this time frame. You’ll also be looking at the specials and deals. If you aren’t able to give yourself this window, you can still save money in comparison shopping and snatching up specials.

