 If you are new to dancing, or if there is a certain type of dance you are interested in (for example, ballet or swing dancing), you might want to learn proper technique by enrolling in a class. This can help you keep from getting injured, and you’ll also get to learn a new skill.


A dance class is a great opportunity to meet new people and get good exercise.
Dance classes for people of all ages are offered at dance studios or through community recreation programs.;
, You will probably want clothes that provide a free range of motion that you don’t have to fuss with while dancing. In order to be focused on a full expression of movement, you will not want to be wearing clothes that will hold you back in any way.


For example, you may wish to wear athletic wear, loose-fitting clothing, or clothes with elastic waistbands.
Wear whatever footwear you find comfortable. If you are at home, you may wish to kick off your shoes and socks and dance barefoot.
 You may wish to go out dancing with a group of friends, which can be a great social activity, as well as stress relief and great exercise.If you are self-conscious about your dancing, you may prefer to dance at home. If you are concerned about what others think of your dancing, you won’t relax enough to let go of all the stress you are feeling, and that defeats the purpose!Consider these suggestions for dancing at home:


If you want privacy, lock the door or close the curtains.
Clear a space free of obstacles. You will need room for kicks, for jumps, for spinning around -- however you feel like dancing!
You may wish to dim the lights, particularly if you are dancing to slow, calming music.
 Do you want a slow, gentle, relaxing dance session, or fast, furious, and energetic? How you decide to dance may be dependent on your current mood and the feelings you wish to achieve.


How are you feeling right now? Take some time to check in with yourself. If you are feeling stressed out because you are angry, you might want faster-paced music. If you’re feeling sad, maybe you want slower music.
What kind of mood do you want to create? For example, say you had a hard day at work and argued with your boss. Perhaps you have some anger you are still holding onto from your confrontation, so you decide to blast some loud, empowering, energetic songs to get all your frustration out.
Consider the time of day. Do you want to dance to get energized and focused at the beginning of the day, or do you want to dance to relax and calm down at the end of the day? If you are a person who has a difficult time falling asleep at night, you may wish to forego energetic music at the end of the day for slower, calmer dancing.
 Choose music based on your mood and what kind of dancing you would like to do. You might have some tried-and-true favorites you always enjoy dancing to, or you may want to look for something new to better help you express yourself.


Spend some time finding songs you love to dance to beforehand. That way you will be ready to dance when the mood strikes!
You might wish to have playlists ready to go, named things like “Dancing to Relax Playlist” or “Up Tempo Energetic Dance Playlist.”
You can often find ready-made dance playlists at different streaming music services.
 Have a glass of water nearby to stay hydrated. You will get thirsty, especially if you are dancing to fast music!

