 First impressions matter, so dress professionally when you attend a career fair. Make sure everything matches, is clean and wrinkle-free, and is business casual attire. Choose comfortable shoes because you'll be walking around a lot.Avoid wearing fragrances or cologne as this can push people away.;
, Obtain a list of companies that will be represented ahead of time, and decide which prospective employers are a priority. Make a list of companies you want to meet with, and allow enough time to meet with career fair recruiters representing companies and career opportunities that interest you the most.
 Read up on your top companies that will be at the job fair so you'll have a clear understanding of what the companies are about. Search their websites to get some information about the businesses. You don't need to know every little detail, just the basics.Find out what the company's mission statement is, and memorize the core values. Bringing that up in conversation at the fair will make a good impression with the organization.
 Employers like it when you seem interested in the company and its background. Ask intelligent questions that can't be answered online and that make it look like you researched the company beforehand.Some good questions to ask are, “How is this company different from companies in the same industry?” and “What type of skills and experience do you need to have to work for this company?”, Know what days you are available in case a potential employer asks you for an interview.Look into the hours of operation for the companies that interest you so you'll be even more prepared to answer any scheduling questions at the career fair.
 Be sure to update your resume before attending a career fair, and bring plenty of copies along with a list of references. This will enable you to leave a resume with every prospective employer. Put them in a polished-looking folder that you can easily carry with you.If you have a portfolio of the work you do, make sure that is up to date and bring that along, as well.
 You'll want to make sure you have a pen and pad of paper with you so you can take notes. Make sure the pad of paper is classy looking and easy enough for you to carry around the career fair without looking too bulky.

If you have business cards, bring those with you, too., Career fair recruiters will be most attentive at the start of the fair. Get there early to beat the crowds, make a punctual first impression, and have plenty of time to meet with all the representatives on your priority list. Arriving early will also give you time to see where each company is located and to map out the order that you will meet them in., Make it known that you want to be there. Putting out positive vibes will make it seem like you're ready to work on whatever task a prospective employer gives you.When you meet a potential employer, you can introduce yourself, then say something like, “I was really looking forward to hearing more about your company.”

, When meeting with potential employers, a strong handshake is the best etiquette.Be polite when talking to career fair representatives; listen to what they have to say, don't interrupt, and avoid using slang language, as it will make you seem unprofessional.


If the representative has samples or giveaway items like pens or magnets, only take one.
 A great question to start with is, “What's your favorite part about working for this company?”It's a casual question that shows you're truly interested in playing a positive role in the company or organization.
 Use your pen and paper to write down important details like phone numbers and contact names. Creating a contact list will make it easier for you to review the positive and negative aspects you learned from various career recruiters and follow up with representatives after the fair. You can also collect business cards and company brochures.
 Talk about your skills, past jobs, and school background.Remember that you'll need a wow factor to really impress the employers, so be prepared to tell them what it is about you that makes you different from the other prospective candidates.Your tag-line should set you apart from the other candidates and explain how you can benefit their company.
You could say something like, “I helped a previous company I worked for save money by implementing a strategy I came up with.” Then, explain that strategy in depth., Even if you're nervous, try not to look intimidated by the number of recruiters or applicants at the career fair. Greet each representative with a smile and a confident handshake, and tell them the most important things they need to know about you, such as your job experiences and your skill field.Remaining confident will help you stay upbeat and will appeal to prospective employers.


Lead the conversation and make your purpose clear. Walk up to the prospect, introduce yourself, and say something like, “I would like to discuss the possibility of lending my skills to your company through a full-time position.”, Pay attention to everything you've read about the company, and listen closely when your potential employer is speaking to you. You may discover that you two share a passion that is relevant to the company's interest.If you're able to find a common ground with your potential employer, let them know just how passionate you are about it and they'll be more likely to remember you., Be sure to follow up a few days after the event with a phone call, email, or thank you note to each representative you spoke with at the career fair. This will keep you and your resume fresh in their minds. Apply for the positions online if required, and ask for more information about the company.