 This will help you figure out what websites they frequently visit. Every web browser has a history function. If your partner is really concerned about being found out, they may erase the browser history, which makes it more difficult to ascertain what websites they’ve been visiting.
 If you have your partner’s email address and password, you can check their messages. Alternately, you can try to log into their email account if their password has saved into the browser. Be familiar with your state’s laws on electronic privacy, since states interpret this activity differently.


Enable cookies on their computer. If your partner’s email password is not saved in their browser, they might not have cookies enabled on their computer. Go into the web browser settings to enable cookies, which may store information and passwords. The computer will then be ready for your spouse’s next internet session, and passwords and other information will be stored.
 If you think your partner frequents certain chat rooms or other discussion forums online, you can also go into those forums using an alias. Talking and flirting with your partner or otherwise engaging in an online conversation may draw out hints about recent activities and lure them into infidelity.


Some people have created fake Facebook accounts to spy on their partners, although you should proceed with caution on this approach, as it can be extremely damaging to the relationship and any trust you have for each other.
 Keylogger programs are used to track all keystroke activity on a computer. They can be used to track your own computer usage and also to track others’ use of the computer. This will also likely tell you what login IDs and passwords are, which can help you access your partner’s email or other accounts. These types of programs range in quality; some are available for free download, such as Free Keylogger Pro,while others are pay services, such as All in One Keylogger, The Best Keylogger, or Total Spy, which range in price from $35 to $80 or more.
 There are numerous software programs, all varying in degrees of repute, cost and effectiveness, that can be purchased and installed on a computer or mobile phone. These programs, such as WebWatcher, Stealth Genie or Spector Pro, can track all usage activities as well as exact locations (in the case of a mobile phone). Many programs have social media monitoring, email recording, chat recording and other functionalities, and they can range in price, with many starting around $90 to $100.


Be sure to fully understand how your state treats electronic surveillance and privacy before embarking on this type of activity.