 For a really fast solution to oily skin, rub a lemon rind all over your cleaned skin to remove the excess oil. Or, you could make a lemon toner to remove the oil. Mix 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, 1 tablespoon of water, 1 tablespoon of witch hazel, and 2 tablespoons of vodka or rubbing alcohol. Dip a cotton swab into the lemon toner and rub it over your skin. Rinse the toner off with cool water.








You can use lemon 3 or 4 times a week, but avoid rubbing just the juice directly onto your skin since it could dry it out.
 Although research is needed to determine their effectiveness, egg whites are often used for drying out your skin. Simply separate the yolks and whites from a few eggs. Beat the egg whites until they're slightly frothy and rub them over your oily skin. Let the egg whites dry out before rinsing off and patting your skin dry.








You can discard the egg yolks or save them in the refrigerator for another use.
 Squeeze a little bit of fluoride toothpaste onto your fingertips. Dab the toothpaste on any irritated parts of your face, especially any oily pimples or breakouts. Leave the toothpaste on for 5 to 7 minutes before wiping it off with a clean hot towel.








Some people may find that toothpaste actually irritates their skin or causes redness so you may not want to try this if you have sensitive skin., Bring a pot of water to boil. Taking care not to burn yourself, pour the boiling water into a large shallow basin. Add 3 drops of tea tree essential oil and a few fresh basil leaves. Drape a large towel over the back of your head and lean over the steaming basin. Breathe in the steam for about 10 minutes. Rinse your skin when you're done with the facial.








Tea tree has antimicrobial properties that can kill bacteria. This can prevent your oily skin from breaking out. Tea tree oil also tones your skin and removes excess oil.Keep your head about 12 inches away from the steaming water so you don't burn yourself.
 Make an astringent toner that removes oil and tightens your pores. Place one tablespoon of dried peppermint, yarrow, or sage into a heat-proof cup and carefully it with boiling water. Let the toner steep for 30 minutes and strain out the herbs. Let the toner cool and dip a cotton ball into it. Dab the moistened cotton ball all over your oily skin.








Peppermint, yarrow, and sage are often used to improve the appearance of skin and remove scars.
 Take 2 teaspoons of fine-grained powder like baking powder or rice powder and add enough witch hazel to mix the powder into a paste. Spread this paste over your oily skin. Use your fingertips to massage your skin in a circular motion. Rinse away the paste using warm water.








Massaging the powder into your skin can help the mixture penetrate deep into your skin where the oil is being produced. This can help remove the extra oil.
 Steep 1 cup of fresh mint leaves in 1 cup of boiling water for 5 to 10 minutes. Remove the peppermint leaves and let the tea cool. Dip a cotton ball in the tea and dab it over your oily skin.








Peppermint contains menthol which can balance the pH of your skin and slow down your skin's oil production. It's also an astringent which can help dry your skin out a little.

