 It's difficult to find new machines at low prices, so look for used machines. Put an ad on Craigslist. Check the classified section of your local paper, Craigslist and eBay to find a used machine at a low price. It's best to start with a double or triple vending machine to offer more variety and get more sales.;
, There are many online retailers who offer a wide selection of bulk candy. A cheaper and faster way to buy candy in bulk is by purchasing from a bulk warehouse store like Sam's Club or B.Js. If you don't have a membership already, you will have to buy one. This cost can be offset by using the membership to purchase personal items and food. If you know someone who has a membership, just go with them to purchase candy as you need it and save the membership fee.
 Local convenience stores, bars and restaurants, daycare centers, laundromats waiting rooms and employee break rooms are just a few ideas. Find a location that does not already have candy machines or that have machines with non-competing products. It's best to choose a locally owned business rather than a chain store; you can easily approach and make an arrangement with the business owner instead of dealing with different levels of management.
 Practice your sales pitch. While some of the owners will welcome the idea, others may resist. Talk about the benefits of hosting a machine that the business owner does not need to fill, repair or maintain. The machine can be a draw for parents since it offers an inexpensive treat to children. It can attract customers to the business since people may come in for a piece of candy and end up buying something else. Offer a small commission or a donation of some of the proceeds to the business owner's favorite charity. Let the business owner choose what kind of candy will be put in the machine.
 More than likely, you will be encouraged to set up your business as a legal entity, get licenses and inspections which will cost more than your initial investment goal. However, it's important to operate legally to protect your personal assets. Once you have licenses and tax information in order, you can expand the business by adding more machines and products.
 Empty the coin boxes and refill the candy. Be unobtrusive, and be sure to service them when the business isn't busy. Keep bulk candy (that won't melt) in your vehicle to refill the machines as needed. Locate a source for parts to make repairs as needed.

