 Classic women never wear trendy clothes. They wear classic pieces such as a simple black dress with a striking accessory, aviator glasses, a colorful scarf or a pretty set of pearls. Think of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis's famous over-sized sunglasses and timeless suits. You don't have to go back to the nineteen-fifties, but expand your wardrobe when possible, and learn to have your own sophisticated style. (Some people are very classic and still keep up a colorful, fun appearance);
, A little foundation, lip gloss and mascara can go a very long way. Learn how to make your best features stand out.
 Always aim for a shiny and healthy style. Consult a hairdresser to figure out what style will suit your face and the easiest way to maintain your hair. You don't want to spend hours in front of the mirror.
 Keep nails and toenails looking prim and proper, a simple French manicure is always elegant.
 A positive outlook is always beautiful.


If something is really bothering you, it's okay to show it. But a Classic Beauty is known for being reserved, calm and always in control.
 Intelligence is key. Brush up on as many subjects as possible.
, For example:
Blue eyes: Orange (complementary), Dark Blue, Dark Purple, Light Green, Grey, white, Black, Turquoise (analogous), Blue-Purple (analogous),Dark Red. Colors to avoid are: bright red, lime green, hot pink, brown, baby blue, any tints (colors visibly mixed with white)
Brown eyes: Any Pink, Charcoal, any very dark color, Yellow (it brings out undertones in the eyes, despite it's undignified reputation) Green (also, undertones). Colors to avoid: none, brown is neutral, and so goes with everything.
Green eyes: Purple (it really does bring out the color of your eyes), Dark red (green's complimentary color), dark blue, black, Brown, off-white. Colors to avoid: Grey, since it weighs down the natural tones in your iris, muting the color. However, if your eyes are bright green or blue green, gray brings it out quite nicely. Yellow, bright red (compliments can be jarring when both of the colors are vivid), bright white, orange, and green (which drowns out your eye color).
Black eyes: any color.
Ruddy (blue-toned/pink after exertion/freckled) skin: Cool colors (blue, purple, green, and all the analogous colors between them including Red-purple) Black, Grey. Colors to avoid: Yellow, and the corresponding analogous colors, any red (sorry) and White. Wear dark orange or red-orange at your discretion.
Sallow (yellow toned/ tanning rather than freckling) any warm or neutral colors. Avoid yellow, but golds can look nice
If you are African-American or have a darker complexion, you can wear almost any color. Golds are especially beautiful, though.
If you have red hair, you can wear: Golds, beiges, corals, purples, very dark or light greens (just avoid the "Christmas green" color) dark blues.

