 Before removing the tank, you'll have to jack the car up. Do this by positioning a car jack underneath the car and slowly moving it into the air. This will provide space for you to get underneath the vehicle.


Consider using two jacks to securely lift your vehicle.
Position the jack or jacks under the jack points of the car. Consult your owner's manual for these locations., Before cleaning the tank, make sure to remove it from the car. By removing it, you’ll be able to properly drain, inspect, and clean it. To remove the tank, disconnect screws and straps that hold it in place.


Make sure you are not directly below the tank when disconnecting it.
Use another jack, preferably a transmission jack, to lower the fuel tank., After you’ve removed the tank, you need to drain it completely of any fuel that might remain in it. The extent of this process may depend on the age of the tank, how much fuel is left, or the style of the tank. To drain it:


Use a suction device to transfer the gasoline into a storage container.
If there is some liquid you still can’t’ remove, turn the tank upside down and allow it to drain into a container. You may find that sludge or other debris will move out with any remaining gasoline, If your tank still smells of gasoline after you’ve drained it, you may need to degrease it. You’ll find that you get much better results by degreasing the tank.


Use a degreaser like Marine Clean.
Try mixing dish detergent with hot water.
Let the degreaser or soap and water mix sit in the tank for up to 24 hours.
If the degreaser or soap mixture does not work after 24 hours, consider degreasing the tank again for a longer period of time., After removing the tank, you’ll want to take a pressure washer and spray down the inside of the tank. This will help dislodge dirt, debris, and small flakes of rust. It will also help rinse out gasoline sediment.


Use a pressure washer or a regular garden hose and sprayer to clean the inside of the tank.
You may need to point the sprayer at different angles to remove light rust and other sediment buildup from inside the tank., If the tank has substantial rust or other grime in it, you may need to use commercial solutions to remove it. These solutions work by chemically breaking down rust. After using them, you’ll be able to rinse and remove debris from your tank.


Think about professional grade acid solutions that will dissolve rust in a tank.
Cleaning solutions should only be used on tanks that have been sitting for a long time., After you’ve used cleaning solution or even a degreaser like a light soap, you’ll need to rinse the tanks several times so suds or soap residue is completely removed. If you don’t remove all chemical residue from the tank, you may wind up damaging your engine.


After you’ve loosened built up sediment and rust, empty the tank and refill it again to get any more debris that did not wash away.
Rinse the tank until there are no bubbles or foam present in the water. This might require you to rinse it 2 to 3 times..