 Take regular showers, wear clean clothes, always brush your teeth, make sure your breath doesn't smell, wear clean socks, wear flattering clothes, and put on a flirty perfume/cologne and/or deodorant so that when you want to flirt, you're ready to.;
, Say something casual but cute like, "Hey, what's up?" or, to be even more flirty, "Wassup *winks*". Use lots of smileys to be especially flirty and fun. The classic smile emote is great to use often, and the wink emote is great to use if you want to be really flirty. Also look for other flirty emote like the batting eyelashes emote and the blush emote. If you can't find these emotes, use *(the action you want here)* instead (for example, *blushes* or *bats eyelashes*).
 Here are a few ways to show you're interested in what she's saying/doing without upsetting your boyfriend/girlfriend:

Listen intently to what they say and never think about something else when you are with them.






Talk about things that you know they like. For example, if they love a certain book series or genre, (The Hunger Games, Harry Potter, fantasy book genre, etc.) then bring it up and talk about it with them. You could also give them a little gift, like a Mockingjay pin for a Hunger Games fan or a poster of their celebrity crush. However, only give them gifts if they are very good friends with you, or else they might find you creepy and/or your boyfriend/girlfriend will get upset.






Comment about changes in her look. For example, if it looks like their hairstyle has changed, then you could say, "Hey, did you get a new haircut? It looks nice." Not only does in show interest in them, but it also doubles as a compliment.
 Not too much, but just enough to keep the mood fun. For example, if they have a celebrity crush, tease them about their celeb crush a little by saying things like, "Awww, isn't that cute? You have a crush on Harry Styles/Taylor Lautner/Justin Bieber etc." or, "The real question is.... what would Shawn Desman/Bruno Mars/Zac Efron have to say about that?" To emphasize that you are joking, throw in a playful, flirty wink after telling your little joke.
 If you are a girl, go for a light, casual touch on the arm, hand, or shoulder without letting your touch linger or seem to dramatic and/or romantic. If you are too shy, then compliment them on their shirt or jacket (if they're wearing one) and touch the sleeve of the shirt just hard enough for them to feel you touch them. If you are a guy, be careful not to make her feel intimidated by you when you go for breaking the touch barrier as many girls feel uncomfortable if a guy touches them. If they are a close friend, hug her casually when you greet her or if she doesn't have your full attention when you approach her, then lightly tap her on the shoulder to get her attention but let your hand linger for a second or two.
 For instance, if your 'target' says, "Hey, what are you doing today?" say with a cute smile, "Well, I was going to ask you if you wanted to hang out. Would you like to?" However, don't make this seem like asking them out on a date or your partner will get upset. Also, only do this if you are good friends.
 If they're a girl, say that they are sweet or really friendly or tell them that they have a really pretty smile. If they are a boy, then compliment them if they (try to at least) impress you by saying something like, "Wow! That was cool!" or, "Whoa! Did that really happen? That's so awesome/cool/amazing!" You can also compliment them in a teasing way by telling them that they're cute. However, instead of saying if in a more meaningful way (which might upset your partner), say something (teasingly) like, "Awwwww, aren't you cute?" or, "Awwwww, what you just did was so cute."

