 Although you could write everything out, it's best to use notes to jog your memory -- you'll sound more like you're talking and be able to make more eye contact.


Only have one point per notecard -- that way you won't end up searching the notecard for your information. And don't forget to number the cards in case you get mixed up! And the points on your cards shouldn't match your paper; instead of regurgitating information, discuss why the key points of your paper are important or the different points of view on this topic within the field.
 These are the ones you should be drilling home. The rest of your presentation should be extras not necessarily addressed in your work -- if they've already read the paper, they don't need to be lectured on it. They're there to learn more.


Make an outline of the highlights to help you prepare your presentation. As you form the outline, you'll see what aspects of your paper pop out the most and what order they would best be relayed in.

As you go through this outline, remove any jargon if it may not be understood.
 To help your audience follow along (and for the visual learners), use slides with graphics, charts, and bullet points to make everything a bit more captivating. It can enhance the information in your paper, yes, but it also keeps everyone from wiggling around in their seats.


If you have any statistics at all, turn them into graphs. The contrasts will seem more stark when put in pictures before your audience -- numbers are sometimes meaningless. Instead of thinking about 25% and 75%, they'll be thinking about the 50% difference they see before them.

If you won't have access to the proper technology, print visual aids on poster board or foam-core board.


Presentation software (Powerpoint, etc.) can also double as notecards. Instead of messing with small pieces of paper, you can just click a button to get your next prompt.

If using presentation software, use words sparingly, but enough to get your point across. Think in phrases (and pictures!), not sentences. Acronyms and abbreviations are okay on the screen, but when you talk, address them fully. And remember to use large fonts -- not everyone's vision is fantastic., Just because this is paper-based does not mean your delivery should be equivalent to what an 8.5 x 11 can do. You have personality and are a human engaging with an audience. Use their humanness to do things you might not otherwise do in a paper.


It's okay to be a bit repetitive. Emphasizing important ideas will enhance comprehension and recall. When you've gone full circle, cycle back to a previous point to lead your audience to the right conclusion.
Minimize the unnecessary details (the procedure you had to go through, etc.) when highlighting the main ideas you want to relay. You don't want to overload your audience with fluff, forcing them to miss the important stuff.
Show enthusiasm! A very boring topic can be made interesting if there is passion behind it.

