 Suctioning the mucus out of your infant’s nose will make it easier for him to breathe and to eat. The best time to suction your infant’s nose is before feeding him, as this will help him suck and eat. To suction your child’s nose using a bulb syringe, you will need:Saline or prescription respiratory nose drops. Ask your pediatrician for a prescription.
A clean bulb syringe
Soft tissues
A blanket (optional);
, Your hands have bacteria on them and you don't want to introduce this into your child's nose and mouth. To wash your hands properly:Wet your hands with warm water.
Lather your hands by rubbing them together with soap. Wash the backs of your hands, between your fingers and under your nails.
Scrub your hands for 20 seconds. If you need a timer, hum the tune of "Happy Birthday" two times.
Rinse your hands under clean, running water.
Dry your hands with a paper towel.
 The child's face should be facing the ceiling.You can have someone hold the infant in position gently.
If you don't have assistance, swaddle the infant tightly in a blanket. Swaddling the infant with her arms at her sides will help to keep her still.
 Keep in mind he might not like this and may squirm. Try and hold the infant still for about 10 seconds, with assistance or a swaddle. The saline will help to loosen any mucus clogging his nasal passages.You can make your own saline solution at home, but this is not recommended, especially not for an infant. If you don't get the proportions just right, the saline can be very drying. In addition, you have to make sure you have distilled, sanitized water to mix the solution.
Instead, choose one of the many commercially available saline solutions made specifically for infants. These are inexpensive and are made especially for this purpose.
 Use your thumb and first two fingers to apply pressure to the bulb syringe.
 Let it gently sit in your child’s nostril. Slowly release your thumb, letting the air come back into the bulb syringe.The suction will pull the mucus out of your child's nose and into the bulb. You may need to suction each nostril several times to remove all of the mucus. The mucus may be very thick, especially if your infant has a cold.
If the mucus is too thick to go into the bulb syringe, thin it with a few drops of saline solution and then try to suction it again, gently.
 Squeeze the mucus out of the bulb onto a paper towel or a tissue.Your child may have some mucus around the outside of her nostril. Be sure to wipe this away gently to prevent skin irritation.
 Take care to suction carefully to remove most of the mucus in your infant's nose.
 Wash the bulb syringe with warm soapy water after each use.Make sure you rinse the syringe thoroughly to prevent soap buildup in the syringe. Squeeze the bulb several times in the soapy water to clean out the mucus. Shake the inside of the bulb before squeezing it out.
Allow it to dry overnight before using it again or storing it.
 Limit suctioning your infant’s nose to four times a day to prevent irritating the lining of your infant’s nose.

