 You may ask your vet, “What type of supplement is best for my older dog?” and “Do you recommend a certain brand?” Your vet should know about your dog’s medical history and be able to help you determine the best supplement for their needs.You should also tell your vet if you are feeding your dog specially formulated dog food, as some dog foods already contain supplements for their health. Your vet may recommend certain supplements based on your dog’s diet as well as their medical history.;
, Giving your dog too much of a supplement at a time can lead to health issues. Speak to your vet about the proper dosage for your dog based on their medical history and their medical needs. Always follow the recommended dosage so your dog is not at risk of health issues., Keep an eye on your older dog’s health by scheduling three or six monthly check ups with your vet where you discuss the use of the supplements on your pet. Notice any adverse effects on your dog due to the supplements and let your vet know right away so the type or dosage of the supplement can be adjusted.If you notice your dog is lethargic, has no appetite, or is acting differently than they did before you gave them the supplement, they may be having an adverse reaction to the supplement. Discontinue the use of the supplement and talk to your vet.
 Many older dogs suffer from joint issues like arthritis, back issues, and problems with their knees, elbows, and hips. Your dog may start to show signs of joint problems, such as difficulty walking, a limp, or a leaning to one side when they walk. They may also not be as active as they once were and be less inclined to go on long walks or to play for long periods of time.There are certain health supplements that can help to treat joint issues in older dogs. These supplements will contain glucosamine and chondroitin, which have been found to be useful in treating arthritis in humans and animals., If you notice your dog has issues like irritable bowel syndrome, acid reflux, allergies to certain foods, or gas and belly rumbling, they may have poor digestive health. You can address these issues by giving your dog prebiotic and probiotic supplements to make sure their intestines are healthy. These types of supplements can also help your dog’s immune system stay strong and reduce their allergies to certain foods.Many prebiotic and probiotic supplements for dogs have been designed that contain the right type of bacteria normally present in the dog's gut, since this is different than the bugs in a human's gut. These supplements use live cultures to help maintain a microbacterial balance in your dog’s intestines.
 Older dogs can have issues like hair loss and dry skin due to old age. You can address these issues in your senior pup by giving them supplements that contain ingredients to increase the amount of moisture in their skin and hair.To address hair loss and dry skin, look for supplements that contain fish oil and fatty acids. These ingredients can help to improve your dog’s coat.
 If you notice your older dog is struggling with memory loss, you may try giving them a supplement to address this. Supplements that contain vitamins C and E can help to improve cognitive function in your older dog., Start by reading the label of the supplement. Look for a lot number on the label, as this is an indication the manufacturer has done quality control checks. It will appear on the label as "Lot #:". You should also check for the brand name and a contact number for the manufacturer on the label. You may try calling the contact number to confirm the manufacturer is legitimate.Be wary of claims on the label that sound too good to be true. Labels that advertise the cure for cancer, hip dysplasia and parvovirus are likely not high quality. Avoid products that are labeled as specifically designed to meet the health needs of older dogs, as these types of promises are often marketing ploys.
 Check the ingredients list on the label to ensure the ingredients you need for your dog are clearly listed. For example, if you are looking for a supplement to address joint issues, you may look for glucosamine and chondroitin on the list of ingredients.You should also make sure the supplement does not contain ingredients that will be harmful to your dog, such as natural ingredients like garlic as well as certain roots and herbs such as tea tree, wormwood, comfrey, and yucca., The Federal Drug Administration oversees the regulation of animal supplements and reputable pet supplements will often be confirmed tested by the FDA. Keep in mind the FDA does not do constant monitoring of animal supplements and many supplements on the market are not confirmed safe by the FDA.You should also check that the supplement has been independently verified by a third party organization and certified as safe to use. There should be a certification listed on the label of the supplement to confirm this testing.
 Get to know the seller of the supplement to confirm it is safe to give to your dog. If you buy the supplement online, do research on the seller to confirm they are legitimate and do not have any negative consumer reports or complaints. You should also discuss your pet’s medical history and their health needs with a seller in store before you buy any supplements.Often, supplements purchased through a vet are less likely to cause issues for your pet. But you should still research the supplement on your own before giving it to your older dog, even if it comes recommended through your vet.

