 Bullying happens due to an imbalance of power. Bullies tease and pick on kids who are smaller or younger than them. Plus, bullies target peers who are not as accepted socially as they are.A bully is unlikely to pick on a kid who is popular and well-liked. Instead, these individuals pick on kids who are relatively unknown or socially ostracized because other kids are less likely to stand up for them.
Some bullies may come from families who have financial difficulties. They may grow up without many superficial items that other kids have so they end up bullying kids who appear to be richer than them.
 Bullies generally pick on kids who they perceive to go against the norms of the school environment. You may have different hobbies or likes than the masses and be targeted for being different.For example, if the school is big on sports and one kid performs very poorly in sports, this kid may be picked on for failing to meet the social expectation that students at that school are good in sports.
Kids who are observed as seemingly gay or lesbian are also known to be targets of bullying. At home, the bully's parents or the community may have a strong opposition to individuals with sexual orientations other than heterosexual. Therefore, parents can often model unacceptable behaviors that their children imitate at school.
Some kids are bullied because they are socially awkward. Perhaps, they have developmental delays or learning disabilities. Other kids may tease these students and refuse to allow them to join in on activities or sit with them at lunch., Since bullying exists because of an imbalance of power, it can happen in various situations, even to adults. Individuals with higher rank or better connections may engage in bullying behaviors in the workplace, selecting an employee perceived to be weaker and hitting, teasing, or intimidating this person., Children often are modeled behaviors in the home that result in bullying in schools. For instance, some children are physically or verbally abused by their parents or older siblings at home. These kids may go to school and act out those same behaviors with kids they see as weaker.Bully-victims frequently have trouble fitting in, have greater emotional problems, and feel unsafe at school.
 Even though a bully may pick on you because you are different or socially isolated, that does not mean it's about you. Bullies simply choose targets to humiliate and intimidate because they get off on this kind of behavior and it makes bullies feel better about themselves.


Being the target of bullying can be a difficult experience emotionally and mentally. It will not help your situation to internalize it and beat yourself up. Remember, it is not your fault.

