 When you write blog posts that contain keywords that are relevant to your industry or business, the keyword density on your website will increase and result in more visitors.


Use website analytic tools to review the keywords that bring visitors to your website. An example of a website analytic tool you can use is Google Analytics.;
, For example, if you run a business selling coffee, and your main keywords are "coffee" and "coffee beans," blog about different types of coffee beans, recipes that include coffee, how to grind coffee beans, and more.
 The frequency at which you publish new blog posts can vary depending on the nature and size of your business, your writing style, and how often breaking news updates occur in your industry.


Publish quality blog posts as often as possible; as this practice will increase the number of indexed pages on your website and create multiple entry points into your website from search engines and other sources.
Add a guest book, daily poll or survey, or an interactive forum to your blog if you do not have the ability to publish new blog content often. This can increase traffic by allowing new content to be published on your blog and recognized by search engine algorithms.
 Embedding questions throughout your blog posts or at the end of blog posts will help engage your readers and generate discussion about your content.


Ask questions that are related to the content within your blog post. For example, if you run a dog grooming business, write a blog post about the dog shampoo products you use, then ask your readers about the types of dog shampoo products they recommend.
Verify that the comments section of your blog posts are enabled before asking your readers questions, which will allow their responses and discussions to be published within that particular blog post.
 This can help bring new visitors to your website and create link-back opportunities to your website from other sites.


Comment on blog posts on other websites. In most cases, you will have the ability to include the link to your own website within the comment thread. For example, if you are part of the construction industry, visit home improvement blogs and provide helpful tips or suggestions on certain topics, then include a link back to your own contracting or construction business.
 This will give readers who find your information interesting or useful the opportunity to share your blog post with others via email and other social networking platforms.


Consult with your webmaster or blogging platform to determine how you can add share buttons to your blog posts. Examples of share buttons that can be added are Twitter, Facebook, StumbleUpon, Digg, Reddit, and more.

