 If you want braces to be less obvious, you can avoid the stereotypical stainless steel braces in favor of braces that blend in with your teeth to the degree they are barely noticeable. Sometimes adults with braces prefer them to be less obvious.


Braces come in tooth-colored ceramic or plastic. Sometimes, the braces will be cemented to the back of the teeth so they are less obvious. Clear braces are another name for ceramic braces.They are translucent, but they can break more easily.
Lingual braces are braces that you can’t see from the front. These braces go behind the teeth. They can make it hard to move your tongue properly, though, and can cause some speech trouble. They are usually more expensive than other kinds of braces. Similarly, the tiny rubber rings or fine wires that fasten the brackets together can be clear or colored, in addition to metal.
Check with your orthodontist about whether you are a candidate for mini braces. These braces have smaller brackets on each teeth and thus are less visible.
 Fresh breath and clean teeth can give you a beautiful smile with or without braces. You will need to take extra care of your teeth with braces, though.You should brush your teeth every time you eat, even if you’re eating a snack. Watch getting food caught in your teeth. This can be embarrassing when you have braces. Watch what you eat, and you won’t have to worry about this as much!Carry a small compact with a mirror in your purse so you can subtly check whether you have food in your mouth. The extra brushing is necessary to rid the mouth of food particles that can get trapped in the braces. Use an electric toothbrush or a soft brush with rounder bristles.
Rinse your mouth first with water to dislodge any food that could be stuck in your braces. Brush at your gum line first, while holding the toothbrush at a 45-degree angle. Then, clean the brackets of the braces by brushing near their top at a downward angle and then brushing near the bottom at an upward angle. Rinse again.
 Yes, believe it or not but you can and should floss your teeth even while wearing braces! This will keep your teeth healthy.


Try to floss once a day at least, under the wires in addition to between the braces. You can buy a floss threader or orthodontic flosser at drug stores that will make it easier to floss your teeth with braces.
Waxed dental floss also makes it easier to floss your teeth because it won’t get caught as easily on your braces.
Another way to reach teeth with braces is an interproximal or interdental brush. This goes between your teeth and is even better than flossing.

