 Introverted people tend to desire more alone time than others do. If you travel with others, you’ll constantly be negotiating with them about where to go next and what to see and do. But if you travel alone, you’ll be able to satisfy your desire for minimal levels of communication while maximizing your freedom to go wherever the wind takes you. You might want to travel to internationally renowned sites like:the Great Wall of China
the Statue of Liberty
the Eiffel Tower
the Grand Canyon
the Appalachian Trail
Yellowstone National Park

, If you want to travel with a group (your family, schoolmates, etc.) be clear and firm about your desires. Remember, you’re introverted, but not shy or lacking in confidence. Ensure that the trip will be enjoyable for you as well as for them.Provide feedback about the itinerary. Schedule a mix of quiet places and more renowned, busy places.
Schedule downtime into your group's final itinerary so that you have time to relax apart from the others.
Ideally, you'll be able to travel with another group of introverts. That way, you’ll all be of a common mind about what sort of travel experience you want to have.
 Being an introvert is more than just a mode of socialization – it’s a way of thinking and feeling, too. Traveling the world as an introvert might inspire your to take your time when you travel to a new place. Traveling slowly and enjoying the points between destinations will allow you to satisfy your desire to really get a feel for a place, its people, and its lifeways.Take your time when traveling by, for instance, taking a more circuitous route instead of the fastest and most direct route.
Spend more time in-country to wherever it is you’re traveling.
Don’t overschedule your days. Plan on seeing one or two sights in a day, then leaving the rest of your day for spontaneous other adventures, journaling, or lounging about while mulling over what you’ve seen and heard on your travels., One of the best ways to travel the world as an introvert is to do so while working. Instead of being tied to a job where you have few or no opportunities to travel the world, get a job that enables you to do so. Many people are discouraged from traveling because they believe they will lose out on potential income. Traveling while working, though, guarantees that you have a constant source of income even while traveling.For instance, lots of introverts have great success as writers or photographers. Both of these occupations allow you to work more or less alone, and in any location you want to. News outlets, advertising departments, and other content producers might be interested in your work.

