 Healthier choices at the grocery store start before you get there. You first need to make a healthy plan for your meals. Pick recipes that include lean proteins (think fish, skinless chicken, and beans), whole grains, low-fat dairy, fruits, and vegetables. Once you know what meals you want to make it, you'll find the grocery store much easier to navigate.If meal planning isn't your forte, try using a meal-planning app, which will do a lot of the work for you.Plan for some quick meals on those nights when you can't manage something elaborate. For example, you could choose something easy, like a fresh salad, or you could make more one night so you have leftovers the next night.If you have children, include them in the meal planning process. This will ensure that you pick healthy foods that your children will eat. Your children may also enjoy helping out in the kitchen as you cook these meals.;
, You've got your meals planned out. Now, you need to make a list. A list is important because if you don't make a list, you're more likely to take detours into less healthy sections of the grocery store. Once you've got a list, try to stick to it.Include healthy snacks on your list. It's unreasonable to think you won't want any snacks, and if you leave it to when you're in the grocery store (or worse, standing in front of a vending machine), you're not likely to make healthy choices. Pick things like frozen yogurt, air-popped popcorn, whole grain crackers, low-fat cheese, fruits, vegetables, and hummus.Many meal-planning apps will also create a grocery list for you. You can also get apps exclusively to help you create grocery lists.
 If you haven't been making healthy choices, you don't want to suddenly switch your whole diet. That's likely to lead to you crashing and burning, and then you'll go back to your less healthy choices. Instead, make changes slowly, trying to make a single healthier choice each week.For example, try a no-sugar added canned fruit instead of one in syrup, or try picking whole-wheat bread instead of white bread.
 Shopping while hungry may encourage impulse buying. You may even find yourself buying unhealthy snacks instead of sticking to your shopping list. Try to avoid shopping while hungry. If you can, eat a healthy snack or meal before you go to the store to reduce the temptation., Each store is set up a bit differently, but often the healthiest options (the ingredients rather than whole meals) are on the perimeter. For instance, produce, dairy, meat, bread, and frozen foods are often on the perimeter. You may want to make some forays into other sections, such as the canned vegetable aisle, but try to skip aisles where you make less healthy choices, such as the frozen pizza aisle., While some processed foods are healthier than others, its best to cook foods at home if you can. Shop for ingredients, like whole wheat pasta, tomato sauce, and lean ground chicken, instead of whole meals, like a frozen spaghetti dinner. What you make at home will likely have less fat, less sugar, and fewer preservatives., Another key to making healthy choices at the grocery store is to look closely at labels. Pay particular attention to saturated fats, trans fats, cholesterol, and sodium. For each serving, look at the daily value: twenty percent (or more) of your daily value is high, while five percent or less is low. Try to keep these items on the low end.On the other hand, try to increase your intake of vitamins and fiber.
After reading the labels, try to pick the healthiest option of what's available., Special labels can help you identify healthy foods. For instance, the American Heart Association has a special label (look for a red check) to mark heart-healthy foods. You can also look for words like "low-sodium" or "low-fat" to help you choose. However, keep in mind that just because it says something like "low-fat," that doesn't mean it's healthy. Sometimes, manufacturers will increase sugar to make up for the fat, so always read the label closely., Fruits and vegetables are one of the healthiest options in the grocery store, so feel free to stock up. Fresh can be delicious, but canned and frozen can be just as good for you. When picking canned or frozen, be sure to skip brands with added sugars or sodium.Don't be afraid to try out new fruits and vegetables. You may find something new that you love. If the fruit or vegetable is completely new to you, look up a recipe so you know how to use it best., Whole grains are generally healthier for you than more processed options. When picking out items such as bread, pasta, or cereal, look for words like "100 percent whole wheat" or "100 percent whole grain." The higher the percentage, the better. At least half of your grains should be whole grains.You can also cook whole grains by themselves, such as oatmeal, bulgur, quinoa, and buckwheat.
 When shopping in the dairy section, look for low-fat options. For instance, choose skim or one percent milk over whole. Try plain, non-fat yogurt instead of full-fat. Pick up low-fat mozzarella instead of full-fat. Making these simple switches will help keep the fats in your diet down, and often, you won't even notice the change in many recipes., Lean proteins, like chicken, fish, and beans are a great choice if you're looking to eat healthier. Boneless, skinless chicken breast, for instance, is a very healthy choice. Fish is also a great addition, particularly fish high in omega-3 fatty acids like salmon and tuna. Beans are very lean, and they are a great source of fiber and protein.If you're on a budget, try canned salmon or tuna. Also, beans are very budget-friendly, particularly dried beans.
 When shopping for items you eat all the time, like cereals, dressings, yogurts, and even desserts, always look for the healthiest option. Try low-fat varieties or ones with less sugar to make them healthier. You may even find you like these versions better.