 Eating right is good to being healthy but it doesn't mean to stop eating the foods you like. Eat preferred non-healthy food in moderation, but eat mostly healthy food. Get your hands on a proper nutrition guide and try to follow the daily guidelines for fruit and veggies.;
, Getting at least 8 hours a sleep for someone is vital. Sleep helps restore your body inside and out so don't skimp on it!

, Be sure to keep fit and healthy. Exercise or/and at least walk for 30 minutes a day. Also, if you stretch at night before you go to sleep, you will feel great (and never tense) when you wake up in the morning.
 Get a new brush every three months and brush your teeth after meals. Floss too, for maximum oral health. If your lips are dry, use chapstick, being careful to choose one with beeswax or shea/coconut butter.
 Every time you think you might need to, wash them. It can prevent bad germs, also be sure to avoid touching your face or you will grow pimples.
 If you are on your period keep in mind you should change your tampon/pad every couple of hours to avoid leaking and smelling. If you need help remembering, put an alert on your phone

, You must already know it's terrible for you: it makes you smell and look awful and it destroys your organs from the inside out. If you don't smoke, never start because it's very hard to quit. You can get medical help if you want to quit or try by yourself, smoking less and less. Stay away from other drugs too (non-prescribed medication, alcohol, excessive caffeine and others). Even if someone tells you that they're not bad for you, they sure can't do any good

, Keep some water with you at all times and drink to keep healthy. Water is good to every part of you and most people don't drink enough

, Use shower gel or soap of any smell to wash yourself (eg. strawberry soap, chocolate soap, orange soap.) Be sure to wash everywhere with your hands or a washcloth or a shower sponge.
 Choose a shampoo and conditioner combo that you like and that suits your hair type (get advice from others if you are unsure). When washing your hair, massage it for a couple of minutes, then rinse well so that the soap doesn't get stuck your hair and hardens. Be sure to get in the scalp. If you have dandruff, use a dandruff-fighting shampoo. Avoid heat styling tools or, if you must, put heat protector in your hair.
 Put it everywhere after you bathe, to moisturize. Avoid your face, we'll get to it later

, If you want to, paint them, taking care to do so neatly

, Wash your face at least twice a day and consider providing a facial routine for yourself. Search for products that suit your skin type and consider getting help from someone when choosing a face wash. Use cold or warm (not hot!) water to wash the product off and apply a facial moisturizer adequate to your needs. If you have oily skin, you still need to moisturize, only with a lighter formula. If you have eczema, then make to sure to use a eczema fighting face wash if possible.
 If you have any unwanted body hair, get rid of it in any way you prefer. Shaving is a cheaper and easier option, but be careful not to cut yourself. Waxing or sugaring make sure you stay hairless longer. Remember: never shave the unwanted hair on your face!

, Make sure the fabric is good quality and isn't see-through or feels cheap. A good rule is to use only natural materials like 100% cotton or wool. Also make sure you are expressing your personal style and that your clothes fit right

, Be nice to people. If you are not nice, people will never want to be your friend.

