 The fan leaves are the large leaves that have five distinct points – a large, long point in the center and two smaller points on either side. Fan leaves can be plucked with your fingers or clipped with scissors or shears.Some people choose to clip their fan leaves later, after they’ve cured the plant. This slows down the drying process and produces more flavorful buds.
 The sugar leaves are those that emerge from the buds themselves. They are so short that their stems cannot be seen. Only their tips are visible. Use your scissors to snip them off., Generally, it’s a good idea to leave the buds you want (the ones close to the top of the plant) on the plant in order to slow the drying process. If you’re in a high-humidity environment, you might need to remove the buds in order to advance the drying process., When the bud-bearing branches have been removed and partitioned into individual pieces, they must be cured (dried). Using string or twist ties, hang the branches on your laundry line so that all parts are exposed to air. Hang your plants in a room with a temperature of about 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius) and no warmer than 85 degrees Fahrenheit (29 degrees Celsius).Use heavy ventilation in the form of a fan or a draft to help dry the branches at first.
As they dry, gradually decrease the ventilation to increase the moisture in the room, but never let the moisture exceed about 50%.
Don't expose your harvested plants to direct sunlight, heat, or moisture. The latter is especially bad, as it can produce mold, which can ruin a crop.
The goal is for your branches to slowly, naturally dry, so that when you smoke the buds, they produce a pleasing flavor. This may take upwards of a week.
 After removing all the buds, clip the rest of the leaves from all of the branches. There's no right way to do this. A firm tug on each leaf stalk might be one person's preferred method, while clipping might be another's. Once a marijuana plant has been totally trimmed of its buds and leaves, it should be disposed of. Place it in your compost bin or put it out with the rubbish.