 Policies that offer more services and options will cost more than plans that only provide basic, catastrophic-event coverage.


Locate a company that will show several insurance carriers at once to find the lowest premiums available to you.;
, Using one company for health and dental insurance needs will give you the ability to pay just one bill each month and have one point of contact for questions about billing, benefits and other plan components.
 Some procedures are considered elective, such as teeth whitening, and may not be covered by the company.


Ask the dental insurance company representative if there is a limit to the amount of yearly coverage allowed. Some plans only cover annual maintenance such as teeth cleanings.
 Your vital statistics such as weight, height and whether or not you use tobacco products will affect the types of rates and coverage you can receive.
 Examine all major components such as:


Determine the waiting period for coverage. Some plans require a 6 month wait time until members receive coverage.
Find out if the policy allows you to see any doctor or if you are required to see one in the plan "provider network" in order to avoid surcharges.
Determine if you will be required to meet a deductible before coverage begins. A higher deductible will lower your premium but coverage may be non-existent until the deductible is met.
See if you need a referral from a primary care doctor to see specialists, such as a neurologist. Referral requirements may delay care.
Ask if drug coverage is offered. If so, you may need to meet a separate drug deductible before coverage is available.
 Health and dental insurance plans typically prohibit members from making changes to their plan for 12 months.
 If you received the quotes through a website, you will need to complete a more detailed application and submit your information to the company. If an insurance agent helped you in person, you will need to meet with the agent again to complete the application.


Call the entity's customer service phone number if you have questions that cannot be answered with the online materials provided. By calling, you might be able to finish your application directly with the representative.
 If your application is denied, your premium will usually be refunded.

