 In mainstream culture, people tend to just like things because everyone else likes them, not because they're actually good. In indie culture, people take quality seriously and you will need to as well. People can of course have different opinions about what is good, but you should evaluate new things to think about whether you think they are actually good. Set the standards bar high for music, food, clothing, and everything else in your life (especially concerning consumer products).
 Mainstream culture tends to be really trendy and most things that are popular will only be considered good for a short time. You should look for things, both past and present, which have a timeless quality. This is why indie music tends to take a lot of influence from folk music and fashion usually pulls from the 40s-70s.
 Indie means independent record label, after all. I won't bother with a list of well-known indie bands for you to listen to; there are new bands with new sounds coming out all the time and to tell you what to listen to would defeat the purpose. Being indie about music is about being open to new things.


Do some research. There are many online services such as Pandora and Grooveshark that will allow you to put in the name of an artist you enjoy and will make recommendations for you of new artists for you to listen to. Try new things and find some new bands!
Head down to your local record store, if it still exists. Picking through records for hours is how our predecessors found their music and there is a lot to be said for it. If you're lucky enough to still have a local record store, become a patron.






Talk to your friends about music. The best way to learn about artists you will really enjoy is to talk to other people who love music. Being indie is about exchanging new ideas and sharing new things; when you find a band you like, share it with your friends!
Get involved in your local music scene. No matter where you are, there are people playing music in your area. This is the heart of indie music, and a great way to get involved in your community. If you play music yourself, find people to make new sounds with! There's no better way to participate in indie culture than by making indie music.






Don't worry about whether or not your tastes are popular or "indie enough." Listen to what you love. There is no "master indie playlist" that tells us which songs are cool and which are not.
 Part of being indie is about making your own stuff, and learning new skills.


Take your existing interests and hobbies to the next step. Love to eat? Learn to cook! Love scarves and knitwear? Learn to knit! Really into your smartphone? Learn to develop apps yourself! The information is out there to self-educate, and the potential is limitless.
Don't be afraid to be creative. Indie labels have always been known for new kinds of music that push boundaries. Push boundaries in your creative endeavors too.
Get your friends involved in DIY too. You can complete more ambitious projects when you have help! Build a community garden or volunteer for a cause you all care about. Being indie is also about doing things together. There are many community organizations to get involved with in your local area.
 New movies (from new directors!), new books (or old, neglected ones), new music, or a new look, you should always be open to new things. Even philosophies and ideas. Indie culture is about finding things to love that people have neglected, forgotten about, or haven't had the chance to appreciate yet.

