 The sound of an arriving guest might upset the new dog. Therefore, you should ask all potential visitors to call you before they arrive at the house. Alternately, or in addition, you could put an “out-of-order” sign over your doorbell to prevent its use altogether.Your dog might also be afraid of or agitated by a knock at the door. You could place a sign on the door that reads, “Dear visitor, please do not knock. Instead, call me at .”;
, Create a positive association with visitors. If you know your guest is arriving, start playing with your dog for the five to 10 minutes prior to their arrival. This ensures your dog will be in good spirits and – hopefully – a bit more relaxed when your guest arrives. Over time, your dog will come to associate the arrival of a guest with positive feelings like happiness., If your dog is behaving properly during a visit, whether it’s scheduled or unscheduled, feed your dog a steady stream of treats. This will keep the dog relaxed and less likely to engage in unwanted behavior. If your dog has a favorite treat, keep a bagful of those treats handy and accessible in advance of the visitor’s arrival., If your dog seems agitated or moody, hold off on introducing it to visitors until it is in a better mood. For instance, if your dog is barking loudly, whimpering, or pacing about with nervous energy, your best bet is to make introductions some other day.If you can’t control when the visit takes place – for instance, if your visitor drops by unannounced – provide the new dog a steady stream of treats when the visitor is present. Your guest should do likewise.
If you’ve already scheduled the visit and find your dog is agitated, contact the visitor and explain that your new dog is in no mood to receive guests today. Reschedule the introduction between the visitor and the new dog at a different time.
 If it bolts for the door, it won’t get far. And if it attempts to jump on your guests, you’ll be able to quickly pull the dog away and keep it at a distance.Remove the leash if and when your new dog appears calm and collected enough to not jump up on visitors or engage in other unwanted behaviors.
 If you are on edge or have a nervous energy about you, your new dog will sense and reflect it. This could lead to unwanted behavior when your new dog is introduced to your visitors.To stay calm, breathe in through your nose for three seconds and out through your mouth for five seconds.
Visualize a successful introduction. For instance, if you’re plagued by nightmares or thoughts of a disastrous introduction between your new dog and visitors, replace negative imagery with positive imagery. For instance, when you envision your new dog whimpering and unhappy in the presence of visitors, you should “turn the page” mentally and envision instead a happy dog meeting a host of kind visitors.
If your guest is not calm, listen to what they have to say. Let them know that you understand their nervous behavior by asking, “Is there anything I can do to help you relax around my new dog?” Letting them know that you’re there will reassure them and help them calm down.Instruct them in some calming techniques that you’ve used such as envisioning a pleasant introduction to your new dog and practicing breathing control techniques.

