 Engage in at least 5 minutes of aerobic activity such as biking, jogging, walking, or jump roping. Warming up increases your body temperature and blood flow to your muscles. This allows your muscles to be more flexible and decreases your risk of injury.Never attempt a wall split without warming your body up first. Ten to fifteen minutes of warming up is ideal.
Your warm up routine should engage the same muscles that you will use during your wall split. Jumping jacks, squats, lunges, high knees, and leg swings are good warm up exercises.;
, Once your body is warm, do some static stretching. Static stretching is the form of stretching that you are probably most familiar with. You stretch a muscle or muscle group and hold that positionfor 20 - 60 seconds. Repeat each stretch 2 to 6 times.


Your stretching session should last for 20 to 30 minutes.
Stretch your lower back, hips, groin, hamstrings, buttocks, quadriceps, and calves.Move in and out of each stretch slowly and gently.
 Many people forget to breathe when they stretch. However, proper breathing makes your stretching more effective. Inhale slowly through your nose, hold your breath for a seconds, and then exhale through your nose or your mouth. Your breathing should be slow and relaxed.Your body becomes more relaxed as you exhale so feel free to lean in on your stretch as you are exhaling.Holding your breath as you stretch will cause your muscles to be more tense.
 Regular stretching will increase your overall flexibility and improve your wall splits. Warm up your muscles and stretch every day. If you are consistent, you should reach maximal flexibility in your lower body within two months.If you are older or naturally inflexible, it will take you longer to improve your flexibility.
You should not feel pain as you stretch or the day after you stretch. If you experience this, you are pushing your muscles too hard. Stop your stretching routine until the pain has stopped.Remember that increasing flexibility is gradual process. Only stretch your muscles as far as they are willing to go.

