 In order to deal with life being unfair, you first must get to the core of the bad apple you’ve been tossed. Ask yourself what, exactly, is the root cause of this particular unfairness. Sometimes the cause will be something within your control, such as getting into a car accident because you were texting and driving. Other times the root cause is completely out of your control, such as being sexually assaulted or diagnosed with a life-threatening medical condition.Try sitting down and making a list of all possible causes of why life is unfair at this particular moment in time.;
, An important part of learning how to deal with life being unfair is assessing what you do and do not have control over in a situation. Remember that there are certain things you can control, like your behavior, and there are other things you cannot control, such as freak accidents, debilitating diseases, and being the victim of a crime.Try making a list of all the causes of unfairness in a situation. Make a star beside each item that you do have control over.
 In life you must take responsibility for who you are and for your actions and behaviors. If you are an active participant in a situation that is unfair, you must own up to your role. If, for example, you got a D on your chemistry exam and did not study for the test, you must take responsibility for your lack of preparation., Life is unfair, and oftentimes it has nothing to do with your thoughts, actions, or behavior. For example, you should not blame yourself if you are a victim of sexual assault or if you recently received a diagnosis of lung cancer.
 Your locus of control is your sense that things are either within your control or outside of your control. Some people have a high degree of feeling like they are in control of their lives, while other people feel like they have little to no control over their own lives.Consider your sense that you are in control of your life. If you tend to feel like you have little control, then you may need to work on developing a stronger sense of control.

