 People you know and trust can be your best sources when looking for an attorney.Keep in mind that, depending on your situation, attorneys in other practice areas such as personal injury may be able to assist on your animal law case.
Additionally, attorneys know other attorneys, and may be able to recommend someone who would be good for your case.
Be careful about relying too much on word of mouth. Even though you may trust the person offering the recommendation, you should keep in mind that he or she has a different personality, different interests, and likely had different legal needs than you do.;
, Animal shelters near you may know attorneys in your area who practice animal law.Many animal shelters or animal rights organizations have attorneys they use, and may recommend those services to you.
It's also possible that an animal shelter or other nonprofit organization has attorneys within its group of volunteers. Even if that attorney doesn't specifically practice animal law, he or she cares a great deal about animal welfare to volunteer.
People at the nearest branch of the Humane Society or the ASPCA also may be able to recommend an animal law attorney to you., State and local bar associations often have attorney referral directories on their websites.You can start at the American Bar Association's Legal Services locator, available at http://apps.americanbar.org/legalservices/findlegalhelp/home.cfm. Enter your state to get information about the bar association and other referral services available in your area.
Many bar associations allow you to search their directories by practice area. If animal law isn't listed, start with personal injury, property damage, or tort.
Some state bar associations have animal law sections. Check on your state bar association's website for resources on animal law and information about attorneys in the state who practice animal law., Many legal websites have attorney directories as well as information about various areas of law including animal law.Some of these websites include attorney profiles, ratings, and client reviews as well.
Keep in mind that not all of these services are vetted or regularly updated, so if you find an attorney on a national website, you'll want to look further into him or her to make sure you have the most up-to-date information with which to make your decision.
 Through an attorney's website you typically can learn about his or her background, education, and experience in law.If an attorney specializes in animal law, he or she may have a list of the types of cases he or she takes. Look at the list and figure out if your case falls within one of those types.Look for an attorney who is passionate about animals. For example, an attorney who practices animal law may have pictures of her pets on her website.In addition to practicing law, attorneys may be certified trainers or breeders, and may have partnerships or relationships with local animal welfare agencies or nonprofit animal organizations., Statements from prior clients can give you a good idea of what it's like to work with the attorney.You can search the lawyer's name on the internet to find out if anything is being said about him or her. Look at any local news articles or blog posts that mention the lawyer to get a sense of his or her reputation in the community.
Keep in mind that if you're reading testimonials on the attorney's website, these probably have been vetted and will skew towards more positive experiences. Most people in any profession wouldn't want to advertise negative feedback on their own website.
 Before you talk to an attorney, you should make sure that he or she is licensed to practice law in your area.


Your local bar association typically will have information about an attorney's license, including disciplinary reports or records. In some states this information also is available at the website for your state's highest court.
Avoid meeting with an attorney who has previously been disciplined for a violation of professional ethics rules.
 Although not required to practice law, malpractice insurance protects you if an attorney makes a mistake while working for you.Keep in mind that if an attorney doesn't have malpractice insurance, you may have no recourse if the attorney makes a mistake or mishandles your case.
In many states, attorneys are required to disclose whether they have malpractice insurance.If disclosure isn't required, you should put it on your list of questions to ask the attorney when you go for an initial consultation.
 If possible, you should try to interview at least two or three attorneys.Many attorneys will offer a free initial consultation so they can assess your case and determine if they can help you, while others will charge a small fee – typically less than their hourly rate – for the first meeting.Keep in mind that some attorneys view a free initial consultation as little more than a sales pitch, and will spend the entire time trying to sell their services to you rather than getting an understanding of you and your situation.
When you call to schedule a meeting, pay attention to how quickly the attorney is available. If the attorney doesn't have an opening for several weeks or even months, it could be an indication that he or she is too busy to give your case the time and attention it deserves.
 Gather the documents or information you will need to explain your case to the attorney.If you were told to bring any particular documents, or fill out a form, prior to your meeting, make sure you get that information to the attorney well in advance so he or she has the opportunity to prepare for the consultation as well.
You also may want to write a list of questions you want to ask, so you don't forget something important during the interview.
 Telling the prospective attorney your story and the nature of the dispute will help him or her understand how to help you.Take note of the attorney's behavior and body language while you are speaking. Ideally, you want an attorney who is engaged and attentive – not one who is distracted, constantly interrupts you, or appears to be reading or working on something else.
The most effective attorneys will listen to what you have to say and be responsive, asking questions or raising issues that come to them as you relate your issue.
 During the interview, you need to find out as much as you can about each attorney and his or her practice.


Ask the attorney background information, even if you already know from looking at his or her website. It can be important to see how the attorney answers the question and what points he or she chooses to emphasize. It may even be the case that his or her answer in person differs from the one on the website – whether because the attorney is trying to mislead you or simply hasn't updated his or her site in awhile.
Find out how long the attorney has been practicing animal law, and how many animal law cases he or she has had. If the attorney practices in other areas, find out what percentage of his or her practice is devoted to animal law.An attorney who focuses solely on animal law will have the most experience, and be the most up-to-date on this area of law and how it applies to your case. However, attorneys who dedicate their practice exclusively to animal law may be difficult to find, especially in more rural areas.
Ask the attorney the best way to communicate with him or her, and how quickly you can expect a response. Most attorneys have a preferred method of communication and using it typically will get you the fastest response time.Don't be afraid to bring up finances, particularly if you are worried about your ability to pay any substantial attorney's fees. Many attorneys will be willing to work with you if you are honest about your situation, and a lot of personal injury or plaintiff's attorneys will work on a contingency arrangement, meaning you pay them a percentage of your settlement or award if you win.
 If you're going to hire an attorney, you need to make sure that you get along with him or her personally and feel comfortable in the office.Pay attention to the actions of other employees in the office, as well as how the attorney treats his or her assistants, receptionists, or other employees.
Assess the attorney's personality, and think about whether you feel at ease or find him or her easy to talk to. No matter how great an attorney is on paper, he or she won't be able to represent you effectively if you find him or her abrasive or intimidating.
 After you've completed your interviews, evaluate your prospects to choose the one that is right for you.One exercise you may find helpful is to create a list of pros and cons for each attorney you interviewed. Although the factors you list will be objective assessments, the weight you give each factor will be based on your personal needs and opinions.
For example, suppose one attorney is the most experienced, most successful, and is willing to work with you to keep his fees within your budget, but his office is located all the way across town. If it would be too difficult for you to meet with him on a regular basis, you may decide to go with another attorney whose office is more conveniently located.
While cost may be an important factor, don't let it be the only factor in your decision. Keep in mind what's at stake in the upcoming lawsuit and consider how much that means to you.
Don't be afraid to go with your gut if there's one attorney that you really liked and enjoyed talking to, even if he or she doesn't have as much experience as another.

