 From here the next step to metal are groups like Megadeth, Judas Priest, Metallica, Slayer, Iron Maiden, and classic Black Sabbath. Remember to take it slow and easy, and really learn to appreciate and like the group.;
, Bands like Opeth can show you that both the soft and the brutal can be beautiful.
 You are in the most flexible state, so it should be easy. If you like these guys, then you should appreciate almost anything as long as it is well done. To get into the style, we would suggest old Metallica, Slayer, and old Anthrax. For getting into or used to the vocals, we would suggest Kreator, Death, and Venom. Stick mainly with old death metal or thrash metal for the beginning.
 For you, I would just suggest getting into groups that are harder and use more harsh vocals (growling/screaming). Just embrace the music and listen to it enough to get use to it and you will eventually enjoy it. As far as groups, I would suggest groups like Cannibal Corpse, Arch Enemy, and Entombed.
 Listen to more aggressive, but not hate filled, bands. You should also try to understand the lyrics and the mindset of the musicians so you can adopt it yourself, and so you can truly get into the music. Real music does not follow a verse chorus bridge verse chorus cycle. Metal uses a narrative style like classical music. The music progresses and evolves, almost as if it was telling a story. Listening to classical music will help the transition because you would get used to the narrative style.
 Hard Rock really works for getting into metal. However, if you're really not into it and seem not to be able to like it, you don't have to.
 As an example, V-Rock (GTAVC) plays Queen of the Reich. It doesn't sound like metal, but the second you read about it's metal, you just make it sound like metal!

, They are usually useful for getting into metal. They're melodic and catchy. Be aware that heavier genres can also be both, but in a singular way., It might take years to learn to love metal, not only a couple of weeks. After all, music is all about enjoying to hear people using instruments and vocal chords in their way of doing it!

