 For instructional purposes 5 different color panels, 2.75 yards (2.5m) each, were used. You will probably want one solid color. This fabric had some gold sari-like brocade trim on it, which for the most part will not be a part of the main skirt. With the leftover fabric, you will be able to make a petal-like over-skirt. You will need approximately 12 to 14 yards (11-13m) of 45” (1.14m) wide fabric (see Tips about costs). If you are very tall and your favorite skirt is 42” (1m) or longer, you may need to buy 60” (1.5m) wide fabric not 45". Polyester chiffon is the popular choice. It comes in a variety of colors, you can wash it, and it doesn’t wrinkle like silk. Silk chiffon works as well and it is great for stage when accompanied by a large silk veil. For a tribal style, plain old black cotton sheeting can be used, but you must add extra inches to your hem length, since cotton doesn't roll like chiffon, and you must make a folded hem.;
, Measure around your hips (C) (your hip measurement or (C)circumference)and the length (L) of your favorite belly dance skirt. Calculate your hip diameter (D) by dividing your hip measurement (C) by 3.14. Use this formula to calculate how much fabric you need for each panel: (2 x L) + D = one panel, add 2-3 inches (5-7.5 cm) to each panel for seam allowance at hips and a rolled hem (or add 5-6" (12-15 cm) for cotton/folded hems). If you can, let them cut the fabric into panels for you at the store. The length of each panel is most important. Be generous and round up. Skimping on fabric does not make a less full skirt, it makes an uneven hem with shortness at the seams. Add some extra to the last panel for two waist-bands.
 Calculate the hip portion you will cut from each panel by dividing your hip measurement by number of panels. Then divide this number by 2. For mathematicians: /2. You divide by two because your fabric is folded. Use this number as your arch. At the top folded corner, using a tape measure as a guide, cut one small portion of your hip circumference from each panel. (click on photo to see more detail).
 Mind which side is inside and which side is out, if your fabric has sides. Pin then sew a waistband casing tube to skirt, and sew together the final selvages. Thread elastic and finish. If what you have now looks like a giant Amazon handkerchief skirt, you did it right!

, Let it grow longer for a week or two. The weight from the extra fabric will stretch the bias. You can help by pulling down on each of the fabric points hanging down. You are accelerating something that would eventually happen with age, thus making a new skirt with a perfect hem uneven with time. Letting the fabric hang and grow will keep your hem straighter for years longer.
 Stand on a low stool so that the pointed ends of the skirt can touch the floor, but the place you are marking should hang freely. Recruit a friend to operate the hem marker. Aim the marker one inch (2.5cm) or more below your intended hem. This allows for you to roll your hem. Aim two inches (5cm) or more below your intended hem for cotton fabric with a folded hem. Your friend must carefully "poof" a chalk line around all 25 yards (22.9 m) of hem (this is the approximate circumference of a 5 panel finished skirt; you'll need to know this if you want to add some decorative trim). Save your leftover fabric to make the petal over-skirt.
 You may also serge the hem.
 You will find two usable, somewhat triangular pieces leftover from each panel. Cut them into uniform shapes and hem. Attach them to a waist-band and thread with elastic.
