 The problem with responding is that unless you can manage a total shutdown comment, you are simply entering the fray and making it even likelier that the bully will keep up the comments. Instead, ignore the insults the bullying person says to you. While it is definitely hard to shrug off the insults, rumors, and remarks, if you make it look like the name-calling and insults have no effect on you, the person bullying you will have little else to go on, causing that person to lose power and confidence in the results. It doesn't mean that the person won't try again, as some people are dreadfully persistent, but it does mean you buy time to get away and it looks as if you're going to be too much trouble to hassle out in future.
 In this case, the bully is the ringleader and the friends follow suit. It is typical in this case for a verbal bully to have their friends join in the "fun". To put a stop to this, don't even consider the friends or allies of this person, as they are the sideshow, they're weak without their ringleader. Pretend they're not even there and this will further weaken the impact of the ringleader bully.


Do not tell anything to these sidekicks in confidence when away from the main bully. They'll only use this as ammunition by running and telling the confidence to the main bully, which will then be used against you. Do not trust any of them with your personal secrets, wishes or hopes. They have lost their right to be trusted by you.
 Carry on as if you didn't hear what was said, and either continue on your way, or continue with your conversation, presentation or discussion as if you heard nothing. You will feel jumpy inside but try your best to not let that show outwardly. Bullies only hurt others so they can cause somebody to have negative feelings about themselves or their performance. Showing that the bully's words hurt you reveals that the bully found your vulnerability and will cause the bully to keep trying to exploit it. However, if you do nothing, then they will get bored and go bully someone else.


If ignoring them seems hard to do, act dumb. Simply act as if you haven't understood what was said at all, and that to try to understand it would be wasted effort.
 Instead of putting up with the hate, you can just walk away from it and try to ignore. Walking off without responding, gesturing or even sighing will make the bully think you're not worth the effort because you fail to give sufficient reaction or break down. Do this if the insults really hurts your feelings, so that you can walk away and deal with it yourself. Find a friend or a quiet, private spot to help you to calm down and cope better.
 It might be tempting to teach the bully a lesson, but it doesn't do any good. Many bullies are victims of bullying themselves, or they're being poorly treated in some way; in the workplace, they may have bought into a culture of bullying that sees them rewarded and promoted for being a bully. They are treated with hate, so that is how they treat other people, it's the only way they've learned to perceive and deal with the world. Many bullies have forgotten what kindness feels like. But if you are kind to them, they might thaw a bit, and become nicer. Of course, this isn't guaranteed but if you stick to always been nice in return, it gets harder and harder to assault you with verbal unkindness.


If they insult you or say mean things, such as "Did you get your clothes from the dumpster?" kindly answer and ask them for advice. The bully will be puzzled.
 Sometimes you may be able to make the bully appear small and ungracious by saying that you expected more of this person, by way of a compliment. In this case, you inform the bully that you have noticed their good points only and that you're not going to play this game of attack the vulnerabilities until one person is decimated. Some examples of how this might be done include:


"Really? I always looked up to your amazing skills to help inspire me."
"I'm saddened to learn you'd think that ill of me. I've always admired you."
"I've always liked your style. I'd be grateful for your suggestions."
"You're a really cool person. I know you can see things differently if you choose to."

, Getting aggressive might provoke them to use physical bullying or to threaten your stability in some way (such as removing you from a team, sacking you or harassing other people you care about). If you're downright rude and insulting yourself, you could get in trouble with your parents, school, workplace or club. Moreover, dealing with the insults in a civilized manner will often make the bully seem immature in comparison, especially when in the company of others. People don't like to see a civil person continuously insulted.
 There's no need to go out of your way all of the time but there's no need to put yourself in the pathway of this person either. While you're shoring up your own defenses to cope with this verbal trickster, rearrange things to keep meetings at a minimum. If you're at school, take an alternate route or catch your transportation at a different time. Or, sit somewhere different or walk/bus with friends. For those at work, don't hang out where the bully does, try to deal with coworkers you trust and keep any interactions with the bully civil and short. However, realize that avoidance cannot go on forever; once this person disrupts your life considerably, they've won through intimidation. You must resort to managing the problem in the long run, and only using avoidance as a short-term measure to buy you time to strengthen your determination and to deal with feeling upset.


If you're avoiding the bully out of fear of physical violence, don't delay in getting help. Tell someone in authority immediately so that this can be dealt with properly and swiftly.

