 In the earliest stages, heart disease will likely have few or no obvious symptoms. By visiting a physician regularly, you diminish their your chances for developing advanced coronary artery disease., If your general physician believes you may be at risk for coronary artery disease due to the results of a checkup, it’s essential to seek an official diagnosis from a cardiologist, a doctor who specializes in heart disease. An official diagnosis may include any number of advanced tests.


Electrocardiograms or EKGs are the most well known tests for coronary artery disease. An EKG essentially measures and records the heart’s electrical activity (heart beats), allowing the doctor to note any irregularities.
Stress tests combine exercise with EKG heart monitoring to note changes in heart function that occur during times of increased movement.
Angiograms are x-rays that capture images of the heart pumping showing the exact position and extent of blockage in arteries., If you do experience an acute cardiac event, you may need to cater your ongoing coronary artery disease treatment plan to include options that reduce risk for the recurrence of these events.


High blood pressure is the most common and easily treatable advanced coronary syndrome resulting from untreated or undiagnosed coronary artery disease. Typically, changes to your diet and exercise routines as well as a prescription medication are enough to bring high blood pressure under control.
Heart attack, or myocardial infarction as it’s medically known, is the second most common result of untreated coronary artery disease. Treatment following your heart attack may include any number of surgical, medicinal, and behavioral interventions.
While strokes affect the brain, they are often associated with coronary artery disease as they occur when blood flow to your brain is decreased or blocked. Treatment for stroke is usually extensive and may include weeks, months, or years of rehabilitation in the hospital and at home.