 Ask them for a practical reason, and be a part of the solution. Your parents may have specific reasons they want you involved in a particular activity. If you figure out this reason, you'll be better able to find an alternative solution. For example, your mom may want you involved in basketball because she wants you to have a healthy lifestyle where you're physically active. This insight will give you ideas of how to compromise. You need to figure out ways other than basketball to be physically active.If you're already involved in too many after school activities, compromise with them. Ask the why behind what club or sport they want you to be involved in.
If they want you to get money or scholarships for college, consider getting a job related to your desired major now to save up for it.
If they want you to gain valuable experiences, volunteer for fundraisers or organizations that you’re interested in learning about.;
, Tell them honestly about your daily activities. This makes your parents feel important and in the know about what’s going on in your life.


Remember that they don't need to know every little detail, like you getting reprimanded in history class.
Give thorough details about school assignments, what you’re learning, and projects in your classes.
Tell them about your friends. Make sure you parents are involved with most of your life.
 Do something meaningful in the time that would be used for extracurriculars. Be the son or daughter your parents are proud to have.


If you use your extra time to watch TV for hours, your parents are going to think you need structure. If you use it to do something productive like doing your homework or helping out around the house, they'll see that you’re responsible and care about helping others.Tell your mom you’re going to wash the dishes that night.
Clean up around the house.
Cook dinner for your parents.
Visit your grandparents on the weekends.
 One reason why parents pressure their children to participate in sports is so their children will be healthy. Make sure to eat your vegetables, and keep a balanced diet of proteins, fibers, dairy, and fruits. Stay healthy, and keep your body in check. Demonstrate to them that you don’t need a coach or a sport to stay in shape.


Run on the treadmill or exercise outside daily.
Play sports with your parents, and encourage them to exercise with you.
Read or review notes while you exercise. This will score you multitasking and bonus points with your parents.Drink plenty of water, not just juice, sodas, or sports drinks.
Opt for a fruit instead of the chocolate bar.
 Work for grades that’ll convince your parents you don’t need their advice in extracurriculars. When they see you are doing well in school, they will know you are focused and responsible.


Stay ahead in your classes. Try your best in school, and get As.
Keep a rigid studying schedule so you don’t fall behind in your classes.