 Any type of cord will work as long as it fits around your hands. However, you’ll have the easiest time using a piece that’s around 40 inches (about 120cm) in length. This will ensure that the string is long enough to give your hands plenty of room to maneuver without getting in the way or becoming unwieldy. Tie the string together at the ends so that it creates a circular loop.Try cutting a piece of string, yarn or twine to just the right length to fit you and your partner’s hands.
If you can’t find anything else to play with, use a tied shoestring.;
, Because of the sequential nature of the game, it’s not possible to play Cat’s Cradle with only one person. You’ll need a partner both to help you form new shapes and to take the string from you at the next turn.You can theoretically play Cat’s Cradle with as many people as you want—simply go in a circle or choose a specific order to transfer the string from person to person.
The game will go more smoothly if you’re playing with someone whose hands are roughly the same size as your own.
 Decide which player will get the game started. This person will twist the string into Cat’s Cradle, the game’s opening formation. After this shape has been made, transfer the string to the other player’s fingers fingers without breaking the formation. The game will proceed in this fashion until you miss a shape.Let go of the string carefully to keep it from coming unraveled.
Both players should practice making each of the various shapes so they’ll know exactly where to place their fingers when you pass the string.
 The game is over when you pull the string in the wrong place or end up forming a shape from which no other shapes can be made. If this happens, start back from the beginning with Cat’s Cradle. Keep playing until you can run through the entire sequence flawlessly.Practice slowly the first few times until you get the hang of making shapes and handoffs.
For an added challenge, increase your speed each time you successfully complete a cycle.
 This person should be the only one holding the string. It doesn’t matter which one of you makes the first move—the game will play out the same way in either situation.By the time you go through one complete cycle, your roles will be reversed. The player who started with Cat’s Cradle will then be the one assisting with the following shape.
If you mess up, begin a new game with the other player starting things off.
 Let it rest just behind your knuckles. Keep your thumbs on the outside of the strands. This will allow you to move freely and will also keep the string from slipping off your hands.Keep your fingers clear of the string. That way it won’t accidentally get tangled up.
Some people prefer to lace the string around their middle and ring fingers rather than their whole wrist. This is mostly a matter of preference.
 Rotate your hands so that the loop is doubled up around your palms. You should now have one strand running in front of each palm in addition to the ones wrapped around the backs of your hands. This will put you in the correct position to start weaving the first shape.You should turn your wrists in such a way that only one strand gets wrapped around twice. Otherwise, both strands will twist together and ruin the setup.
If you’re having trouble looping the string around your wrists a second time, have your partner help you., Reach across and slide the middle finger of one hand under the strand looped in front of your palm. Do the same with your opposite hand, making sure to only grab the section in front. Then, pull the strands apart so that they form a double ‘X’ in the middle. This shape is the “Cat’s Cradle.”Guide your fingers directly through the center of the loop and make sure not to grab any other strands by accident.
Once you’ve formed Cat’s Cradle, the game can officially begin., They’ll then pull the ‘X’s around the outside of the bottom strands and up through the center. As they do, gently slide your hands out of the string. When the other player opens up their thumb and forefinger, the resulting shape is known as “Soldier’s Bed.”Soldier’s Bed looks very similar to Cat’s Cradle, but the finger positioning is different. This makes it possible to transfer the string to the other player when forming subsequent shapes.
An inverted version of Soldier’s Bed is known as “Diamonds,” and can be made by wrapping the strands over the top of the two middle 'X's rather than underneath.
 Pinch these ‘X’s where they intersect lengthwise, with your fingers facing the other player’s hands. Once again, bring these ‘X’s around the outside of the shape and up through the middle. As your partner removes their hands, pull the string taut and spread your thumb and forefinger to form “Candles,” the next configuration.Candles is recognizable by the internal pattern of parallel lines.
This is a very useful transitional shape, as it gives you the freedom to go forward or backward in the sequence.
Candles is also known as “Chopsticks” in Korea and “Mirror” in parts of Europe., While holding on with their pinky fingers, they’ll bring their thumb and pointer finger under and around the inner two strands. When you hand off the string, you’ll have formed The Manger.The Manger is essentially an upside-down version of Cat’s Cradle.If you continue on from The Manger in the same order, you’ll make Diamonds, which is an inverted Soldier’s Bed., After you’ve made it to The Manger, you can repeat the first few movements to keep the game going. Keep in mind that at this point the string will be inverted, so certain movements will have to be reversed in order to correctly produce the next shape. This will make the game more difficult the second time around. Have fun!The game can continue in this way until you make a mistake or end up with a shape that won’t allow any other shapes to be made.See if you can invent new configurations based on your knowledge of the basic shapes.

