


Certain personal documents such as a birth certificate must be provided when someone applies for immigration to the U.S. However, in some cases these documents may be unavailable or impossible to obtain. For example, the facility where birth certificates were stored may have burned down, or the immigrant may live in a war-torn area where government authority was non-existent when he or she was born and such documents were never created.If an applicant cannot obtain certain types of required documents, USCIS will accept sworn declarations as substitutes. The applicant also must include a sworn declaration regarding why the original document is unavailable.An immigration applicant may need a sworn declaration from you because you have first-hand knowledge of the facts that would be proven by the document. For example, you may be able to confirm the person's birthdate or place of birth.Additionally, if you are a government worker in the person's home country, you may be called upon to write a sworn declaration explaining why the original document required for the person's immigration application is not available., Before you write your sworn declaration, plan it out so the information is organized and flows well in your final document.


The information you include will depend on the purpose of your declaration. Generally, you should not include facts for which you do not have first-hand knowledge.For example, if you know the person for whom you're writing the declaration was born on July 4, 1984 because he told you so, this isn't sufficient knowledge to prove the accuracy of his birthdate. However, if you were present at his birth – maybe you were a nurse or the doctor who delivered him – that first-hand knowledge would support his claim regarding his date of birth.
Include as many details as possible. Specific details about the necessary facts that support the person's application are more important than any formal wording, legal terms, or fancy formatting., You may write a sworn declaration either in business letter format, or using the traditional format for a legal affidavit.


If the person for whom you're writing the declaration has an attorney, there may be a particular format he or she prefers. Additionally, you may be able to find sample declarations online that you can use as guides. However, you should be careful about copying language from sample declarations that doesn't apply to your particular situation.
Regardless of the format you use, a sworn declaration isn't technically an affidavit since you won't be required to sign the document in the presence of a notary. However, your signature still verifies under penalty of perjury that the information in the declaration is true and correct to the best of your knowledge.In both formats, the text is single-spaced with a double-space between paragraphs. Use a basic, legible font such as the default font for your word-processing application.
 The title tells the USCIS officer what the document is and the name of the immigrant to whom it relates.


For example, your title might be "Declaration in Support of Application of ..." with the applicant's full legal name as it appears on his or her immigration application.If you're writing a business letter, the title becomes the subject line of your letter, but it should contain the same information.
 You must begin your declaration by providing your full legal name and residence along with your birth date and place of birth.


Include your phone number or other contact information in case the USCIS officer who reviews your declaration needs to contact you for further information or wants to schedule an interview to discuss your declaration.You should next identify how you know the information you're about to present on behalf of the applicant. What you write here will depend on your situation. For example, if you're writing to support the applicant's birth date because you were the doctor who delivered her, you would state that you were a doctor in the town where she was born. You might also include information about how long you had been a doctor or hospitals where you worked. Any information that supports your authority and knowledge is relevant., If you are using the traditional legal format for an affidavit, the paragraphs should be numbered. However, if you're using a business letter format, you can present your facts in a basic narrative style.


How long your declaration is will depend on the facts you're being asked to verify. A simple declaration confirming someone's birthdate may only be a paragraph or two. However, if you're asked to write a declaration in support of the fact that the applicant is no longer married because his wife died, you may have to write a substantially longer declaration to include all the details and relate how you have first-hand knowledge of those facts.Describing details of facts and circumstances increases the likelihood that your statement will be accepted as truth of the information the applicant claimed. Therefore, you should include as many details as you can remember, regardless of whether you believe they are relevant., You must close your declaration with a statement that the declaration was signed under oath.


The standard wording is "I swear, under penalty of perjury, that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge."Skip a few lines under this statement for your signature, then type your full legal name and leave another space to enter the date by hand when you sign your declaration., After you've finalized your declaration, you may wish to print a copy for your records. Then you typically submit it either to the person for whom you wrote the declaration or their attorney.If the applicant is represented by an attorney, the attorney may wish to review your declaration and suggest changes that would make it more supportive of the immigration application.

