 At a certain age, the disability of minority (laws and customs making minors unable to do certain things without parental consent) is automatically removed, and a person becomes an adult in the eyes of the law. In almost every state, that age is 18, though in some states it is 19 or 21. This means that you no longer need your parents’ permission to do things. It also means that your parents are no longer legally responsible for providing you with food, clothing, and shelter, though they may still allow you to live with them while finishing school or getting on your feet. Under some circumstances (such as by court order of if the child suffers a handicap making him/her incapable of accepting the responsibilities of adulthood), parental responsibility requirements are continued beyond reaching the age of majority. Those states with later ages of majority are:Alabama – 19
Mississippi – 21
Nebraska – 19;
, Men between the ages of 18 and 26 are required to register with the Selective Service. You can register online at https://www.sss.gov/Registration/How-to-Register or go to your local US Post Office. This includes all persons who were born male and:Are present in the United States except those present on student, visitor, trade mission, or diplomatic visas or those serving in the active US military forces.
Hold US citizenship (including dual nationals) regardless of where they reside unless serving in the active US military forces.
Are not hospitalized, institutionalized, or imprisoned. Once released, these men must register within 30 days of release unless they have turned 26 by the time of release.
Are not actively serving in the US military. Once discharged, these men must register within 30 days unless they have turned 26 by the time of release.
 You can register to vote in federal and most state elections at the age of 18. Each state has different processes for voter registration. You can find further information for your state by using the interactive map found at http://www.eac.gov/voter_resources/contact_your_state.aspx. Some of the more common ways to register include:Registering when you get or renew your driver’s license.
Contacting your local voter registration or election office.
Contacting a public assistance agency.
Contacting an armed services recruitment center

