 Teaching is not only a profession but also an art. A good teacher is he who performs well. It has become a form of acting. A good teacher should be a good actor, especially when it is a matter of teaching a language. This task has become challenging as well as rewarding. Here are some practical suggestions for the teachers of languages.;
, A good teacher is a good actor as told earlier. He should act according to the meanings of the word. He should wipe out sweat and fan with his hands if he is telling about hot weather. In the same fashion he should do his best to illustrate the meanings with the gestures of his body and facial expressions. It becomes extremely helpful while teaching second language.
 The best way for the beginner is to familiarize him with nouns pronouns and adjectives. Avoid using verbal hints in the very beginning. Modifiers and quantifiers are the best cues for this purpose. Performance on the modifiers is easy and leads to the easy understanding of verbs later.
 There are many ways to make lesson interesting. Some kind of joke anecdote or recitation of poetry rise interest in the learner.
 Use of media in classrooms has proved very useful. It enables a teacher to use few words.
 Example is better than precept. Always keep this proverb in mind and openly use audio visual aids. A lot of words fail in making learner to understand an idea while a little picture make it easy to comprehend. These can be more helpful in teaching vocabulary, prepositions and verbs.
 After some preliminary teaching a teacher comes to know the abilities of his students. He should divide the students in groups according to their mental approach and learning capability. This grouping help the learners as well the teacher. The group should be made to practice together the lessons taught to them. Individual practice is always helpful in learning and grouping is the best way for this kind of drill.
 If a teacher is well conversant in the language of the learner he should use it as the base of his material. The bilingual method that can also be called as translation method becomes very beneficent for the learner. It saves a lot of burden of the teacher too.
 Practice of anything makes one perfect in his art. Language is a thing that is quite a complex thing. It needs severe repetitions. Not only learners but also teacher should repeat his lesson at least two times in the class. Every sentence he speaks should speak two times with intervals or continuously. This repetition will make the learner expert and would produce in him the language skills.
 Descriptive grammar should be avoided in teaching language. It deviate the learner from his real objectives. It may be used in disguise. The teacher should not stress on the rules but the function of the words. Too much corrective attitude of the teacher may annoy the learner and he may become disappointed.
 Second language learners are conscious of their weakness of not knowing the language. Sometimes they may become emotional or irritated. It is the duty of the teacher to provide him safer atmosphere for language learning. He should take the learner into confidence by telling him that every second language learner does not know the language. The mistakes are not to disappoint but to correct his language ad are made by all.

