 Open up an internet browser on your computer. It could be Internet Explorer, it could be Firefox, it could Chrome. It does not matter. What does matter is that you are able to type an address into the web browser URL.;
, An Internet Protocol or IP address is an identifying number that computers use to send data over a network.You will have to type your router's IP address into the web address field. Often it is http://192.168.1.1 or something similar. Try this as a default IP address.


If the default fails, you can locate the router's IP address by launching a command prompt (in Windows) and entering “ipconfig.” Do this by clicking the “Start” button, then choose “All Programs,” “Accessories,” and lastly “Command Prompt.” This will tell you the correct IP address under “default gateway.”Another way of doing this is click “Start” and “Control Panel.” Then select the option “Network and Sharing Center.” Here you should find the name of your network and click “View Status.” If you ask for “details,” the computer will then give you a series of numbers. The router's IP address is listed as the “IPv4 Default Gateway.”, At this point you will need to enter your network administrator name and password. You cannot access the router settings if you do not have administrator access. If using your home computer, this should not be a problem and the router may even be using its default name and password. You can find often this these the user's manual or on a sticker on the router itself. , Although every router and modem is slightly different, they all should have a “settings” or “management” tab that you will be able to access as the network administrator. This tab should come up automatically on your web browser and should have an option to launch a reboot under its “basic settings.”, Make sure that you do not make any other changes to the router in basic or advanced settings, however, at the risk of causing further problems. In case of a mistake, you can usually restore the router to its factory settings by physically hitting its reset button., It might then take a bit of time for the router to regain its functionality. The screen will refresh automatically when almost done. The reboot will not be complete until your computer says that you have internet connectivity.
 You can bookmark your IP address as a shortcut. This will save you from having to repeat the above steps again should something go wrong. Save the URL as a bookmark immediately after clicking OK. It should be something like http://192.168.1.1/htmlV/reset.asp?restart=TRUE


