 This is an excellent choice for academic writing, and is most effectively paired with a counter-example thesis. First, you'll state a common misconception as your topic sentence. Then, after listing examples, you tie this in to your thesis.


Example: Shakespeare’s plays are littered with archetype damsels in distress: Ophelia, Juliet, and Hermia all spring to mind. However, this is by no means the case with all of Shakespeare’s Women—in fact, Rosalind in As You Like It holds more power than any other character in the play.;
, Perhaps, if you’re writing on a war or battle, initially frame the paper in asking the question: “What if this didn’t happen?” It’s an excellent way to examine the effects of the war on both sides. This is by no means the only provocative question to ask, and there are certainly many more depending on the topic of the paper; just make sure to tie the question into the thesis.Example: The American Civil War is a horrific scar that has marred the American past since it’s conclusion in 1865. This begs the question: was it really necessary--would the economy that depended so much on slavery eventually have burnt itself out?

, Paradoxes are difficult to articulate well. That being said, they are also very effective in conveying contrasting emotions, feelings, or even sides in a very short span of writing. They hold a great amount of gravity, and should be used sparingly to increase their effect.Example: With the explosion of the first atomic bomb came the advent of the greatest weapon of war the world has ever seen—soon, though, it was to be used to bring a new peace to a broken world.
 Immediately placing your paper in historical context can be very helpful and give a solid, interesting start to the piece. This technique can be applied to a huge variety of situations, ranging from specific people, to current events, to past events, to ongoing cultural change. With this, it’s best to start with a very specific example that can be applied to the topic as a whole.Example: “It was April, 1865, and the air was thick with joy and tension at the Appomattox Courthouse.”

, This is a very similar statement to the intriguing fact example above, and should be used in a similar way. However, instead of starting with the common misconception, you should start with the shocking fact and then tie that into your thesis.Example: Archaeological evidence has recently started to indicate that Native Americans were among the tallest races in history. In fact, their height seems to be roughly the same as Norwegians of the same era, which may be reason to believe that Native Americans were actually the descendants of Norse-Mongoloid relations.
 The purpose of a declarative statement is to come straight out and say what your paper is about. One problem with this is the increased danger of a boring start. However, if the topic of your paper is interesting enough, it may be a good way to go.Example: Einstein’s Theory of Relativity shaped much more than the scientific world of the 20th Century; his work had a great effect of the social structure of pre and post World War Two America as well.

