 Open the app store on your smartphone and then open the navigation category. Look for relevant parking apps that meet your key criteria. For instance, you may want to choose an app that allows you to pre-pay for parking or sends notifications when your parking is about to expire. If discounts are a priority, some apps have significant deals on entertainment and travel.


Parkopedia is available on a range of platforms and helps you calculate the cost of parking.
BestParking, which is available for over one hundred cities and airports.
Parking Mate, which sends you notifications when your spot is about to expire.
Parking Panda, which is great for discounts and entertainment events.;
, If you are driving in a city or to a university that has its own mobile app, you should download it to your smartphone prior to departure. Some neighborhoods, cities and universities embed sensors in parking meters and send this information to a particular mobile app, so you should download the app with this information.


San Francisco has its own app with up-to-date information on parking spaces.University of Maryland has its own mobile app for parking.
Roosevelt Island in New York City has its own mobile app for parking.
Use VoicePark in San Francisco.
 Some mobile apps, such as ParkWhiz, allow you to pre-pay for your parking prior to departure. You can use the app to find a spot close to your destination, pay for it and then get a scan code that you use when you get there. , You can download parking apps that specialize in major sporting and entertainment events, such as Parking Panda. If you refer people to the app, you may be able to earn free parking spots at entertainment events., There are mobile apps with up-to-date information on parking spaces available at airports. Download one of these apps before driving to the airport parking lot. Some of these apps will also give you travel and hospitality deals.AirportParkingReservations is great for parking reservations at airports in Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. Through this app, you can access ParkSleepFly, where you can get deals on airport hotel and parking deals.
BestParking does a combination of airport and city parking.
 Use your mobile parking app to receive a notification when you are about to run out of parking time. In this way, you can avoid potentially expensive parking tickets.Parking Mate will send you a notification when your spot is about to expire.
For instance, Parker has a timer that helps you avoid parking tickets.
 Once you have come to a stop in a safe position, grab your smart phone. Open the mobile app that you use to find parking. See where you have to drive to find a spot. Head to the spot and safely park your vehicle.