 A miscarriage is defined as losing a fetus before 20 weeks of pregnancy. However, within this definition, there are several terms used to describe the exact nature of the miscarriage:



Spontaneous abortions: These occur when the fetus is aborted naturally in before 20 weeks of pregnancy, due to factors like genetic abnormalities, drug or alcohol abuse, infections or hormonal problems which make it impossible for the fetus to survive.

Incomplete abortion: This is when the fetus gets aborted but part of the tissue is still left in the mother's womb. This tissue needs to be removed by a doctor, or it could lead to infection.

Complete abortion: This is when the fetus is expelled with all of the accompanying tissues (also known as products of conception).

Inevitable abortions: These are a class of abortions where the symptoms cannot be prevented or stopped and will eventually lead to a miscarriage. Symptoms include vaginal bleeding and dilation of the cervix.
 Some women are at higher risk of having a miscarriage than others. In some cases these risks can be avoided, but in others they are inevitable. Women who are at risk include:


Those who smoke, drink alcohol or take drugs during their pregnancy. These behaviors are known to reduce the amniotic fluid in the body, which induces labor-like symptoms in the body and can lead to miscarriage.
Those who are over the age of 35 upon conceiving their first child.
Those who have a history of miscarriage.
 If you are pregnant, it's important to learn how to recognize the first signs and symptoms of miscarriage. If you notice any of the following symptoms, you should call your health care provider immediately to get checked out.



Vaginal bleeding: Vaginal bleeding (often accompanied by cramping) is one of the most obvious signals that you are about to miscarry (or that you have already). Please visit the nearest physician if you should notice any vaginal bleeding. The bleeding occurs when the placenta starts to separate due to various factors, such as decreased HCG levels in the blood or drug and alcohol use leading to spontaneous contractions.

Passage of clots: In some cases, there may not be any bleeding (at least at first) but you may notice clot-like tissues coming out of the vagina. These occur due to low levels of HCG in the blood, which means that the mother's body is unsuitable for carrying a baby to full term and will naturally self-abort.

Abdominal or back pain: Any form of abdominal or low back pain should raise suspicion of a miscarriage. These kinds of pains are often the initial sign that the uterus is contracting due to decreased levels of estrogen and HCG in the blood.
 In some cases, it is not immediately obvious whether or not a miscarriage has occurred, even if symptoms such as vaginal bleed and cramping are present. In these situations, doctors need to run several tests to find out if the pregnancy is still valid. These tests include:


A routine CBC (Complete Blood Count) test is carried out to determine the levels of haemoglobin in the blood and how much has been lost.
Blood grouping is done to find out the Rh compatibility. Rh compatibility indicates whether the mother's blood group and the fetus's are the same or different.
Ultrasound of the abdomen and/or the pelvis may be advised.
Blood HCG levels are tested to find out if they are low or normal. Low levels of HCG increase the probability of a miscarriage.
 Following an incomplete abortion — where the fetus is expelled but products of conception remain inside the womb — it is necessary to remove these products of conception to prevent the uterus from becoming infected. This is done with a procedure known as dilatation and curettage.


During the dilatation and curettage procedure, the patient is given an anesthetic and put to sleep so they won't feel any pain. The cervix is then dilated and an instrument called a curette is used to remove the content of the womb through the opening of the vagina.
Once the tissues are removed, the uterus is cleaned with an antiseptic betadine solution, which helps to prevent infection.

