 Everyone engages in negative self-talk at some point or another. While some people may find it motivating, studies show that it actually contributes to stress, depression, and poor coping skills.Learning how to identify negative self-talk can help you catch yourself when you're thinking poorly of yourself, which can make it easier to then consciously engage in a more positive way of thinking.Some common forms of negative self-talk include:


Filtering - this behavioral problem involves ignoring or "filtering out" all the positive aspects of your life or a given situation, and instead focusing on only the negative aspects. An example might be overlooking everything you accomplished at work and instead focusing on the one problem you were unable to successfully resolve.
Personalizing - this entails blaming yourself for everything that happens. It can also involve interpreting any situational criticism as something that you are or should be blamed for. An example of this might involve hearing that your friends can't make it to a party and assuming that they canceled their plans to avoid seeing you.
Catastrophizing - this means automatically preparing for or expecting the worst possible scenario. An example of this might be assuming that the rest of your day will go wrong because of one minor setback early in your day.
Polarizing - this involves seeing things, people, and situations as always good or always bad. An example might be assuming that because you had an off day at work, you are automatically a bad employee.;
, Thinking positively does not mean that you ignore the bad or unpleasant things in life. It simply means that you approach every situation in life, both good and bad, with a positive outlook and a productive mindset.You can work on engaging in positive thinking in little ways every day. To start thinking more positively, try to:


identify the things you think negatively about, and recognize why
evaluate your thoughts and feelings throughout the day
seek humor in everyday situations and allow yourself to smile or laugh even when you're upset
live a healthy lifestyle
spend time with positive people (and avoid negative people as much as possible)
be gentle with yourself - a good rule for yourself is to avoid thinking things about yourself that you would not say to another persontry to find the positive aspects of negative situations
envision a more positive future for yourself, and determine what you'll need to do to make that vision a reality, Mindfulness involves developing an awareness of where you are, what you are doing, and what you are sensing/feeling in the present moment.Practicing mindfulness can reduce stress, manage anxiety and depression, and improve your mood.


Focus on your breathing. Become aware of the physical sensation of each breath passing through your nostrils, the rising and falling of your abdomen, and the feeling of your legs and feet on the chair or floor.
Try to engage your senses in everything you do. When you eat, look at your food for a moment and smell it. You may want to consider feeling it with your hands to experience the tactile sensation of your food. Try to anticipate what it will taste like, and chew slowly to savor the experience., What you eat can have a huge impact on how you feel. It's not enough to avoid bad foods. You should also be getting vitamins and nutrients from all of the major food groups, and avoiding overeating or under-eating.


Most adults need 1.5 to 2 cups of fresh fruit or 100% fruit juice every day.Adults should eat between 2.5 and 3 cups of fresh vegetables every day.Choose whole grains instead of refined grains. Adults should eat six to eight ounces of whole grains every day, depending on your age, gender, and activity level.Eat a variety of protein foods every day. Adults typically need between 5 and 6.5 ounces of lean protein, including seafood, poultry/eggs, tofu, beans, nuts, and seeds.Choose low-fat or fat-free dairy products, including milk, yogurt, cheese, or soymilk. Adults typically need three cups of dairy every day.Drink enough water each day. General guidelines for living in a temperate climate suggest that men should drink three liters of water each day, and women should drink 2.2 liters. If you live in a hot environment, however, or if you live a very active lifestyle (especially if you exercise regularly), you should increase your water intake to account for the water lost in sweat., You cannot avoid stressful situations, but you can find ways to relieve your stress. You can use relaxation techniques, such as meditation, visualization, tai chi, yoga, and deep breathing.Practice deep breathing by breathing in and out from your diaphragm (below the ribcage), instead of taking shallow breaths from your chest. Try to develop a pattern of deep breathing, like counting to five on a slow inhalation, holding your breath for five seconds, and exhaling slowly for five seconds.Practice meditation by sitting in a comfortable position away from anything that might distract you. Use deep breathing and try to focus only on your breath, letting go of any thoughts that pass through your mind without judging them or engaging with them.Use visualization to calm your mind and put yourself in a better mood. Combine deep breathing with an imagined image of something calming, such as a relaxing place or situation., In addition to eating a healthy diet, it's important to live a healthy and active lifestyle. How well you care for your body in your early and middle years can have a big impact on your health later in life.


Exercise regularly. Experts recommend getting at least 150 minutes each week of moderate aerobic activity, or at least 75 minutes per week of strenuous aerobic activity. Try to incorporate strength-training exercises (like lifting weights or using weight resistance) at least twice each week for a well-rounded workout.Avoid smoking, and quit if you are currently a smoker.You can use smoking cessation products like nicotine gum or patches, and you may find it helpful to attend a support group or recruit the help of your friends/family.Practice safe sex by always using condoms and engaging in monogamous, exclusive relationships.