 A single adult fancy goldfish needs a 30 gallon tank, with another ten gallons per additional fancy goldfish. This equates to 140 litres for the first fish, and 45 liters per additional fish. The "goldfish bowl" is much too small and doesn't let enough oxygen get to the goldfish. Plus, it will absolutely stunt the growth of your fish. Leave bowls for flowers at weddings!;
, Whatever the total amount of gallons is, you multiply it by ten and get the answer for the gallons pumped per hour (GPH).


Lets say you have a 30 gal. Just do this simple equation: 30x10=300. You can either get a filter that says "made for 30 gallon tank" on the box or get a filter that pumps 300 gallons of water per hour. For more fragile fish, such as the Bubble Eye, get an under gravel filter (the Bubble Eyed goldfish's eye sack can get sucked into a regular filter and tear). Heaters aren't a huge issue, but the temperature needs to be between 65-75 degrees. It is important to have a thermometer handy.
 Instead, rinse them in a bucket of old tank water (not tap water). Media only needs to replaced when it falls apart and should last for years. Without a filter, tanks will foul and become deadly in just a day. Keep in mind that having a filter doesn't mean you can avoid cleaning the tank. Even with a filter, change 25% of the water every 2-3 months.
 Goldfish generally like to scan the bottom of the tank and move things around with their mouths. Make sure the gravel is small enough that it won't get stuck in their throats. Your gravel should be big enough, however, that the fish also would be able to grab it. Some hiding places would be great, shop bought wood and lots of plants offer intrigue, but nothing sharp or it could injure the fish (especially the bubble eyed goldfish). Rearrange the wood and plants on a monthly basis to offer the goldfish "new" areas to explore. Lots of live plants are great. They add some interest but are often readily eaten. Cheap bunches of Elodea should be seen as a sacrificial plant and can be replaced every 1 to 2 weeks. Try to mass plant or these can just be left floating. Anubias or Java Fern tied onto wood seem to be quite gold proof. They like moss balls too. Real planted tanks aren't needed, silk plants can be used with great affect but it's nice for the fish to have some 'greens' to hand if they fancy a munch.
 They shouldn't have flake food, because they can gulp down air and that can cause problems. Slow sinking goldfish pellets are best and if you buy the right brand, it can enhance the color of the goldfish and make them more active and brighter in color.
 pellets am, frozen food (Blood worm etc)pm. Chopped up blanched veggies go down well as do unshelled chopped peas (a great natural unblock used as a laxative.
 If you need help, try Do a Fishless Cycle for further reading.
 Remember to add only 1-2 fish at a time, depending on the size of the tank.
, Never pour the water and fish in from above the fish or else it could harm your fish.


Alternatively, you can put a net over a bucket and pour your goldfish into the net, and proceed to lower them into the tank.

