 Newer models of washing machine are generally designed to be more efficient when it comes to energy and water consumption. For this reason, buying a newer model alone can significantly cut your household's water usage.


Newer models of washing machine also have special water saving modes that you can utilize to conserve water even more.;
, Top-load models of washing machine generally use 2/3's more water than front-load models. Due to improved design, front-load washing machines can save you a considerable amount of water in the laundry room with every load., Some stains may require special pre-treating techniques, but you can pre-treat most stains by saturating the stain with a stain remover. After that, rub the stain remover into the stain with your finger.


For especially bad stains, you might need to rub the stain remover gently with a toothbrush. Brushing too hard could cause the color in the fabric to lift.Stain remover can be found in the laundry section of most grocery stores, general retailers, and drug stores.
Pre-treating will ensure your stains come out in the first wash cycle, which will save you from wasting water re-washing clothes., Full loads of laundry maximize the water used in the washing process. By faithfully washing full loads of laundry, you could end up saving as much as 10,534 gallons of water per year.Newer models of washing machine may have special settings that allow the amount of water used to be adjusted, allowing you to save water by matching load size with water amount.
 Your washer may have the option for a secondary and unnecessary rinse cycle. In many cases, this is signified by the words "Extra Rinse."Turn off this feature to save your household a load of water with each complete wash cycle.


The "Extra Rinse" cycle helps to remove detergent more thoroughly from your clothing. However, people with sensitive skin can suffer skin irritation if the Extra Rinse is skipped.
If you have sensitive skin but still want to save water, consider using gentle, all-natural, chemical free detergents. These are gentler on the skin, and might not cause irritation when skipping the Extra Rinse cycle.