 A large bag is essential for any pool party, as it will hold everything that you might need. Fortunately, your bag doesn’t have to match a theme or even your outfit. Aim for any cute patterns or colors that you like. Just make sure the bag is big enough to hold everything you need – don’t make it too big though.Try getting a beach bag that has hidden pockets, that way you can hide any personal items, such as sanitary napkins, or valuables, such as your phone.
The material isn’t important, although you should consider that your bag may get wet. If you have a leather or suede bag, this might damage the material. Choose what makes you feel great.;
, Just because this is a pool party doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t wear jewelry. Part of being fashionable is wearing the perfect jewelry for the occasion. You want to accessorize, not decorate, so practice moderation.Consider simple earrings and a thin, chain necklace.
Or, go bold and wear a chunky necklace or even a long, beaded necklace with accompanying earrings.
You can also stack bracelets for a cute look.
Don’t wear your best pieces to a pool party, as you run the risk of losing them or getting them wet.
If you’re going to swim, consider putting your jewelry in the secret pocket of your large bag while you’re in the water.
 A simple and always-appropriate accessory for any pool party is a hot pair of sunglasses. You need to protect your eyes from UV rays, and sunglasses scream fashionable. Try to wear some designer sunglasses if you have the money. If not, there are some cheaper imitations of the real deal at most box stores. Get a pair that you feel compliment your face shape.A sun hat is another great way to protect your eyes and will also keep the sun off of your face.
 Sandals or flip flops are the most fashionable and practical choices for any pool party. You don’t want to wear expensive footwear to a pool party, as they will surely get wet. Instead, choose less expensive, comfortable shoes that complement your outfit.Big, box stores and even discount shoe retailers are a great source of cute summer shoes.
 Your beach towel should be fun or brightly colored, and most importantly, it should be big. Your colorful towel will not only attract attention, but it will be big enough for others to sit on while they talk with you. Big, fun towels are inviting, attention getting, and perfect for drying off and soaking up the sun., Whether you plan to swim or not, you will likely wear some type of swimwear. Put on a bikini or swimsuit that looks good on you. There are several fashionable, flattering, cute options for both types of swimsuits. If you can't decide, consider a tankini, since it's a combination of the two.If this is a work-related pool party, a bikini is likely inappropriate.If you don’t find a swimsuit that you love in stores, remember that there are thousands of styles available on the internet.
Choose your trunks, guys. You don’t want to wear swimwear that is too long and baggy. On the other hand, you don’t want to wear a tight, bikini suit. The most fashionable and flattering look is a more fitted trunk that rests above the knee., A dress makes for a great pool party outfit. They are lightweight, breathable, one piece, and, of course, fashionable. The dress you choose should be colorful or have a fun pattern. It should also be made of lightweight fabric.


If you’re plus sized, consider wearing a dress with a smaller pattern and in a cute hi-lo cut, which accentuates all of your beautiful curves., Choosing what clothes to wear to the party can be tricky. If you opt for an outfit, make sure that you wear layers so that you can remove or add them as necessary so that you don’t overheat. You may decide that you’d prefer to wear shorts or capris. Choose a lightweight top or tank top to go with your underwear, such as a tank top and denim shorts or capris. , You’re at the party and you’ve taken off your outfit, but you’re also not swimming and you want to wear a little something. You might decide that you don’t want to walk around in your swimsuit, but you also don’t want to be fully dressed. A sarong or cover-up is the perfect, fashionable solution. Choose a sarong or cover-up that complements your swimsuit and jewelry, which will allow you to walk around confidently and fashionably., Enjoy yourself at the pool party, but remember to take special care of your skin. Bring your sunscreen with you and reapply as necessary. Remember, sunscreen doesn’t prevent you from tanning, it just shields you from harmful, cancer-causing UV rays.If you’re planning to swim, make sure that your sunscreen is waterproof
You need to reapply your sunscreen at least every two hours.
Make sure that your sunscreen isn’t expired.
 You’ll be in the sun, and possibly the water, all day and you want your hair to look great all day (and night). Braids, buns, and ponytails are the perfect look for any pool party, are low maintenance, are easy to fix throughout the day, and will give your hair added waves when you take it down.You might also go for the windblown look, which should last all day if you put just a bit of mousse in your hair while it’s wet.Get summery beach hair by encouraging natural waves. Take a shower, put in some hair gel or hair spray, and scrunch your hair.
 If you choose to wear makeup, it needs to be as subtle and natural looking as possible. Only use waterproof makeup, and use it sparingly. The best makeup that you can wear for fashion at a pool party is a good, waterproof mascara. This will open up your eyes and subtly draw attention to them.There's also other waterproof makeup, like eyeshadow, eyeliner, brow gel, and concealer.

