 The wire cube shelving system is the most important, as this will form the walls of the enclosure. The amount you'll need will vary depending on the size of your enclosure. One package of 16 squares is enough for an enclosure 30x30x30 in big, but two packages will create a much more spacious and comfortable enclosure. Buy these shelves from Target, Walmart, or a similar store, or find them online. The rest of the materials you can buy from your pet store or find in your house.;
, You should have at least 16 squares of wire shelving and plenty of connectors to tie different squares together at the corners. Practice assembling them to get an understanding of how they work together.
 At this point you will need to decide how large you will make the enclosure. This article will show an enclosure 2 panels in each direction, but to make a larger or smaller enclosure is quite easy. Simply use more or less panels in each direction until you have the desired size.


Repeat this step three times to create a total of four corners.
 This will use a total of eight wire panels and 16 connectors. If you want a larger enclosure or an enclosure of a different shape, continue connecting panels together until you have the shape you desire. 

, Use two panels to form the platform, placing them horizontally, one panel high, over half the inside of the cage. Place one more panel vertically, underneath the center of the shelf, to support it.
 This will double the height of your enclosure to ensure that your rabbit will remain safely inside.


If your rabbit does not jump very high, you can skip this step. However, to make sure the enclosure will keep your rabbit safe, and to give your rabbit a little more space and freedom, it's generally better to make the cage taller.
 Choose somewhere with enough light and air to keep your rabbit happy, but make sure it's out of the way of your family so that people aren't constantly running into or tripping over it. Make sure to put the enclosure on a surface that will support it. For example, putting it on a plush carpet floor might make your rabbit happy but will very quickly dirty the carpet beyond all recognition.
 This will be your rabbit's litter box.
 The spacing between the wires of the panels is often not close enough to allow the rabbit to use it as floor. Using the towel to cover the panels allows for a comfortable place to sleep, relax, and eat.
 Do not place them onto the shelf. This will limit the mess that could be made from spilled bowls.
 A sturdy construction will ensure that the rabbit is enclosed when wanted and provide a safe home for your pet. Perform this check periodically to keep your cage safe and prevent your rabbit from escaping.
 Congratulations, you have finished!

