 How your hair looks is very important. Don't wear it messy. Straight and neat looks best. Although Lauren, Heidi and Whitney have blonde hair, don't go crazy over it and dye your hair blonde. Lauren loves wearing her hair in a low ponytail, with it curled, and pulled to the side to hang over her shoulder in the front. if you have short hair, extensions are always classy,but make sure they are the exact same colour as your hair, and that they aren't too long (if your hair is shoulder length, cut the extensions to be about as long to your elbow).;
, Wear cute accessories. They should match your outfits. Pearls or pearl earrings match everything, make sure they are cleaned and neat. Don't over accessorize, you'll look cheap. just a necklace and little diamond stud earrings, bangles are in right now, so wear a few (Chanel has them at Chanel.com).
 None of the girls have even the least bit of tomboy in them. Make sure to stand up straight, and never ever slouch. Stand firm and with grace. When you walk, be sure to graceful. When posing for a picture with friends or singly, place your hand on your waist, and stand tall. Smile, but not too big, or smile without showing teeth. SMILE a lot, and greet everyone with a hug, or if workers, shake hands. Be classy not trashy.
 Go buy some shoes! They don't have to be expensive, but they should look nice. Flats are in, and they probably will be for a while. Flats have been in since the 60's, and will probably will never go out of style. Be bold with the colors, silver and white ones, plenty of black ones. Keep them clean, and stop wearing them when they start wearing down. Flip flops are a good choice as well but not the chunky ones, those are cheap and not classy. Also, high heels are always good. Stilettos are the most chosen style, albeit, potentially more uncomfortable.
 This one is optional, because there's no point in caking on make-up just to look like someone else. If you're going to wear it, don't wear too much. Bare minerals is the BEST choice for makeup. You should always wear this everyday, it's even safe to sleep in. Then wear a little mascara, and bronzer, nothing too fake, just enough to give you that California glow.
 Well, these girls are considered celebrities. It will make you feel good about yourself, and other people will see it too. Act like everyone is important to you. Dress well wherever you go. Make sure you don't gossip about people UNLESS it's positive. Maintain a positive image, and people will think you are classy, and sweet.
 When you have good people around you, it is easier to deal with things. If this means opening up to people, go for it. Choose one or two of your closest friends, you don't need 100 friends that will end up hurting you and gossiping, just a few.
 This one is very important. You should look AND act classy and sophisticated. That's about it.

