 In most cases, these are group learning experiences, but these experiential learning projects can also be assigned to individuals depending on your specific educational needs. Modify or build your own project based on a list of the core subjects that need to be learned.For a democratic process project, you can assign topics that students will speak for or against, then have them present their side of the argument.
If you’re teaching younger students, use a simple project like having students make a picture books about a history lesson.
Give younger students time to work as a group during class, or let them do a project on their own.
If you’re teaching middle or high school or college age students, you may want them to practice leadership and time management skills by having them meet outside of class.
 Give students a rubric at the start of the project, so they clearly understand your expectations. If you don’t usually use rubrics, keep it simple. Make an outline of each step in the project, and explain what percentage of the students’ grade or amount of focus should be dedicated to each step.For example, a rubric for the debate project above may include researching topics, writing the speech, delivering the speech, and answering questions following the presentation.
To provide more specific guidance, consider including examples of good, better, and best. For "research" in the sample above, you could say “good” research includes a variety sources that support the issue, “better” research includes ten or more sources on both sides of the issue, and “best” research represents comprehensive analysis of both sides of the issue using primary sources.
 Following the group project, take time to assess your students’ comprehension of key ideas. This can be done in a number of ways. Give a quiz, assign a written essay explaining what they learned from the project, or simply conduct a class discussion about how the project related to your lesson plans., If you choose a group project, it’s important to build in an opportunity for your students to assess their experience with the group. Many students struggle to work together, and high achieving students especially may struggle to relinquish power over their grades to their peers. At the end of the assignment, ask each student in the group to evaluate the other’s performance and their own.Ask students to outline their personal contribution to the project. Then, request an outline of the contributions of the other group members.
Ask students to write a short reflection about the experience, any issues that may have arisen, and provide feedback about their experience working in this group.

