 One of the best habits you can form during the weekend is exercise. Strive for a good balance of cardiovascular exercise, weight training, and stretching.Ultimately, the weekend will allow you spare time to get exercise you don’t normally get during the week.


Set aside some time on Saturday and Sunday to exercise.
Consider activities such as power walking, running, swimming, or cycling.
Try to exercise at least 30 minutes per day.
Think about melding recreation with cardiovascular exercise. For instance, consider taking up cycling. You may find that you have time to enjoy cycling on Saturday or Sunday mornings.;
, Make sure you have some downtime so you can recharge during the weekend. This is important, as overcommitting to demanding activities will wear you out and may impact your health.


Build some downtime at home into your schedule. Plan to spend a couple hours watching TV, reading a book, or just sitting around the house.

Meditation and yoga are also great for relaxation.
Spend time with friends and family.
Spend time with your pet, if you have one. The weekend is a great time to relax and take your dog for a walk.
Relax outside. Consider going to the beach, to the lake, or for a hike in the mountains., While it may be difficult, sticking to a good sleep schedule is one of the best habits for your weekend. This is because a work-free weekend offers you the option of staying up late and sleeping in. But in the end, both options may negatively impact your health.


Stick as close as you can to your normal schedule, but allow for deviations. For instance, if you usually go to sleep at 9PM and wakeup at 6AM, stay close to it. Consider going to sleep at 10PM and waking at 7AM or 730AM, if you want to deviate.
Avoid oversleeping. Studies have shown that oversleeping on weekends may result in weight gain and disease risk.
Make sure to get enough sleep. Resist the temptation to stay up all night. Losing sleep on the weekend will negatively impact your health and tire you out for the work week ahead.
Try not to sleep in an erratic way. Staying up all night and sleeping all day will throw your body’s sleep cycle off.If you do end up staying out to late, rather than sleeping in really late, consider taking a short 20 minute nap during the day., Partying, socializing, and drinking alcohol is another important aspect of many people's weekends. As a result, you need to make sure you embrace safe and healthy party habits so you don't put your health at risk. Binge drinking is defined as more than four drinks within two hours for women and more than five drinks for men, and it is unhealthy and unsafe.Eat before drinking. Have something that is a good source of protein. It will help to slow down alcohol absorption.Drink plenty of water before and after you drink alcohol.
Don't drink too much, too quickly. Try to drink no more than one drink an hour.
Limit the number of drinks you consume and avoid drinking and driving., A great healthy habit – both physically and psychologically – is to stay away from work related activities during the weekend. This is important, as work will take time away from other aspects of a positive, balanced weekend. Without exercise, relaxation, and social activities, you won’t be able to recharge so you can be happy and healthy for the week ahead.


Consider staying an hour or so after work on Friday to tie up any loose ends so you don’t have to worry about work over the weekend.
Let your coworkers know that you’re not available for overtime or extra projects over the weekend.
If you can’t avoid work altogether during the weekend, carve out a specific slot for it., You might be tempted to overcommit to a variety of social activities since you have a substantial amount of free time. However, overcommitting may stress you out and undermine your ability to enjoy whatever activities you do commit to.


Use a day planner to plan your weekend activities.
Avoid booking activities back-to-back. Instead, think about the day as three parts: morning, afternoon, and evening.
Allow enough time in between activities. For instance, if you have a morning commitment, make sure your afternoon is free. This will provide you with enough time in case your morning activity runs late.
Overcommitting has been shown to produce anxiety and decrease quality of life., Central to maintaining a healthy life is making sure you have time to spend with your family. Thus, you need to make sure you put some time aside specifically to spend with your family. This will help reinforce your relationships and will likely help you feel more connected to the people around you.


Plan a family picnic.
Play games with your family.
Go to a fair, a festival, or some similar activity with your family., For many people, the weekend allows time to get some desperately-needed grocery shopping done. By having groceries, you’ll make sure that you can prepare meals during the weekend and have healthy foods available at your home during the week.


Pick a time during the weekend to shop.
Prepare a grocery list that considers foods or things you’ll need to prepare meals during the week.
Think about a food budget, and try to stay on it when you shop for groceries., Extra time on the weekend will provide you with extra time to cook and eat things you don’t normally have the time to cook. Cooking will save you money, help you eat healthy, and may be relaxing.


Plan to cook at least three to four meals (or more) if possible.
Cook healthy. Try to use lots of fresh fruits and vegetables. Avoid prepared frozen meals, boxed meals, or other popular but less-healthy shortcuts. For instance, try cooking an Asian stir fry meal on Saturday night or a fresh eggplant parmesan on Sunday night.
Consider cooking extra food on Sunday so you’ll have food prepared during first couple days of the week., While you may be tempted to enjoy your weekend by eating junk food or fast food, this is one of the worst things you can do. Ultimately, indulging in junk food during the weekend is counterproductive to your overall health and well-being.


Try not to eat lots of snack food like chips or pastries.
Stay away from fast food entirely during the weekend.
Focus on eating vegetables, fruits, and whole grains.
Drink lots of water, juice without added sugar or smoothies., While eating out with your friends is especially enjoyable on the weekend, it’s easy to slip up and blow your healthy habits. As a result, you need to choose wisely when picking meals you don't prepare yourself.


Avoid foods with lots of carbs.
Stay away from fried foods or oily foods.
Focus on lean protein.
Pick foods with fresh vegetables. For example, when picking an appetizer, try a vegetable plate with hummus instead of fried mushrooms.
Stick to healthy habits when you get take out, too.