 If your music is being unlawfully shared online, you can use the takedown provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to require the company hosting the content to remove it.Fulfilling this requirement is in the best interests of the company hosting the content, because it allows them to claim they are exempt from liability for the infringement of their users.
Sometimes the host may be obvious, such as if the name of the host is included in the domain name of the website. However, hosts that offer their users the ability to use custom URLs may be more difficult to find.
Look for a logo or other information regarding the host in a top corner of the website's home page, or in the fine print at the very bottom of the same page.
 If the unlawful use occurs on a social media account or a blogging service such as WordPress or Tumblr, there typically will be a form you can use to notify their agent that one of their users is infringing your copyright.To find the form and information about the website's procedures for submitting and evaluating takedown requests, look for a link in the fine print at the top or bottom of the website's home page that says "copyright" or "legal."
If there isn't a direct link on the infringer's website, go to the home page of the host service. For example, if the infringer's website is hosted by WordPress, you can find the information you need by going directly to wordpress.com.
Keep in mind that while content hosts are required to have an agent for DMCA purposes, they aren't required to provide any sort of form for people to use.
If you can't find a form, you'll have to draft a letter yourself. Seek out the identity of the website's DMCA agent and then look for forms or templates you can use to guide you as you write your letter.
 The DMCA notice requires you to provide information about your copyrighted music and the location where the user posted that content unlawfully. To take advantage of the DMCA's provisions, you typically must have shared the music online somewhere else first.Typically you must list the permalink for the posts that contain the infringing content. You also must provide links to the content that you uploaded elsewhere on the internet.
The date for the content you posted must be before the date the infringing content was posted for the DMCA requirements to kick in.
You must provide your full legal name and contact information on your DMCA form. Keep in mind that although the notice itself is not a public document, it may be shared with the infringing party at their request.
Make sure all the information you provide on your takedown request is true and accurate to the best of your knowledge. There are penalties, including fines, for intentionally giving false information.
Some hosts may require evidence that you contacted the party that posted the content directly and asked them to take it down before you can avail yourself of DMCA provisions.
 Each web host must have an agent to review DMCA claims. Once you've sent your takedown notice, the agent will look into your claim and send you an email letting you know the action they've taken.The posts that contain infringing content may be taken down by the host within 24 hours of receipt of your notice. However, if your notice is challenged by the person who created the post, it may be reinstated.
The DMCA agent for the host site also may contact you for more information before taking down the content.
 Even if the host removed the infringing posts, that doesn't stop the same user from simply reposting the same content. Unless the person's entire account was removed, you may want to keep an eye on the site to make sure it doesn't happen again.There are a number of free tools and services online that search for websites where your work is being copied.
You can sign up for one or more of these services if you want, but if you know where your music has been used unlawfully once before, it's also possible for you to simply check that site once a day or so and make sure the music isn't put back up.

