 These mercenaries come in twos and are some of the easiest mercenaries to deal with. Capture them, and they will march down a lane to deal long-ranged, high-damage attacks that deal splash damage to nearby targets. They also have the added benefit of being able to shoot far enough that towers, forts and keeps cannot retaliate – allowing them to demolish these structures if left unopposed.

Khazra come in threes and replace Siege Giants in the Diablo-themed Battlefields of Eternity and Infernal Shrines. They don’t do splash damage, but they attack much faster than their regular counterparts while doing bonus to non-heroic units and structures.;
, These can be found in camps containing three melee knights and one ranged wizard. They are much harder than Giants to capture thanks to their high health pool and respectable damage output. This also means that towers, forts and keeps will have to eat up a lot of their ammunition to deal with them – making it easier for subsequent pushes should these defensive structures run out of ammo. And that’s not mentioning the actual damage the four mercenaries can dish out on their own, which can often push a lane all the way to the core if left unopposed.

Fallen Shamans replace Bruisers in the Diablo-themed Infernal Shrines and Battlefields of Eternity. There is one shaman that uses ranged attacks in each camp accompanied by two infernal hounds. These shamans are particularly adept at pushing lanes because they keep summoning their infernal hounds whenever they fall – although they don’t resummon these hounds while you’re battling them respective mercenary camps.
 These are the biggest, baddest mercenaries you can capture. Not all maps contain Boss Golem camps and there is only one Boss Golem per camp, but that one golem does a lot of damage with each swing while also possessing a huge amount of health. It can also slam the ground to stun nearby players and lay down roots that will damage and root ranged heroes. If left unchecked, a Boss Golem can literally break down a complete fortress - even a keep - almost all by itself. The high health and high damage of the Boss Golem, however, means that you’ll need about three or four heroes to take it down – five if you want to do so quickly. This makes you particularly vulnerable to ambushes while fighting Boss Golems, so be very careful in choosing when to make the attempt., This one is pretty straightforward: get to the mercenary camp, start hitting them and wait until they die. Stay close to draw the attention of mercenaries, and stay far so that they will switch targets. Mercenaries will prefer minions and summoned monsters over heroes as well, meaning that heroes with the ability to summon minions (e.g. Zagara, Rehgar, Azmodan etc.) will be quite useful for capturing mercenary camps.

Using the Bribe talent will instantly neutralize one mercenary per charge, and will work against all mercenaries except Boss Golems. You will need to store up charges for the talent though, which is only gained by staying near enemy minions as they die.
Heroes with the Scouting Drone talent, Clairvoyance talent or other abilities that give vision (e.g. summoned minions, Zagara’s Creep Tumors, Tyrande’s Sentinel, Tassadar’s Oracle etc.) can use these to protect their flanks while capturing mercenary camps. This is especially useful when capturing Boss Golems, as the advance warning can help prevent your team from getting ambushed by the enemy team.
You can also use summoned minions to scout around while you are engaging the mercenaries in combat. They usually walk toward the nearest lane, so you can place them in such a way that they will give you as much vision as they can en route to their lane.
 You can kill the mercenaries using abilities or summoned minions (e.g. Zagara’s roaches, Azmodans demons, Gazlowe’s turrets etc.), but a hero needs to stand within the capture circle for a few seconds to actively capture camp. Walking out of this circle will reset the capture time, and you can leave the camp to capture it later on as you will. Cleared camps, however, will be indicated by a unique icon on the mini-map that is visible to all players in the match - so you had better guard that camp or capture it quickly if you don’t want your enemies to steal the camp from you.

Getting Bribe significantly cuts down the time you need to capture mercenary camps. In the case of Siege Giant camps, you could practically capture them in the blink of an eye. This lets you steal mercenary camps that are located near the enemy team’s base – depriving them of mercenaries while forcing them to deal with a threat from behind.
If you walk in on an enemy hero that has just cleared a mercenary camp, contest it by walking into the capture circle. The circle will stay neutral as long as at least one hero from the opposing teams are on top of it.
Zagara’s Devouring Maw, Zeratul’s Void Prison and Stitches’ Gorge can temporarily put enemy heroes out of the game – giving you a short window of time to capture the camp. These skills make it possible for you to “ninja steal” those camps, which is particularly useful with Boss Golem camps.
Each of the maps in Heroes of the Storm will have an objective that will force both teams to contest them, like gathering skulls in the Haunted Mines or tributes in Cursed Hollow. These objectives will usually take some time before they appear on the map, and capturing camps just before the objectives spawn will force the enemy team to make a choice: capture the objective and let the mercenaries go on a rampage, or send someone to deal with the mercenaries while losing their aid in the fight for the objective. Both are desirable situations for your team, so make sure to capture the camps during these times to make the most of captured mercenaries., Once you have neutralized the mercenaries and capture the camp, you will have to make a choice. One, you accompany the mercenaries to protect them and help them deal maximum damage. This is best done when your hero is an assassin or specialist that can deal a lot of damage to minions and enemy bases. Two, you leave the mercenaries alone and focus on something else - like pushing another lane or assisting your allies. This is best chosen when the objective is up and your team needs your assistance to beat back the enemy team. You can also push a separate lane if the enemy team is completely absorbed on the objective and is not paying your or your mercenaries any attention.

The Mercenary Lord talent is invaluable if you choose to escort your mercenaries. This talent causes nearby non-Golem mercenaries to deal 50% more damage while receiving 50% less damage from non-heroic sources.The added damage and survivability for nearby minions can sometimes even be worth skipping out on helping capture an objective, especially if the rest of your teammates are holding their own against the entire enemy team. This gives you the opportunity to blast down forts and even keeps while your teammates keep the other team busy by stalling for as much time as possible.
On the other hand, using Bribe to instantly down two mercenaries at once (or even three if you pick certain heroes like Raynor that have enhanced versions of Bribe) is of great help when timing your captures. You’ll be able to join the fight for the objective much more quickly – making Bribe especially useful for surprising the enemy team by suddenly unleashing mercenaries and then popping back in to join the team fight.

