 Since there are different types of ADHD and different symptoms associated with them, not all dietary changes may work for you. To determine what might be helping or making matters worse, start keeping a log of your symptoms and the foods you eat. Pay attention to any apparent correlation between what you eat or drink and your symptoms.

For example, if you notice that you are more upbeat and have an easier time focusing on your work on the days that you eat a salad for lunch, and have less energy and a harder time focusing when you eat a convenience lunch like a frozen entrée, then this may indicate that frozen entrées are one of your triggers.
You can write down your symptoms and foods manually or use an app to track your mood and food intake.;
, Food high in synthetic dyes, flavors, and preservatives can contribute to symptoms of ADHD like hyperactivity and mood swings. They may also make your depression worse or trigger a downturn in your mood. Avoid eating foods high in artificial colorings and additives, such as pre-packed foods, soft drinks, and junk food.Instead, switch to fresh foods rich in vegetables and grains. Have drinks like herbal tea, all natural fruit juices or water. Snack on dried fruit or nuts instead of candy bars or junk food.
 Empty carbohydrates can make you feel full in the short-term but they can cause fatigue and a downturn in mood in the long-term. Avoid eating foods high in empty carbs, such as potato chips, bread, crackers. Skip having ice cream or cake after dinner. These foods can lead to tiredness and make you feel less energetic.Instead, go for foods high in healthy carbohydrates, such as whole grain pasta, grains like quinoa or barley, and fresh fruit.
 Foods high in artificial sugars can lead to sugar crashes later in the day and make your moods worse. Fight ADHD-related depression by cutting back on the amount of artificial sugars you eat every day. Replace sugary snacks for healthier options.Pack healthy snacks like nuts, granola bars, and sliced fruit in your bag so you can have them instead of sugary, unhealthy snacks.
For a treat, try having a couple of squares of dark chocolate. Dark chocolate can help to increase attentiveness and act as a mood enhancer.