 Pull out the paper manual or look up the digital version online. Flip through until you see the cleaning section. Follow the directions carefully, paying particular attention to any warnings against particular chemical cleaners.Be aware that following a cleaning procedure not listed in the manual, or using prohibited chemicals, could result in your warranty being voided.;
, To safely work on your TV, you’ll need to disconnect it from any electricity, especially if you are planning to use a liquid cleaner. This protects you if any liquid makes it into the casing. Turning off the power will also make the screen go dark, which will help you to see any dust or debris., With a TV this size, you do not want to risk it falling on you during the cleaning process. If your TV is mounted to the wall, check the connections before proceeding. If your TV is on a stand, make sure that it does not wobble if you apply light pressure to the screen. With a smaller TV you might be able to lay it down before cleaning, but this is not generally a good idea with a big screen model.
 After you unplug the TV, let it sit for at least five minutes before cleaning. Modern TVs do not generate as much electricity and warmth as earlier models. However, they do heat up slightly when turned on and this heat can cause dirt and grime to stick to the surface. Allowing for a cooling period will reduce the dust and the build-up of static electricity., You may have received a cloth when you bought the TV or you can buy a quality cloth in the automotive care or electronics sections of any general store, such as Target. A microfiber cloth is ideal because it absorbs oil and debris in a very gentle way. It is less likely to scratch a TV like a paper towel or rough towel might do.Make sure that the cloth is a large enough size so that you can cover the entire TV’s surface. For example, many doctors will give you a small microfiber cloth for glasses, but these are too small to use in this case.To keep your microfiber cloths in the best shape, wash them after each use without adding fabric softener., Once you have a proper cloth, go slowly and wipe over the surface of the TV. Look at the cloth to see how much dirt or grime you are removing. When you’ve wiped down the screen once, stand back to see if you need to do another round. This method will not work as well if the dirt is heavy. Instead, you should use a dry wipe down in the same way that you would a quick dusting., Get a spray bottle and fill it with some warm, distilled water. Or, take a bottle of lukewarm distilled water and drip a bit on a microfiber cloth. Your goal is to make the cloth damp, not soaking wet. Use this damp cloth to then wipe down the screen.Distilled water is the best to use as it contains fewer minerals and deposits. If you use tap water, then the deposits can stick to the screen and attract even more dirt over time.
 If your application of water doesn’t have the desired effect, then make a mixture from half vinegar and half distilled water. Dampen the cloth with this mixture and re-wipe the grimiest areas. Try not to use this too often, however, as it can prove abrasive to the TV screen.Depending on the manufacturer recommendations, you may also be able to use a mixture made from distilled water and fabric softener or dishwashing liquid.If you use any type of mixed cleaner, it is a good idea to go over the screen once more with a cloth dampened by water only.
 Do not spray whatever cleaning mixture you use directly onto the screen of the TV. Instead, place the cloth in your hand and spritz a bit onto it from a bottle. This will allow you to control the dampness of the screen. It will also keep liquid from running down into the frame area., It may seem like a simple solution, but don’t use cleaning wipes unless they are specifically designed for big screen TVs. Cleaners or cleaning wipes with alcohol can prove too harsh on the screen and can lead to discoloration. Windex is also too harsh, unless you purchase the Windex cleaner made specifically for TVs., As you wipe the screen, apply enough pressure so that some of the moisture transfers. Keep your touch light and move from area to area. Resist the urge to press heavily on deeply soiled areas as this can damage the screen’s pixels. Instead, do multiple light cleanings until the grime comes off., You usually go with circular motions when cleaning glass or other smooth surfaces. However, for a TV, it is best to wipe from side-to-side in a methodical way. You can also add in a layer of top to bottom wiping, if needed. This ensures that you cover the entire surface of the TV and it allows you to keep the pressure even., When you are finished, it is best to use a dry cloth to wipe down the TV’s surface. Remove any moisture and then leave it to air dry. Wait until the TV is completely dry before you plug it back in and turn it on., It is a good idea to have a designated cloth, or multiple ones, just for use on the TV frame areas. It is likely that the frame and accessories will accumulate more dirt and grime and you don’t want to take the chance of transferring these materials onto the screen during a later cleaning. Again, a microfiber cloth is the best type to use.If you clean your frame area every week or so, you should be able to do so without using a liquid cleaner. It will be enough to dust with a fresh cloth., The remote is probably one of the dirtiest parts of a TV, as it is used regularly and has a great deal of contact with your hands. You can wipe down the remote using a dry cloth. However, you may need to dampen it a bit with water or vinegar in order to remove any deep dirt. A vinegar mixture will also help to sanitize the remote., If you can remove the coverings on your speakers, then you can lightly go over them with a lint roller or vacuum attachment. If the speaker coverings cannot be removed, then take a damp cloth and lightly wipe over them to remove dust.