 Traditional Christmas lights that use incandescent bulbs usually get hot, while LED lights stay cool to the touch. Using LEDs can reduce the likelihood of a fire starting. Look for Christmas lights from reputable Christmas retailers or light manufacturers and search for the LED varieties available.Popular brands include Ucharge Solar White Christmas Lights, TaoTronics Dimmable LED String Lights, and Qedertek Christmas Solar String Lights.LED lights will also save you money on energy costs.;
, Outdoor decorations are manufactured to withstand the cold and elements. Check your light's packaging to see if the decorations are marked for outdoor use. If you're in doubt, look for the Underwriters Laboratories or UL label. If the label is green, your lights are meant for indoor use only. If the label is red, that means that the lights are suitable for both indoor and outdoor use.UL is a widely accepted lab that tests lights for safety.
Make sure any extension cords are also suitable for the outdoors. The designation letter for outdoor extension cords is a W., Before hooking your Christmas lights up, make sure that the outlets you're using have ground fault circuit interrupters. These outlets look like normal outlets, but have the reset button on them and regulate the electrical current in a circuit. When there is a short or ground fault, the outlet cuts off the electrical current, which can prevent an electrical fire., You will have to account for the amount of wattage your holiday lights require. Take a look at the package to determine the wattage of your lights and then calculate how many watts you'll need based on how many strings you'll be using. On average, 265 ft of incandescent light would require 1,952 watts of energy or 6 separate outlets on two different circuits. In comparison, LED lights would need 38 watts and a single outlet to function., When doing extensive outdoor lighting, it's important to understand which circuits the outlets are on before plugging in your lights. Most circuits are 15 or 20 amps and can handle 1,440 max watts and 1,920 max watts, respectively. When exceeding this watt usage, make sure to use separate circuits in your house. Take a look at the circuit breaker layout in your house and determine which plugs are attached to which circuits.Also take into consideration other electrical equipment or appliances plugged into the same circuit as your Christmas lights.
Use a surge protector if you don't want to blow a circuit in the house.
 Having a dried or dead Christmas tree wrapped in lights is a recipe for disaster. Look for trees that look healthy and have fresh looking needles. If using an artificial tree, make sure that it's fire resistant and that it is not made of metal, which could conduct electricity in the case of a shortage.The dry needles on dead trees can catch fire due to the high heat created by some incandescent bulbs.
Make sure to water your tree daily if you are buying a living tree.

