 When an employee gives you notice they are leaving for another employer, take the time to talk to them and find out as many details as you can about their situation.All too often, an employee simply provides notice that they are leaving and takes off on their last day without any real communication with you.
This can result in a situation in which you believe the noncompete agreement is being violated, even if it is not.
Taking the time to discuss the situation with the employee ensures that you are both on the same page when they leave.
 Finding out information about the employee's new employer and what they will be doing there can help you evaluate the ways in which the noncompete agreement may be compromised.You also want to ask why the employee is leaving. Understanding their motivations can help you determine whether the noncompete agreement may be breached.
Find out who the employee will be working for, and what they will be doing at that company. If the job title or description doesn't line up with what they did for you, there may be nothing to worry about.
Often when an employee leaves they will give a vague statement that they are pursuing other opportunities, when in reality they are going to work for a competitor. An exit interview allows you to nail down specifics.
Take written notes at the exit interview and send a letter confirming what the employee said. You can use this later if the employee misrepresents their plans and goes to work for a competitor or starts a new business in direct competition with you.
 Before the employee leaves for their new job, go over the noncompete agreement with them again – especially if they signed it a relatively long time ago – and make sure they understand exactly how it applies.Make sure the employee is given another copy of the agreement. Based on what they said in the exit interview, you may want to highlight clauses of particular importance.
You also want to make sure the employee understands their responsibilities in terms of returning any company property or information, such as emails or client lists, and that they are not allowed to retain them.
If the noncompete agreement includes a clause permitting you to forward the agreement to the new employer, point this out to the employee and ask for an address or fax number to which you can send the agreement.
 In exchange for additional severance pay, you can protect your business further by having the employee sign a confidentiality or non-solicitation agreement.Confidentiality agreements require the employee to obtain permission from you before using or disclosing trade secrets or proprietary information such as client lists.
Similarly, in a non-solicitation agreement the employee explicitly promises that they will not solicit business from your clients on behalf of their new employer.
Keep in mind that you do have to provide additional consideration when the employee signs these agreements, and it typically cannot be "token consideration" – it must have a value that corresponds roughly to the value of the information they're being asked to keep confidential.
As with noncompete agreements, courts tend to view these agreements skeptically to the extent that they attempt to reach forward and control the employee's actions and limit their freedom after they've stopped working for you.
If you think you would benefit from a confidentiality or non-solicitation agreement, talk to your attorney about drafting an agreement that would adequately protect your business interests without unduly restricting the employee.

