 This is important and is the opportunity to participate in important aspects of your child's care. Here's what you can do to make the process as smooth as possible:



Weight monitoring. Weight monitoring should be done as often as daily or every other day if frequent relapses continue to occur or treatment with high dose prednisone is ongoing. If your child's weight begins to increase quickly without explanation and while in remission, it may indicate the imminent onset of a relapse.

Keep track of medication and dosages. Medication lists can be very helpful, especially if kept in a notebook with "erasable" paper. Medication doses change frequently in those with SSNS and are easily confused or changes forgotten. This is an important safety measure.

Urine monitoring. Home monitoring of urine protein is easily done using a test strip — a thin plastic strip about 3 inches (7.6 cm) long and ¼ inch in diameter. These can be purchased in bottles of 50 and 100. Testing the first urine made in the morning is highly preferable. In remission, periodic urine checking may allow the early identification of an imminent or partial relapse.;
, This is a corticosteroid medication (frequently referred to as a "steroid"). Prednisone has several immunosuppressive properties and has been the mainstay of INS treatment for decades. In addition to being the initial drug of choice for INS, it also is a strong predictive indicator of outcome.


Patients whose INS is, and remains, responsive to steroid treatment have high likelihoods of the disease eventually resolving.
There are several corticosteroids closely related to prednisone that may be used as well. These are called prednisolone and methylprednisolone.
For the initial episode of nephrotic syndrome, the recommended dose of oral prednisone is 2 milligrams per kilogram body weight (or 60 milligrams per square meter body surface area) per day. Daily treatment continues for 4-6 weeks during which time most patients who will be steroid sensitive will have responded.
Following this, most treatment protocols reduce the dose and give it every other day after which the dosage is slowly tapered. The total initial period of treatment is 4-8 months.
 The immunosuppressive effect of these drugs is primarily due to their interference with white blood cell chemical signaling that allows them to provide a coordinated immunological response. These were initially applied in kidney transplantation but have been used to treat INS for many years.


The drug names are cyclosporine and tacrolimus. These have become the most frequent second line treatment of choice as an alternative to prednisone.
Side effects for both of these medications are risk of infection, and both are potentially toxic to the kidney and require careful monitoring. Cyclosporine may cause abnormal hair growth (hirsutism) and tacrolimus, which rarely causes a diabetes mellitus-like condition.
A disadvantage of treatment with these drugs is the need for periodic measurements of the blood level, which is used to determine the proper dose.
 This drug also provides immunosuppression by interfering with white blood cell growth. Although serious infections may occur with MMF, they appear to be less frequent then with the alkylating agents.


Some patients must continue to take prednisone in combination with MMF to be effective. Therefore, those patients with serious steroid side effects may not benefit.
Side effects are mostly gastrointestinal: cramps, diarrhea, and abdominal pain.
For a treatment regimen, talk to your doctor. He or she will know what's appropriate for your child.
 These drugs were first used as cancer chemotherapy agents. They work by interfering with cell replication and therefore have the greatest effect on cells that are growing and dividing rapidly. This is why they are useful in many cancers.


Alkylating agents are principally used in patients who have SSNS with frequent relapses or severe corticosteroid side effects. Today, they are rarely used in patients with steroid resistant nephrotic syndrome.
Cyclophosphamide and chlorambucil are the most frequently used forms and are given orally. Treatment with oral cyclophosphamide is usually limited to three months with a total dose of approximately 180 milligram per kilogram body weight. This dose appears to minimize the risk of infertility.
Principal serious side effects include increased risk of infection, infertility (dose-related), and severe bladder wall injury (hemorrhagic cystitis). Temporary hair thinning or loss may also occur.
 Unfortunately, most patients will relapse at some point, at which time they are retreated with prednisone in a similar starting dose but with a somewhat more abbreviated total treatment period.


One of the greatest challenges of prednisone treatment (and especially starting it back up) is balancing benefit against side effects. There are numerous side effects (discussed above), whose risks increase with longer duration of therapy.
There are several self-help publications that focus on managing mood swings and behavior changes, and appetite leading to obesity. They may help make everything more manageable., Unfortunately, with nephrotic syndrome, the complications practically outweigh the actual problem. Here are a few tactics to employ to ensure your child's health:


Do not end corticosteroid therapy abruptly unless specifically instructed by a physician.
Write down the corticosteroid doses – they may change frequently and in potentially confusing ways. And be sure to keep up with prescription supply.
Avoid contact with kids who are sick, in general. Avoid chicken pox exposure if your child has not previously had chickenpox or the vaccine. If there is exposure to chicken pox, or the appearance of shingles, contact your doctor promptly.
Routine non-live virus vaccines should be given on a normal schedule including the annual influenza vaccination. Give the pneumococcal vaccine. Avoid live virus vaccines until, if possible, your child is off all immunosuppressive medications.
Test for proteinuria frequently and report increased protein on first morning urine dipstick testing of 2+ (100 mg/dL) or greater on 2 consecutive days or if edema appears.
 In general, patients with nephrotic edema need only modest restrictions of fluid to see improvement. A simple way to modestly reduce fluid is to drink from a smaller cup. A smaller amount of fluid filling a small cup may be enough to quench thirst.


Do this very carefully. The last thing you want to add onto your plate is dehydration. Talk to your doctor about what a reasonable intake of water is for your child's situation.
 It’s important to recognize that the dietary intake of sodium from salt in the average American diet has 5 to 10 times the average daily requirement. Some useful diet guidelines include: Eat more foods with high quality protein and/or low salt, including unprocessed fresh vegetables, fresh fruit, milk and yogurt, chicken, fresh cut meat, and fish.
Avoid fast food, processed foods (luncheon meats, cheese, hot dogs), canned and dry mix soups, and snacks (chips, pretzels, salted nuts, and similar snacks).
Don't add salt to food when cooking and keep the saltshaker off of the table.

If more precise dietary salt restriction is necessary, a good place to start in the average child would be about 1600 mg of sodium per day. Sodium content is listed in the nutrition facts of most foods. Some will be expressed as milliequivalents rather than milligrams. 1 mEq = 23 mg of sodium.
 This class of medications has direct effects on various parts of the kidney filter to promote fluid and sodium excretion as a means of eliminating excess water from the body. Care must be taken since long-term or high-dose diuretic treatment can lead to serious disturbances of mineral electrolyte balance as well as dangerous reduction of the blood volume.


When there is doubt, FENa is a test you can take that has proved useful in evaluating the state of blood volume and, ergo, how aggressively diuretics may be used. This test uses a simultaneously obtained blood and urine sample to calculate a "fractional excretion of sodium" (hence the name). Tracking this measurement can contribute to treatment decision-making.
The principal diuretics used for nephrotic edema management are furosemide, thiazides, and metolozone.
 When edema is problematic and not responsive to dietary measures, furosemide (Lasix) is most commonly used, beginning at a dose of approximately 1-2 milligrams per kilogram body weight.


Furosemide may be given several times a day, although a higher total dose rather than dividing the dose throughout the day may be more effective. Do not adjust the doses without medical guidance!
With edema that is more resistant to treatment, furosemide may be combined with either a thiazide diuretic or metolozone.

Use of diuretic therapy to manage edema is only temporizing while awaiting disease remission.
 The use of albumin to remove fluid is not universally accepted as effective but does appear to be quite beneficial in certain patients. It may be particularly useful in the settings where there is a lot of edema but blood volume appears low. In that circumstance, more aggressive removal of fluid can lead to acute kidney failure.


Albumin is generally given at an infusion center or hospital clinic. It is almost always combined with a diuretic.
The logic is that by giving a large dose intravenous albumin over a short time, the blood albumin level will rise, fluid will tend to move back into the blood compartment at which time a diuretic can be more effective at promoting excretion of the additional fluid.
This is only a temporizing measure in those who have moderately severe edema, fluid in the abdomen or even in the chest sometimes affecting breathing, or while treating a skin infection or peritonitis.
 This is not a commonly used treatment, partly because it is time-consuming and the necessary facilities are not generally available. Nevertheless it is worth mentioning since it is a safe, non-pharmacologic approach to controlling edema. Here's what you should know:


When an edematous individual stands upright in water up to the shoulders or neck, the water pressure in the lower part of the body drives fluid from the skin back into the circulation.
Following 3-4 hours per day of immersion, significant fluid can be mobilized in this fashion and subsequently excreted. It requires a bath or pool deep enough to stand in and the patience to do so for prolonged periods of time.
It may, under certain circumstances, be a useful adjunct to other therapies.
 Unfortunately, one of the most common side effects of being on steroid therapy is an increased appetite, weight gain, and obesity. If your child is on a long-term treatment program, this has to be a concern as weight gain can lead to heart problems, diabetes, high blood pressure, and numerous other health issues.


Focus your child's diet on leafy green vegetables, fruits, whole grains, lean meats, and low-fat dairy products.
Stay away from processed goods and fast food — they're full of bad fats, calories, salt, and additives your body doesn't even recognize.Try to eat smaller meals more often. This keeps the metabolism up, fights the constant cravings that come with steroid therapy, and keeps your child from eating too much in one sitting.
 To combat potential weight gain from drug therapy, starting an exercise program may be necessary. A combined diet and exercise program can keep your child's treatment symptoms at bay.It's recommended to get 30 minutes of exercise 5 days a week. Though moderate cardiovascular exercise is best, anything that fits into your schedule and matches your ability is a step in the right direction.
Try to make life more active in general. Switch up the movies for a swim or a hike; take the stairs instead of the elevator; take Fluffy for a longer walk. Even small changes add up!

, Edema, the swelling in various parts of the body due to excess water accumulation, is the initial symptom of nephrotic syndrome in about 95% of the patients.Common places for this extra fluid include the face (around the eyes and particularly in the morning after lying in bed all night), the legs (particularly the lower legs and after being upright during the day), within the abdominal cavity (where there is lots of space for it to accumulate), and in the genitalia.
It may be mild or sufficiently severe to cause a great deal of discomfort. As blood levels of proteins decrease, a portion of water contained in the blood moves out of the blood vessel and into surrounding tissue.
 Elevated levels of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides result from abnormal processing of the cholesterol and triglyceride precursors in the nephrotic syndrome. Relatedly, obesity and/or weight gain is a common side effect, too.


In severe and prolonged nephrotic syndrome these levels may be extremely high, raising concerns about long-term heart disease and cardiovascular risk in general.
 Increased risks of serious bacterial infections are seen in people with nephrotic syndrome. There are several changes that occur in the efficiency of our immune systems that principally result from losing certain proteins in the urine: sepsis (bacteria in the blood), peritonitis (bacterial infection in the abdomen), and cellulitis (bacterial infection of the skin) are the most common.


The most frequently seen bacterial organisms causing these infections are Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) and bowel bacteria such as Escherichia coli.
 Disturbances of blood clotting can lead to thrombosis (blood clots forming within body blood vessels) of major blood vessels. This is, however, more common in adult forms of nephrotic syndrome.


It is principally the result of imbalances of normal blood clotting regulation, with increases of factors that enhance blood clotting accompanied by urinary losses of substances that inhibit blood clotting.
 Acute kidney failure associated with the nephrotic syndrome is uncommon, particularly in the idiopathic nephrotic syndrome of childhood. When it does occur, it is usually the result of dehydration in the blood compartment of the body.


Both the very low blood protein levels leading to loss of blood volume, and fluid losses from acute illnesses with dehydration can combine and lead to poor blood flow to the kidney. This is often reversible with prompt treatment of the underlying problem.
 Unfortunately, prolonged steroid therapy has its own complications. Each case is different, and your child may experience only some of these symptoms. Knowing that, here are the most common side effects of prolonged therapy:


Weight gain, increased appetite, and obesity
"Cushingoid” facial changes (rounded face sometimes called a "moon" face)
Infection
Growth delay
Cataracts
High blood pressure
High blood sugars
Weakening of the bones (osteopenia)
Skin stretch marks

Serious side effects may not be experienced by a child whose SSNS relapses are infrequent and require only modest does of steroids.
 This is a syndrome, after all, and not a disease. The main characteristics of nephrotic syndrome include:



Excessive leakage of protein from the blood into the urine. In children the amount of protein lost is usually more than 1 gram per m2 body surface area per 24 hours.

Decreased serum albumin level to less than 2.5 grams per deciliter. Albumin is a key protein measured in the blood. A deciliter is 100 milliliters (this is a standard way to express certain laboratory results).

Edema and/or ascites. Edema is accumulation of fluid under the skin to cause swelling. Ascites is accumulation of fluid in the abdominal cavity.

Elevated serum lipid levels. The most common elevations are in the LDL (bad) cholesterol and triglycerides.
 Normal kidneys each contain about 1 million microscopic blood filters that conduct the process of cleaning the blood and adjusting body chemistry. Your blood flows into, through, and out of these filters through small blood vessels (capillaries). The kidneys are quite efficient, and only very small amounts of these important substances like protein are lost into the urine during the filtering process.


While small but still abnormal amounts of proteinuria (protein in the urine) may be seen in certain kidney diseases, in nephrotic syndrome the amount of protein lost is sufficient to significantly lower blood protein levels.
Albumin is one of the proteins lost in the urine and, when measured in the blood, is used as an indicator of the severity of proteinuria.
 The most common group of kidney diseases in children characterized by nephrotic syndrome is referred to as idiopathic nephrotic syndrome ("idiopathic" meaning that it arises spontaneously). In other words, in most cases, it's not known what causes the syndrome.


Nephrotic syndrome in children as a result of other acquired kidney diseases may also occur.
In addition, there are rare hereditary (genetic) causes of nephrotic syndrome, most of which manifest in infancy.
 The most common type of nephrotic syndrome is "Idiopathic Nephrotic Syndrome." "Idiopathic" means that it arises spontaneously and for seemingly no reason. Of all causes of nephrotic syndrome, INS is the cause in about 90% of children between the ages of 1 and 8 years of age and about 50% of adolescents.


The cause of nephrotic syndrome in INS is still not completely understood but it appears to be a disturbance of the function of the capillary filtration membrane in the glomerulus.
There are numerous forms of INS, but the most common are minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). The terminology can be confusing because there can be some overlap between these two forms and the general implications about long-term outcome are very different:

MCNS has a much greater likelihood of eventually resolving than FSGS. The chance of the disease eventually causing deterioration of kidney function and kidney failure is much greater for FSGS.
 There is a second way to classify these two diseases that is often more practical. Prednisone (a corticosteroid medication) is the most frequently used drug to treat INS. Child patients whose disease responds to prednisone or related medications are likely to have a favorable outcome regardless of whether the disease is MCNS or FSGS.


Those whose disease responds to prednisone are generally referred to as steroid sensitive nephrotic syndrome, SSNS, while the others have steroid resistant nephrotic syndrome (SRNS).
The likelihood of a favorable response to prednisone is much higher in MCNS compared to FSGS.
 In most children with SSNS, episodes of proteinuria reoccur, often over a period of years. In some, these "relapses" are infrequent and in others they may occur 3-4 times year or more. Treatment strategies must take the frequency and severity of relapses into account.


The main goal is to achieve and sustain remission while avoiding, as much as possible, the possible adverse effects of therapy.
Treatment issues for SSNS can be considered in three groups: treating the symptoms of nephrotic syndrome, treating the disease itself, and taking other steps to minimize and/or managing the potential complications of SSNS.

