 If you have a decent camera and know how to compose an image, try taking stock photos and selling them online. They don’t usually make much per sale, but remember that you're also developing a useful skill and a relaxing hobby. Plus, if you put a lot of time and practice into it, you can actually end up making quite a round sum of money.There are a number of stock photo agencies that purchase photos online, so don’t give up if you’re rejected from the first place you go. Companies like Shutterstock, Dreamstime, and iStock are some of the biggest buyers, but you could also check out boutique agencies once you get good., If you have a smartphone, you can find a number of apps that hook you up with local businesses or people who need small tasks done for paid compensation. Not all the tasks pay very well, but they’re usually easy—for example, a business or marketing research company might pay you to take a picture of yourself at a certain establishment—and you can look at it like a kind of adventure or scavenger hunt.GigWalk, WeReward, and CheckPoints are some examples of this kind of app, but there are many more out there, so browse around and experiment with different ones! Just make sure that the program accepts teens before signing up.
 Marketing research is very important for big businesses, and paid survey sites are one of the many ways firms complete this research. Most of the surveys are quick and painless, and you can do them from the comfort of your own home. Take some time to search for a reliable site—or sites—that doesn’t require a registration fee and accepts teen participants.Filling out surveys isn’t the most lucrative online earner—the average wage surveys is $7.00-$8.00 an hour but it’s easy and stable work.
You can also participate in paid marketing research focus groups. Unlike online surveys, these focus groups meet in person and pay between $50.00 and $150.00 an hour., You can earn money from uploading videos on free services like YouTube because of the advertisements it plays before and during popular content. While there are millions of users and competing channels, don’t get discouraged before you try it out! After all, many of the most successful YouTube stars started out as teenagers looking to make a few extra bucks while having some fun. Just make sure that you keep your parents abreast of what content you're putting up and have them help you handle user comments in order to stay safe.While fashion vlogs and video game walkthroughs are perhaps the most common types of content on YouTube, don't feel limited to this arena. If you like to pull pranks on family members or put on living room skit or comedy shows, consider filming them and putting them up on your channel! You could also form a YouTube book club or fan group where you lead discussions about your favorite novels, music, and movies.
You can start with your laptop’s basic webcam and home lighting, but as you strive for higher quality and production value, you’ll probably need to invest in a better camera, editing equipment, and professional lighting.
 Many universities and pharmaceutical companies pay people to take part in studies or clinical trials. Some of these studies take up an afternoon, while others will require a longer term commitment, so make sure to read all the conditions and requirements beforehand.


To find current trials and apply for them, check online classifieds sites as well as official university and clinic websites.Most clinical trials will not be open to teenagers, but you can find some if you search for teen studies in particular. Just be sure to ask your parents for their approval, as they will need to sign off on the trial should you be accepted into one.

