 Hamsters will live longer in the proper environment. Make sure you provide your hamster a spacious, comfortable cage.


The size of a hamster's cage is important for his health and wellbeing. A single hamster needs a cage that is at least 12 inches wide by 12 inches high by 18 inches long. However, a bigger cage is generally better. This gives your hamster more room to run and play, allowing him to get more exercise. If you're getting a specific breed, like a Syrian hamster, a bigger cage may be necessary as these hamsters can grow as long as 6 inches.In terms of accessories, you will need a bare minimum of a hanging water bottle and a ceramic bowl of food. However, an exercise wheel, toys, ladders, and material for chewing is also helpful to have in a hamster cage. It keeps your hamster active and emotionally stimulated. Boredom can cause stress, leading to health and behavioral problems that can potentially shorten a hamster's lifespan.Your cage should be in a warm area of your home. Drafts and cold temperature can cause health problems like colds. However, excessive heat or stuffiness can also bother a hamster. Pick a well ventilated area, which you have access to at all times. Keep your hamster out of direct sunlight and place the cage on a sturdy table.Never use newspaper, cat litter, scented bedding, fluffy bedding, or corn cob in a hamster's cage. These substances can be harmful to your hamster.;
, Hamsters can get sick if they're forced to walk through their own droppings or germs. It's important that you clean your hamster's cage at least once a week if you want him to live a long, happy life.


Always remove your hamster from his cage before cleaning. Place him in a safe and secure area.Remove all bedding, toys, food bowls, and water bottles. Throw away old bedding that has urine or feces on it. Any toys that cannot be safely cleaned or disinfected should also be thrown out.You can use regular cage disinfectant, which you can purchase at a pet store. While this should be safe for your hamster, if you worry about chemicals white vinegar can be used to clean your hamster's cage. Spray down the cage, getting the bottom of the cage, top of the cage, and bars of the cage, and then wipe it down with a clean towel. You should also disinfect a hamster's toys, food bowl, and water bottle. Make sure to rinse such items thoroughly before placing them back in a hamster's cage.Allow the cage, and your hamster's supplies, to air dry completely before putting your hamster back in his cage., Obesity and inactivity can cause health problems in hamsters just as it can in humans. It's important that you make sure your hamster is getting plenty of exercise so he'll live longer. Make sure the environment you provide for your hamster encourages physical activity.


Running wheels and ladders to climb on are great ways to make sure your hamster gets a quality workout each day. Go to your local pet shop, or go online, and purchase a variety of fun and interactive toys for your hamster that encourage movement.Plastic tubes can be purchased for a hamster's cage. Some people invest in a second cage and have the cages connect to one another via a tube. Your hamster will have fun exploring the tubing and this will give him something to do all the day. The more your hamster moves, the better for his longterm health.You can purchase a hamster ball at a local pet store. This is a small plastic device you can place your hamster in and then let him wander around your home. Make sure the hamster ball is closed completely before releasing your hamster and always supervise him when he's using his ball., Hamsters need a specific diet in order to thrive. Feed your hamster a combination of table food and hamster pellets to make sure he gets all the nutrients he needs. This will allow your hamster to live a long, quality life.


Pellets should be a major aspect of your hamster's diet. You can find commercial pellets at your local pet store. They should provide most of the nutrients your hamster needs to be healthy. However, if you're unsure that commercial pellets are adequate ask your vet about adding vitamins to your hamster's diet. Many hamster owners find mixing vitamins into their hamster's food improves their pet's overall health.In addition to pellets, you should add fresh produce to your hamster's diet. Alfalfa sprouts, apples, bananas, green beans, zucchini, sunflower seeds, and other grains and veggies can be a great supplement to a hamster's regular diet. However, do not give your hamster rotten food. This can cause indigestion and other health problems.Hamsters tend to eat fattier, tastier foods from a pile first. For example, they may eat all their sunflower seeds without touching their fruit. This is normal but do not take it as an indication you should feed your hamster more sunflower seeds. You need to make sure your hamster has a balance of healthy foods in addition to fun snacks and treats. Moderation is key to a healthy, happy pet., In addition to food, hamsters need plenty of water. Make sure you refill your hamster's water bowl each day. You should also dump out water every other day or so and replace it with clean, fresh water.


If your hamster seems to be drinking an excessive amount of water, take him into the vet for evaluation. Increased water consumption can be a sign of diabetes in hamster.

