 This add-on can be purchased directly from The Elder Scrolls website if you use a PC or, for console gamers, from the Playstation Store or Xbox Live.;
, 5000 gold will be removed from your inventory.


You may have to complete a few quests in each respective city before the jarl will allow you to purchase land.
If you are having trouble deciding where you want to build your house, keep in mind that buying one plot does not stop you from buying the other two.
 There you will find what you need to build your home: a drafting table, a carpenter’s workbench and a treasure chest filled with the materials you will need to begin building your house.
 This book, found on top of the carpenter’s workbench, will help you understand how to build your new home.



Selecting projects to build on the drafting table does not use resources, so do not worry if you do not have all of the wood, iron, and so on that you will need.
 Once your small home is built, you can decorate the interior using the carpenter’s workbench found inside.
 This will greatly increase the size of your house and turn the small home structure into an entryway.


Being a much larger structure, the main hall will require you to gather additional materials.



Lumber can be bought from any of the many lumber mills in Skyrim, including Deadwood Mill in Falkreath, Agna’s Mill which is west of Windhelm or the Solitude Sawmill in Haafingar.
Clay can be found in close proximity to your home. Look for a reddish-brown deposit on the ground and mine it just like other minerals in Skyrim.
Quarried stone can also be found close to each homestead. Look for a grey deposit against stones or mountains. As with clay, you will need a pickaxe in your inventory to mine it.
 These additions can bring both added utility and a sense of personalization to your character’s dwelling.


On the north wing, you can choose from a storage room, a trophy room or an alchemy laboratory.
On the west wing, you can choose from a greenhouse, a spare bedroom or an enchanter’s tower.
On the east wing, you can choose from a kitchen, a library or an armory.
 When you are selecting which item to build, the needed components will be listed.


There are many aesthetic options for decorating, including wall-mounted horker heads and iron chandeliers.
There are also many functional options for decorating, including enchanting and alchemy tables.

