 Scene fashion emphasizes bright, often neon, colors. By contrast, the most popular color choice in emo fashion is black.Aside from the color choices, a lot of clothing between the two subcultures can look quite similar. Because of the similarities, scene kids are even occasionally referred to as neon-emos.The number one goal of scene fashion is to call attention to the wearer, and neon colors are worn to that end.
Scene also takes a lot of cues from anime influences, further pushing their over-the-top and colorful fashion sense.
A zip-hoodie in a dark color is a crucial clothing item in emo fashion. The hoodie can be plain or be covered in icons characteristic of the emo culture, such as bleeding hearts, skulls, ribs, stars and broken hearts.
Scene fashion also champions hoodies, but they will generally be paired with neon drainpipe jeans.;
, The scene subculture’s love for neon colors sets them apart from the emo subculture when it comes to hair, as well, although the actual hairstyles themselves can look somewhat similar. The number one look for both cultures is based around a long fringe (bangs) brushed over to one side of the head, covering one or both eyes.Emo hair is often dyed black, with stripes of color (usually bleached blond or blue) sometimes added in, and very straight.
Emo silhouettes are thin, smooth and flat, occasionally featuring sharp angles and asymmetry. It is popular for the hair in front to be long, while the hair in back is short.
Scene hairstyles are exaggerated versions of the emo look, often dyed in a rainbow of neon colors, and backcombed to be bigger and fluffier.Hair extensions in bright colors or animal prints are prevalent, especially among scene girls., These are extremely popular in emo fashion for guys.Emo has an undercurrent of "nerd" style running through it, and thick glasses with black frames are key accessories for both genders, but males especially.


This nerd style undercurrent is not present in scene fashion at all.
The popular choices in scene eyewear are brightly colored sunglasses with very large frames, sometimes referred to as party sunglasses or party shades., Both subcultures have ties to music, but emo is far more music-centric than scene. In fact, as a subculture, emo was born out of a musical style with roots in the punk and post-hardcore genres.


Scene, on the other hand, is usually viewed as a fashion trend or stylistic choice.
Because of emo's powerful link to music, tight-fitting t-shirts featuring bands and band names are one of the most commonly seen clothing articles in emo fashion.
 Members of both subcultures tend to have piercings and tattoos, but they are far more prevalent and extensive within the scene culture. Scene kids will typically have multiple facial piercings and go for more drastic body modifications like ear gauges.


Tattoos are popular in emo circles, with less emphasis on piercings.
Tattoos of stars are considered emo, as well as “sleeves” (full arm tattoos that stop at the wrists).

