 At the end of the day, your feet are more swollen from a full day of activity. Shopping at the end of the day will help you get a better idea of how your heel will truly fit.You would hate to try your heels on in the morning and then have them be too tight when you wear them in the afternoon.;
, Walk around in your heels before you buy them. If you feel like the heels are tight or uncomfortable in any way, you may want to choose another pair. Your feet should feel supported and balanced when you have on your heels.Any pain you feel in the store will only get worse the longer you wear the heels. For example, if the back of the shoe is rubbing your heel in the store, you will probably develop a blister if you wear the heels in real life.
Try to walk on different surfaces in the store as well. Your heels will different on carpet than walking on a harder surface.
 Find shoes that have enough space for your toes. Cramped toes and shoes that are not wide enough will definitely cause pain. If you consistently wear heels without enough toe space, you will increase your chances of developing hammer toes, corns, bunions, and arthritis.Round toes and almond toes provide much more room than the classic pointy toes.
Pointy toes with even a slightly rounded almond shape provide more room than the classic wedge-shaped pointy toes.
A deeper toe box provides much more room overall than a shallower one.Pointy toes with deep toe boxes will pinch less than round toes with extremely shallow toe-boxes.
 The ideal heel height is between one and three inches. Walking in heels over three incheschanges how you walk and puts more stress on your lower back, knees, and ankle.However, choose a heel height that you are comfortable with. Luckily, there are many different heel heights to choose from.


Kitten heels are between 1.5 to 2 inches. These heels are good for all day wear.
The 3 inch heel is considered a classic heel height and is acceptable to wear to work.
A 4 inch heel is appropriate for after work and weekend activities.
A 5 or 6 inch heel is less comfortable and more difficult to walk in. You may want to save these for when you will not do a lot of walking and only plan to wear them for a few hours.
 You can return your shoes as long as you do not wear them outside. Wear your heels around your house as much as you can. Wear them when you cook dinner, wash dishes, or do laundry. It is best to wear them for a couple of hours. Shoes that seem comfortable at first may not be after a few minutes, or even an hour or two. You'll notice that heels cause your steps to be shorter; this is normal.The higher the heel, the shorter your steps will be. Don't try to stride like you would in sneakers.
When you walk, make sure you keep your heels vertical; do not let them roll to the side. This will lead to the heel slipping and cause you to fall.

