 Part of creating your own traditions involves doing things for the holidays that you've never done before. This is especially important if you've decided not to spend time with either of your families during the holidays. Have a few ideas of things that sound fun to do. You'll soon find what things you'd like to keep as traditions and which ones to leave behind. Some ideas include:Ice skating
Decorating your home
Baking food together
Seeing a festive movie;
, You might feel like you need to plan and organize your traditions, but you should also allow some flexibility. Saying yes to an impromptu concert or show might be a great way to find a new favorite tradition. Remember that all traditions have to start somewhere!


If you're feeling overwhelmed or anxious about the holiday traditions, take a break and just do something fun with your spouse.
 If you'll be celebrating the holidays just the two of you, spend some time creating things. You could bake cookies or make a fancy dessert, write cards to send to family, or create your own gifts to send to friends and family. You'll be making memories as a couple.


Keep in mind what your spouse enjoys doing. If your spouse would rather shop for friends and family, consider doing a shopping trip date. Make it special and go out for a nice dinner beforehand.
 Traditions are best when they're made together. If you feel like you're the one making all the decisions, get your spouse involved. Take turns with planning new ideas for traditions. For example, you could plan one event or activity for one day and your spouse could be responsible for the next day's activities.


Taking turns with traditions should also relieve some of the pressure to make the traditions. Creating holiday traditions should be fun.
 Make the holiday special for your spouse by doing something you know they'd really appreciate. This is especially important if you know your spouse is disappointed at not being able to celebrate some of their favorite holiday traditions.


For example, if you and your spouse can't be with your spouse's extended family when they watch their favorite holiday movie, surprise your spouse. See if any local theatres are playing the show on the big screen or just plan a special night in to watch the movie together.
 Avoid setting yourself for disappointment by expecting the perfect holiday while trying out your new holiday traditions. Realize that you might try things that don't work out as you planned. Just go into the holiday with the goal of having fun together as a newly married couple.


Be honest with your spouse about how the holiday traditions are going. It's better to tell your spouse exactly how you feel so you don't feel the need to do the tradition again next year.

