 Evergreens are ideal, because their thick branches provide year-round cover from predators and protection from winter winds. However, leave a buffering distance of about 10 feet, so predators can't jump onto the feeder from branches or roofs. Also try to space your feeders apart to prevent overcrowding., Just as different varieties of birds are attracted to different kinds of feeders, they also have their own preferences as to the height of the feeder. If you have multiple feeders, try to arrange them at different levels throughout your yard.Ground level feeders attract juncos, mourning doves, towhees, and sparrows.
Table level feeders attract cardinals, finches, and jays.
Higher-level, hanging feeders attract titmice, goldfinches, and chickadees. Hang these feeders about 5 – 8 feet above the ground.
Tree trunk feeders and knothole feeders attract wrens, nuthatches, and woodpeckers.
 You can help prevent collisions by placing feeders more than 30 feet away from your windows. You can also place them very close to the window – within 3 feet – so if they are attracted to the window's reflection, they won't have built up enough momentum to seriously injure themselves.Window strikes kill millions of birds each year, when birds see the reflection of trees, sky, or clouds and don't realize the glass is there.
Some birds will also attack windows during the spring mating season, when a male bird sees its reflection and thinks it is another male competing for females.You can try to make a window less transparent by keeping certain lights on or off inside the house, or drawing the shade.
You can also place stickers or netting over the window, so birds will realize the glass is there.
 Most wild birds only need your help during periods of the year when they require more energy, during migration times and cold spells. Plan to put feeders up for late winter and early spring, when birds have difficulty finding food in the wild. In the summer, seeds are more plentiful and young birds need to learn how to find food on their own., Hummingbirds have very high metabolisms, and will benefit from having access to nectar throughout the year. Goldfinches nest later in the year than other birds, so you can leave nyjer feeders up from winter through early fall, when thistles go to seed., If a bird is scratched by a sharp edge, the open wound is susceptible to disease. You may also be injured when you are refilling or cleaning the feeder. If you find any sharp edges, file them down with a metal nail file or sandpaper.