 As with most everything else in life, organization is the key to the planning process of graduate school applications. You will need a comprehensive list of all the schools you want to apply to. Depending upon your technology preferences, create a computer file or dedicate a notebook to the process. Create a separate page/entry for each potential graduate school. Conspicuously place the deadline where you can’t help but notice it (and also put it on/in your preferred calendar) and provide information such as:


Application deadline
Additional forms/transcripts/documents that must be submitted with the application
Number of required letters of recommendation, and whom these letters must come from
Application fee
Required statement of purpose/portfolio etc. and how long/how detailed it must be

, There are a lot of different moving parts involved in completing a successful grad school application. You have a lot of work to complete yourself, and you also need to make sure that your references, transcript providers, testing agencies, etc. have time to complete their work. Don’t wait to get started.


Allow one or even two months for references and transcripts. Also make sure you know when any required entrance exams are offered — some occur year-round, while others are only given at specific times of year — and how long it will take for the scores to be sent to the school.
In the best-case scenario, if you are planning to attend graduate school in the fall after you complete your undergraduate degree, you should start planning in May prior to the start of your senior year. Completed applications will often be due in December of that same year., No two graduate schools will want the exact same application materials, and every application packet you create should be individualized for that specific program and institution. With that said, you can save yourself a bit of time and repetition by creating templates of common application materials like your CV, cover letter, research statement, and so on.


While it may be tempting to create a template cover letter (for instance) in which you can simply “find and replace” the name of one program, contact person, etc. with another, a blandly generic statement such as this is unlikely to make a positive impact. Demonstrate your sincere interest by providing specific information about the program and your suitability for it.
Likewise, even if the basic information remains the same, slightly revise and reorganize your CV to suit each distinct program. One program, for instance, may seem more likely to appreciate your volunteer experience at a museum than another, so emphasize that point when appropriate.
 After the stress, rush, and excitement of getting your applications together and sent out, what follows is … waiting. It’s hard to pin down exactly how long you’ll have to wait for a decision, as that depends upon numerous variables ranging from the number of applications to unexpected faculty member illnesses. Generally speaking, though, plan on waiting for at least four to six weeks (and perhaps even a few months) before receiving notice on a decision.Try to manage your stress while you wait. There is no sense in fretting over your acceptance (hopefully), as your notification will come in due time. Try your best to focus on other things while you wait — do some exercise, focus on a hobby, finish off your current schoolwork with full energy, and be ready for that letter — because you will receive a response.

