 Sprinkle two tablespoons of baking soda into half a cup (120ml) of warm water. Stir the two ingredients together with a spoon until they’re about the same consistency as peanut butter. If the paste seems too thin, add a little more baking soda. If it’s too thick, stir in another half ounce of water at a time until you achieve the desired texture.Baking soda is prized for its ability to cut through stains and absorb unwanted odors. It’s also slightly astringent, which will come in handy when it comes time to scrub the container.It may be necessary to mix a bigger batch of baking soda paste if you’re trying to clean multiple (or especially large) containers.
 Coat the walls of the container with a thin layer of the baking soda paste. Scoop whatever is left into the bottom. Try to use all of the mixture.The paste will have an easier time sticking if the inside of the container is completely dry.
 Put the lid on the container and find an out of the way place to leave it. As it sits, the combination of baking soda and water will begin chipping away at messes that have taken hold in the plastic without the need for scouring or scrubbing. In the morning, you can come back and observe the results of the baking soda.Make sure you give the paste at least an hour or two to take effect.
 Remove the lid and clear the container, using the corner of a washcloth to scrape out the rest of the baking soda. The container should now be stain and odor-free. If you want, you can go one step further and wash it out with soapy water.Keep rinsing the container until the water runs clear.Use baking soda periodically to restore old and heavily-used containers.
 After cleaning, drain all water from the container and wipe it down inside and out with an absorbent towel. You can also simply leave it sitting with the lid off and allow it to air dry. Whichever method you choose, the lid should stay off until all moisture has evaporated from inside.Replacing the lid on a plastic container while it's still wet can cause mold and mildew to develop.

