 First and foremost, make sure that reconciliation is the best option for you, your spouse, and your family. Just as there are costs associated with initiating a divorce, there are costs (such as court fees and attorney's fees) associated with stopping the process, particularly if your spouse has already filed an answer or counterclaim. Don't waste you or your spouse's time and money. Talk to your spouse honestly and openly and make sure the both of you are committed to keeping your marriage intact.
 Since both spouses already said they wanted to divorce, the court must verify that both spouses want to reconcile. Therefore, when the motion is completed, the petitioner and respondent both need to sign it. In most jurisdictions, the motion is filed with the clerk of court, and the judge will either grant the motion (if both parties have signed) or schedule a hearing to evaluate its merits (if only the petitioner has signed).File an order for dismissal. In other jurisdictions, you will need to file an order for dismissal as well as a motion for dismissal. The process for filing the order and it's content are substantially the same as filing the motion. The order simply indicates that the motion has been granted or the date for the hearing has been set. If a hearing has been scheduled, the petitioner will usually need to be present. If the respondent is present but does not object to the dismissal, or the respondent doesn't attend the hearing, then the judge will usually grant the dismissal. The court will then serve your spouse with the notice that your divorce papers have been withdrawn, or will provide you a copy of the withdrawal notice in order for you to do it yourself.
 If the defendant has filed a counterclaim, that constitutes a separate claim for divorce. A counterclaim would be most common if a divorce proceeding was initiated for cause, like adultery or abandonment, as opposed to a divorce initiated without regard to fault (such as irreconcilable differences or incompatibility). If there is a counterclaim, then that will continue to be a "live" claim even if the petitioner withdraws or dismisses the original claim. In order for the divorce proceedings to be halted, the counterclaim must be dismissed as well. The procedure for dismissing a counterclaim is exactly the same as the procedure for dismissing the petitioner's original claim. , If you and your spouse halted your divorce proceedings yourselves, but hired attorneys to handle your divorce, make sure each of you contacts the lawyers to close your files. This will avoid additional time spent on your case and larger legal bills.

