 Ask a member of staff, deliver speeches, talk to the headmaster, and so forth. However, it's not enough to just ask. You will also need to demonstrate why this is a good idea, along with suggestions for raising the funds for the technical equipment needed.


Do a short poll among students to ascertain the level of interest in a school radio. Knowing this will bolster your argument for it.
Find out whether it's possible to borrow, hire or purchase used equipment to make the radio happen on a budget.
Explain what benefits you think the students––and teachers and other staff––will get from having a school radio. This might include being able to make announcements, provide interesting ways to get across messages, provide work experience, teach students to think and work together, and so forth.
Provide a brief overview of what you perceive a likely structure as being. This will help to demonstrate that you've thought well beyond just the "nice idea" of having the school radio.;
, You will need a Station Manager, Assistant Manager, Technical Team, Production Manager (mixing, jingle making and audio processing). And, of course, you'll need plenty of presenters.
 Will it just be during school hours? Will it be only during breaks during school time? Will it be after school or on weekends? Address this early on, perhaps even when selling the idea to your school, so that you have realistic expectations. The more hours on air, the more work that has to be done and the more people rostered on and not doing other things such as studying and sports, so bear this in mind.
 This will allow you to play copyrighted music. Call up the communications authority in your area to find out what the prices are and what you need to do to fill out the paperwork.


In some places, a school license is available for a discounted price.
 A package may be a good idea if you have a high budget and don't have so much technical experience. However, if you are on a lower budget try buying the kit separately and putting your own kit together. Or consider hiring it. It might also be possible to get secondhand gear from auctions sites or actual live auction houses. Call around to see what's available.



Set up your automation; install any software you require on your PCs.
Put together playlists for the day.
Sort out a schedule.



Use Facebook and Twitter to promote the station.
Have an email account for listeners to contact you during the show or after.
 Have a fun party, which can also be part of a first broadcast. Invite the whole school and use it as an open day event as well.
 Now you're ready, so get yourselves on air. Keep the station maintained well and on air. To do this, you'll need to practice good management, have teaching staff advising and overseeing finances and managerial issues and helping where needed. Otherwise, try to do as much of this yourselves, as the experience is invaluable.

