 If someone, or a group of people keeps bugging you, it's important to figure out what they're looking for, so you can figure out how to approach the situation. Learning to confront and deal with the person's expectations will end it more quickly.



Bullies are looking for a response, and take delight in getting a rise out of people to make themselves feel superior. If someone is looking for a reaction from you, stay calm, confront them, or get help if necessary. Avoiding the situation can just perpetuate the harassment and make it worse.

Harassers may be attracted to you. Even if their behavior seems annoying or cruel, it could be a sign of infatuation. It's important to avoid making excuses to get out of the situation, and confront these expectations honestly, getting back-up support from others. Tell harassers you're not interested, nothing will change that, and you'll contact the authorities if this behavior continues.

Irritating people are often just socially awkward people, who might be annoying, but unaware. Being irritating might just be a sign that someone can't or doesn't recognize that you're feeling annoyed and would rather be left alone. Stay calm and communicate this to them to stop the behavior.;
, Whoever you're dealing with, you can stop the behavior more quickly if you're calm, cool, and collected. Remember, bullies want a reaction, and socially awkward people might be hurt inadvertently if you get very angry or upset with them.


If bullies repeatedly fail to get a rise out of you, they'll get bored. This is how bullies operate. They'll quickly move on to someone they'll be able to get a reaction from.
Dont' take it personally or let harassers make you feel guilty. If someone is bugging you, it's not something you asked for or deserve. Stay calm and address the problem.
 In as even a tone of voice as possible, just say clearly, "Please stop." You don't need to say why you want them to stop


If you feel like your'e being physically threatened, put a hand out in front of you, making a "stop" signal. Say, "Just stop, please."

, The best way to let people know you want to be left alone? Say so. To end most irritating behavior, all you've got to do is turn to the person who is bothering you, make eye contact, take a deep breath, and say in a calm, even voice, "Please stop doing that. You're bothering me."


If someone keeps asking you for a date, and you're feeling harassed, it's important to be honest. Don't say, "I've got a partner" or "I'm busy on Friday" to get out of the situation quickly. Instead, say, "I'm not interested. Sorry."
Don't tell bullies anything. If you say, "You're bothering me," or "This is really annoying," you're just confirming that they're getting the reaction they want. Ignore the behavior, stay calm, and say, "Stop please" if you must.
 If someone is being more than annoying, don't try to take it on all by yourself, and don't let yourself be manipulated into a situation you won't be able to handle. It's very important to document any kind of harassment, bullying, or abuse, and report it to the proper authority.


Get witnesses to in-person bullying, and keep any texts, e-mail, or other digital correspondence that suggests the harassment you're reporting.
If this happens at school, tell your teacher, counsellor, or principal as soon as possible. At the workplace, tell your supervisor, or boss. At home, call the cops.
 In some cases, if someone keeps pushing your buttons, it's way easier to loosen up a bit instead of letting yourself get so annoyed. If your little brother is being a pill and won't stop asking you to play basketball, for example, it would be better to give him 15 minutes of hoop-shooting than to have to keep telling him "No" for the next two hours. Recognize when it would be easier to be the bigger person.


Try bargaining. Say, "I'll play on one condition. I can do 15 minutes now, but then you've got to occupy yourself, ok? We can play more this weekend, but if you come bug me again today, I won't. Deal?" Make sure the person agrees to your terms, and stay firm with your rule.
It's never easier to give in to bullies or harassers. If they attempt to negotiate "just one date," it won't end there. Negotiation should only apply to minor irritants, not to serious harassment.

