 Remember, Sif is the only female in her group, so she is always willing to prove that she is as good as all the boys warriors around her. Meaning that you shouldn't be afraid to speak up your mind or take a challenge. You might as well earn more respect from other people like that. If you are too shy, then think to yourself: "Hey, my ideas are as good as others !" So don't be afraid and show people what you've got ! As an Asgardian, Sif is tough, confident and proud, don't let people push you around !;
, Sif is an Asgardian, meaning she has supernatural strength and fighting skills. She is shown to excel at hand-to-hand combat and likes to use cold weapons (such as swords). So you could pick taekwondo  classes or karate classes. If you prefer weapons, kendo or fencing would do the trick. If you don't like combat sports, anything that increases your strength or agility is fine! Don't forget to exercise regularly. On the top of that, it'll keep you in good health !

, Sif doesn't like to follow orders if she thinks they're wrong. Again, this matches step 1. For example, if someone tells you to do something that you feel bad about, argue a little. Listen to the person's opinion and don't always argue though ! What I'm saying is that you shouldn't be afraid to show the person that you're against the idea.
 One of the biggest problems in school is that there are a lot of clans, especially with girls. For example, students tend to judge you on how you look, and not on who you are. Sif wouldn't care about that. She hangs out with boys and likes fighting more than talking makeup and clothes. It doesn't mean that you shouldn't befriend girls ! It means that you should wear clothes you feel comfortable in and don't pretend that you like fashion if you don't. But on special occasions, wear dresses and more feminine outfit, so that boys don't think of you as a complete tomboy, but as a cool and fun girl !

, Sif is the first person to suspect Loki of treason, showing that she is very observant. Look beneath the looks and see if someone is trustworthy or not. You might even have a new (better) vision of your surroundings. Don't just burst out your crush's name or any secret ! It's your private life. Also, don't tell people that you're trying to act like Sif, they'll look down on you for that.

