 Tooth demineralization is associated with a number of dietary habits. If you want to remineralize your teeth, avoid all sugar. You should also avoid all processed starches, which affect your teeth the same way as sugar. Bacteria grows quickly in the presence of sugar, so you want to minimize how much you feed these bacteria. You should avoid all processed and pre-packaged food such as breads, cookies, cakes, chips, and crackers.You should also avoid soda and any other sweetened drinks. These tend to contain a lot of added sugar. They also are acidic and can damage the enamel that way as well.
If you are not sure what is in a food, read the label. If sugar, high fructose corn syrup, cane syrup, or another sweetener is listed, avoid it.If you enjoy sweets, try to limit the sweets you eat to honey, which is anti-bacterial, and stevia, an herb that is 200 times sweeter than sugar. Stevia also has the added benefit of being calorie free.Artificial sweeteners like aspartame are chemically very different from sugar, but they essentially fool the brain into thinking that something is sweet., When trying to remineralize your teeth, you should limit the amounts of citrus fruits you eat. If you do eat citrus, you should rinse your mouth out with water to decrease the amount of acid.


The sugar in fruit is another type of sugar that is not as popular with bacteria. This means you do not have to limit the intake of non-citrus fruits such as apples, pears, or peaches.
 Stimulating the production of saliva naturally helps remineralize your teeth. When you eat, you should chew every bite completely. Chewing promotes the production of saliva. You can also chew mint flavored sugar free gum or eat sugar free hard candy to help promote saliva production in your mouth.


Sour foods also tend to increase saliva production, but sour foods are acidic, so be careful with have much of these foods you eat., There are multiple kinds of mineral supplements you can take. You can take a multivitamin, but make sure it includes minerals such as calcium and magnesium. Any daily supplement you take for your teeth should contain at least 1000 mg of calcium and at least 3-4000 mg of magnesium. These minerals help rebuild tooth enamel naturally.


Men older than 71 and women older than 51 should get 1200 mg every day.Children have different mineral needs, so make sure you consult a doctor or use a children's multivitamin to decide on the right amount per day., These foods include fish, soy milk, coconut milk, cow’s milk, eggs, and yogurt., If you want to get Vitamin D in ways other than food, you can take a supplement or get it from the sun. Adults and children should get about 600 IU of Vitamin D every day, so find a supplement that has this much Vitamin D in it per dose. You can also get extra Vitamin D by spending about 10-15 minutes every third day in the afternoon sun without sunscreen. You should expose the arms, legs, and back if you can.Adults over 70 years should get 800 IU of Vitamin D every day.
You should take Vitamin D, calcium, and magnesium together to increase your chances of teeth remineralization.
 You should drink 6-8 eight ounce glasses of water without minerals a day. You should drink water to stay hydrated, since other beverages will not hydrate as well because they contain ingredients such as sugar, caffeine, or protein. Hydration also increases saliva production, which helps remineralize and protect your teeth.


You don't have to drink water with minerals in it. For the most part, you can get your minerals from eating well.
Tap water will also contain minerals, though the amount and what sort depend on where you live. You can check the mineral content of your local water online., Oil pulling is a method where you hold and then swish oil around your mouth once a day. There have been small studies using coconut oil or sesame oil that show this method can reduce bacterial plaques and gum inflammation. In the morning, put 1 tablespoon of sesame oil into your mouth before any food or liquid is taken. With your mouth closed and your chin tilted upwards swirl the oil around your mouth, moving it around your mouth and in between your teeth. Also move your mouth as if you were chewing as you swirl around the liquid. Continue for 15-20 minutes, then spit out the oil.After you spit the oil out, you should brush your teeth and wash out your mouth. You also should drink 2-3 glasses of water.
Do no gargle the oil like you would other mouth rinses.

