 One of easiest ways to provide kids with better nutrition is by getting them to eat more fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. While this can be challenging initially, kids will often prefer meals rich in these ingredients once they’re used to them.The high amounts of fiber and nutrients in these types of food will keep kids feeling full for longer, preventing unnecessary empty calorie consumption and other dietary habits that lead to unhealthy weight gains.
One way to immediately improve the nutritional value of the foods in your shopping cart is by avoiding packaging. The more fresh food you provide your children, the less low-value nutritional food they consume.;
, Foods such as red meats and full fat dairy products should only be consumed occasionally. This is especially important for children, as the dietary habits they pick up early in their lives are likely to persist into adulthood.If you do allow your children to consume dairy products, go for low-fat or fat-free options when they are two years old or older.
Limit red meat to a few servings per week.
Avoid processed, pre-packaged food as much as possible.
 A shockingly high amount of the food produced today contains high amounts of sugar - or worse, high fructose corn syrup. While the natural sugars in fruit are not a concern, large amounts of added sugar in a box of cereal or a pre-packaged bread, for instance, should be avoided. Packaged sweets are some of the worst foods to provide your children, as they will often contain high amounts of sugar, as well as unhealthy fats and heavily processed carbohydrates.While these types of ingredients may not affect a child’s heart directly, they are significant risk factors for the development of diabetes and obesity, both of which could put your child at greater risk for heart disease.
Consider disallowing your children from drinking sugary carbonated beverages. If you do allow them to drink soda, only allow it on special occasions.
Only provide 100% juice to your children, and keep portions small.
 You won’t always be able to control what children eat. In fact, the older they get, the more autonomy they will have in terms of what they eat. Even if your home is filled with only healthy foods, it’s important to mention things like smaller portions and healthy options. One particularly important discussion to have is about different types of fat.Avoid using food as a reward.
If issues with nutrition persist for your child, seek nutritional counseling. A professional will be able to talk to a child directly about all of the factors that are important to their personal eating behavior, and to you about meal patterns, etc.
 There's a good chance your child will enjoy helping you plan or prepare the family meal. Examples of specific activities include visiting the grocery store together, planning what you'll eat the next few days, and preparing ingredients.Talk about why you choose or use specific items, particularly in terms of nutrition. For instance, say things like, "We'll get this whole wheat bread because the grains used to bake it were not processed, and are healthier for us to eat."
While cooking, ask a kid which task they'd like to be in charge of. For instance, let them cover a certain task on their own, such as shucking the corn, mixing ingredients together, or setting the timer.

