 Do 6 5-minute sessions of walking. Then, begin increasing the time you walk and reducing the number of walking sessions.


For example, the first week, do 6 5-minute sessions. Then, do 4 8-minute sessions the next week. Do 2 15-minute sessions the third week, and work up to at least 1 30-minute session per day. This resembles the recovery therapy for modern back surgeries.
Walking naturally build up the supporting muscles in your legs, back and stomach. It can also stretch out your hamstrings, hips and back muscles that tighten up while you sit in an office.
 Aim to take 10,000 steps in a day. 10,000 to 12,000 steps is the doctor recommended daily activity level.


Increasing activity levels will reduce weight, increase supporting muscles and improve overall health.
 Make adjustments at home and at work.


Never sit longer than 30 minutes at a time. Walk to the bathroom, the printer or the watercooler at work. Stand when you take calls, and pace while you are trying to solve a problem. Consider walking on your coffee breaks or lunch breaks. If you do have to sit, then sit with your back straight- good posture. Don't slump over in your chair, this can cause even more back pain.
Reduce the time you spend in front of the TV or computer at home. You should sit no more than a couple hours per day, in addition to time spent sitting at work. Get up during commercial breaks, go for an after-dinner walk or schedule outdoor activities with the whole family 3 times per week.
 This desk can move up and down through a hand crank or hydraulic pump. Standing for half of the work day can improve back pain, productivity, circulation and overall tension.
 Pilates focuses on strengthening the core muscles: the stomach, back, hips and glutes that support the spine. Find a Pilates mat class, go to a physical therapist or find a personal trainer who can focus on simple core strengthening exercises.Commit to at least six weeks of core-building classes. Your muscles don’t develop immediately, and for some people it can take six months to build up the muscles that will reduce or stop back pain.

