 Press Up on PS4 main menu and then scroll to the right to find the Settings option.

You'll be deactivating your own PS4 as your primary console and instead signing in on the second PS4. This will allow the second PS4 to access all of your purchases, and you'll still be able to access them on the primary PS4. When the owner of the second PS4 does the same on yours, you'll have access to all of their purchases as well.;
, This will open your account settings., A new menu will appear., This will make the PS4 console no longer your "home" console, which will allow you to make your friend's console your primary., Follow the steps above on the second PS4 to ensure that there is no active primary account. Only one primary account is allowed per system., Log out of the current account by holding the PS button on the controller and then selecting "Power Options" → "Log Out." Before you can make your account primary on your friend's PS4, you'll need to sign in with your own account., This will let you create a new user on that system, This will let you log in with your PSN account. You'll need to accept the terms first., You'll be logging on with your account on the second PS4., Once you're logged in, open the PS4's Settings menu., This menu will allow you to set this PS4 as your primary console, giving your friend access to your games., This will make your account the primary account., This will make your PS4 their primary system, and their PS4 will be your primary system., Even though it's not your primary console anymore, you can still sign in with your PSN account. This will give you access to all of your own games from the Library on your account., The one caveat to game sharing is that you'll need an active internet connection in order to play your own games. This is because your PS4 is no longer your primary PS4, so you need to connect to Sony to authorize your games., This will allow you to send games to each other's PS4s. When your friend purchases a digital game, they can set it to download from the PSN webstore. This will send it to your PS4, since your PS4 is set as their primary console. Once the game has downloaded, you'll be able to play it with your own account.

This will work in the opposite direction as well. Games that you purchase and set to download from the webstore will download to your friend's PS4.
 Any purchases that you've made with your own account will be accessible in the Library. Select the game you want to play and click "Download" to begin downloading it to your own console., If you have PS+ subscription, your friend will be able to play online because their PS4 is set as your primary. You'll be able to play online as well when you're signed in on your own console. In fact, you can both be playing the same game together that only one of you bought with just one person's PS+ subscription.

The other person will only get the online play benefits of your PS+ subscription. They will not be able to use cloud storage for their own saves unless they have their own PS+ account.

