 You will need to download and completely fill out a Montana Name Change Petition, which allows you to apply for your new name. Fill out the forms completely and have them notarized.Notaries are available at banks and are often free of charge for bank customers.
 You will need to submit your petition along with the Order Setting Name Change Hearing and Notice of Name Change Hearing with the top portions filled out (the judge or clerk of district court will fill out the rest). Submit with the required filing fee to the Clerk of District Court’s office in your county courthouse along with a self-addressed, stamped envelope. Check with the court ahead of time to see what the filing fee is and be sure to make copies for yourself.If you cannot afford the filing fee, you may be able to ask the Clerk of District Court for an Affidavit of Inability to Pay.
Ask the clerk of court to send two copies of the Order Setting Hearing after it is signed by the judge. You may be charged a fee for the copies unless you have an Order of Inability to Pay from the judge. Give the copies to the clerk of courts to stamp "filed" and keep in a safe place.
 The judge will fill out your Order Setting Name Change Hearing, telling you when and where your hearing will be held. This form will also include instructions for notifying the public about your hearing. The judge or the clerk of district court, then, will fill out the Notice of Hearing on Name Change. You must publish the notice in the newspaper for four weeks before your hearing.Get a receipt or other proof of publication to keep with your forms and bring to your hearing.
 Fill out the Order for Name Change form as completely as you can. The judge will sign this form after your hearing and fill in any blanks. Be sure to make a copy of the completed form., Bring all forms with you to your hearing. Dress as you might for a job interview and arrive at the courthouse 15 minutes before your scheduled hearing time. Check with the clerk of court's office to find out which courtroom your hearing is being held in, go to the courtroom, and wait for the judge to call your name and case number. Address the judge as "Your Honor."The judge may ask you to explain why you are changing your name.
 You may want to ask for copies of the signed form. The clerk will file the form. At this point, ask for several certified copies of the order. You will need certified copies to change your name on your driver's license, birth certificate, and social security card.