 The type of computer will determine the type of cable and/or adapter you need.


If you have a laptop computer, look at the port in the side and/or back of the computer. Older laptops may have a VGA port, a rectangular port with about 15 pins that is used to hook the laptop up to a monitor or an S-port, a small round port. Newer laptops may have DVI ports, or you can use a USB adapter to connect newer laptops to the cable that connects to the television.
If you have desktop computer, you can use your VGA port to hook up your computer to your TV. This is the port that you use to connect the monitor. You may also have an S-port option, with the small round port.
If you have an Apple computer, you can order an adapter to hook up to the DVI port, USB port, Firewire or Thunderbolt ports and the video cable. Check your owner's manual to determine what is available to you. USB adapters will be the least expensive option, followed by Firewire and Thunderbolt.;
, You will look for the "input" options, of which there may be several.


If you see a round port with about 7 pins, this is an S-video input (similar to the round port on a laptop or desktop computer). You will need an S-video cable if both computer and TV have S-ports, or you can use an S-port to USB/mini-DVI adapter in combination with the S-video cable.
If you see a rectangular port, like the 1 you use for hooking up computer monitors, then you will need a VGA cord. If the VGA port is only available on 1 end, use a VGA to USB/mini-DVI cable adapter to connect the computer to the VGA cable.
If you see a smaller rectangular port, this is most likely a mini-DVI port. This has a rectangular side with pins that will connect to the TV and a mini-DVI or HDMI port, like that used with most cell phones and digital cameras that will connect to your computer.
If you have a rectangular input with square holes, this is a DVI port. A DVI port will often connect using a cable that has a mini-DVI port on the other end.
Lastly, newer TVs and computers usually use an HDMI cable. Unlike all the other cables, this transfers video and audio from the computer to the TV. Usually, you will not need an adapter, unless you do not have a HDMI port in your laptop.



Search for the right cables online using terms like "VGA to DVI cable." If your terms bring up an adapter, you will probably need to buy a video cable and adapter.
If you are using any port other than an HDMI cable, you will need an audio cable. The audio cable will hook up to your laptop's headphone jack or a speaker jack on your desktop.
, Your computer is more likely to recognize the TV if you turn it on with the cables plugged in.
 String it around to where your computer is located.



Connect the adapter to the video cable, if you are using an adapter.
If using an audio cable, insert the audio cable in the audio port in the back of the TV. String the other end of the audio cable toward your computer and connect it to the speaker or headphone jack on the computer.
 Wait a few minutes. Turn on your computer.
 You will select "HDMI" or "Video Port" to activate the computer connection.
 If it has a distorted image, adjust the aspect ratio on your computer.


To change the aspect ratio, you will need to go to your computer's system and display set ups. This is usually available through "My Computer" and "Display" on a Windows Computer and "System Preferences" and "Display" on a Mac.
Mac systems will usually adjust automatically to a video connection.
 It should now play on your television.

