 Not all unemployed workers qualify for unemployment benefits in Illinois. Check that you meet the following requirements:You’re unemployed through no fault of your own. Typically, this means you were laid off for economic reasons. You weren’t fired and you didn’t quit. However, you might qualify if you quit because of sexual harassment, domestic violence, or another reason.
You were paid at least $1,600 in wages in your base year. Generally, you should check your pay for the past five quarters and count only the wages paid during the first four of those quarters. Quarters are January 1-March 31, April 1-June 30, July 1-September 30, and October 1-December 31.
You were paid wages in more than one quarter. At least $440 must have been paid in a different quarter.;
, You must supply the Illinois Department of Employment Security (IDES) with certain information. Collect this information ahead of time:Your Social Security Number.
Your driver’s license or state ID.
The contact information for job you’ve worked for the past 18 months, as well as dates of employment and the reasons for separation.
Your wage records, such as W-2 or pay stubs.
Any amount you earned during the week you are filing for benefits.
Your Alien Registration Number, if you aren’t a citizen.
 Online is the preferred method of applying. Visit the IDES website. You will need to create a username and password here: https://benefits.ides.illinois.gov/File4UI/Benefits/profile/createRegistrationStart.do. Provide all requested information.
 You may also file for unemployment benefits by calling IDES at 800-244-5631. Call between 8:30 am and 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday.Hearing impaired applicants should call 866-322-8357.
 You may also file at any IDES office. Remember to take your Social Security card and a second form of ID, such as your driver’s license or state ID card.


You can find your nearest IDES office here: http://www.ides.illinois.gov/Pages/Office_Locator.aspx. Enter your zip code.
 You can receive your benefits by direct deposit or on a debit card. If you choose direct deposit, the benefit amount will be deposited within two business days.Debit card is the default option, which you’ll receive unless you select direct deposit. The card will be mailed to you, and benefits will be loaded after two business days. Call KeyBank Customer Service at 866-295-2955 if you lose your card.
 Most applicants will need to register. Based on your answers when you apply, you may be prompted to visit www.IllinoisJobLink.com and upload at least one resume to the website.You may also register at an IDES office, if that’s easier for you., IDES might require that you have a telephone interview. In some situations, you will simply fill out a questionnaire and mail it back in. Only a handful of people will be called into the IDES office for an interview.You’ll have to interview if your employer protests your application for unemployment benefits, e.g., you quit because of harassment.
 IDES will send you this information after your claim has been filed. Review it to make sure the information contained in it is correct, and contact IDES if anything is wrong. The form should contain the following information:Your certification date.
The wages each employer paid you over the past year, broken out by quarter.
The dates your benefits begin and end.
How much you qualify for in weekly benefits.
Your maximum benefit balance.
 Requesting benefits is called certifying. After you apply, you’ll receive a call day for certifying benefits.If you don't receive this information, then contact IDES.
 You need to certify every two weeks for the weeks that have just ended. You can certify either online or through Tele-Serve.To certify online, visit this website: http://www.ides.illinois.gov/Pages/Certify_Weekly_Benefits.aspx. Click on “Certify for Benefits” and sign in using your username and password. Certification is available Monday through Friday, 5:00 am to 7:30 pm.
To reach Tele-Serve, call 312-338-4337.
 To keep receiving benefits, you must actively search for work and be available for work. IDES might contact you and ask where you’ve been searching and your prospects for getting hired.Keep detailed records of where you apply and the dates. Not everyone is required to submit this information, but you want it handy in case you do.

