 Most of them will probably direct you their favorite plate lunch place. Plate lunches come with scoops of rice, a main entrée consisting of a meat or vegetarian alternative, and vegetable/pasta salad. Try items that you are not accustomed to; they will be prepared in ways traditional to Hawaiian custom.
 The most popular local restaurant in Hawaii is Zippy's. "Zip Packs" and chili plates are among the favorite foods. L&L or Rainbow Drive Inn are other popular restaurants. Go to Tropical Taco instead of Taco Bell. Get coffee at a local coffee shop rather than Starbucks. Eat breakfast at Ken's House of Pancakes or Koa Pancake rather than settling for IHOP for your favorite pancakes. Instead of your regular Baskin Robbins, go to Lappert's ice cream., Drive to the North Shore/Haleiwa for the famous shave ice. Buy produce at a farmer's market instead of going to the supermarket. Have bento instead of a sandwich., Spam musubis can be found at every 7-11 and in most places that sell plate lunches. Look for furikake or mochi with popcorn for a snack. Even McDonald's offers a locally inspired breakfast consisting of rice, eggs, and Portuguese sausage., The most popular party snack is ahi or tako poke. Sashimi and sushi are more popular on the islands than cooked fish. If you don't like seafood, you can stop by a sushi bar where they'll offer non-fish items, such as vegetables or meat, wrapped in the same sushi style. Just because it's Japanese food doesn't mean it won't be prepared in a way unique to the Hawaiian islands!, Haupia (coconut pudding) is a famous dessert in Hawaiian luaus (a chocolate haupia pie is shown here). Go to a local snack shop and try some li hing mui (salty dried plum). You can buy either the seeded or seedless version of the plum. You can also get a powder to dunk goodies (such as gummy worms or gummy bears) in., This treat is made from the taro plant, which was introduced and eaten for several centuries by the first people who arrived in Hawaii for around 400 AD. It remains a favorite among the locals to this day. Look for freshly made poi (or make it yourself by mixing cooked taro root with water) and expect a delicate flavor. If the poi is a few days old, eat it with salted fish or lomi salmon on the side. If you're feeling ambitious, use it to make bread. Though many locals eat poi by itself, few non-locals enjoy it alone. Try it instead as a gravy on kalula pork and cabbage or laulau., On Kauai, a group called Sunshine Market runs many markets. Only small local growers are allowed to sell, and you can get everything from coconuts and fruit to ferns and flowers fresh and at very reasonable prices. Make sure to get there early - there will be a line and stalls sell out quickly., Various dishes and crops became integrated into the Hawaiian diet as the population and economy changed. The food you encounter is a result of a unique cultural medley.
Polynesian seafarers planted taro, sweet potatoes, yams, breadfruit, baking banana, coconuts and sugarcane. They brought and ate pigs, chickens, and dogs and cooked them in earth ovens called imu.
Captain George Vancouver brought cattle to Hawaii in 1793. They multiplied, were domesticated, and became part of Hawaiian cuisine.
Don Francisco de Paula Marin, a Spanish botanist and advisor to King Kamehameha I, grew the first pineapples and grapes and brewed the first beer in the early 1800s.
Chinese immigrants introduced stir fry, sweet and sour, and dim sum; replaced poi with rice
Whalers brought salted fish (later became lomi-lomi salmon)
Korean immigrants brought kimchi and barbecue pits to cook marinated meats
Portuguese immigrants put more emphasis on pork, tomatoes, and chili peppers. They also introduced forno, their traditional beehive oven, for Pão Doce, the Portuguese sweet bread and malasada
Japanese immigrants brought bento and sashimi; tofu and soy sauce; tempura and noodle soups
Puerto Rican immigrants made spicy, Spanish-seasoned thick soups, casseroles, and meat turnovers popular dishes.
Filipino immigrants introduced peas and beans, the adobo style of vinegar and garlic dishes, and sweet potatoes instead of rice
Samoans built earth ovens above ground and made poi from fruit instead of taro
Thai and Vietnamese immigrants brought Southeast Asian lemongrass, fish sauce and galangal
American servicemen brought Spam in their rations, and it became a good source of protein when fishing wasn't allowed during WWII. Now Hawaii is one of the biggest consumers of Spam in the world.

