 It can seem like everything is important, especially when it comes to work and tasks around the house. Delegate some of your responsibility, or cut out what isn't absolutely necessary to your day to clear your schedule.Ask for help from your family. This can be asking a child to do chores or your spouse to run to the grocery store. Delegating tasks like this can free up twenty minutes to spend on yourself.
Find jobs to outsource. This may hurt your budget a little, but find a service to mow your lawn or a cleaning service to help around the house.
Learn to say no. Don't keep taking on endless tasks. Understand that you have a limit and learn to say no to things without feeling guilty.
If you're bogged down at work, find help. This can be someone under you at work, a co-worker, or even asking a boss to help lessen your load.;
, Often people are bogged down the need to get every task just right. This can mean you stay after work, answer work e-mails on the weekend, or simply can't go to sleep until all of the dishes are done. Accept that you can't get everything done. At a certain point every night, put everything down and focus on doing something you want.Realize that most things can wait and you'll have another opportunity to do tasks. Also, taking time away from important tasks can actually improve your performance.
 We are so good at scheduling in tasks for everyone else, it's important to do this for yourself. Put in a slot each day, or at least a few times a week, that are as solid as a work or family commitment. Block off an hour in the evening that you can't break unless its an emergency.This doesn't need to be time alone, just time spent doing things you enjoy. This can be watching a movie with a friend, or even going out to dinner. Making time for yourself can come in many forms.
 Finding specific activities that you're looking forward to. This will not only give you a more clear picture of what you want to do, but a concrete goal of why you're making time for yourself to start with.Find things you enjoy but don't typically do. This can be read a book, exercise, or even watch T.V. Find things that you truly enjoy and you are more likely to take time from your schedule to really do them.
 It may not always be possible to squeeze in time during the day for yourself but you can make a point to make time before or after work. Instead of getting up at 6:30 to rush off for work, get up a half hour earlier. Spend this time doing something you like before your day starts. You might be a little more tired throughout the day, but this is a great way to jumpstart the work day!Do this even if it's for a short time. Spending 5-10 minutes charging up for the day can be a great exercise to keep at.
 It's easy to be sucked into a social media app or television show for hours. You may enjoy these activities but they can also consume all of your free time, many times without even seeming like it. For an hour each day, put down your phone, computer, and even your T.V. Get the most of your time by experiencing it radically present, not mindlessly wrapped up in an app.Spend some time being alone. Get your spouse to go out with their friends. You could also tell them to stay home with you, since there are no kids running around. If you're a teen, just shut your door or go to the bathroom and lock the door.

