 Seasoned fasters can go for as long as three weeks on a juice fast, however if this is your first time, it is recommended that you start with a smaller, more manageable target, such as three days. Fasting can be tough, both physically and mentally, so you may find it easier to start small. It is better to complete a short fast successfully than to falter in the middle of a long one.To complete a three day juice fast, you will actually be following a five day plan - taking one day to ease your body into the fast and one day to ease out.
If this is your first fast, it may be helpful to rope in a friend to go through the process with you. You can help motivate one another and a slight competitive edge will keep you from giving in to temptations!;
, For your juice fast, you will need large quantities of fresh fruit and vegetables - probably more than you realize. It is very important that you buy organic produce, free from pesticides - the whole idea of the juice fast is to rid toxins from your body, not introduce more.


Stock up on oranges, lemons, limes, tomatoes, spinach, kale, celery, carrots, cucumbers, apples, grapes, blueberries, beets, garlic and ginger root.
If possible, you should also stock up on some good quality spring water from a company that uses food grade plastic or glass bottles. You will be drinking lots of water as part of your fast., Having a good quality juicer is essential when performing a juice fast, as it will maximize the amount of juice that you get from your fruit and veg and will save you time and effort on preparation and clean-up. Make sure you get a juicer with at least 700 watts, which will easily power through any fresh produce you throw at it. You should also look for a juicer with as few parts to assemble and disassemble as possible, as this will make the juicing process faster.


Buying a new juicer can be a big expense, but it will be worth the investment, especially if you plan on making regular juice fasts a part of your lifestyle. You will probably need to spend at least $150 to get a decent juicer, but this should last you 15-20 years.It is not possible to substitute a juicer for a blender when performing a juice fast. If you use a blender, you will end up with a smoothie rather than a juice. A smoothie still contains fibers from the fruit and veg - and although this is normally a good thing - you do not want any fiber in your diet while on a juice fast. This is because your body uses up too much energy when digesting fiber - energy which your body needs to rid itself of toxins., Timing is important when it comes to juice fasting. You will need to ensure that you have plenty of time in the mornings to prepare your juices and that you do not have any high-energy activities planned for the 3-5 day period, especially if it's your first time. Many first-time fasters plan their juice fast for over a weekend, from Friday to Sunday, when they can be at home for extended periods of time.


Some fasters suffer from headaches and low energy when completing a fast (though others claim to have higher energy levels than normal) and you may find yourself needing to take a nap in the middle of the afternoon to conserve energy.You should also be aware that as the juice fast stimulates the flushing out of toxins from the body, your body will need to eliminate this waste frequently. For this reason, it may be best to stay in close proximity to a toilet for the duration of your fast.
 Before the three day juice fast begins in earnest, you will need to take a day to prepare your body for the days ahead. This can be done by eating only raw fruits and vegetables the day before the fast. If you like, you can get your body accustomed to the fast by only drinking juice for breakfast and lunch, then having a solid meal of salad or other raw vegetables and fruit.


Some fasters also advise cleansing the system with a purgative (a natural laxative) or an enema before beginning the fast, although this is optional.

