 After your initial diagnosis of prostate cancer in previously untreated prostate cancer patients, you’ll likely schedule a series of appointments with an oncological specialist. Your doctor will evaluate your condition and circumstances and make a recommendation about potential treatments.


A physician will gather detailed medical history and perform a physical exam, if they have not done so already.
Your doctor will explain to you your diagnosis, prognosis, and potential treatments. Based on diagnostics, they will likely talk about your “grade” or level of prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is graded on a scale from 1 through 10, with 5 or above indicating tissue that is extremely abnormal and indicative of cancer. This is called a Gleason Score the higher the Gleason Score the more aggressive the cancer is.
It is very likely that you’ll have to consult your doctor several times before they commit you to a course of hormone therapy.;
, Your specialist will recommend diagnostics that will confirm your initial diagnosis and gather more information about your condition. These diagnostics are critical in helping your physician arrive at an informed idea about future treatment.


A physician will run a prostate-specific antigen blood test. They may do this several times.
Your specialist will conduct a transrectal ultrasound.
If earlier diagnostics indicate prostate cancer, they will likely conduct a prostate biopsy.
There are a variety of other diagnostics that may be used to see if prostate cancer has spread beyond the prostate. These include a bone scan, a CT scan, MRI, or lymph node biopsy.Late prostate cancer frequently metastasizes to the lumbar spine with back pain.
 After you’ve spoken to your doctor and submitted to diagnostics, you and your doctor will be able to decide on a specific type of hormone therapy treatment. It is important to heed the advice of your physician, as they have substantial experience.


If you feel ill-advised, you should get a second opinion.
Depending on your situation, your doctor will suggest a specific course of hormone treatment. However, they may offer you different options. Take time to think about the pros and cons of each option.
Talk to your family about the different options your doctor has suggested. They may be able to offer you support or they may have some insight you overlooked. In addition, the option you pick might impact your family in the future., As a first step, your doctor may prescribe oral medication, such as a GnRH agonist to block the hypothalamus pituitary axis. This medication will reduce the amount or effectiveness of androgens in your body. This is a less aggressive option, but may provide positive results that reduce dangers associated with more invasive procedures like surgery.


Oral medication may be prescribed over a short or long period.
Make sure to take your medicine as recommended by your doctor.
Note that cancer may build resistance to androgen therapy over time., Hormone treatment—oral or injectable—is often prescribed prior to or after surgery or radiation. Using antiandrogens with a GnRH agonist produces a combined androgen blockade.


In some cases, a doctor will prescribe hormone treatment to shrink your cancer in preparation for surgical removal.
Other times, your doctor will prescribe hormone treatment after surgery or radiation to shrink or weaken any cancer that is remaining.
This is one of the most aggressive treatment options., Your doctor might suggest that you have medicine injected into you, or implanted. This medicine will inhibit the ability of your testicles to produce androgens – a process known as chemical castration.


Chemical castration is reversible once the drugs are stopped or removed from the body.
This treatment may be very costly.
A side effect of chemical castration is testicle shrinkage – something that may not be reversible.
Injectable medicine will need to be repeated every month.
The implant may need to be replaced yearly or at the cessation of your hormone therapy treatment., Perhaps the most invasive option of getting hormone therapy is to have a surgeon remove your testicles. This will eliminate androgens produced by the testicles.


This is the least costly option of treatment.
This will result in permanent physiological changes, like weight gain and increased breast tissue, that accompany drastically decreased testosterone production in your body.
This option is effective because the testicles produce 80% to 90% of the body’s testosterone., Your first step in learning about hormone therapy is to know when – and under what circumstances – doctors prescribe its use. Ultimately, not all people and all stages of prostate cancer will merit use of hormone therapy. Hormone therapy is often used:


When prostate cancer is too large to be treated through surgery or radiation.
If prostate cancer persists following surgery or radiation.
In conjunction with other treatments.
As a precursor to another, more invasive, treatment., Before deciding on treatment, you need to understand the vastly different methods of doing so. Ultimately, different approaches of hormone treatment vary in levels of invasiveness or permanence.


Surgical castration, which removes the testicles – the body’s largest source of androgens.
Injectable or implantable drugs that reduce the amount of testosterone created by your testicles.
Pharmaceuticals that reduce the amount of testosterone and other androgens created by your body.
Medications that prevent androgens from operating properly., Like other types of cancer treatment, androgen deprivation therapy has varying side effects and degrees of efficacy.


Efficacy depends on a wide number of factors, including its use in conjunction with other treatments, the severity of the cancer, and the age or general health of the patient.
Side effects may include: hot flashes, lowered sex drive, diminishment of testicles, osteoporosis, bone fractures, tiredness, nausea, and depression.There are also effects on body composition and metabolism, which may include decrease in lean muscle mass, increased fat storage, decreased muscle strength, tenderness or growth of the breast tissue, and decreased insulin sensitivity.
Some studies suggest that ADT can increase morbidity and mortality from cardiac disease.

