 Call your friend on the phone, text them, or send them an email and ask if you can do something for them. Don't turn up unannounced.


In the first few days after the birth or even births, if it's twins or more, parents can be overwhelmed, under-prepared and even a little in shock! They may not easily accept help due to uncertainty about how much help they need or how much work caring for a new baby is. Consider this when offering help and support. Until the new parents are settled into a routine, it's difficult for them to know what to ask for help with. Later on, once a routine has been established, parents may still decline offers of help because they don't want to 'put you out', or, 'be a bother'. Having some experience, they'll know more what is involved and how hard it is, they may doubt the sincerity of your offer and how interested you actually are to help in the chaos, dilemma, mess and amount of work. Assure the parents of your genuine intention to help, as long as your offer is genuine.
When you visit, make sure you have an accepting attitude and be adaptable. If you get surprised or feel gross about anything, try to be honest about it. Ultimately, the responsibility for the child is the parent's, you, as a friend, don't have to do anything that makes you uncomfortable. Don't make the parents think that they are causing you discomfort or that you are not as keen or happy to be around to help than you actually are. Babies do frequent pooping and peeing and excessive crying - if you offer to help, be ready to deal with this, or, make it clear to the parents you aren't prepared to cope with that sort of thing.;
,, An older child can feel a bit neglected while everyone is focused on the new baby, so ask your friend if you can treat any other children in the family, or, just spend some time with them. Maybe there's a homework project that needs completing that mum or dad doesn't have time to help with. Perhaps a room needs tidying or a desk needs organizing? Maybe the child just needs to talk about how they feel about the changes the new baby brings to the family and, especially, to an impartial adult. You can listen, without judging.
 If your friend cares for an elderly relative, helps out a neighbour, volunteers at a soup kitchen or anything of that nature, you could stand in for them for a while until their routine has adapted to the latest addition to the household.


Your friend is likely deeply involved in those activities and they probably energize her emotionally and spiritually. Consider offering to take care of the newborn so your friend can regenerate.
 You can make your friend a cup of tea, step over the mess, and eat when you get home. You won't be helping your friend if you visit and expect to be waited on hand and foot in an immaculate home!

, Don't make your offer sound like a criticism. Offer to unload the dishwasher, walk the dog, cook a meal, tidy up, do their laundry or do whatever you can see needs doing but be careful how you voice your offer. Try, "I can make myself useful if you like?" That's a nice neutral, open question. If your friend turns down your offer, push a little. They might be trying to stop you worrying they can't cope or trying to be 'super-mum'. If they really won't accept help at home, offer to go shopping or run errands. You can even say you are going to the store yourself so it's no bother for you pick them up something.
 Send them the latest issue of their favourite magazine, drop a copy of a DVD of a movie you think they'd like through their letterbox or send a nice card with some recipes you think they'd like to try. Email an online shopping voucher, share some photos of your last work 'do' on Facebook, or send a sample of a new beauty product. Go out of your way to make it about something other than the baby. Invite them to any occasions and events you would have invited them to before in the pre-baby era. They might not want to leave their newborn to come to salsa class, but they'll be pleased you gave them the choice to say no and didn't just assume they wouldn't want to (or be able to) come.


Don't be offended if your friend happens to be infatuated with their new role and disinterested in many of the things you had in common before. People respond to parenthood in different ways, so don't take it personally.
 There's every chance your friend doesn't want or need anything other from you than a sounding board. Weird things can happen during a birth and babies can do unexpected things to the family's emotions! Let your friend tell all about what freaked them out, what amazed them, what was wonderful and what wasn't and do not try to top it either with your own (or another's) birth horror stories or magic moments. If your friend is looking for reassurance that things are normal, give it, if you think that is the case. They may have many things to complain about because of the changes, how exhausting they are finding things or other unexpected occurrences, hear your friend out. If neither of you are sure what's normal and what ought to be a concern, look online together. There are lots of websites you can peruse about being a new parent. Some are funny as well as informative and some are downright bizarre so get surfing the net and have a laugh about what some people are prepared to tell the world about some very personal subjects! If you are worried about you friend's health, or that of her baby, try to persuade her it's OK to ask for help and suggest that she seek advice from a medical professional. Assure her that it's right for her to trust her instincts and get anything that is really worrying her checked out, even if it turns out to be nothing—especially if it turns out to be nothing.


Learn how to recognize the signs of post partum depression, just in case.
 Oftentimes mothers will be very busy tending for their newborn and also rather tired from sleepless nights. Freezer meals are very convenient and easy for new moms, and are especially appreciated when it's the mom's favorite dish.
 Some people are more concerned than others about exposing their infant to germs. You may have had six children and fifteen grandchildren but if your friend is anxious, she's going to worry you won't hold her baby right or you'll drop it! So, ask for a hold by all means, but don't be upset if she says she'd rather you didn't. As for taking sole charge of her precious newborn for any length of time, congratulations if you get left in charge!


If you do offer to babysit, don't get left literally holding the baby! Having a cuddle while your friend takes a shower or looking after the baby for a few hours at night between feeds is fine, but if your friend seems happy to leave her baby for an extended period without a valid reason, there might be a problem. Gently ask about bonding issues and suggest she talks to her general practitioner if there seems to be a problem.
If the baby seems to be crying incessantly, you may lull the baby to sleep by holding and rocking the baby side by side or slightly moving them up and down, still holding them close to your body.
If you seem to be taken for granted, you may still stay for the sake of the baby.
If the parents seem to be neglecting the baby for no valid reason, you may speak to any of their trusted and loving relative, if any.
Try not to compare your level of involvement or affection with your own children, or the new born with that of the parents. All relationships are different and obviously parents feel differently about their child than any friend, however close, can feel about a child that isn't their's.
 There are so many ways to parent a child, and all the methods seem to be the best! Your friend is probably already overloaded with advice about what she should do and what she shouldn't do from family, books, the TV, the midwife, the other mothers she knows as well as anyone else who thinks they know anything about babies. If you can offer some truly practical advice about something tangible like the best way to put up a cot, set up the baby monitor, or how to apply for child's benefits, offer your help and advise. If you find yourself wanting to say, "I never held/fed/dressed/etc. my baby like that, have you tried XYZ?" - don't!


Do not let them stress you out due to your close interactions with them. Be empathetic but firm. Remember though, you can walk away, they have to deal with their offspring 24/7 for the next 16 years, it's a bit selfish for 'you' to get stressed. If your friend asks your advice or do do a particular task, answer politely and not try not to get over excited overly emotional. You may be thrilled they want your help, but, keep things low key and agree to do as they've asked, decline, offer an alternative or just answer the question! Keeping their state of mind in your mind! They may be exhausted, stressed, sleep deprived etc. Be very clear and make instructions easy and doable so they don't get stressed about extra work.
 After a few days alone, or even with a supportive partner, being cooped up with a newborn may make your friend desperate for some fresh air and wanting to get out from indoors. It can be a mission getting a baby ready to leave the house, so help with coats for any other children, finding the dog lead, putting the pram up, making sure the back door is locked or whatever else. Your friend might even feel self-conscious pushing a pram or stroller down the street or breastfeeding in the same room as other people for the first time, so you can be there to tell her she does look like she knows what she's doing! House-sit or babysit while your friend goes out alone or with the baby if you're both happy with that arrangement.
 Your friend may seem to have it all: lovely new baby, nice house, wonderful devoted husband; the temptation to see if there's trouble in paradise can be strong. Don't ask when she last had sex, how quickly she thinks she'll regain her figure, or if she and husband can keep up the mortgage payments now that there's an extra mouth to feed! Sympathize if your friend raises concerns, but under no circumstances gossip about her fears with others or gloat in any way!


Always be pleasant but not over excited if, in the unlikely scenario, you feel like you are getting more comfortable with the environment, the baby, other siblings or one of the parents than your friend. You certainly don't want your friend to feel neglected and compare themselves to you and how much more fun you have than them in their own house.
 Hopefully you and your friend are close enough to know when you've had enough of each other's company, but if not, look for signs your friend needs you to leave. You might like to agree about how long you'll visit for before you even arrive so your friend can plan for other visitors, the baby's schedule, or just a nap!

, A new baby often disturbs family patterns, so it's important for the older siblings and the parents to keep a strong connection. Ask if they would like to go to a restaurant for dinner or another family outing. Offer to take care of the newborn while they are away, or just ask if they want to take the baby with them.

