 When you meet your date, try not to lead with your prosthesis. Make small talk for a while before steering the conversation towards your prosthesis. You may find that a little small talk naturally leads you to the conversation or makes it easier to bring up.Avoid saying something like “Hi. I’m Tom and I have a prosthetic foot.”
Ask your date about what they do for a living or their hobbies. Try to find some shared interests or places of commonality.
However, if your prosthesis is obvious, you may want to address it up front. Try to do what feels right for you. If it seems like the person is preoccupied with it, then you might say something like, “This throws a lot of people off at first, but I promise you will get used to it!";
, Although you will need to address it at some point, you should wait to talk about your prosthesis until you feel comfortable. If you are okay with it, you can address your prosthesis early in the date. However, you may also want to feel things out and save it for later in the date.Try not to force the subject. Wait until you feel comfortable in the conversation and with your date.
You may also find that it is easier to go on a few dates before talking about your prosthetic. This way you can determine if there is any potential for a relationship with the person before you decide to talk about your prosthesis with the person. If this person does not seem like someone you want a relationship with, then you might not want to even bother discussing your prosthesis with them.
 If your prosthesis is a painful subject to talk about, you will likely need to build some trust between you and your date before you feel comfortable revealing it. If you have a prosthetic because of military service, a disease, an accident, or some other sensitive reason, take your time and disclose your prosthesis when you feel comfortable. Depending on your level of comfort with your date, this could be after a few minutes or a few dates.


Pay attention to how the person is responding to you. For example, do they seem respectful? Listen carefully? Respond politely? If so, then these are good signs.
Talking to a counselor or therapist may also help you deal with any psychological issues connected to your prosthesis. Visiting a mental health professional may help you feel more comfortable disclosing your prosthesis to others.
 Gauge your date’s general comfort level and try to find a time to tell them about your prosthesis. If your date seems a little awkward or shy, it might be best to ease into the conversation before bringing it up. However, if your date seems like they would be cool with it, bring up the prosthesis when you feel comfortable.You should pay attention to your date’s body language. If they seem unwilling to make eye contact with you or fidget a lot, they are likely not feeling very comfortable.
 Try not to surprise your date with the fact that you have a prosthetic. Even if your date is okay with your prosthesis, they will likely not appreciate having something unexpected thrown at them. Remember that you are building the groundwork for a trusting and healthy relationship. Even if you do not think you'll spend the rest of your life with this person, the right thing to do is be honest with them. Find the appropriate time to talk about your prosthesis.


For example, revealing your prosthesis to a romantic partner as you disrobe for a romantic encounter is a less than ideal time.

