 Your will have to go to the county clerk’s office to obtain a marriage license. Marriage licenses are granted by each county, so it’s easiest if you go to the office for the county you live in.You should be able to look up your specific county court office pretty easily. They should have a section on their website listing the “Marriage License” services offered at each location.
In North Carolina, you can get your marriage license at any county clerk’s office and use it anywhere in the state. However, you will have to bring or mail your completed marriage license to that office.;
, You and your spouse will need to verify your identity when obtaining a marriage license. Some form of ID that has your social security number on it is necessary.Your social security card is the best way to give your social security number to the county clerk. You can obtain a social security card from the federal government if you don’t have one.An old paycheck stub or a W-2 form may also work if it has your social security number on it. Verify that your full name on these forms matches any your name on any ID you bring.
 You’ll need a valid form of ID to bring to the county clerk’s office. You can use a variety of forms of ID, but they need to have your full name, address, and date of birth.Your driver’s license or state-issued ID is the best form of identification to bring. Identification that comes directly from the state is easy for the county clerk to verify.
Your passport or birth certificate can also work as forms of identification. Check with your specific county clerk’s office if you only have a birth certificate and no state-issued ID.
 For people who have been previously married, you’ll also need your divorce papers or your former spouses’ death certificate. The county clerk just needs this information to guarantee you are no longer married. In both cases, you should have received some final certificate upon the event of death or divorce., In North Carolina, there is a $60 fee to obtain your marriage license. There is no waiting period, and you don't have to be a resident of North Carolina to obtain one in the state.Your $60 fee can be paid by cash, check, or credit card. A check might be the best option, so you can have a verified copy of the check to show you’ve paid for your marriage license in advance.
Your marriage license lasts up to 60 days after you receive it. You want to use it before that time period is up so you don’t have to go through the application process again.
 If you’re having a destination wedding in North Carolina, you do not have to be a resident of the state. You can get it at any county clerk’s office and it will be valid statewide.Go to the county clerk’s office in advance of coming to North Carolina for the wedding. Marriage licenses can take a bit of time, so you’ll want to have it in hand with plenty of time before the wedding.

