 Make sure to also wear clothing that is comfortable and flexible.;
, Stand up in basic stance which involves having your feet spread out and your hands in fists next to each side of your waist.


It is important to make sure your thumb is on top of your fist at all times.
 Move your right (or left) fist from your waist and throw a punch straight out making sure your fist is positioned so that your thumb is facing upward. When hitting the punch make sure to hit with your top two knuckles.


Imagine that you are hitting another person in the stomach area.
After completing the move put your fists back at your waist. Go back to this position(Basic Stance) after every move.
 Lift your left (or right) leg up off of the ground. Kick your leg forward as if you were hitting a person in the groin area using the palm of your foot.
 Point your right (or left) fist up to the ceiling. Throw an uppercut type punch upward as if you were hitting a person in the stomach area with your first two knuckles.
 Similar to the last move point your left (or right) fist up to the ceiling. Throw an uppercut type punch upward as if you were hitting a person in between the eyes using your first two knuckles of your fist.
 Bring your right (or left) arm up and point it on it's side. Swing it across in front of you.


Imagine you are striking someone in the chest area with the blade of your arm.
 Point your left (or right) elbow up and strike upward. When striking up you would rub the blade of your elbow on a person's chest until you hit them in the throat area.
 Pull your right (or left) knee up while pointing your toes toward the ground.


Imagine you are hitting a person in the groin area with your knee.
 Pick your left (or right) leg up and point it towards the right (or left). When picking your leg up remember to have your toes pointed downward.


Strike your leg as if you were hitting another person in the leg area with your knee.
 Pick your right (or left) leg up and tilt it a little to the left (or right). Using the blade of your foot strike your foot forward as if you were hitting a person in the lower leg area.
 Place your left hand facing up near your chest and your open right hand facing palm forward near your waist.
 Throw your left hand out so that you would end up hitting a person in the chest with your palm.
 Strike your right hand forward, so you would strike a person in the lower waist area.
 You have now completed the 10 basic Okinawan Karate moves.

