 File-sharing websites transfer files from user to user, with no third-party oversight. While you may find books not available anywhere else online, there is a significant chance of exposing your computer to viruses and malware that could slow it down or steal your personal information. Many file-sharing sites contain copyrighted material, whose download is considered illegal in many countries.


Set your operating system's security level to its highest setting. In Windows, this is available through the Control Panel; on MacOS, this can be done through the Internet option in System Preferences.
Turn any security software you have on to maximum. Turn on your anti-virus software and your firewall software and turn them to their highest settings.
 Note that the selection of books that are available on BitTorrent tend to reflect popularity instead of literary or reference value.This method can also take a little time and effort to set up and learn how to use.


Choose a BitTorrent client. In order to avoid malware, using a trusted source such as BitTorrent.com is recommended.
Search online for an "eBook torrent tracker." These collections of links to eBook files come and go quickly, so searching online is the best method of finding them. Many require a signup, and a minimum amount of time spent using your computer to share files before you can download files. Public torrents without a signup may have a higher security risk.
 Many out of date or otherwise obscure works, as well as recent popular ones, are available on IRC, or Internet Relay Chat. Once you've downloaded an IRC client, such as mIRC, you can use it to search for chat channels devoted to "books" or "eBooks" to find other users to share files with or talk to about books.
 Usenet is a bulletin-board-like server-based network originally developed for secure, high-speed chat. Today Usenet is also heavily used for file sharing, but it requires a monthly fee from a Usenet service such as Usenet Server or Newshosting. Many of these services also provide search tools and automatic conversion of downloaded NZB files to readable formats, which is recommended if you are new to Usenet.