 When first starting to play an instrument, you should consider renting to be certain that you enjoy it enough to purchase.









If you're sure you are going to enjoy it, rent-to-own or buying are good options. If you are taking lessons, it's a good idea to consult with your teacher about the right type of flute for you.
Flutes can cost from 100 to 1000+ dollars, but good quality student flutes sell at around the 500-700 dollar mark. Beginners should get an open-hole student flute that has removable plugs. Over time the student should remove plugs. The flute produces a better sound as the vibration hit skin than plastic. Try to research and purchase/rent a reputable brand, as many cheap flutes are poorly made, and hard to play as a result. You can also rent a flute from a a music store that is recommended by your music teacher.
Also some flutes have an extra key at the end. This is called the B foot flute. It is slightly longer. When a flute player becomes more advance, they should think to purchase a step up flute with a b foot.
Expensive, professional flutes are for more experienced flute players. These can range from 1000-10,000+. These tend to be hand made with different precious metals added on. Including gold, platinum and the most common silver. This is for players that want a career in music.
Before you buy, get some advice from other players and/or teachers to help select the right instrument for you.;
, Ask your band director or a music shop employee about it (towards the beginning of the school year, if you are in school). This resource will be very useful as you learn to play and advance to higher levels.
 Before you can play your flute, you will need to learn how to assemble it. You can do so as follows:










The flute has 3 parts. The top part is the headjoint and has the mouthpiece or lip-plate. The part with most of the keys is called the Body at the top of the body (where the headjoint goes into) is called the barrel or tenon, and the end is called the footjoint.
When putting the parts together one must be very careful to not grab the rods and keys of the flute. This can bend the rods and keys and cause the flute to not function properly.
First put the foot joint on by holding the barrel of the flute. Hold the end of the foot joint where you are not grabbing the keys and then do a twist and push motion, and the footjoint should slide right on! Now align the rods of of the footjoint to the middle of the keys of the body

, It is the same thing, grab the barrel and the headjoint. (don't grab the mouthpiece! you can bend it!) Same motion, twist and push. Now align the bore (or the mouth hole) to be aligned with the first key of the body.

!!!This is for beginners!!! The top of the flute is called the cap.Which holds and adjusts the cork. This adjusts the tuning of the flute. Do NOT keep twisting it and DO NOT take off and take cork out! If you feel the flute is out of tune ask a teacher or someone who works at an instrument store.
For those who do not have a lesson teacher and would like to check if the cork is in the correct position take your cleaning rod and flip it around. The bottom of the rod should have a etched line, stick this into the headjoint and look in the hole of the mouthpiece the etched line should be right in the middle.
 At first, producing a sound from your flute can be a little tricky, so you should practice the correct blowing method first, before you attempt to play any specific notes.









BREATHING!! This is one of the most important aspects of playing the flute! Keep your shoulders relaxed and head up, breath from your stomach. By that, just imagine a string pulling from your belly button. Ladies especially young ladies. Your stomach is going to stick out, but this is the correct way to breath.
Deep breaths, not shallow!
Don't just blow, one must have the correct embouchure to play correctly. Think of spitting out a sunflower seed! Try it! Try it again and freeze after you spit the seed out. That is how small the hole of your mouth needs to be while you blow. Now, say the word "poo" and freeze your face. This is the general facial position. Now add those 2 together and you now have the right embouchure to play.
Now onto making a sound. Blow across the mouthpiece like blowing across a bottle. The sound is produced by the breaking of your airstream on the edge of the embouchure hole. Half your breath should travel above the hole, and half should travel down through the flute.
Try to keep the corner of your lips firm but not tight!! You will know when they are too tight when you practice and the corners of your mouth is tired and sore. Remember to say "poo". This keeps your corner relaxed yet firm!

, Hold the flute with your mouth on the embouchure (lip hole) and the remainder of the instrument pointing to your right hand side, in a horizontal fashion.









Lets start with the right hand. Shake your hand out and let it relax naturally by your side. Bring it up it should be naturally curved. Now make a duck/dinosaur. Notice where you thumb rests naturally on your hand. Some thumb rest between the pointer finger and middle, or under the pointer finger, or under the middle. Just make note of where YOUR thumb lands. Now, open the "mouth" and feed it your flute. Remember where you thumb landed naturally? Well place it on your flute and you fingers should be hover above. Now place your pointer finger down on the first key this will be called 1, the next key is where you middle finger is placed, this is 2, you ring finger is the next key, this is 3, and you pinky will rest on this flat half circle key. 9 times out of 10 this pinky will be pressed down and you learn different notes and fingerings.
The left hand is the awkward position. Same as the right hand shake it out and let it drop naturally to the side. Then bring it up and make the duck/dinosaur, then turn the duck/dinosaur to face you. Open the "mouth" and feed your hand the flute. Rest your thumb on the circle thumb key (for now, the rectangle key is also a thumb key it is the B natural key, you will learn this as you get a fingering chart) Now skip the top key and place you pointer finger on the second key, this is called 1 as well. Skip the next key and then place you middle finger down that is 2, and you ring finger goes on the key next to your middle finger, that is called 3. Now you pinky will hover over the key sticking out of you flute.
Keep you LH pinky hovering over the key! Get into this habit, don't let hang below or press down. As you learn fingerings you will press this key for certain notes.Bear in mind that this finger placement will feel awkward and unnatural at first. This is completely normal. With practice, it will begin to feel more normal.
 In order to learn how to play specific notes on the flute, you should consult a fingering chart, which will guide you through the finger placement for each note.









Fingering charts make use of pictures and diagrams, which make it easier to visualize the finger placement for each individual note. Most instruction books for the flute will contain a fingering chart, but it is also easy to find these charts online.Practice playing each note until you get it sounding just right. When playing a note on the flute it should not sound like you're just blowing or whistling - it should be a full, steady tone.
Once you have mastered playing each note individually, you can practice playing multiple notes in a row. It doesn't matter if it doesn't sound very musical - the point of the exercise is to learn how to transition smoothly from one note to the next.
 It is essential that you maintain the correct posture while playing the flute, as this will allow you to improve your air capacity and produce more consistent tones.









Stand or sit up as straight as possible, with your chin raised and your eyes looking straight ahead. This opens up your body and allows you to produce clearer, longer notes.
Stand with your two feet planted on the ground and the left foot slightly in front of the right. Your body should be at an angle, this is a more natural position then being body facing straight ahead, your shoulders will not be in a awkward position when read music. You want most of the weight on the right foot/back foot. Try not to stick your hip out too much or have weird angles with your neck, and back.This will only lead to tension and pain, which will interfere with your practice.
Remember to keep your body relaxed and avoid tensing up as you play - this will help you to produce a smoother, richer sound.
If you're using a music stand, make sure you keep it at eye level. If the stand is too low down it will cause you to bend your neck and tuck your chin, which will restrict your airways and cause neck pain., Perfect Practice makes perfect, as the music saying goes. But keep in mind that it's much better to practice for short periods everyday, than to cram all of your practice into a two-hour weekly session. As you get more advance start to increase your practice time.









Make your practice goal-oriented, as this will help you to remain focused. Keep these goals small but concrete. For example, aim to perfect the transition from a B to an A note.
Practicing in infrequent, marathon sessions is inefficient as it overtaxes the body, leaving you feeling stiff and frustrated. You will notice much greater improvement and less stiffness if you practice consistently everyday and increasing your time., You should always stretch after your practice session as it will relieve tension and prevent stiffness after playing, leaving you in better shape for your next practice session. Some good exercises are as follows:









Bend your knees slightly and crouch down with your arms extended behind you, as if skiing. Then swing your arms upwards as if you intended to fly away. Repeat 5-10 times to stretch out the arms and shoulders.
While inhaling, draw your shoulders upwards towards your ears and hold in this position for several seconds. Release your shoulders downwards as you exhale. Repeat several times to release tension and pain in the shoulders and neck.
Stand with your hands down by your sides and shake your arms and hands as if they were made out of rubber. This will help to loosen the joints in the arms and hands.
There are many other stretches you can do to relieve any tension or aches - just do what feels right for you!

, Learning to play the flute takes a while. Some go for months without making a sound, so don't get discouraged if you can't make one when you first get it. Be patient, keep practicing, and get the assistance of a good teacher. Soon you'll be making beautiful music!








, Thread a silky swab through the top or purchase a cleaning flute flag, this is to remove condensation from the inside of your flute. Occasionally polish it with a cloth. Make sure it isn't silver polish. A simple microfiber cloth is all you need.









Never leave your cleaning swab inside you flute, this will cause the moisture to ruin the pads of your flute. You wouldn't leave your wet dirty sock in your sneakers would you? No. The same thing with your cleaning rod.
Take your flute apart the same way you put it together. Grab the tenon and twist and pull the headjoint and the foot joint grab the tenon and the bottom of the footjoint and twist and pull. Put each piece back into the flute case where it belongs!
Now take your cleaning rod/flag and swab the inside of each piece and place back into case.

