 Having a drippy nose or a fever causes you to lose moisture. Make sure you drink enough so that you aren’t forcing your body to deal with both the cold and the physical stress of dehydration.When you sleep, keep a cup of water, juice, clear broth, or warm lemon water near your bed. If you sleep restlessly, this will enable you to take a few swallows each time you wake and avoid dehydration throughout the night. Avoid alcohol and coffee. Both will dehydrate you.
If you are urinating infrequently or passing dark or cloudy urine, these are signs that you are dehydrated.;
, Most adults require about 8 hours per night when they are healthy. If you are fighting off a cold, you will probably need more.Give yourself permission to nap. When you are sleepy, that is your body telling you what it needs.
Being fully rested will help boost your immune system and enable your body to fight the cold more effectively.
 If you have a stuffy nose or coughing, it can be very difficult to sleep at night. Try keeping the air in your bedroom moist with a cool-mist humidifier or a vaporizer. The better you sleep, the more energy you will have to fight off the virus.If you don’t have a humidifier or vaporizer you can quickly and cheaply make one. Put a pot of warm water on the radiator and let it slowly evaporate overnight.
 A low fever will make the air temperature around you feel colder. If you are so cold that you start shivering, this will cost your body energy that it could be using to fight the cold virus. If you have to go to work or school, bundle up with an extra warm layer of clothing like a big sweater. If you can stay home, add an extra blanket to your bed.


Try using a hot water bottle or sipping a cup of warm tea if you have trouble getting warm.
 The nutrients and salt will replenish your electrolytes. In addition, the warm steam will help clear your nose.If you have an appetite for something more substantial, you can add chunks of chicken, noodles, peas, carrots, and other nutritious vegetables to the broth.
 Milk (more precisely any kind of fat) increases the amount of mucus being created by your body. These products can be:

Products containing milk (including almond and soy milk).
Yogurt, pudding, cream.
Butter, margarine, cream cheese.
Most other products that are high in fats.

