 Before you take herbal supplements, you need to ask your doctor. She will be familiar with your personal medical history and let you know if there are certain herbal supplements that might be helpful for your conditions.


This is also helpful in case you undergo any medical procedure. For example, some herbs may increase bleeding during surgery.
Your doctor may ask you to stop taking certain herbal supplements before other procedures if they might cause issues or complications.Never take herbal supplements if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, if you are younger than 18, or if you are older than 65 without first talking to your doctor.;
, Although herbal supplements are derived from natural sources, they can interact with medications. This is true of over the counter and prescription medication. When you visit your doctor, be sure to mention any herbal supplement you are considering to make sure she can tell you of possible interactions. Also tell her about any additional medications that you were prescribed by other doctors or specialists.


Not all general doctors are experts in herbal supplements. Consider seeing a naturopath, physicians specifically trained in herbal medicine, if you are serious about taking herbal supplements. Do your research before, however, because naturopaths are not licensed in every state or country.
You can also ask a pharmacist, who is most likely aware of any possible drug-herb interactions., Just like any medication or vitamin, herbal supplements have daily dosage suggestions. Make sure you look on the label and follow the recommended dosage every day. Your doctor may also give you a different dosage if she believes you need more or less of a specific supplement.


Always follow your doctor's orders over the recommended dosage on the label., If you are taking many different herbal supplements, keep track of what you take, how much you take, and how often. This way, if you have a reaction to anything, you will able to more adequately explain what you are taking.


This will also help you figure out if the supplements you are taking are helping your conditions or not.
If you can't always remember exactly what you are taking, write it down and keep it somewhere safe., When you buy the supplements, you should check the color. Look to see if it is the color that the herb is supposed to be. This may be green, red, or yellow. If the colors are bright, such as bright green instead of brown or gray, the herbs are fresher and shows that they have not been exposed to excessive heat.


Inside the pill capsules, look for signs of mold or mildew. Mold and mildew may show up as dark or grayish/whitish or they may be dusty and powdery.
Keep checking the herbs as you take them. Once they start changing colors, it may be time to get a new bottle.
 Herbal supplements need to be kept in certain conditions. Generally, you should keep them in a cool, dry place. However, certain herbal supplements may have more specific instructions, so always check the label.


Once you buy supplements, keep up with the expiration date. Just like other medication, you should not take herbal supplements if they are out of date. Throw them away once they are expired and buy more that are in date., Before you can buy the right supplement, you need to find safe, quality manufacturers. Dietary supplements are not as highly regulated as prescription medications, which can lead to problems in quality. The best way to do quality analysis is to go to the store, find popular brands, then do online research to check the quality of the manufacturers. They should have website of their own, but you should also look on other websites that discuss the brands you are looking into.You can also use online supplement reviewers such as ConsumerLab. These companies are not affiliated with any manufacturer and do independent testing to assess quality., When you are trying to decide which herbal supplements, research different herbs and figure out which ones will help you. If you are unsure of what herbal supplements you should take, the University of Maryland Medical Center has an extensive database that has a long list of herbs and what they are used for.


You can also look up specific conditions that you suffer from and see what herbs may be helpful.
Also look for studies that give evidence to the claims of the herbal supplements you want to take. There have been numerous medical studies of herbal supplements that validate their usefulness.Be wary of supplements that claim magical healing properties. These are likely bloated statements that are trying to lure you into buying them under false pretenses.
 Before you buy any supplements, check the Federal Drug Administration's Safety Alerts and Advisories website about herbs. It lets you know if any supplements have been recalled, if there are any issues with certain herbs, and if there are manufacturers to avoid., When you are in the store buying supplements, make sure you know all the different names your herb may be packaged as. All herbs have formal botanical names but may have many also have different common names. Getting the right herbal supplements you need for certain conditions is important, because buying a similar named one may cause problems or reactions.For example, boswellia is also known as salai guggal and oregano is known as wild marjoram, Because you have already done research into the best brands of herbal supplements, you know which brands to buy. Pick the brands you found were the best quality.


Look on the label and see if they list that they follow Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which are a set of rules set forth by the FDA., Where the herbal supplements you buy are made is important to their safety. There are many countries that make safe supplements, such as the United States and many European countries. However, there have been many problems with herbs manufactured in India, Mexico and China.


Look on the label of the supplements and avoid those made in these three countries., If you are looking for natural options, look for organic supplements. These herbal supplements will be made from organic herbs, which are grown under safer conditions and made with no genetically modified ingredients.Also see if you can find sustainably grown and pesticide free herbal supplements.
 If you are interested in using locally grown herbs in your supplements, look into a local herbalist. The herbalist should be able to tell you about where he buys (or grows) his herbs. Look online or check local directories to find an herbalist nearby.


If you have seen a naturopathic doctor, call them to find out if they know of a local herbalist.
You also may be able to talk to the people at a local organic grocery to see if they have locally grown herbs.
 If you aren't happy with the herbal supplement selection you can find in stores in your area, think about buying online. Make sure any herbs you buy online meet the same quality standards as others. You also need to make sure that the place you are buying the herbs from can be trusted.


You may be able to find companies online that sell organic products and that use sustainable growing practices.
If you aren't sure, try to call or e-mail the company to ask.

