 Removing old applications is an easy way to free up space and improve performance. You can find them in your Applications folder, which can be found in the Go menu.
, Follow any prompts to complete the uninstallation process.
 Many older Macs start to struggle when there are too many items on the desktop. Moving files to other folders and deleting items you don't need anymore can help improve performance.
,, If you don't see this, click the ⋮⋮⋮⋮ button at the top of the window.
 Your active account will usually be selected by default.
 You'll see all the programs that launch automatically when your Mac starts, which can bog it down.
, This will remove the item from your Mac's startup sequence.
 You can start any of these programs at any time, and removing anything from this list will not prevent your Mac from working. The less programs that start with your Mac, the faster it will boot up.
,, This will disable the rarely-used Dashboard, which contains memory-eating widgets.
,,, After confirming, your Mac will delete all of the iTunes movies and TV shows that you have already watched, and will delete old email attachments. You'll be able to redownload any of these items later if you need them again.
 This will display files that your Mac thinks may be OK to delete.
 These could be old installers and other downloaded files.


You can switch between the Large Files and Downloads tab to quickly find most files that will be taking up a lot of your space.
 You can also hold ⌘ Command and click each one to select multiple files, then press Delete.
,,, You'll be warned that the boot volume will be frozen, essentially preventing you from using any apps while the scan is in progress.


If the scanning process detects any errors, it will attempt to correct them automatically.
 As a last ditch attempt to improve your performance, you can try reinstalling your operating system. This will delete all of the data on your computer, so you'll need to make sure everything important is safely backed up. You'll also have to reinstall all of your programs afterwards.


When you're ready to erase and reinstall, you can do so from the Recovery boot menu.

