 If someone you know has kleptomania, you should encourage them to seek medical treatment. Kleptomania is not curable, but a person can take medication or undergo therapy to help with the urges and symptoms.Kleptomania is diagnosed by a doctor or psychologist.
The doctor will ask the person a series of questions, such as how their impulses make them feel and what kinds of situations trigger them to steal.
Try saying, “I care about you. You have gotten in legal trouble once because of your stealing, and next time it could be very serious. Kleptomania can be overcome, and I think you can do it. I think you should seek treatment.”

, There is no standard treatment for kleptomania. However, a person may benefit from medication if there are other issues underlying the kleptomania, like depression, anxiety, or OCD. Help the person decide if medication is an appropriate treatment option for them.The doctor may prescribe an antidepressant, such as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), which have limited success in treating kleptomania.Opioid antagonists may help because they are addiction medications that decrease urges and pleasure associated with addiction.
 Psychotherapy is a common treatment for kleptomania. Encourage the other person to seek out therapy to help with their symptoms. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is used to treat kleptomania.The therapist may make the person imagine the negative consequences of stealing. They may have to visualize that they are being caught while stealing and then visually walk through the negative consequences, like going to jail. This process, called covert sensitization, helps the person associate the urge with a negative consequence.
Aversion therapy teaches a person with kleptomania to create some sort of uncomfortable situation for themselves when faced with a compulsion to steal. This uncomfortable condition makes it easier to resist the temptation to steal.
The person may also be taught relaxation techniques to help them learn to control impulses.
 People with kleptomania are often treated through support groups. Support groups can be used while undergoing psychotherapy or continued after psychotherapy is no longer needed. Support groups help a person with kleptomania cope with stress and triggers so they can avoid relapse.Support groups offer understanding and compassion for the person with the addiction. It can help them have a successful recovery by helping them not get buried beneath feelings of shame or embarrassment.
 Group therapy may also help the person. Traditional group therapy places the person into a small group led by a trained mental health professional. They practice therapeutic approaches, such as CBT or interpersonal therapy, in a safe environment to help with recovery.Family therapy may be needed if the person has damaged relationships with their family or if family troubles are a trigger for the kleptomania.

