 The first thing to remember is that farm machinery doesn't come cheap. Each of the pieces of equipment available to you will run you 30,000 coins. That's a considerable chunk of change, and you'll want to make sure that buying a seeder, for example, won't leave you with no money left to buy the seeds you want to plant with it.
Also, you're probably not going to be able to buy all three machines at once (for reasons of cost and also because they're unlocked at different levels). Because of this, though, it's a good idea to take into account which machine you'll actually use the most and get that one first. There's nothing wrong with buying these vehicles as long as you're going to get a good amount of use out of them.;
, Another thing you'll have to keep in mind when you're contemplating the purchase of some heavy farm equipment is that the purchase price isn't necessarily the whole cost of the machine. Depending on the size of your farm, you'll use up your fuel pretty quickly with these heavy machines – especially if you have more than one.
If your farm is bigger than what your equipment can cover on one tank of fuel, then, you'll have to consider the benefits of purchasing fuel refills. These refills are available in several sizes, ranging from a single tank to 50 of them, but you can only pay for them with Farm Cash. And because this particular type of currency can be pretty hard to come by, those refills get expensive awfully quickly.
Of course, you can always wait for your tank to fill up again on its own. That doesn't cost you anything, and it doesn't even really take that long. But if you're trying to care for a large farm, you may quickly become frustrated waiting for your fuel to accumulate before you can use your farm equipment again.
 One way around this is to plant a variety of crops that all mature at different rates. That way, you'll never have to plow, plant, and harvest your whole farm at once. As long as you give your machines enough time between usages to refuel naturally, you'll never have to spend a dime on gas. The only trick to this system is making sure that you're not missing out on using them when you'd like to just because you don't have any gas. And the best way to make sure that doesn't happen is to plan your plantings well.

