 Get your name out there by rocking your local open mic events. All you have to do is sign up and sing. Make sure you pick events with a hip-hop audience.



Freestyle battling is a whole world in itself. You don't have to be a great freestyler to be a good rapper, but it certainly helps. Battling is a way to hone your skills and get known.
 There is a vibrant world of underground and aspiring rappers who share and discuss their music on the Internet. Simply putting your music out online doesn't mean anyone will notice or listen to it—you have to work to promote it.


Submit your music to sites like DJBooth and send it to popular hip-hop blogs.
Get a Myspace account, a Facebook page, and a Twitter account. Use these to share your music and get the word out about your shows and upcoming releases. Build a following and keep them interested.
 Ask around at music venues and try to get gigs with a hip-hop audience, perhaps opening for bigger acts. Try to earn some money from these, but don't be afraid to do a few shows for free to get your name out there.


Print some t-shirts, burn some mixtapes and make other merchandise to sell at your shows.
Work on your stage presence. Don't just get up there and recite your lines—you have to engage the audience. Use your words, your expression and your body. Pay attention to what the audience likes and give them more.
 Once you start to get some traction, you may need help taking your career to the next level. A manager can take over some of the work promoting your music, booking gigs and talking to record labels. Just be careful that your manager is looking out for your interests, not just his own.
 Rapping isn't a solitary art—much of the time it is something you do with other people, producers, singers or other rappers. Network and build strong relationships with other people in the industry you meet. Do collaborations with them whenever you can.


Having a verse on another rapper's song exposes you and your skills to a whole new audience.
Having another rapper do a verse for you is kind of like an endorsement. People will notice your music more if you have notable collaborators.
 Landing a deal with a major hip-hop label is the dream of most rap artists. A record deal puts a ton of resources and clout at your fingertips and starts you down the track to real fame. However remember that record companies are out to make money for themselves, and sometimes you might be better off starting your own label or partnering with another indie to release your music.

