 Whether you're making a physical or digital memory book, the first thing you need to do is decide what you want your book to be about. Common memory book themes include:



Family members – Make a book about a specific loved one. In addition to photographs, you can also include things he or she wrote (like letters and postcards), drew (like pictures your child has made), or anything else that is flat enough to fit inside a book or to be scanned into a computer. You can also include documents associated with this person, such as a report card, a copy of a birth certificate or marriage license, or a birthday card he or she received. If your child is young, you can start a memory book now and add to it as he or she grows up.

Events – Weddings, birthdays, bar/bat mitzvahs, quinceañeras, graduations, and anniversaries are all popular choices when making a memory book. Holidays, like Christmas or Valentine's Day, are also common themes. If the event or special day happens annually, you can add a new page or chapter each year.

Vacations – Use your memory book to relive a fun vacation or share it with others. This is an especially good idea if you went to an exotic location and took a lot of pictures. You can also include things like your plane ticket stubs or even a pressed flower you brought home with you. If this is an annual family vacation, consider adding a new chapter each year.

More specific combinations – This option is especially popular for parents making a book of their child or children. They can be about one specific event, such as "Duane & Derrick's First Halloween," or one that covers a longer period of time, such as "Melissa's First Year of School" or "Becky's Birthdays from Six Through Ten.";
, There aren't many rules for what you can include in a memory book. Just make sure whatever you add fits your chosen theme and, if you're making a physical memory book, make sure that all of your items are relatively flat and can be attached to the pages with ease.


Physical memory books often include photographs, illustrations, poetry, quotations, ticket stubs, greeting cards, programs, postcards, stickers, and even small mementos like coins or tokens. Each item is often paired with a written explanation for its context.
In addition to photographs and other scannable documents, digital memory books can also feature sound and video.
Remember that a memory book is different from a general photo album. Don't include every related photo you've shot. Instead, choose only a handful that tell a story.
 Many memory books are made through collaboration. Consider asking other people to help make your memory book. They can help by either making a particular page or chapter or by simply submitting photos and other items they may have.

