 If you do not have access to the Internet, or to a computer with a printer, you can contact the Division of Real Estate by telephone to request a paper copy of the Complaint Form.


Call the Division's main office at 614-466-4100 to have a form sent to you or to find a location from which to obtain the form.
 The form consists of four pages, with numerous sections. You need to complete each section:Type the form or write it in pen using blue or black ink.
Provide contact information for yourself and the real estate agent you are filing the complaint against, including full names, addresses, email addresses, company names, and telephone numbers.
Indicate whether you are interested in a resolution through mediation, have copies of documents you can provide to support your complaint, and whether you have hired an attorney to assist you with this particular complaint.
Provide the contact information for any witnesses involved in the incident for the complaint; including names, addresses and telephone numbers.
Indicate the nature of your complaint and whether the real estate agent you are filing the complaint against is aware you are filing the complaint.
 A space is provided for you to write an account of your interaction with the real estate agent in your own words. If you need additional space, you may attach extra pages. In order for your concerns to receive full attention, it is best if you follow these tips in writing your concerns:Report mainly facts.
Try to limit emotional responses. It is understandable that you are upset but be professional in this report.
Type or write legibly. Nobody can help you with your problem if they cannot read and understand it.
Be concise, but also complete. You do not need to include every single detail that ever happened, but you do need to include enough to tell the full story.
 After the complaint form is complete, you need to sign and date it. Your signature indicates your affirmation that all the information is true., If you have copies of sales contracts, lease agreements, or anything else that supports you complaint, you should make copies and attach them with your complaint form.Do not submit original documents with your complaint form.
 After you have all the documentation prepared, mail it or deliver it in person to Ohio Division of Real Estate and Professional Licensing, Enforcement Section, 77 S. High St., 20th Floor, Columbus, OH 43215-6133.
 Upon receipt of your complaint, the Division will begin an investigation. As part of the investigation, the Division is likely to contact you and the real estate agent to participate in a mediation. The objective is to help guide you and the agent (or employer) to a resolution that is mutually agreeable.If the investigation leads to further problems regarding the real estate agent, you may be asked to testify at a hearing.

