 The plaintiff will start the lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. You will be sent a copy, along with a summons. You should read both documents closely.


The summons will tell you how much time you have to respond to the plaintiff’s complaint.You should make note of the deadline for responding.;
, In the complaint, the plaintiff should outline the circumstances surrounding the discrimination. You should identify the discriminatory act so that you can begin planning your defense.


Once you have identified it, gather relevant documents to review. For example, the plaintiff might allege that she applied for a job but wasn’t hired because of her bankruptcy. You should find anything related to the person’s job application: a copy of her resume, notes from an interview, letters or other communications sent, etc.
If the plaintiff claims you demoted or fired him because of the bankruptcy, then gather employee reviews and any reprimands or awards the employee received. Look at your internal communications, such as emails with management about the employee.
 Public entities are limited in their ability to discriminate based on a bankruptcy. Specifically, government departments may not revoke, suspend, deny, or refuse to renew a permit, charter, franchise, license or other government grant on the basis of the bankruptcy. For example, government departments may not:deny or cut off public benefits
deny or evict someone from public housing
exclude someone from a state’s home mortgage finance program
deny or refuse to renew a state liquor license
deny an applicant a driver’s license
withhold a college transcript

, Private entities, like a private business or citizen, have greater leeway in discriminating against someone because of a bankruptcy. For example, you can refuse to hire or refuse to rent an apartment on the basis of a bankruptcy.


However, you cannot fire a current employee or otherwise punish them because of the bankruptcy.Specifically, you can’t demote, take away responsibilities, or reduce the salary of an employee because of a bankruptcy., After reading the complaint and gathering relevant documents, you should reach out to an attorney. If you work for a public agency or a large business, then you should have an attorney on the payroll or on retainer. If you are a private citizen (such as a sole proprietor), then you will need to get a referral for an attorney.


You can ask friends or colleagues if they have ever been sued for an employment issue and whether they would recommend their lawyer. If so, you can get the name and call.
You might also want to contact your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program.
 At the consultation with your attorney, you should take all relevant documents and discuss them. Your attorney will help advise you on the strength of the plaintiff’s complaint and what defenses you have. For example, you could fire or demote an employee for a legitimate reason, such as tardiness or poor performance. The fact that the employee has filed for bankruptcy will not protect them if you have a legitimate reason for taking the action.


Be honest with your lawyer. What you discus will be confidential, and your attorney needs to know the facts so that he or she can properly advise you.Take notes during the meeting. If your lawyer has questions you can’t answer, then take notes and get the relevant information after the meeting.
Ask about fees. You should talk about how much the attorney will cost. Lawyers offer differ fee structures, depending on the client. You might pay a flat fee or you could agree to be billed in hourly increments. Some attorneys may also offer “unbundled legal services.” In this situation, the lawyer agrees only to do the tasks you give to her.
 You need to respond to the plaintiff’s lawsuit in a timely manner. You can respond by filing an answer. In the answer, you admit or deny each allegation made. You can also claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny.Many courts have printed “fill in the blank” answer forms you can use. These are often posted on the court’s website. If no form is available, then you will have to draft your own. You can use a CD or book of legal forms to help you.
After you complete the answer, make several copies and take them to the court where the plaintiff filed the lawsuit. Ask the clerk to file the original. The clerk should stamp all copies with the date.
 You can get a frivolous lawsuit dismissed immediately by filing a motion to dismiss. In this motion, you argue that even if every allegation made in the complaint is true, the plaintiff still hasn’t made out a valid legal claim. You may file a motion to dismiss instead of an answer.For example, you might be a private landlord who has been sued for refusing to rent to a tenant with a bankruptcy. However, the law does not require that you rent to someone with a bankruptcy. Because you have not broken the law, then even if the plaintiff’s allegation is true, he or she can’t sue you. In this situation, you should probably file a motion to dismiss.
 You need to give the plaintiff a copy of your answer or your motion to dismiss. If the plaintiff has a lawyer, then send it to the lawyer. If not, give it to the plaintiff.You can serve a copy in a variety of ways, which will differ by court. When you file, ask the court clerk for acceptable methods.
You also may need to prove that you served a copy on the plaintiff. To do this, you might need to fill out an Affidavit of Service or a Certificate of Service. Ask the court clerk for what method you should use.
 The judge may schedule a hearing to hear argument on the motion to dismiss. If so, you should make sure to reread your motion and be prepared to repeat the key points. The plaintiff will have to show that he or she has a real legal claim.


You might not have to say much at the hearing. Read through your motion and give the judge the highlights. If your motion is strong, then the plaintiff will have to explain why she has made a legal claim and why the case should go forward.
For tips on how to address a judge in court, see Address a Judge in Court.
 This phase is called “discovery.” During discovery, you and the plaintiff can request information in each other’s custody or control. The most common discovery techniques are:Requests for Production. You can get a copy of any document provided it is relevant to the lawsuit. For example, you might want copies of any emails the plaintiff has sent related to the lawsuit. He or she might have made embarrassing admissions to friends or family, such as acknowledging that she deserved to be fired from a job due to poor performance.

Interrogatories. These are written questions you serve on the plaintiff, which he or she must answer under oath. Interrogatories are helpful for getting basic information. For example, if the plaintiff claims to have suffered substantial economic damages, you can request that he explain how he calculated those damages.

Depositions. In a deposition, you ask questions of the witness in person. The witness answers the questions under oath and a court reporter makes a transcript of the proceedings. Depositions are helpful because you can ask follow-up questions. In some situations, you may also introduce deposition testimony at trial.
 You should talk with your lawyer about whether or not you want to resolve the dispute outside of court. If so, you can use one of several different ADR techniques: negotiation, mediation, or arbitration. Of course, if your case is cut-and-dried, then you might want to proceed immediately to trial because you are confident that you can win.



Negotiation can be an effective way to avoid trial. You and the plaintiff meet with your lawyers to come to a settlement amount. You might want to consider negotiation if you intend to continue a relationship with the plaintiff (for example, if he is an employee who will continue to work for you).

Mediation is like negotiation, except you and the plaintiff meet with a mediator, who is a neutral third party. The mediator is not a judge. Instead, he or she listens to you and the plaintiff and helps guide you to a solution you both can accept. Mediation, like negotiation, is completely voluntary.

Arbitration. This is the ADR technique that is most like a trial. You and the plaintiff present your case to an arbitrator, who acts like a judge. The arbitrator then will decide the case. Arbitration has a couple of advantages over trial: it is private and generally goes much faster. However, you might give up your right to file an appeal if you lose in arbitration.
 After you and the plaintiff have finished discovery, you can file a motion for summary judgment. Basically, you argue that a trial is unnecessary because there are no issues of material fact in dispute. You also argue that you are entitled to win because the facts and the law are one-sided in your favor.You should have your lawyer draft a motion for summary judgment. It is a complicated legal document and requires close familiarity with the law.
 You have the choice whether to present your case to a judge or jury. However, if either you or the plaintiff want a jury, then the case will begin with jury selection, called “voir dire.” During this process, the judge will call up a panel of jurors and ask them basic questions, such as whether they can be fair. If the juror cannot be fair, then the judge will dismiss the juror.


You also might get “peremptory challenges.” With these, you can remove a prospective juror from the panel without having to give a reason., The plaintiff will open the trial by making an opening statement. You will go second. You should use your opening statement to lay out for the jury (or judge) what the evidence will be.


For example, you can say, “And the evidence will show that the defendant did not refuse to renew the plaintiff’s liquor license because of the bankruptcy. Instead, the defendant found that the plaintiff had violated the licensing rules on six different occasions.”

, After opening statements, the plaintiff will present his case. He must use witnesses and other evidence to show that you discriminated against him because of the bankruptcy. When the plaintiff finishes examining his witnesses, you can cross-examine them. Keep the following in mind:


Limit your questions to only the subject matter raised on direct examination.You should try to question the witness’s ability to remember the events they testify to. For example, if the witness claims to have seen something, test him or her on details. If the witness admits that they don’t remember some details, then the jury might think they can’t remember anything they testify to.
You can also show bias. If the witness is a friend or relative of the plaintiff’s, then draw that fact out. It tends to show that the witness will give testimony favorable to the plaintiff whether it is true or not.
 If you were the employee who made the decision to fire or punish the employee, then you will probably have to testify at trial. You can prepare by going over your testimony with your lawyer. During the day of trial, remember the following tips:Listen closely to the question asked and be sure to answer that question. If you don’t understand it, ask the lawyer to rephrase or clarify.
Don’t guess. If you don’t know the answer, say, “I don’t know” or “I can’t remember.”
Speak clearly and answer questions simply. When you can answer a question in a “yes” or “no” fashion, then do so.
Correct mistakes as soon as possible. Say, “I’m sorry. I actually misspoke. What I meant to say was…”
Always stay calm. It is important not to lose your temper. If you do, then the jury might think that you are not credible.
 You will also get to present witnesses. For example, you might want a witness to testify as to why the plaintiff was discriminated against. If an employee claims to have been demoted because of the bankruptcy, you can have a co-worker testify as to how the employee actually cost the company a lot of money.


If you are asking the witnesses questions, then remember not to ask “leading” questions. A leading questions contains its own answer and typically prompts a “yes” or “no” answer.“Did the plaintiff cost the company $5,000?” is a leading question. Instead, use a series of questions:

“Who handled the Acme client account?”
“Do you know how much the account was worth in a year?”
“Is Acme still a client?”
“Why did Acme fire the defendant?”



, In your closing, you should sum up why the evidence shows you are not liable for discriminating against the plaintiff. Be sure to point to specific pieces of evidence the jury heard. They may need to be reminded.


For example, you can say, “Instead of being discriminated against because of the bankruptcy, the plaintiff’s own testimony showed that she deserved to be fired. Remember when she was asked how many days she had shown up late to work? And what was her answer? ‘Every day that month.’ The defendant had more than enough reason to fire the plaintiff without having to discriminate. The bankruptcy had nothing to do with it.”

, The jury will retire to deliberate after the judge reads it the jury instructions. In most state courts, a plaintiff can win even if the jury is not unanimous. If nine or more jurors decide for the plaintiff (out of 12), then you could lose.


In federal court, juries must still be unanimous., You have the option of appealing the decision if you lose. You should discuss this option with an attorney. Appeals are highly complicated and, like summary judgment motions, require the help of a lawyer.

