 In order to build a love that will last an eternity you need the right partner, no surprise there. You will have heard the time-worn saying that opposites attract, well it's true, they also happen to have the worst statistics for break-ups. You want to find someone who you have something in common with, shared interests that start you of with a common bond and give you something to work on. If you don't have any shared interests or common ground, then you will start of your relationship with the temporary bond formed by infatuation. You don't know who you are going to fall in love with, but having an idea of what match can work will give you a better chance for a lasting relationship.;
, You don't just need the right partner, you need to be able to like them as well. Your partner has to be your best friend, the one that you can confide in, turn to, and the one who is always there for you, standing by your side.
 Relationships are built on a foundation of trust. Trust is something that you give freely to your partner, but it is a very fragile thing and if you betray your spouses trust it can take a long time to regain it. If you want your love to last an eternity, then start your relationship as you mean to go on by being totally honest with each other. You need to be totally open and honest with each other which means sharing your feelings and emotions, hopes and dreams. In a loving relationship, although you can have your own private thoughts you do not keep secrets from each other (apart that is for what you are getting them for their Birthday and Christmas). Being open and honest with each other will bring you much closer together. It might feel intrusive at first, but what you get from sharing will more than outweigh any discomfort.
 You have to be able to accept that the fantasy of an ideal romance that you read about in books is not going to happen, so don't waste your life looking for something that does not exist. Accept your partner for who they are, the good bits and the irritating ones, after all, that is the person that you fell in love with. Don't go trying to change your partner into something that they are not, you could drive them away or change them into someone who you do not love. Just as you have to accept your partner you also need to accept your relationship for what it is. Again, trying to change it to fit some fantasy ideal will destroy something that could otherwise have been very special.
 This can be achieved by setting joint goals, where to live, when to start a family, the list is endless. Have a number of goals running at any one time. Every time that you achieve a goal then set a new one. This way you are both working to and looking to the future. It will give your relationship a sense of permanence and continuity.
 If you don't talk to each other, then the next however many years are going to be seriously boring. If you don't talk then you will start to distance yourself from each other, and the longer it goes on the further apart you will go until your reach the stage that your relationship breaks up. Communication connects you, it binds your lives together, it transmits who you are to your partner. Without communication you would know nothing about your partner, their likes and dislike, what they need, when they need help, and when they just need you. If you want your love to last an eternity you have to communicate.
 It's no good being madly in love with someone if you are incapable of communicating your love to them. If they do not know (which you need to demonstrate by word and deed) that you love them then why should they invest any love or emotion in trying to build a relationship with you? The fact that you love and appreciate them needs to be transmitted to them each and every day, for all eternity. Don't just tell them that you love them, words are cheap, show them. Hug them, hold them, hold their hand, touch them, tell them that you love them, leave them cards to find, call them, email them, it doesn't matter what, just let them know. Don't make this a routine thing, it will become meaningless if you do, do it because you want to, and don't do the same all the time, keep it fresh, exciting and interesting.
 You could pursue those shared interests or find new ones, go on dates, find new things to do, new places to see. It's not always easy to find the time, so synchronize schedules. It doesn't have to be anything elaborate, a walk in the park or going for a coffee can do you the world of good.

