 This is where you will begin the sign-up process. Click on Register / Log in to use Apply. There may be two different years to choose from. Make sure you select the year in which you are hoping to start university, unless you are planning to defer your application (take a gap year), when you need to select the year before you plan to start.;
, This is located near the bottom of the new window that has just opened up.



If you are applying through a school, college, careers centre or any other organisation, make sure you know the buzzword. This will have been set up by your school or college, and you need to enter it when you're asked for it, to associate you with your place of study. This is very important when they come to write your reference and it allows your school or college to check your application before you send it off to the universities. They can't change anything on your application, however, so you don't need to worry about sabotage!
If you're not going to a school or college, you can apply to UCAS as an individual. This means you don't need a buzzword.
 When you've completed the form, you should receive an email with a verification link in it. Click on this to finish the process.
 You will be greeted with a welcome page. Make sure you really do write down the Personal ID and keep it in a safe place - it will be very important if you ever have to ring customer services (it happens more often than you might think!)

,


Most of these details are very straightforward, however, one that often causes confusion is Student Support. Most people should select 02 UK, ChI, loM or EU student finance services - this is if you are planning to take out a student loan to pay for your tuition fees. If you select this option, you will have to fill in an additional field to tell UCAS which area your finance arrangements will come from (most likely the place in which you are currently living).
In the Nominated access section, fill in the details of someone you want to be in charge of your university application if you can't be contacted. This could be your parents, although if you are planning to go on holiday during the time in which you will be making decisions on university, make sure it is somebody who will still be at home.
 Again, this is relatively straightforward.
 If you will be applying through Student Finance England, you will probably want to answer "yes" to all of the questions for convenience.
 You can enter up to 5 choices. To do this, go to the Choices section and click on Add a Choice near the top of the page.


To choose your university, click on the see list button to the right of the Institution code box. It's a good idea to always use the see list button where it's available to make sure you enter the correct code.
When it comes to entering your start date, you will probably have the choice of two September start dates: the second one should only be selected if you want to defer your application (take a gap year).
Most people should leave the Point of entry box blank. If you plan to start in the second year of the course for example, consult with the university you're applying to for what to put in this box.
On clicking submit, for some courses such as medicine, you will be asked if you have any criminal convictions. There is plenty of information available on this step, and so it should be fairly self-explanatory.
 This is by far the most complicated of the steps. These tips apply mainly for those taking A Levels.


Find out your GCSE certificates and AS Level results slips. It's best to enter your results directly from these, so that you know you're selecting the right course and grade.
Start by entering your schools and colleges. Go to Add new school/college/centre and enter the relevant details. Make sure you enter the correct finish date, as the form won't allow you to add A Level results that are certified after the date you leave the centre. You can find your centre number at the top of results slips, if you haven't already got it memorized from the countless times you've had to write it at the top of exam papers!
Now enter your GCSEs. Go to Add qualifications and have a look at the list of different qualifications you can add. This list is edited by your school/college, so it should reflect the qualifications you are most likely to have. However, if you can't see your qualification on the list, click on the Other qualifications type option and search for it. The information you need to fill in should be easy enough to find on your certificates.
Add your AS levels. You should already have your results slip, so it's simply a matter of transferring the information again. You can also add unit grades.
Add your A levels. If you don't have the results for these yet, simply select Pending in the grade box. Do this for all the units you are going to take too.
Most people should probably select Below honours degree level qualifications in the box at the bottom of the Education section. Obviously, people who already have a degree should choose another option.
 This section is for paid employment only - voluntary work experience you've done should be written into your personal statement. The information required if you have any paid work experience is fairly self-explanatory.
 This is a big job: see How to Write a Personal Statement for UCAS. It has to be within the limit of 4000 characters (letters and spaces) or 47 lines, whichever is shortest.


It's best to write your statement in a word processor before copying and pasting it into UCAS, because the form doesn't have a spell checker. Keep in mind that the word-processing programs tend to underestimate both the character and line counts, so you may find that it doesn't fit when you paste it in.
Before you click Save, make sure that you read your statement over. If it's slightly too long, UCAS will cut off the last bit to make it fit the character requirements.
 Make sure you double check all of the information you've entered, then select the tick-box at the bottom of each section, before clicking Save.
 This is your last chance to review everything. When you're done, mark it as complete.
 You will have to agree to a few conditions once again, and then it's simply a matter of entering your card details. The cost of submitting your application depends on how many universities you are applying to: for 2013 applications, the fee is £23 for most people or £12 if you're only applying to one university. , Applying to university really is a waiting game. Universities will reply with offers if they want to accept you over a period of time. Good luck, and try not to be too nervous!

