 Exchanging bad habits for healthy ones may seem simple, but it requires willpower, as well as knowledge about what to eliminate and how to replace it. Informing yourself about eating habits can help you more effectively change your bad eating habits.Read about nutrition and eating habits either in magazines or online. For example, the Centers for Disease Control and United States Department of Agriculture provide extensive information on health, nutrition and effecting change in your eating habits.;
, You can’t change bad habits without identifying your current eating patterns. Keeping a detailed food diary can help you figure out your bad and good habits and put you on the path to making changes.Write down everything you eat for two weeks to a month to help give you an overview and make it easier to identify bad habits and patterns.
Include snacks or foods you eat without normally realizing it or in passing.
Note the source of your food. For example, write if you are eating canned fruit versus fresh fruit.
Consider writing down how you feel before and after meals, which may help you identify bad habits and triggers for them.
Make sure to also note good habits in your food diary. For example, "I eat breakfast every morning, even when I'm busy," or "No matter what, I always have a side salad with dinner."

, After a few weeks, you should be able to identify specific habits and patterns of eating. Knowing your bad habits can help you formulate a plan to begin making changes.Some bad habits you might want to note are:


Eating meals too quickly
Eating everything on your plate
Taking multiple helpings of meals
Eating or snacking when you’re not hungry
Eating while standing up, which can make you eat mindlessly or too quickly
Always having appetizers and/or desserts
Skipping meals, especially breakfast, In addition to bad eating habits, you should notice some good habits as well. It's important to know those good habits because they help you see where you're being successful so that you can support and expand those habits. Some examples of good eating habits include the following:

Eating healthy choices such as fresh fruits, vegetables, and lean proteins
Having a healthy breakfast every day
Limiting high calorie snacks
Keeping sugary snacks to a minimum

, When you’ve figured out what your bad habits are, start making a plan to gradually replace them and continue your healthy habits. Include things in your plan like replacing bad foods for healthy alternatives, exercise, and rest.Make sure your plan is gradual so that it is easier to replace bad habits and reinforce good ones.For example, don’t get rid of all snacks in favor of eating nothing. Limit yourself to a couple of healthy snacks a day. Good snacking options include air-popped popcorn, fruit, and string cheese.Incorporate your good eating habits into your plan.
Create your plan around three healthy and nutritious meals and two wholesome snacks a day.Aim to have meals that include foods that meet nutritional needs.For example, eat lean protein, vitamins, and fiber with foods such as lean meats or nuts. Eat fruits and vegetables instead of things like burgers and fries.Be aware of situations that encourage bad habits like mindless snacking and write into your plan how you can avoid them. For example, keep apples or sliced carrots at your desk.Build in one “cheat day” or “cheat meal.” Allowing yourself a little conscious cheating may help you avoid bad habits on other days., If you are unsure of what your bad habits are or have difficulty figuring out good ones, talk to your doctor or a dietitian about your plan to change your diet. They may be able to identify other problem areas and suggest tricks to change and make alternatives to your diet.


Find a registered dietitian through the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics online search tool.Tell your doctor or dietitian about your plans and ask any questions that you may have.
Consider seeing a mental health professional to help you understand your daily habits and to assist you in making behavioral changes.
 Many people have triggers or cues for bad eating habits, such as sitting in front of the TV or getting a bread basket at a restaurant. Avoiding these “cues” or triggers can help you gradually forget and replace your bad habits.Figure out ways to avoid cues and triggers. For example, drive home a different route to avoid stopping for coffee or fast food.Find an alternative if you can’t avoid triggers. For example, keep healthy snacks in your car or chew gum when you drive past fast food restaurants., Your food diary will help you be more aware of your bad eating habits so that you can replace them with healthier options. Part of your plan for change will include replacing these habits with the new strategies you've incorporated into your plan.Come up with sensible alternatives to bad habits. For example, if you feel the need to clean your plate, take smaller amounts of food so that you can finish without feeling guilty or overstuffed.Try eating structured meals at a table, which can keep you from mindlessly eating bad foods.
Eat only when you’re hungry.
If you've started seeing a dietitian or mental health professional, include their recommendations in your plan.
 You’re probably excited to get rid of your bad habits and improve your health, but it’s important to make gradual changes This will help you incorporate many different good habits and stick to them for life. Pushing yourself to change too quickly could result in you getting overwhelmed and giving up. Changing any habit takes time.Try to include at least one healthy habit with each meal. For example, if you typically watch TV while eating, eat at the table instead. If you skip breakfast, try having having a piece of fruit with peanut butter.
Follow the same principle when replacing unhealthy foods with healthier choices. Consider having steamed broccoli with garlic salt instead of broccoli covered in cheese sauce.
Remember that small changes make a big difference over time.
 Planning your meals in advance can minimize the risk of returning to bad habits. Planning also reinforces your good eating habits. It may also ensure that you’re getting enough nutrients.Try and prepare as many of your own meals as possible to avoid cues and triggers.
Plan a healthy breakfast to start your day with healthy habits. Pack a lunch or scope out the menu at restaurants so that you don’t feel tempted to have something that isn't on your plan., Nobody is perfect and sometimes you’ll have a day where you go back to a bad habit. Give yourself a break and let yourself occasionally indulge in a bad habit.


There is some evidence that giving yourself a chance to cheat occasionally can help you stay with healthy habits.Focus on the positive, like that you ate healthy most of the day or haven’t reverted to unhealthy habits in a while., Learn about the basics of good eating and nutrition. This may make it easier to gradually switch out your bad habits and food choices for good ones.


Choose foods from the five food groups at each meal and make sure to vary choices from meal to meal so that you get plenty of nutrients. The five food groups are: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins, and dairy.Eat 1-1.5 cups of fruit daily. Fruits like raspberries, blueberries, or cherries are good choices.Eat 2.5-3 cups of vegetables daily. Broccoli, sweet potatoes, and tomatoes are good choices.Eat 5-8 ounces of grains daily. Half of this amount should be whole grains from foods like brown rice, quinoa, or whole wheat bread.Eat 5-6.5 ounces of protein daily. Lean meats like pork or chicken, cooked beans, eggs, or nuts are good choices.Get 2-3 cups of dairy daily.Cheese, yogurt, and milk are good choices., Remove any foods from your pantry that influence bad eating habits. This can reinforce the gradual changes you are making.


Remove foods that are cues or triggers for you, such as chips, candy, or processed meals.
Donate unused food to a local food bank.
 Buy a selection of healthy choices to restock your pantry. Having mostly or only healthy options can reinforce good habits and help you avoid cues and triggers.


Avoid going overboard with buying food, which can cause some people to revert to overeating. This might require that you shop more often, but may also keep you on track with healthy habits.
Get options like whole wheat pasta, oatmeal, or brown rice so that you can avoid bad eating habits when you’re in a pinch.
Keep herbs and spices to jazz up meals and give flavor to foods you normally find to be bland.
 Eating out can cue bad habits for many people. Learning to make conscious choices can help you enjoy restaurants and visiting with friends or family without going back to bad habits.


Keep your cues and triggers in mind. For example, if fried appetizers are your downfall, simply skip that part of the menu.
Stay away from buffets, which may encourage you to revert to many different bad eating habits like overeating and making unhealthy choices.

