 The clothes you wear can really have an effect on your self-esteem. For example, wearing a superhero costume can boost confidence and make people feel stronger; women perform better on a math test in a sweater than in a swimsuit; and a white coat gives people more “mental agility.”Focus on wearing clothes that make you feel comfortable, such as a nice soft sweater, your favorite jeans, and a suit and tie (or something else professional looking).
Examine your wardrobe and make sure your clothes fit your style. If they don’t, you may need to go shopping! If you dislike shopping in public or don’t know what is in style, consider a service that selects clothes for you and sends them to your house or find an online retailer with an easy free return policy.
Wear colors that you like. Doing so will help boost your mood. If you can’t decide on a color you like, a good go-to color is blue because people general respond positively to it., Find outfits that will look good to you when you look in a mirror because they match your body type or include accessories that show off your good features. There is no perfect body type, but there are good and bad clothes for particular body types. Clothes that fit because they match your type are more likely to look good on you.If you are very skinny, avoid wearing dark colors, such as black, which are slimming. Wear lighter colors instead. Slim women should try to create some curve by belting a flowing dress in the center.Thin men should avoid wearing large or baggy clothing to add the appearance of bulk; dressing in the appropriate size will look better.If you have broad shoulders and narrow hips, avoid scarves with patterns (calling attention to your shoulders), shirts that accentuate your shoulders, and footwear that looks small for your body type, but do wear pants that make your hips look bigger and shoes with wider heels or boots with buckles that call attention to your feet.
If your body is pear-shaped, wear bright colors or patterns on top and dark, solid colors on the bottom and avoid horizontal stripes, particularly on the bottom.If you have a round body type, avoid too much fabric in the middle of your body, belts, and skirts less than knee-length, but do wear details above your bust line and below your hipline.
If you have a curvy body shape, try clothing that is skinny at the waist but flowy at the top and bottom. This will accentuate your curves and downplay your legs a bit., Wearing clothes that fit you at your current weight and height will make you feel better about the way you look, even if the clothes are not the ideal size you want to be.


Special order clothes in sizes that actually fit you. If you are a very tall and skinny man, for example, you may need to order Medium Tall sizes online rather than settling for clothing in the store that is too wide and baggy on you because it is the appropriate length.
Have clothing tailored for length or width to fit you well. Tailors also know tricks like adding darts (folded sections of fabric that create a flattering shape) to clothing to accentuate positive features such as curves.
 Using lipstick well means more than just selecting the right color; it also means taking care of your lips as a part of your overall look by exfoliating (eg, with a mixture of salt and almond oil) and applying balm twice a week. For the lipstick itself, makeup artists recommend the following:Avoid lipstick that shimmers and sparkles because it tends to look cheap
Choose a bright color based on your lip color (eg, pale lips=cherry lipstick, natural=cranberry, and dark lips=burgundy).
Choose a nude color based on your skin tone (choose something slightly brighter or deeper than your skin).
Avoid blue or black based shades, as they tend to make you look older, more severe, and yes, even scarier (think vampire).
Liner is not necessary, but when you use it, pick a color that matches your lips, not the lipstick.
Apply lipstick carefully then smudge the border slightly for a softer effect.
Apply starting in the center and then blend the color towards the corners, careful not to apply directly to the corners of your mouth.
Apply strong lipstick shades to the bottom lip and then press your lips together for a lighter application.
Apply lipstick once, blot your lips on a tissue, and apply again for a longer lasting effect.
 Although makeup is not for everyone, those who use makeup can improve their self-image by becoming more educated on how to use makeup to improve their confidence in their looks. Just as with clothes, the goal is to match your shape (in this case face shape) and direct the eyes to the features you want to accentuate. To determine your face shape, pull your hair back and look in the mirror at your hairline and chin:Heart-shaped faces (broad forehead and pointed chin) should draw focus away from their prominent chin and cheekbones with soft tones on the face and color on the lips.
Rounded faces (forehead and lower face are the same width) should help add definition using makeup on the cheeks and eyes (eg, using smoky eye shadow).
Square faces (Angular jawbone and hairline) should use soft colors on the skin, mouth, and eyes to soften facial features.
Oval faces (forehead and lower face are same width with longer sides) should apply blush with horizontal strokes and define their eyes and lips to reduce the length of their face.
 A great haircut from a stylish salon or respectable barber shop can make you feel more confident about your looks and will give you a more up-to-date, fashionable style. As with makeup, the key to a good hairstyle is to match the shape of your face:Heart-shaped faces should consider bangs and side-parts with chin-length hair that helps to round out the face more.
Round faces should consider a center or slightly off-center part and “face-framing layers” that minimize the fullness and create “a more chiseled illusion.”
Square faces should consider “face-framing layers” and a side-part that draws attention to the cheekbones.
Oval faces should find that most styles work for them as the techniques for other face shapes are meant to make the face look more like oval-shaped faces.
 Looking like you thought about your appearance and are taking care of yourself can boost your confidence and can be achieved with a few simple grooming tips:Keep your nails trimmed and shaped neatly (women and men can benefit from this tip). Be sure your nail beds are clean.
Brush your teeth several times daily, particularly after meals with tooth-gunk potential.
Keep moist wipes and cleansing cloths with you to clean off makeup, sunscreen, and sweat, or just to refresh yourself after a few stressful hours. Make sure to also do a full facial wash every 2 to 3 days to keep your skin clear.
Use an anti-aging moisturizer, sun protector, and concealer (to even out skin tone).
Use your fingers (as opposed to brushes) to apply makeup and get a better feel (literally) for how much makeup you are applying that can lead to a more natural look.
Use press-on nails for a quick manicured look. Even for people who experienced the 80’s, they are more socially acceptable today than you might realize!
Apply a deodorant or antiperspirant regularly.
Use natural oils (eg, avocado, coconut, or almond) to keep your body and hair moisturized.

