 you need at least 2-4 people. The one who invited them should be the GM, or the Game Master (person who runs the game). Let everyone make their characters, you may need to show them through the step, if they are new, then yes. but for you to teach them you have to know, so look on the next step.


To make a character, decide race/class. The race is not needed. classes could be things like warrior, paladin, monk, shadow knight, wizard, priest, ranger, rogue, druid or even summoner. in the tips there will be guides on the classes. after that get some equipment.maybe foam Nerf swords for swords, or "Whack-a-mole" mallets taped to a stick for a hammer, or for spells get balls or Nerf darts to throw, poison could be paint/jelly, random books for spell books, bows and arrows with tape about 3 inches (7.6 cm) thick over the tip.
Come up with some races, like elf, dwarf, human, sprite, goblin, giant, troll, orc, undead, angel, demon and maybe even animal people. Each race should have its own modifiers, like double armor or damage, and also some good skills like fairies might have a heal, but elves may be able to swim and run no problem, as well as double roll for death luck rolls.;
, The GM would have to come up with an adventure, or you could just make it a war game where you all just fight or team up and fight. When you get hit in the arm, put it behind your back, when you get hit in the leg, you can't use that leg, torso/ incredibly light shots to the neck mean death, hard to neck or anywhere else are considered out shots where the hitter is out. After the battle the person could level up. they each get 50 points to divide among their HP and MP. every 10 points means another hit left until death or more spells available. The person could also gain abilities or new spells, or even more weapons or armor.
 After the battle make sure to congratulate everyone, and after someone dies they roll a die, if they can't defeat death, one hit from death and you're done and he uses a gun and god armor but if you roll, a 6 is needed to not lose anything, if not some max hp/mp/ a level/ an item/ a spell is taken, or anything that the GM wants to do.

