 The first, most obvious thing you can do to volumize hair is to use a volumizing shampoo and conditioner. These have a lighter formula than most other shampoos and conditioners, meaning that they won't weigh hair down, causing it to lie flat against the scalp. They will effectively clean and moisturize hair, while also leaving it light and bouncy. There is a volumizing shampoo and conditioner combo available for every budget, from drugstore favorites to fancy salon brands.


When shampooing, use enough product to create a lather. Make sure to massage the shampoo into the scalp, as this will help provide volume once the hair is dry. Rinse your hair thoroughly, then shampoo again if necessary.
Apply conditioner from the mid-lengths of the hair to the tips, using any leftover product near the roots. Applying too much conditioner to the roots may make it look greasy and flat.
While the conditioner is still in your hair, comb out any tangles with a wide-tooth combing, starting at the bottom and working your way up. This will help to prevent breakage, which can make hair look thin.;
, Most shampoos and conditioners contain plastic-type substances such as silicon and polymers which stick to the hair shaft and weigh the hair down, making it flat and lifeless. Clarifying shampoos remove these built-up chemicals and other deposits, making your hair lighter and more voluminous. Most people should use a clarifying shampoo once a week, for best results.


As well as shampoos, hair care products such as mousses, waxes and sprays contain chemicals which build up in the hair, causing it to lose volume. In addition, things like hard water and chlorine from swimming pools can leave deposits in the hair.
People who swim frequently are more likely to have built-up deposits in their hair, so they should use a clarifying shampoo more frequently, perhaps 2 to 3 times a week. People with colored hair should use it less frequently, about twice a month, as clarifying shampoos can also strip color from the hair.
 There are many, many hair volumizing products on the market, some of which are extremely effective. One such product is volumizing mousse, a dollop of which can be worked through wet hair from the roots to the tips to add texture and lift. After applying, you can either allow hair to air dry naturally, scrunching to achieve voluminous waves and curls, or you can blow dry the hair for a sleeker look with added lift.









Other recommended volumizing products are root-lifting sprays or creams. These are worked directly into the roots (from the ears up) before blow-drying.
Some volumizing products can be very drying on the hair, so be careful not to overuse them.
 Using a diffuser attachment on your hair dryer is a great option if you're looking for naturally voluminous curls. A diffuser softens the airflow from the hair dryer, so the hair is not blown straight and flat. Diffuser attachments can be purchased online, or at drug stores and hair salons. The best technique for using a diffuser is as follows:









Allow hair to dry naturally for 15 to 20 minutes after washing, then apply a volumizing mousse from root to tip, as described above.
Turn the hair dryer on, set the air to cool and dry hair upside down, using a scrunching technique.
 Whether you're going for a straight or curly look, drying your hair upside down is a surefire way to add volume. Drying upside down allows gravity to lift the roots of your hair away from the scalp and enables you to brush through your hair without flattening it.









Using a nozzle attachment on the hair dryer, flip your head upside down and roughly dry your hair for 5 to 10 minutes, using your fingers to separate sections of hair and let air through the roots. This gets rid of the excess moisture.
Once hair is semi-dry, switch to using a round, soft-bristled brush to finish drying and add a smooth finish to the hair. If your hair is very thick, you can separate hair into sections before doing this.
 If you don't have time to wash and blow-dry your hair, a quick and easy way to add some volume is by using dry shampoo, in either spray or powder form. Dry shampoos work by soaking up oil in the hair, leaving it feeling clean and fresh, with an extra boost of volume. All you need to do is spray or shake a generous amount of dry shampoo into the roots and massage it in with your fingers.









You may need to use a process of trial and error to find a dry shampoo that works for you, as some products can leave a residue in the hair or can leave hair feeling sticky.
Like many other hair products, dry shampoo can be very drying on the hair so avoid over-relying on this handy product.

