 The most important thing to remember about having a conversation is that it goes both ways. Listen and show compassion to others. If people think they can talk to you about anything, they’ll invite you to hang out more often. Don’t monopolize the conversation. If you ignore people or always talk about yourself, they won’t invite you anymore.


Ask questions. This is a good way to keep a conversation going. It also shows the other person, that you are trying to understand their story or problem.
Offer advice if needed or wanted. Some people just want someone to listen to them. They need to get a load off of their chest. Be the person that listens. Give advice based on personal experience.
 Focus on the positive aspects of your life, what you are looking forward to, or what you want to do. We all know that misery loves company, but if you are miserable all the time, others won’t want to hang out with you.


If you catch yourself saying something negative, try to counter your comment with two positive comments.
Try to cheer up the people around you. It will show them that you are compassionate and will generally leave them with the impression that you are a good, fun person.
Being positive is a goal as much as it’s an instruction here. Trying to be positive can have an effect on your own mood and quality of life. If you’ve had a terrible day, you can talk about it with people around you, but don’t dwell. Be positive that things will improve. Being positive helps to reduce stress, depression, and even blood pressure., Your body needs to match your persona. You can pretend to be cool, say interesting things, and be confident, but if you body screams the opposite, people won’t want to hang out with you.


Open your stance up. Don’t close yourself off by crossing your arms or hunching over. You want your body to tell people that you welcome their approach.
Lean forward. Psychologists explain that leaning forward during a conversation indicates interest. People will think you are more fun to hang out with if you show interest in what they have to say. Lean slightly forward over a table when a friend is talking to you.Make eye contact. This is another sure-fire way to tell someone you’re listening to them.With all of these body language principles, don’t overdo them. Opening up your body to ridiculous lengths (like walking around with your arms and legs spread out as far as they can go), leaning too far forward, and refusing to break eye contact, can be incredibly off-putting.
 Be confident in your humor. Embrace bad jokes and good ones. If a joke doesn’t get any laughs, just move on with the conversation. Don’t make it awkward.Don’t be afraid to tell a corny joke or make a silly pun. Insert impressions when it fits the conversation. Do your best (or worst) impression of someone you all know, whether it’s a teacher or a coworker. Make comical references to popular movies or television shows.Don’t be afraid of playing the fool, if you are comfortable with it. Dance like a complete fool, pretending like you think you’re the best dancer ever. Wear a ridiculous outfit, or a graphic tee with a silly message.
 Even if you don't feel like smiling, putting on a grin radiates approachability, positivity, and friendliness.But looking the part of a fun is half the battle, and it's not even really much of a battle because once you get the hang of it, smiling just becomes a reflex, and an attractive one at that.:)


Of course, don't overdo it and be annoying. You don’t want to make people uncomfortable.

