 A lot of the time squinting is caused by the amount of light we are taking in. If you are able, adjust the brightness settings of available light sources. For example, change the type of bulb in your office or home to a lower wattage.


It may be difficult to change the lighting in your office so it is best to consult your immediate supervisor or the Human Resources Department before attempting to make any changes yourself.
If you are squinting when reading an electronic device, check the settings if it is possible to adjust the brightness settings. For example, televisions and mobile phones can easily be adjusted within the settings menu.
 The most common reason for squinting is due to the brightness of the sunshine. If you are squinting outside on a bright sunny day, a pair of quality sunglasses may solve or reduce the problem. Research what brands offer as some brands focus on fashion while others on function.


Make sure the glasses block at least 99% of ultraviolet (UV) rays.
Budget how much you are willing to spend on sunglasses as some can reach upwards of $500. If you are liable to lose them, think about choosing a pair of sunglasses that fit within your means.
If you are more active, choose a pair of sunglasses that won’t fly off your face easily. You can also purchase accessories to keep them in place or to turn your everyday glasses into sunglasses by simply clipping onto the frame.
 The brim of a hat or visor provides temporary shade by cutting the amount of light entering into your eyes. Choose a hat or visor that’s comfortable and suits your style. A baggy hat may fly off when windy; in contrast, a hat that is too small may cut off circulation and cause you discomfort.


Many hats can be adjusted or come in different sizes. Make sure you choose one right for your head shape.
Some athletic hats are made of breathable material that wicks sweat away from the body, which may be a wise choice for humid climates or if you are prone to sweating a lot.
 Many individuals who play sports outdoors or under bright stadium lights use eye black to reduce glare. Apply black strips or black grease underneath each eye to help reduce squinting. Be careful when using grease and make sure not to let it stain clothes or furniture as it may be hard to clean.Football players and baseball players famously apply this under their eyes so watch a game or research pictures for the correct way to apply eye black.

