 Unfortunately there are a lot of odd myths out there about how breasts develop and whether you have any control over their size. In general, you have no control over when your breasts develop, or what size they’ll end up being. There are no exercises you can do to make your breasts turn out larger or smaller. Breasts are made most of fatty tissue and milk ducts, not muscle. Sleeping on your stomach will not impact your breasts in any way (although if they’re tender, this might be uncomfortable).There is also nothing that a bra can do to make your breasts larger or smaller, even if you wear it at night while you sleep (which is not needed)., Developing breasts isn’t something you’re able to hide, for too long. Chances are people other than yourself will eventually notice. You may feel stressed and unsure about these changes and what other people will think of you. These feelings are perfectly normal.Try not to compare yourself to girls you see on TV or the internet, there is no reason you have to look like anyone other than yourself. Don’t compare yourself to advertisements. The models in these ads are unrealistic, and most have been photoshopped. You don’t need to look like anyone other than yourself.
Remember that you are beautiful, no matter what. And yes, real beauty comes from the inside! If you need to, remind yourself of these things every day.
These feelings are normal, so don’t be upset that you feel them. However, even if you’re on an emotional rollercoaster, try not to allow it to affect your health. Eat properly, get plenty of sleep, and exercise regularly. If you’re unable to do one or more of these things, talk to your parents, teacher, school counsellor/nurse, or doctor as soon as you can.
 The age that you go through puberty is usually also an age when you’re becoming aware of how you look and how you fit in. When you body starts to change in all sorts of weird ways, it adds to your stress about what’s normal and what’s not. You parents may at times forget what it was like to be you age and experience all these changes and pressures. This is your chance to remind them, if they haven’t already figured it out. Tell them that what you’re going through isn’t funny and jokes should not be made. At school you may experience other students saying mean things about how you look, or making rude comments about the body parts that are changing. Keep in mind that most of the kids who make these types of comments are insecure themselves, and they’re making these comments out of jealousy and fear.Find a worthwhile role model. Maybe your role model is an older sister, or aunt, or favorite teacher. Someone who doesn’t follow the so-called stereotypes, but want to simply be themselves.
 Larger breasts can potentially lead to neck pain. However, it’s not a direct cause and effect situation. It’s not the physical size of your breasts that may cause neck pain, but rather the subconscious things you’re doing because of your breast size that are causing the problem. For example, if your embarrassed about your breasts, you might tend to slouch. And it’s the slouching and bad posture that can lead to neck pain. Sometimes the slouching posture isn’t due to lack of confidence, but to the actual weight of your breasts. If you have large, heavy breasts it can cause you to slump forwards, which in turn causes your neck and back muscles to become painful and can even put your spine out of alignment. Finally, the wrong bra can cause all sorts of problems. If you’re wearing a bra whose straps are digging into your shoulder, it might be causing you to crunch of your neck and shoulders together. This bad posture in turn leads to back and neck pain.Being happy with your breasts will likely make your present yourself with better posture because of your confidence.
Getting a better fitting bra could potentially solve some of these problems.
Getting large breast implants can actually create some of these problems. It is one of the many things you should consider before deciding to get large breasts via surgery.
 If your breasts have gotten bigger because you’ve gained weight, you may want to consider losing the weight again. Women who gained 30-40 pounds after the age of 18, but before menopause, were 40% more likely to develop breast cancer after menopause. The reason weight gain increases breast cancer risk is because of the increased estrogen hormones present in your body due to the excess fat. Weight gain is also normally related to lack of activity, and lack of activity can also increase your risk of breast cancer.The best way to eliminate this risk is to lose weight before menopause, or immediately after menopause has started.
To help reduce your breast cancer risk, and help you lose weight, consider doing moderate to vigorous exercise for 45-60 minutes 5 days a week.
 Larger breasts (or uneven breasts) can actually cause some women to experience mental health problems like low self-esteem or eating disorders. A woman’s self image of her breasts can have a huge effect on her self-confidence. Unfortunately there is no physical side effect associated with many of these breast issues, which is why surgery to correct many of these problems are not covered by insurance. But many surgeons have seen a remarkable mental health change in women who have had various breast problems fixed by surgery.If you’re experiencing issues with your breasts that are leading to mental health issues, but not physical issues, they are not less important, and you may wish to consider investigating what surgical options are available to you.
 Breast pain, also known as mastalgia, is actually quite common for all women, regardless of breast size. It can include tenderness, burning sensations, or tightness. It can be relatively mild, or it can be downright torturous. Thankfully most breast pain is not an indicator of any major problems like breast cancer.Most breast pain is caused by hormone levels, the structure and traumatic history of your breasts (e.g. previous breast surgery, etc.), certain medications (e.g. oral contraceptives, fertility treatments, hormone therapy, antidepressants, etc.), and breast size.If you’re experiencing any breast pain that you are concerned about, see your doctor. They can perform a breast exam and consider doing mammograms or ultrasounds to investigate further.Possibly treatments can include: topical anti-inflammatory medication, changes to hormone therapy levels, prescription medications, reduction of medications that are causing the problem, hot/cold compresses, reduced caffeine intake, low-fat diet, etc.