 Decide whether you want a dog that simply a non-mixed breed, or if you want a dog with verifiable champion bloodlines. If you are simply looking to get a dog with the personality traits of a specific breed, you may not need to look for a dog with a champion or otherwise prestigious bloodlines. This is generally something that matters most to people looking to take their dogs to show.Look at websites for local shelters and rescues to get an idea of what kind of dogs are available. See if there are any with personality profiles that match what you want in a new dog.;
, Finding the right breed of dog depends largely upon your physical environment, as well as your lifestyle. A large, active dog might not get enough stimulation or activity in a downtown apartment with an owner who is gone 8 hours a day. Likewise, a small, nervous dog might be uncomfortable or unsafe in large spaces.Use online resources, breed guide books, and dog magazines to help you figure out what kind of dog is right for the amount of space you have and the activity levels you can offer.
Contact a breeder or a breed rescue for the breeds in which you are interested to learn more about what it takes to care for that particular breed of dog.
 On top of your living conditions, consider common needs for different breeds of dogs. Certain breeds, such as Pomeranians, may need more regular grooming. Many breeds are also prone to different types of medical problems. Small dogs, for example, often have hip problems while larger dogs are often prone to early arthritis.Consider both the monetary cost and level of commitment involved in caring for a breed’s specific needs. Will you have time to brush their coat out once a week? Will you have the resources to keep them on daily medication when they get older?
Ask a breeder or a vet about breed-specific needs. They can give you an idea of what is typically necessary to keep that breed happy and healthy throughout their life.
 Once you know what breed of dog is right for you, start by looking for a breed rescue. These types of rescues specialize in taking in and rehoming dogs of one specific breed. Search to see if there is a breed rescue in your area.Check with further away rescues if there is not a rescue for your intended breen near you. Some rescues are willing to work with people from outside their home area, provided the adopters can come in-person to pick up and safely transport the dog.
If you decide to work with a breed rescue, ask the rescue staff for tips and instructions to help you care for your new dog. They are likely very experienced with that breed, and may be able to provide you with valuable information.
 Check with your local Humane Society and other animal shelters to see if they have any dogs available from the breed you want. Shelters often have common dog breeds such as Shih Tzus, Labs, Retrievers, Beagles, Boxers, Pit Bulls, and others.If your shelter does not have the breed you desire, ask to be placed on their notification list. This allows them to notify you if someone brings in a dog matching the breed you want.
Understand that shelters are not like breeders. There is no guarantee that they will get the type of dog you are looking for. Know, however, that adopting from a shelter is just as good as adopting from a breeder, and gives an abandoned dog a second chance at a happy, permanent home.
 There are many websites that allow owners, breeders, and rescues looking to rehome animals to post listings for adoption. Check websites such as MuttShackor PetFinderto look for breed-specific listings near you.


Online listings allow you to look at multiple shelters at once, and also allow you to see rehoming adds for current owners who can no longer keep their pets.
 If rescue or shelter adoption is, for whatever reason, truly not feasible or acceptable, consider working with an ethical, reputable breeder. Check your breeder’s background and meet with them before you adopt to ensure that you are getting a healthy puppy from a happy and well-cared-for mother.The breeder’s facilities should be clean and all dogs should be healthy, clean, and free of parasites.
A good breeder will screen breeding stock for common health problems before breeding and will be happy to share that information with you. DNA tests should have been done on both parents. Ask for proof that these screening tests have been performed before you adopt.
When you find a breeder you want, wait for a litter to become available.
A good breeder will require a sales agreement that clearly spells out the obligations expected from all parties with respect to the dog. The breeder should also be able to suggest books, grooming equipment, pet care supplies, and more for the care of your future pet.
 Whether you are working with a rescue or a breeder, you will likely need to fill out paperwork for you to be able to take your new pet home. Once you have found the dog you want, request the adoption paperwork so that you can begin the process of bringing your new pet home.


With a shelter or rescue, you will likely have to fill out an adoption agreement form. Using a breeder, you will probably have to agree to a certain contract specifying the breeder’s obligations as well as your as the time of adoption.
 A rescue will have a rehoming fee that covers the care for the dog while at the shelter, as well as vet fees such as spaying or neutering, deworming, vaccines, and any other care. Breeders most often sell their puppies for a profit rather than charging a rehoming fee.


Rehoming fees will vary greatly depending upon where you live, the shelter, and what kind of care the dog has received. Many people pay between $75 and $300 to adopt a dog from a shelter.Breeders set their prices at their discretion, and thus they can vary greatly. However, adopting from a breeder is almost always more expensive than adopting from a shelter, and quality breeders often charge multiple thousands of dollars for their puppies., Before you bring your new dog home, make sure your house is ready to handle your new pet. This means securing all areas you don’t want the dog to access, moving any potentially dangerous objects or products, such as household cleaners, to an area the dog cannot reach, and ensuring your house is stocked with necessary dog care items including:Age-appropriate dog food
Food and water dishes
A collar or harness
A leash
ID tags for your new pet
A crate or carrier
A dog bed
Dog toys
Preventative medicines such as heartworm prevention and flea and tick prevention
Weather-appropriate wear such as a jacket or boots if you live in a cold climate.
 Your adoption paperwork will likely require you have a vet picked out before you ever adopt the dog, but even if it doesn’t it is a good idea to find a vet who is taking new patients before you adopt. This way, you know from the second you bring your new dog home that you are prepared.Call around or search online to see if there is a vet in your area with experience caring for your new breed of dog.
When you find a ve you like, ask them, “I am adopting a dog and I am calling to see if you are taking on new patients right now?” If they are, ask to be added to their new patient list and get an appointment scheduled to bring your new pet in quickly after adoption.
 Once you get the approval of your shelter or your breeder, bring your dog home. Take the day off, if necessary, and spend it at home with your new companion. Use that first day home to allow the pet to get to know you and familiarize itself with its new surroundings.If you are adopting from a breeder, look to pick up your new puppy at or after eight weeks of age. Puppies separated from their mother before this may be fearful or could have some developmental complications.
Get your dog into the vet as soon as possible after adopting. This will allow your vet to meet your new pet, and make recommendations for care based off the dog’s current condition as well as likely future needs.
 If you want your dog to have purebred papers, you will need to register them. Do some research on the various kennel clubs that exist in your area. Find out how they register dogs and set guidelines for dog breeds. Make sure you have any necessary paperwork before you attempt to register.Some kennel clubs, such as the AKC, are controversial for their rigid and over-controlling restrictions on both dogs and their owners, so remember to shop around to find what's right for you., Ask your vet, breeder, or rescue to suggest a facility or trainer. Look for programs catering to your pet’s special needs, such as puppy training or rescued pet training. Enroll in a class early to not only help your pet learn good behavior, but to allow the two of you to bond.Remember that successful training takes consistency. Practice your training behaviors at home in between classes for lasting results.
 Once you bring your new dog home, it is important to take time every day to ensure that they are getting enough food, water, activity, and socialization. Set aside time every day to care for and play with your new dog so that you can build a loving environment it will feel safe in for the rest of its life.If you live with other people, rotate responsibilities such as walking the dog so that they can get comfortable with all members of the household.
Understand that adopting a dog is a long-term commitment that takes care and work every day. Do not adopt if you do not think you can properly provide for your new pet for what could be upwards of 20 years.

