 You’re going to need lots of balloons and flowers for this project. Go to your local party supply and purchase balloons in bulk that you can blow up yourself. For the flowers, check with your area discount grocery store on fresh flower prices and purchase a variety of 3 to 6 bunches.


If your budget doesn't allow fresh flowers, use silk ones.
 Obtain some chicken wire netting at your local hardware or farm-and-feed store. Measure out how large you want your floral balloon backdrop. Most chicken wire is sold rolled up very long and 2 feet (0.61 m) tall. Unroll anywhere between 2 feet (0.61 m) to 4 feet (1.2 m) and cut the netting with wire cutters forming a square or rectangle., Since chicken wire comes rolled up, you will want to flatten it by firmly pressing the wires down with your hands. Make a work-space to keep it flat by using thumb tacks on an area of wall you don’t mind having tack marks. Keeping the wire spread out will make it easier to work with.
 Save your breath and blow all the balloons for this project up with a balloon pump or air compressor. Any party supply store should sell a hand held balloon pump in addition to balloons. Blow balloons up to different large, medium and small sizes to entirely cover the netting and fill in any gaps., You will be interspersing flowers throughout the balloons attached to the wire netting, so the right flower length is important. Trim flowers stems down to 7 inches (18 cm) and 9 inches (23 cm) in length. Remove any unwanted leaves., Clear packing tape is durable and sticky enough to hold your balloons onto the wire easily. Place the tied ends of your balloons onto the wire and tape the balloon tails onto it. Attach the largest balloons first and fill in gaps with ones in decreasing sizes.
 Just in case your balloons want to flop around and not cooperate, use Elmer’s glue to hold them up. Use a drop or two on each side of the balloons you want to glue and hold the sides together for about 30 seconds.
 Since you’ll be taking pictures in front of your floral balloon, hang it on the wall slightly above eye level using a self-adhesive disposable hook. Measure about 5 feet (1.5 m) from the ground and hang the center of your balloon netting from the hook. The arrangement will be light enough to use a hook option that doesn’t damage the wall and will work great at venues where you can’t drill holes., Bring the balloons to life by placing your trimmed flowers all around them. Insert the stems of flowers between the balloons and past the wire netting. Use different types of flowers and plants, like roses, baby's breath and eucalyptus.

