 The size of a company is the biggest factor in determining whether a company should choose a corporate form over another type of business entity. While corporations are often subject to lower income tax rates than other business forms, income tax is one of several considerations to take into account before incorporating. The other costs of incorporation can be substantial.


A corporation will need to pay a filing fee with the Secretary of State’s office in their state. This can cost $100-$250.A corporation will need to pay franchise taxes, which is a tax for the privilege of doing business in a particular state. These usually cost upwards of $800.
A corporation will also have to pay additional filing fees, depending on type of business, how many shares of stock they hold, or which state they incorporate in.
This is to say nothing of attorney’s fees. If any attorney writes up your articles of incorporation, they may charge hundreds or thousands of dollars.
In contrast, it will typically cost less than $1000 (and often substantially less) to form an LLC, or limited liability company.;
, Since a corporation’s most distinguishable feature is the limitation of personal liability for shareholders, this is another important consideration.A business that engages in inherently contentious or dangerous activities might benefit from the corporate form more than another business form.For example, businesses like debt collection, bail bonding, mining, or manufacturing dangerous substances carry a high risk of liability due to aggressive or dangerous business practices. The owner of a hot dog cart won’t face the same risk of liability, so a corporate form might not be as beneficial for them as it would for other businesses.
In some states, an LLC will have equal liability protection to a corporation. In other states, the protection will not be quite as substantial., Corporations generally have an easier time raising capital than other types of businesses. Since LLC's can't issue stock, it's more difficult for them to raise large amounts of capital quickly. For instance:A corporation can raise capital through the sale of stock. Since the corporation exists until it is dissolved, shares of a corporation are a more attractive product than other forms of equity, because the shareholders can always fire the management if they don’t like the way the company is run.
By cutting dividends to shareholders. The corporation can reduce the share of profits they pay to shareholders for a period of time.
Since a corporation can exist until it is dissolved, they usually find it easier to get credit than other types of businesses. This is because the corporation itself serves as collateral., Since corporations are more permanent and can often raise more money more easily than other forms, they can often inspire more public confidence than other types of businesses.This consideration is highly specific to each business. Many businesses only interact with the general public sparingly, if at all.
 While the US has innovated in the types of business forms available to entrepreneurs in recent years, the trend has not reached every nation. Some countries do not recognize business forms such as LLCs, but practically all of them recognize corporations. If your business engages in international commerce on a frequent basis, a corporation might be the right business form for you., Since corporations exist in perpetuity, they are the business form of choice if you want to pass your business along to any heirs. In many states, LLCs end when one of the owners leaves the LLC., The two types of corporations, S-Corporations and C-Corporations, mostly differ from one another in how they are taxed and structured.


S-Corporations are often the format of choice for medium and smaller businesses.S-Corporations are “pass through” entities, meaning the profits from the corporation are passed through the corporation and directly to the ownership.The owners only pay personal income tax, and not corporate income tax, avoiding double taxation.It is typically advantageous for larger businesses to incorporate as C-Corporations. Profits of a C-Corporation are taxed as corporate income, which is taxed at a lower rate than personal income.Then, when profits are distributed to shareholders, the shareholders must also pay individual income taxes on the money. Thus, they are doubly taxed. Nonetheless, if a business’ profits were very high, the double taxation might be worth it.
 C-corporations don’t have ownership restrictions, which makes them better for businesses with a high growth potential.


S-Corporations are only allowed to have 100 shares of stock that confer no voting rights on the shareholders. S-Corporations also cannot be owned by LLCs, trusts, or other corporations.A C-Corporation has none of those restrictions. They may issue as many shares as they like, which may confer voting rights or not, and corporations, LLCs, and trusts can all buy shares. Therefore, if you would like to publicly trade your corporation, issue shares to raise capital, or simply sell off your corporation, a C-Corporation is the better choice., Due to their larger size, C-Corporations are usually subject to more state and federal regulation than an S-Corporation is.If your C-Corporation is publicly traded, then it will be subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For reasons that are unclear, S-Corporations are substantially less likely to face audit by the IRS—by a margin of about 7%.Remember, the costs of regulation are not just the costs of complying with the regulation itself, but also in man-hours and employees to deal with the regulations, like attorneys and accountants.
 If you only plan on selling your business off one day, a C-Corporation is probably the best option for you. However, if you want to pass the business onto heirs, then the S-Corporation might be the best choice.Since shares of a C-Corporation are more easily sold, and often come with voting rights, it can be much easier for ownership of the corporation to slip away from the founder of the business. For instance, dissatisfied shareholders might force the removal of the founder as CEO.
 Many business owners assume incorporating in a corporate-friendly jurisdiction outside their home state is always the smartest and most cost effective option. This is not always the case.Many states make companies incorporated outside their borders “foreign qualify.”That means that the new state notifies the state of incorporation of the company’s activities. It also means paperwork and fees in the state where you plan to foreign qualify, plus taxation in both states. If you do little or no business in other states, it might be better for you to incorporate in your home state.
 Some states have legal systems which are more friendly to corporations than other states. If you feel that your business carries a high risk of legal battles, it may be best to incorporate in a friendlier state.Delaware, in particular, has a legal system which is friendly to corporations. In Delaware, business issues are litigated in Chancery Court, which is solely devoted to business law, and all findings of fact and law are decided by judges, with no role for juries. Furthermore, Delaware’s Secretary of State’s office stays open till midnight, and files paperwork extremely quickly—within twenty four hours.Nevada has statutes which are friendly to corporations, but less developed case law compared to Delaware, and no Chancery Courts., The states have escalating filing fees based on the number of shares a company has. However, some states have friendlier fee scales than others.For example, the maximum filing fee in Delaware is just $ 2,274—for a company with capital of over $20,000,000!Many states also tax corporate shares. Delaware, Nevada, and Wyoming do not.
 If you have a complex corporate structure, you should consider incorporating in Delaware, as more than 60% of Fortune 500 companies do.Taxation is extremely favorable for companies that have many different classes of stock.

