 Contractors must structure their own time, which is different from the set schedule of a nine-to-five job. Here's how to start tailoring your time to your tasks:


Block out time on your calendar for completion of each task.
Allot time for administrative tasks, such as invoicing and marketing.
Schedule time off for lunch or a short walk, to avoid working without breaks.
If you are charging by the hour, make sure you stay focused when working and try not to multitask.
 If you do your work from home, it can be tempting to just work in bed all day. Don't do it! You will be more effective and organized if you develop a routine and set aside a room or desk just for work.


Make sure your workspace is in a room where you can get away from the bustle and noise of pets and kids. Don't let your work materials spill out onto the kitchen counters or dining table if you can help it.
Keep your business documents organized and in one place, like a filing cabinet or, if necessary, a document safe. Back up important files on your computer.
Set "office" hours and stick to them. This is important if you want to maintain work-life balance.
 Unlike a salaried job where taxes are deducted from your paycheck, as a contractor you pay self-employment taxes yourself. Understanding your tax liability is important for paying the right amount of tax on time.


The IRS requires self-employed individuals to file an annual return and pay estimated taxes quarterly.Save your receipts from business expenses—they're tax deductible. Don't forget to keep them organized, preferably with a regularly-updated spreadsheet. You don't want to be stuck sorting through half-remembered receipts whenever tax time rolls around.
You may need to collect sales tax. To do this, register with your state’s department of taxation., You will need to do this to accurately file your taxes, but keeping track of your income and expenditures is also key to managing your personal finances and making strategic decisions about your business.


Maintain a spreadsheet of all your clients and projects. Review this data occasionally and decide if you should change your prices or find ways to cut expenses.
 Most companies do more than just pay their full-time employees: they help them buy medical and dental insurance or save for retirement. If you are self-employed, you will have to take care of these necessities on your own.


Organizations like the Freelancer's Union can offer contractors group-negotiated benefits in some states.
Having proper insurance is especially important if you work in construction, carpentry or another physical labor profession. If there is an accident, you don't want to go bankrupt.

