 The dictionary definition of heterosexual is a person who is sexually attracted to people of the opposite sex. Most people identify as straight. This doesn’t mean that this is normal, it just means it’s more common in our society. Being heterosexual means that you feel romantically or sexually attracted to members of the opposite sex only.;
, Being gay means being sexually attracted to people of the same sex. Although the word ‘gay’ can be used by lesbians to describe themselves, it is more commonly used to describe men who are attracted to other men only. This basically means that while a man or woman may find someone of the opposite sex attractive, the thought of a romantic or sexual relationship with the other gender is not desired.
 This can be used by any gender and is a person who is attracted to two (or for some it can be more) genders. Most bisexual people started off identifying as straight and then felt an attraction to another gender too, before finally decided that they weren’t confused but in fact bisexual. .
 Although being transgender doesn’t necessarily influence your sexuality, it is the ‘T’ in ‘LGBTQA’ and means someone who feels like they were assigned a different gender at birth than they actually are. For example, someone who was assigned female or male (meaning the doctor said "it's a girl!" at birth) who is actually male or female would be transgender.


Other transgender identities include neutrois (neutral gender), agender (no gender), polygender (many genders), bigender (two genders), two-spirit, genderqueer, etc. These labels are collectively called 'non-binary' genders.
 If a person identifies as questioning, it means that they are unsure of their spot on the sexuality/gender spectrum. As the term ‘questioning’ suggests, it is where you start to question whether or not you are heterosexual or cisgender (meaning not transgender).
 Asexuality is physically not feeling sexually attracted to anyone. They are capable of having sexual relationships, but generally don't feel the need to.


This is not by choice, as that is defined as celibacy. Some asexuals may have had their sexuality influenced by trauma, but that doesn't make them unworthy of validation.
 Polysexuality is a term for being attracted to some (but not all) genders (and is separate from polyamory), while pansexuality is being attracted to all genders. These terms are especially helpful in that they can be used to include non-binary transgender people.
 This is a very large decision and may take a good preparation period, but it will often end well and make you feel more confident about your sexuality.
 If you ask a person a question such as “What do you think about gay people?” or the like, without sounding at all suspicious, you can get an idea of whether the person is homophobic/transphobic or not. If the person says that they hate gay people, or make an offensive comment, that person may not be the best person to tell. If the person is supportive or as good as, then you can probably trust this person with your secret.
 It's a good idea to be in a private area while coming out so that only the person(s) you wish to address hear. Make sure you’re in an environment that is quiet and private and, if necessary, you could make a quick get away from. Not everyone will react in the way that you want them to, but simply keep in mind that you know that you are making the best decision for yourself.
 If you just blurt it out, you will shock that person. Inevitably, it’s going to be a surprise, but if you gently introduce your secret, this will be much kinder of you and allow the person to soak this newly-introduced trait in.
 This way, your audience can compose themselves and be prepared for a big announcement. Again, you don't want to drop this out of nowhere - it's large news.
 You could tell them that you have something private to tell them and you don’t want them to freak out. Get them to sit around a table, or in the same room, before announcing it. This saves you having to repeat yourself over and over. It reduces your stress and it means that you don’t have to watch their shocked reactions individually.
 You'll want to tell your audience that you have no desire to be questioned and that you have taken this issue into mind for a good amount of time. There’s nothing worse than a whole load of questions, especially if you’ve only just come to terms with it.
 If someone you hate gets a hold of this information, it is possible you could be verbally abused for your decision. This is how bullying starts, and once the information is out there, there’s no getting it back. Be careful who you trust and how much information you give out.
 This is fairly inevitable, but keep your confidence. You know that you have made the best decision for yourself.
 If people are calling you names and making snide comments, then it can be hard to argue back, especially if you are shy in personality. If you need to defend yourself, avoid attacking the other person as well. Instead, try ignoring the person, saying that you don't care, or responding with the "I", rather than "You". This means saying something along the lines of "I don't like it when you call me that," rather than "You should stop calling me that."

, When it is physical, it immediately becomes more serious. Physical harm to you is assault, and it is absolutely not something you should have to deal with. If someone is hurting you, tell someone that you trust, such as a boss, teacher, parent, or if the bullying gets very serious, the police. Only address the police if you have severe threats or if you are being seriously injured and/or hospitalized. Stay around people you trust, since bullies tend to prefer private, and keep an eye out for vandals to your property - you can use it as proof of bullying.
 This is the most cowardly type of bullying, since bullies hide behind a screen, and it still hurts. If someone is being rude to you online because of your sexuality, then it can seem like there’s no way out of it, especially if it’s someone you don’t know. If you can, report or block the bully or bullies through the website's system. If you are threatened, tell the police immediately, along with a screenshot or a link to the place where you were threatened.

