 Fall brings with it a busy schedule, with the start of school and multiple holidays. You may find that you are skipping out on some of your sleep to try to keep up. However, not getting enough sleep will only make you crankier and more stressed, plus it can make it harder to avoid weight gain.Make sure you're getting the recommended 7 to 8 hours of sleep a night.
If you have trouble going to bed on time, try setting a bedtime alarm an hour before you need to be in bed. Turn off all electronics at that time to help ready your brain for sleep.
 When you feel yourself getting stressed, try to employ a relaxation technique to calm yourself down. For instance, you could try a visualization technique, meditation, or a deep breathing technique.For a visualization technique, take a moment to close your eyes. Think about one of your favorite places. It can be a place you went on vacation or your childhood home, for example. Imagine yourself there. Don't just use visual cues. Employ all your senses. Think about how it feels, the sun or wind on your skin. What do you smell in the air? What do you hear? Spend a few minutes visualizing to help yourself relax.
 During the fall, your schedule can become packed. It can be hard to say no when someone just wants you to come over for a little fun. However, you still need room to breathe, so make some time for yourself. You don't have to give a reason why you're saying no. You can simply say, "Sorry, I can't attend.", Sometimes, the holidays are not always a happy time, for a variety of reasons. Maybe you've lost a loved one recently, or maybe you just don't like the stress that comes with this time of year. The important thing is to focus on the good parts of the holidays, by making time to be with the people you love.Realize that some of your traditions will change over time, and that's okay. It's important to adapt as your friends and family change.
Make time for community. Go be with your friends, or go to community events at churches or community centers. If you're feeling sad, invite your family over for a impromptu meal. The holiday season should be a time to spend with those you love, and reaching out will make you feel better.
Take time to remember. If you're feeling sad about the loss of a loved one, it's good to take the time to actually feel that sadness and remember the person who's gone. Try bringing it up when your family or friends get together, as they'll likely want to spend some time remembering, too, even if it is bittersweet.

