 If you are a student, you do not want to confront your teacher on your own. If you talk to your teacher about her attitude when you're angry, she might get hurt. If she's already yelling in class, this can make the situation worse. If the problems warrant reporting, you should have your parents handle it., If you've raised your concerns with your child's teacher and nothing has changed, it's time to go to a higher authority. Contact the school's principal and make an appointment.


You should only take this step in extreme situations. Even if your child does not like his teacher, chances are he'll survive the experience. You can take this as a learning opportunity. You can teach your child that life is harsh and unfair sometimes, but you have to learn to cope.However, in certain situations it's important to report the problem. If you're teacher is yelling at students and using name-calling or derogatory language, this is a form of bullying. It's inappropriate and could turn your child and other students off of school altogether. A problem like this should be reported., As with your initial discussion with your child's teacher, it's vital to stay calm. You want the principal to understand what's happening is a problem. If you get angry or emotional, the principal may be less inclined to believe your side of the story.


It may help to recruit other parents. If this teacher is a problem in general, having others to back you up can help. The principal will see it's not just a problem with your student.
Be firm. For a variety of reasons, your principal may be hesitant to handle the situation. You need to make it clear that you'll continue to raise concerns until the problem is resolved. Explain, firmly, that you're worried about other students in addition to your own child., School officials are often very hesitant to transfer students to different classes. If a situation is not changing and causing your child distress, however, it may be the best option. Your child may do better in a different classroom where his teacher respects him more.