 If you are making a homemade savory pie, cook all meats, vegetables, and other ingredients for the filling as if you intend to bake the pie immediately after. In other words, don’t freeze uncooked or undercooked filling ingredients and expect them to cook through in the oven later.Uncooked or undercooked meats could pose a serious health hazard.
 This is one of the many elements of frozen pie baking in which you can easily find a wide range of opinions. Your best bet is probably to try the different methods and see which works for you.


Some cooks recommend cooking the filling and freezing it and the (unrolled) pie crust separately in labeled freezer bags. In this case, you would allow each element to thaw to the point to which you could assemble the pie.Others, however, prefer the method of assembling the pie then freezing it whole. That way, you can pop it straight from the freezer into the oven. In this instance, don’t freeze the pie in a glass dish (it could shatter in the oven).
 Not surprisingly, a frozen pie will take a bit longer to cook through than an unfrozen one. You may also find that you need to reduce the temperature a little so that the edges don’t burn before the center cooks through.


For example, one pot pie recipe recommends baking unfrozen at 400 Fahrenheit (200 Celsius) for about 30 minutes, and frozen at 375 F (190 C) for up to 45 minutes.If you’re concerned about not getting good browning on the bottom crust, start out at the regular temperature for the first 15 minutes or so, then reduce it.
If the edge crust is getting too brown before the center of the pie heats through, you can also try creating a ring-shaped heat shield out of aluminum foil, which you can (carefully) place over the edge of the pie. Use another pie dish as a template.
 Many cultures around the world enjoy some version of a savory hand-held pie — sometimes called a pasty, among other names. They’re relatively easy to make, very portable, and tasty — and ideal for freezing ahead of time and baking on demand. In fact, many hand pie lovers contend that they come out even better when frozen first.Excess moisture — fats from cooked meats, water content in veggies, etc. — in the filling can make for a soggy hand pie, so drain or thicken fillings a bit more as a precautionary measure.

Pasty recipes abound online, so try several variations and see what crust and filling combinations hit the spot for you. As with larger pies, the frozen baking time will increase a bit and the baking temperature may need to be slightly reduced.
 If you simply want to bake up a boxed pot pie from the grocery store’s freezer case, follow the instructions on the box. In almost every case, these pies are meant to be baked directly from frozen.


Of course, with experience, you may find that adjustments to baking time and temperature produce a better result with a particular frozen pie brand.
As instructed, make sure the center of the pie is cooked through. Use a knife — or for more certainty, a meat thermometer — to test the center.
