 Questions that can answered with a simple “yes” or “no” should be avoided. These sorts of questions already contain the answer and are simply asking the other person to verify whether the information is correct or not. Instead, ask open-ended questions that require the person with Alzheimer’s to consider their answer and effectively communicate it back to you.Instead of saying, “Do you want soup for lunch?” ask them, “It’s time that we make lunch. What should we make today?”
Rather than ask if they’re having a rough day remember things, ask them, “Are you noticing any difficult tasks today?”

, Sometimes you might need to explain an idea several times before the other person understands what you’re trying to say, whether they have Alzheimer’s disease or not. When you notice that the person you’re helping is having a tough time understanding your explanation, stop, take a breath, and reapproach the explanation differently.Think of this like driving to the store. Your goal is to make it to the market. There is more than one way to get there, and in the end, one way may feel like the best way, but as long as you get there (they understand your explanation), you’ve done what you set out to do.
 Helping a person with Alzheimer’s disease is a lot of work, and it can be frustrating when you find that you’re repeating yourself. In explaining to them that you’ve said this before, or that a conversation already happened, you’re running the risk of making them feel badly and shutting down. They don’t want to forget any more than you want them to, so be patient and don’t ask them if they remember a conversation that they obviously don’t remember having.Don’t say, “Did you forget?” or “Don’t you remember?” It’s obvious that they did forget, so either skip the line of questioning altogether, or simply say, “We wrote this down on your calendar, and next time you should check there first.”

, Don’t talk down to them by simplifying your language, or even worse, baby talking them. You should speak to them as you normally would, although you may need to repeat yourself or slow down what you’re saying sometimes. Patronizing language and baby talk are belittling and will only hurt their feelings or make them angry.For example, don’t ask them, “Did somebody forget to brush their teeth today?” If you suspect that they’ve forgotten to do something, just say, “Dad, why don’t you go brush your teeth now since you didn’t do it after dinner?”
Another example is referring to their dementia as the "forgetsies," as in, “You’re just having a bad case of the forgetsies today, aren’t you?” Neither the question or the terminology are productive. Instead, you can say, “It seems like you’re having a rough day remembering things. That’s okay. How can I help you?”

, One of the first signs of dementia is memory loss, and that can be frightening, and even elicit anger and sadness, from Alzheimer’s patients. You can offer emotional support by talking with them about their feelings – their fears, their hopes, their frustrations. You can also be supportive and help with their cognitive functions and memory by showing them old photographs and asking them to tell you the stories behind each picture.If they cannot remember a story or person in a photo, be patient and let them try to remember.
You can also ask open-ended, probing questions that might jog their memory.
You will be most helpful in giving them a safe, judgment-free space in which to share their emotions.
 Of course, discuss your plans with their healthcare providers first.

