 Choose a really annoying song, like "La Cucaracha" or "The Birdie Song" and sing it or hum it constantly when your sister is around. Soon it'll drive her crazy!


Alternatively, you could play a really annoying instrument, like the kazoo or a tambourine. Play it loudly when your sister is trying to do her homework or watch her favorite TV show.
When she tells you to knock it off, act really offended and tell her she's interfering with your musical genius.
 This is the oldest trick in the book when it comes to annoying your sister, but it still works like a charm. Whenever your sister says anything, repeat it - it'll infuriate her pretty quickly!


To make it even more annoying, put on a high-pitched, girly voice while you do it, and pretend that you can't pronounce your Rs properly, or that you have a lisp.
If she tries to get clever and say something like "I'm an annoying little brat" just so you'll repeat it, outsmart her by changing the "I'm" to "you're", so you say "you're an annoying little brat" instead.
 Try to freak your sister out by staring at her constantly, without speaking. Do it at the breakfast table, while she's watching TV, or when you're in the car. Make your eyes really wide and blink as little as possible.


Try sneaking into your sister's room in the morning, before she wakes up. Lean over her and place your face about on inch away from hers, staring at her. When she wakes up and the first thing she sees is your staring eyes she'll be completely freaked out!
You could also go outside and stand outside her bedroom window. Then when she opens her curtains, you'll just appear in front of her! She'll probably scream!

, Try learning a few phrases (or curse words!) from a language that your sister doesn't understand, and say them to her over and over again. This will drive her crazy, especially if she tends to be a bit of a know-it-all!


You could learn phrases from a real language, such as French or German, or from a made-up language, such as pig latin or gibberish.
You could also just learn some big words in English that you know she won't understand. You don't need to use them in context or anything, just say them as if you know what they mean. Some good ones include malevolent, perfidious and animalistic.
 Sometimes the best way to annoy your sister is not to do anything at all - just pretend she doesn't exist!


Don't ever look at her or acknowledge her presence at all. She may not notice or care at first, but after a while it'll start to drive her crazy!
Whenever she says something to you, don't reply, pretend you didn't hear anything. You could even look around you in a bewildered way and say something like "who said that?" or "did you hear that?"
You can take this even further by pretending she doesn't even exist. When you set the table for dinner leave her place blank. Or when anyone mentions her name, look really confused and ask "who?"

, Calling your sister by an annoying nickname is one surefire way to get her blood boiling.


Come up with a nickname that rhymes with her real name, like if her name is Hannah or Anna, you could call her "banana". Or if her name is Lucy, you could call her "goosey".
Or else just come up with something really offensive. For example, you could refer to her as "The Squid" or "dog-face" or "Miss Piggy".



When you're done, you can leave the diary somewhere obvious, along with a note that says something like "I know all your secrets". In fact, you don't even need to read her diary (nor should you), you just need to make her think you did.
However, if you do decide to read it (which you shouldn't), try to memorize some of the best bits. Then you can recite them back to her when she least expects it. For example, when she's doing her homework you could walk into the room and say "I wish Ryan would notice me, but he acts like I'm invisible." in a high-pitched, girly voice. Then you should run for your life!

, Simple, but effective - you can drive your sister crazy just by poking her over and over again. Do it in the car, at the dinner table, while she's watching TV, when she's in bed - basically whenever you can get close to her!


You can either poke her in the stomach, where it tickles or poke her face, where it's just really annoying. You could even make a face while you poke her and say something like "Ewww, what is that?" This will make her really paranoid - she'll think she has a huge pimple or something!
Just be warned that sisters tend to poke back - so don't give it if you can't take it!

, Another good way to bug your sister is to laugh at absolutely everything she says, even if she's being completely serious.


This will drive her particularly crazy if she's upset about something, such as a fight with her friend or getting a bad grade at school. Laugh and point, like Nelson from the Simpsons - "haha!"
Or else you can laugh hysterically when she actually tries to make a joke or be funny. But keep laughing for a really long time, until it's obvious that you're just being sarcastic.
 Sneak into her room and snag some of her clothes. The more she likes those particular items, the better.

Dress like her. Use the same combination of skirt and blouse that she wears. If your feet are the same size or smaller, put on the shoes she'd wear with that dress.
Arrange your hair in a similar way if you can. If not, find a wig somewhere.
Come down to breakfast one morning as her. Mimic her speech patterns, hand movements and stuff like that. It won't take long before she howls for your mom or dad to make you stop!

