 One designation many agents have is that of Realtor. A Realtor is a member of the National Association of Realtors (NAR). To receive that distinction (it's actually a trademark), an agent must undergo additional training, demonstrate appropriate professional skills, and subscribe to the NAR code of ethics.Other designations to look for include:ABR, or Accredited Buyer's Representative. This means the agent has passed courses in buyer representation and would know how to protect your interests when negotiating a purchase or a mortgage.MRP, or Military Relocation Professional. An agent who is an MRP has experience working with military personnel and their families.
CIPS, or a Certified International Property Specialist. If you want to buy property overseas, an agent with this designation will know exactly how to help you.
SRES, or Seniors Real Estate Specialist. If you are over 50, an SRES is a good choice, as s/he specializes in meeting your particular needs.;
, Your agent must have a current license. Make sure your agent has completed all the proper training before doing business with him/her.


Your state has a real estate regulatory board, which can be found online. Your agent's name should be listed on the website among the licensed agents in the area.You can also check to see if there's been any disciplinary action or complaints about an agent. You might not want to work with someone who has a reputation for dishonesty in the community.Any prizes such as an "Agent of the Year" award are also a plus. If you're looking for the best possible option, it's a good idea to select someone who has stood out from the crowd during the course of a career., A good agent will gladly provide you with a list of past clients on request. You can contact these people and ask them for an honest assessment of the agent's skills. In addition, seek out reviews and testimonials online. Look on the agent's website or review sites like Yelp to see what others are saying about the agent.


A good question to ask past clients is the difference between the asking price and selling price in their case. This will give you a sense of how well the agent was able to reduce prices for buyers or maintain prices for sellers.Ask the client about their overall experience. Ask if the agent could have done anything better, whether the client would recommend the agent to a friend, and what the agent's strengths and weaknesses are.Remember to account for human subjectivity. Some people are difficult to please, so you should contact more than one past client to get an accurate read., There are a few warning signs you should watch for when selecting an agent.


If you're selling your home, and the agent immediately suggests a very high listing price, this is a bad sign. Pricing a home too high means it could take a lot longer to sell. An experienced professional will know better than to do this except in a very hot market.An agent who only works part time might not be the best choice. They tend to be less experienced and less dedicated to their clients.If the agent does not typically deal with the kind of property you're buying or selling, try to find another agent. Find someone who can cater to your specific needs.Do not pick someone who does not usually deal with people looking to buy in your price range. As agents are paid on commission, they'll pay more attention to wealthier clients. If your agent typically deals with luxury homes, and you're looking for a modest starting home, that agent may not necessarily be helpful for you., A good Realtor may not fit all of your criteria, but they might be well-equipped to help you. Don't immediately discount Realtors for things like a lack of experience or sales. Be willing to go with a newer Realtor if they seem motivated, hard-working, and knowledgeable., Before hiring one, interview several. Ask as many questions as possible to get a sense of whether an agent is right for you.


Ask how long the agent has been in the business. You would prefer someone with a lot of experience. Ask how many buyers the agent has dealt with. Agents who work part time or don't take many clients might not be as adept as others.Ask what kinds of properties the agent typically handles. You want someone who buys and sells properties like yours or the kind you're looking for.Ask the agent how s/he plans to communicate with you. You don't want someone who's hard to get a hold of or who utilizes only one medium of communication. Good agents will communicate on your terms. Buying or selling a home is complicated enough without having to rely on someone who's hard to work with., Once you've conducted interviews, look at the listings the agent advertises. These can be found on the agent's website, national websites like Realtor.com., and local advertising.


How closely do the agent's listings match the type of home you want to buy? Do you see anything right away that's interesting to you? These are questions to ask yourself while looking over available listings.Pay attention to price range. Does the agent typically work within your price range? If not, you might not get as much attention as you need., Even after talking to the agent and past clients, review the agent's online presence. Look for reviews that the agent cannot control. If a particular client had a very bad experience, the agent will likely not have used this person as a reference.


Online reviews are subjective. People often go to sites like Yelp when very frustrated or angry and enjoy the anonymity provided by such sites. While you should have some skepticism regarding such outlets, if there are a lot of bad reviews and accusations of shady dealings, this is a bad sign., It's a good idea to ask for a 90-day contract with an agent. If your relationship with the agent works out well, you can renew. If it does not, you can let the contract expire without having wasted too much time with the wrong person. See if the agent you're considering is willing to provide a short-term contract or even a short trial period before signing any paperwork.