 Anyone who's ever looked a dog in the eye knows it's a hard staring contest to win. If you want to act like a werewolf, a good place to start is your alpha-wolf glare. If someone challenges you, never look away, or look down, and break their gaze. Stare straight back, as if you were trying to see behind their eyes, into their skull. Scrunch your eyebrows down to furrow your brow in a wolf-like manner.


Bring your chin to your chest to emphasize your eyes. Imagine you were wearing glasses and trying to look over them to give your glare a wolf-like aspect.
 Wolves are restless, shifty creatures. When you walk or sit, you should Try to exude a wolf-like energy. Make your movements fluid and sleek, walking on the balls of your feet, rather than your heels.


Don't walk, but stalk. Pretend that some prey has just appeared on the distant horizon, even if you're just walking to Jimmy John's.
Never stand still. If you're standing somewhere waiting, like at the doctor's office of the BMV, get up and pace around. Look like an animal in a cage trying to get out. Keep your head low and your motions sleek. A wolf moves around like a hunter. Think stealthy, sneaky, and quick. Don’t clomp around like Frankenstein’s monster.
 The sense-receptors of wolves are hundreds of times more sensitive than those in a human. To act like a wolf, practice using your smeller more actively as a way of experiencing the world. Wolves use scent to track prey, mark territory, and as a way of identifying other creatures.Occasionally, when you're standing around with friends and the wind blows, turn your nose to it and sniff gently, as if you smell danger coming.
Become a connoisseur of smells, particularly the outdoor variety. Practice walking around the woods and identifying fragrances. Be able to tell jasmine from lilac from deer poop.
 Wolves are efficient and fast runners, conserving their energy by trotting after their prey at a quick lope until within striking distance, at which point they kick things into high gear. To get more wolf-like, start running and feel the wind in your fur. Er, your hair. The wind in your hair.


For more of a werewolf-like experience, head to the woods and do some trail running, and consider investing in some "naked" running shoes to get closer to the earth.
 Werewolves don't speak, they snarl. It's a good idea to start communicating in grunts, snarls, and barks, especially when you're frustrated (or just feeling goofy). Caught in the middle of a stare down? Slowly let your voice rumble from your throat, quietly, getting gradually louder as the stare-down continues. When your enemy breaks, pipe down.

