 Before you can think of getting others to fall for your charms, first you must look to yourself. Contrary to what you might believe, there's much, much more to looks than appearance. Nice clothes and style are a start, but nothing can replace a good attitude and self-respect. Girls can pick up when a guy doesn't believe in himself, and there's nothing as attractive as a girl who knows she's worth it. Regardless of your gender or the person you're trying to impress, confidence is an essential starting point.


For many people, learning to find confidence in themselves may be the hardest part of this entire process. If you're having trouble feeling secure in your chances of success, try writing down a list of things you like about yourself, and a list of personal qualities (e.g.: a great sense of humour, beautiful smile etc.) your crush would like you for.
Don't worry if you're shy-- you can still show plenty of confidence if you're on the introverted side. Guys can feel really flattered if you feel slightly nervous around them. .If you're a shy guy, you might find girls are attracted to you for your mystery. Your best bet is to take comfort in what comes most naturally to you;
, Do some research into different styles. Try to recognize which styles appeal most to you, and which you think might look best on you. If you're having trouble, ask one of your friends for advice-- they're there for a reason, and chances are they'll have plenty of warm suggestions to help you spruce up your style!


Don't try to overdo it with your appearance. Find a look that's fashionable but ultimately casual. You don't want to end up scaring your crush away!

, Nothing refreshes attention like a fresh new hairdo! This way, even if you've known him for a while, he will have to reconsider his impression of you. Who knows-- you may have found your new favourite look!

, Chances are you may be feeling stressed, excited, uncertain, or a mixture of all three due to your crush. Although it's natural to feel some embarrassment about having a crush, you may find it helps alleviate the strain to open up about it with a few close friends. Especially if they know your crush, they may be able to lend specifically-tailored advice to your situation. If anything, putting your feelings into words for the first time may help you make better sense of what you stand.


If you decide to tell friends about your crush, whether for advice or simply to vent, make sure not to word the situation in bleak, fatalistic terms. Although you may feel pessimistic, it's much better to talk about it constructively. Not only will this positively correlate with the helpfulness of the advice your friends give you; thinking positively will also give you more confidence with your crush.
Make sure you're confiding in someone you can trust. If you have any doubt they might spread word of your feelings around (or even tell your crush prematurely!) it may be do more harm than good. If you have any doubts, it's best to keep any talk limited to your most-trusted friends.
 This could mean anything-- do you go to the same school? Are you neighbours? In virtually every circumstance, there are plenty of opportunities to get on that person's radar. A great start is to put yourself in his general area. Find out what events he'll be attending, or where he eats lunch. The more you're around him, the more opportunities you'll have to interact with one another., The universal gesture of kindness, there is nothing so simple and profoundly effective in winning your crush as a smile. Whenever you see him, make sure to flash him a smile! While it might be hard if you're shy, you should find it gets easier very quickly. The reaction will almost certainly be positive.


If, for whatever reason, he doesn't smile back, don't worry about it! There could be a number of reasons he didn't reciprocate the gesture. You may have caught him off guard; it's also possible that he's simply shy. Interpreting his actions as a sign he's uninterested in you should only be a last resort.
 It sounds simple, but you might be surprised how many people tend to overlook this easy, though crucial step. Once you're in his vicinity, there should be plenty of opportunities to say hello. Don't feel self-conscious in doing this; very seldom does anyone respond negatively to a simple act of attention and positive feeling.
 There are a virtually infinite number of ways you can do this. Look to your surroundings and circumstances for something general to talk about. For example:


If you've got a class together: "Hey, would I be able to share notes with you? I want to see if I missed anything."
If you're at a library/theatre: "Any books or movies you could recommend me?"
If you're at a sport's game: "Hey! Which team are you part of/rooting for?"
At a party: "Hey! How did you hear about this party?"

, A crucial, common mistake to make is to be too modest about your feelings.. If you don't show signs of attraction, he might not get the impression you are interested in him. Although you want to make sure not to get direct with it quite yet, there are plenty of things you can do to show interest. If you are relaxed enough, chances are you're exhibiting some of these traits already.


If you're a girl: Twirling your hair while talking to him.
If you're a guy: Keeping a strong posture around her.
Maintaining eye contact and smiling at him.
Keeping your feet pointing in his direction.
Making light bodily contact, like touching his arm or shoulder.
 Soon enough, you'll need to get your relation at a more substantive point where you can move past icebreakers and learn about him in greater depth. While the traditional thing to do in the past was for one party to ask the other on a date, there are countless options for you to pursue in this respect:


Although it sounds impersonal, talking online is a great, non-committal way to get to know someone pretty effectively. Things some people might have trouble discussing in person are much more easily divulged online.
If you go to school together, you might ask: "Want to eat lunch together sometime?" Again, this is a casual, easygoing way to get to know someone a lot better.
While you may feel obliged to wait for your crush to ask you out on a date, hinging upon social norms is a waste of time. If you're confident enough in your feelings, asking him to go out with you some night is a great way to demonstrate your confidence and make progress with impressing your crush.
 Although the media would suggest that guys will be interested if you play hard to get, this is commonly interpreted as being standoffish. The best way to impress a guy is to be nice to him. Treat him at first as you would a friend. While you're still becoming comfortable with him, there's no need to put added pressure on your interactions.


This step is no less important if you're a guy. The phrase "Nice guys finish last" is very misleading; girls are going to want to be around someone who makes them feel good about themselves!
Giving your crush compliments, like "I love your hair!" or "How did you get such good fashion sense?", will go a long way towards making him feel great in your company. , Don't be afraid to ask questions, no matter how direct it might seem. There's a good chance he'll feel flattered by the interest you're investing in them. Asking questions is a great way to spark a wider range of conversations. They don't have to be anything super-important to start; you're mostly looking to become comfortable, and possibly springboard into deeper subjects. If you're looking for examples, here are a few to get you started:


"What's your family like? Any pets?"
"What do you/would you like to do for a living?"
If you attend the same school: "What are your favourite classes?"
Make sure to do some of the talking as well! No doubt there are plenty of things he would love to know about you. This way, it will feel more like a conversation, and less like an interrogation!

, What are you interested in? Crochet knitting? Horror films? Avant-garde jazz fusion? Chances are, you already share some of your unique interests with your crush without knowing it. Finding out a bit more about what he likes can offer a perfect opportunity to bond.


Your circumstances of meeting can help inform your initial investigations into his interests. If you met at a rock concert, for example, there's a hefty probability you share musical interests. The same goes for an arts fair, a movie theatre, or a sports event.
If you don't have any apparent interests in common, you can try opening yourself to things he's interested in. Ask him why he's into certain things, and see if you can see the appeal in it. If nothing else, the fact that you're making the initiative will demonstrate to him that you care.
 While every strong romantic connection initially has a basis in friendship, at some point you should begin to emphasize that your feelings are more than that. You'll know you've spent enough time getting to know each other when this step feels more natural than contrived. Try saying things like:


"You know, I think you're actually pretty cute."
"It's really attractive that you're so passionate about your interests."
Or even a simple "I really enjoy spending time with you."

, Now that you've fostered a strong foundation for your interactions, don't be afraid to become increasingly forward with your attraction towards your crush.


Hugging, compliments and smiling are all valid forms of flirting.
Use the 'push-pull' mechanic.Whether you're a guy or a girl, this simple trick might work to get your crush interested in you: give him a compliment and boost his ego. Upon doing that, back away and give him the cold shoulder. If done correctly, this will make him seek your approval and affection. Give it a try, and see how it goes.
Don't feel too discouraged if he doesn't reciprocate these advances at first. It's quite possible he's been taken off guard by how upfront you are, and it may take him some time to adjust.
 Let your crush know how you really feel about him. This is the moment of truth. However, after the time you two have spent getting to know one another and flirting, you might find this stage happens much more smoothly than you would have ever anticipated at the start. If the chemistry between you two is right, don't be surprised if your crush develops into a life-changing relationship!


The easiest way to go about this is to tell him directly. Don't mince words: "I have feelings for you," or "I like you in a way that's more than just friends."
If you're feeling particularly bold, planting a kiss on his cheek can leave a big impression.
If, for whatever reason, your crush rejects you, don't sweat it! There could be a million possible reasons why someone might not be interested in pursuing a relationship, and most of them have nothing to do with you. If things go sour for whatever reason, remember not to let it keep you from loving yourself and being open to whatever comes next in life.

