 A head shy horse has learned to avoid a human touch, whether because of maltreatment or accident. Your horse must be taught that human touch is a good thing. Behavioral training teaches this by associating the desired behavior with a reinforcement, or reward.The steps of behavioral training require time and patience. Teaching your horse to keep her head quiet when approached is the observable behavior that you can work on. Trust is something that can only develop over time.
Don't engage in behavioral training unless you're feeling calm and confident. If you lose your temper during this process, all the efforts you've put into training will be useless. It's essential that the behavior training is done in a consistent manner.;
, Lead your haltered horse with a soft rope or lunge line. Once inside the field, take the lead off and place it outside the fence.35-foot diameter paddock is the minimum safe area for working with your horse, though it can be as large as 60 feet.
Keep the paddock free of other distractions, loud noises, other animals, etc. The horse should feel safe and comfortable.
 Walk at a steady rate of speed, neither fast nor slow. Keep your body relaxed. If you're tense, the horse will likely pick up on that.Do not make eye contact with a nervous horse. Instead, place your gaze near her knee or lower body.
Wait until the horse shows that she's open to being touched. She might turn towards you, lick her lips or soften her eyes.
If your horse gives signs of not wanting to be touched, such as turning her head away or walking away, respect this. Never force touch on an animal.
 This isn't a rub or a pet, but simply a light touch. If your horse tenses or shies away, drop your hand and walk away.This is done for purposes of assessment. If, at the end of this assessment, your horse easily allows you to touch her, move your touch closer to her head.
If she doesn't allow you to touch her closer to her head, go back to the area where she was comfortable with your touch. The trick is to go at her rate of speed in order to develop trust.
Only allowing brief touches will encourage your horse to trust you. She may be overwhelmed by longer touches. She will learn that you respond quickly to her pulling away from an unwanted touch.
 With your fingers, follow the direction of her hair in a rubbing motion. This is a brief petting, about 3 seconds. Then walk away, as before.Again, you're teaching your horse that you are a safe person. Your touch is safe, but firm.
Through repetition, you can move your hand closer and closer to the areas of her head she may not have allowed you to touch before.
Over time, you can keep your hand on your horse for a longer time. 3 seconds can increase to 4 seconds, then to 5. If she shies away, you'll know you've gone too fast. Go back to the amount of time she's comfortable with and try again.
 As soon as you feel her relax beneath your touch, remove your hand and offer her a treat.With one hand on her head, say, "Good girl!" or whistle to her softly.


You'll want to reinforce the trusting behavior while it's happening, so that the behavior and the reinforcer are strongly connected.
The sound of your affirming whistle or voice serves as a way to draw the horse's attention to what's happening at that moment. If she's relaxed, even for a very small time, you can draw her attention to that relaxation.
Hold a treat in the hand that's not touching the horse. If the horse tenses, even briefly, do not pursue her. Pause, or walk away.

