 As a promoter, you may be responsible for financing events yourself,so find out how large of a budget you will need. Form a list of all vendors, venues, and other service providers you will need to hire for each event. Create three hypothetical events differing in size (small, medium, large) and then contact each company on your list to ask for quotes for each size. Determine which events you can afford on your own and which will require additional investors.


For example, with concert promotion, you will at the very least need to pay the talent, book a venue (which may or may not provide its own sound system), and advertise the show. If you are promoting a small “underground” show featuring unknown local acts, you can book a stage at a small club or bar, rent a sound system if needed, and rely on flyers and word-of-mouth for advertising. But for more prominent acts, you may also need to hire security, cover transportation and room accommodations for the talent, book larger, more expensive venues, and much more.To play it safe, always plan on spending more than the quotes given in order to protect your personal profit in case unexpected costs pop up along the way., Although having a lawyer on retainer is not strictly necessary to start a career, consulting one in the beginning will help protect you from future costs due to unseen legal entanglements. At the very least, discuss local, county, state, and federal laws and regulations that bear directly on the sort of events you plan, such as any licenses or business registrations that might be required on your part. Also familiarize yourself with what constitutes a legal contract in order to avoid future liabilities.If you plan on regularly employing a lawyer, be sure to factor this cost into your overhead.
 Local laws may determine exactly what classification your business will belong to.Whether you are the sole owner or partner with someone else may also effect which business entity you choose.Consult with your lawyer or use the internet to conduct research on which business entity is right for you. Classifications include:


Sole proprietorship
Partnership
Corporation
Limited liability company (LLC)

