 Perfectionism is not a wholly negative trait. While studies show that perfectionists are more likely to develop depression, anxiety disorders, obsessive-compulsive personality disorder, and other conditions, there are also positives. Gifted individuals can often attain great achievements by striving for perfection. The key is balance.Be aware that perfectionism can be a powerful motivator for a child but is also a source of stress. Try to be sensitive to sources of pressure on the child, whether at home or at school.
If your child has a particular talent, encourage and celebrate it without going so far that your child comes to depend on your praise to feel good. Also, allow the child to take risks and to have safe opportunities to fail.
Consider pointing out positive, imperfect role models in the community or media so your child learns that no one can be perfect.
 You as a parent are your child’s main model for behavior and you too might be a Type A personality or perfectionist. The child will see your response to work, success, and failure and learn from it, so aim to moderate any unhealthy perfectionism in yourself. Try to set high but realistic personal priorities and goals.Avoid negativity when it comes to work. Saying “If I don’t get this project done on time, I’ll be so unhappy” shows a child that you equate your happiness with professional success. Instead, say something like “I worked hard on this project and did my best. It doesn’t need to be perfect.”
The same goes for praising your child. If the child makes something, say “I really like what you’ve made” rather than “It’s perfect!”
Help your child develop high but achievable standards. Encourage good grades at school, for example, but make it clear that the effort is what is important rather than a perfect mark. A “C” can be a good grade for a student who struggles with math, for example.
 Perfectionists usually see the world in black and white terms, either in success or failure. One way to counteract this mindset is to teach kids early on to focus on effort and process, not on the outcome. Show by your own example that failure is not a catastrophe but an opportunity to learn and improve.Let children know that mistakes are a normal part of life and learning. If your child is upset about a mistake or failure, avoid dismissing them by saying something like “Oh, don’t worry. It doesn’t matter!” Instead, recognize and validate the feelings. Later you can talk about the bright side of the situation and suggest ways for them to cope.
Praise effort and not just success, as well. Encourage children to self-assess and to examine failures to see how they can improve in the future.
Another way that you can temper perfectionism is by reminding children that they can’t control everything. Teach them to focus on what they can control, like work ethic, attitude, preparation, and level of effort.

