 Studies have shown that people become overwhelmed and discouraged when they are presented with too many options. If possible, try to limit your proposal to just a couple options to avoid this happening.Some examples of this might be giving only two choices of restaurants to your significant other or asking which dress of two pre-selected ones your friend likes best on you. This narrows the field from the broad, harder questions of “Where should we eat tonight?” or “What should I wear?” Giving specific, limited options to choose from gives this a choice of two “yes’s” and ensures that they can easily make a decision.
 Not all battles can be won without compromise. If you are trying to persuade someone to say yes to you and they are willing to negotiate or say yes conditionally, then that is a step in the right direction. Consider it a win that you convinced them to meet you halfway or more.This is especially applicable in situations where you’re dealing with a superior, like a parent or a boss. For example, if you’re trying to reason with your parents about your curfew, then there might be some room for negotiation. If they want you home by 11pm and you want to stay out till 1am, then it is a victory if they agree to midnight as a compromise. Or, if you approach your boss about receiving a 7% raise, and they agree to 4%, then count that as a win because you still persuaded them that you deserved more money. You’ve gotten what you were looking for (more time out with your friends or a pay increase) in a roundabout way.
Don’t look at compromises as negatives. Instead look at them as receiving a yes with conditions. Your power of persuasion put you in a far better situation than you were in before you tried to convince them that you needed what you asked for.
 Sometimes it’s helpful to ask questions that you know will lead to positive responses. Rather than trying to convince someone of something or sell something, occasionally we want positive responses to create a light mood or relaxed atmosphere. On a first date or at a family gathering, for example, when you have a vested interest in making sure everyone is agreeable, this can be a helpful strategy to employ.For example, if you’re out on a date you might say something like, “Wasn’t that wine fantastic?” or “Don’t you love this city?” Or, at a family dinner, for instance, you might say something like, “Isn’t grandma’s turkey the best?” These kinds of questions almost insist on a yes and help you find common ground with the people around you., Even if you didn’t fully get the person to say yes, you should attempt to end your meeting or conversation proactively, with a look to the future. This gets you out of limbo and into a forward progression toward your goal.For example, if you tried to sell some furniture to a man who says he needs to talk it over with his wife, then you might end your conversation by saying something like “Sounds great. Would Thursday be a good day to follow up with the both of you?” Salespeople and others who work on deals for a living adhere to the adage of “always be closing.” Proactively working toward your next meeting is a great way to not take no for an answer without seeming pushy or causing the other person to shut down completely.