 Your boyfriend has chosen you to be his girlfriend because he likes you. By telling him how you feel about him, you can strengthen your bond and make him feel loved. You can focus on how he communicates with you, how he takes care of you, or simply let him know that you believe in him.You could say, “I feel so safe with you. Thanks for loving me,” or “I love how we can communicate about difficult subjects. I love you and trust you completely.”

, Whether your boyfriend’s gifts are musical or culinary, compliment him on his skills to make him feel great. Think about his hobbies and passions to get ideas for your compliment. If he’s used his talents to do something kind for you, that’s a great opportunity to show your appreciation.You could say, “That song you played for me was beautiful. You are an incredible songwriter,” or “That birthday cake you made was the most delicious one I’ve ever had. Can you teach me to bake like that?”

, By praising your boyfriend’s way with others, you can let him know how sweet and generous you think he is. Whether the people he’s great with are his family, coworkers, or friends, your attention lets him know you care about his life. It may also encourage kindness and sensitivity in your own relationship.You could say, “I know you didn’t really want to drive your brother to the movies, but that was really nice of you. I love how kind you are,” or “It was really thoughtful of you to send your coworker a sympathy card when her mom died.”

, Lots of guys feel like their friends are an extension of themselves. By appreciating his friends, you can let him know how much you appreciate all of him. This shows him that those who are important to him are important to you.You could say, “Your buddy Mike is so funny. I can see why you are friends with him,” or “It’s so nice to meet your friends. Thanks for sharing that part of your life with me.”

, Even when your boyfriend comes up short on an assignment or promotion, it can be nice to let him know you appreciate his efforts. Compliment how long he spent working or an area he excelled in even when things didn’t work out.You could say, “I know you got passed over for the promotion, but your quarterly presentation was really brilliant,” or “I know you’re disappointed you got a B on your project, but I thought your paper was amazing.”

, Your boyfriend probably loves to make you laugh. By letting him know you find him funny, you’ll boost his confidence and make him feel great. You can compliment a specific joke, an impression, or simply his comedic timing.You could say, “That joke about the spider was so funny while we were camping. I love how you make me laugh,” or “Your Robin Williams impression is spot on! You’re so talented.”

