 Young children go through several distinct stages when learning how to play and interact with others. Although kids go through these stages in order, they still use each type of play as they grow. So, a preschooler may engage in parallel play for a while before going off to play by themselves or join a group game. These are the stages you can expect to see in young children:Independent or solitary play: This is when babies and one year olds play by themselves. They're usually interested in exploring how an object works.
Parallel play: Two to three year olds begin to interact or play with the same toys while near each other, but they don't play with each other.
Cooperative or reciprocal play: By age three most kids start to play with one another. This may be part of playing a game or sharing toys with each other.;
, Set out several toys or activities that are the same. This will encourage the kids to play near each other without grabbing or fighting over the toys. For example, set out two of the same dolls or a handful of the same toy blocks. Give them toys that stimulate their imaginations or allow them to build and create. Good toys for parallel play include:Playdough
Sandbox and toys
Paints
Blocks
Coloring books and crayons
Water tables

, Kids don't have to be playing with toys or objects in order to play next to each other. Get their attention and tell them that you're going to play a game. The kids can stand or sit next to each other while they follow a listening game or sing songs. The kids will all be playing the same game or activity, but will only be controlling their own movements and play.


For example, you could lead the kids in yoga positions or have them play Simon Says. Both require the kids to focus on you while they complete the same action.
 Keep the kids together in the same room when they're playing, even if they're not directly playing with each other. Playing near or next to each other will eventually encourage them to move on to cooperative or reciprocal play. Try to keep play areas close to each other so the kids can watch each other play if they wish.Kids learn how to play and even copy each other while they're engaged in parallel play. This is why it's important to keep them near each other.
 You might notice kids watching you or clinging to you instead of playing. They might just be frightened or anxious of social interaction with kids their own age. Gently get the kids interested in playing by saying something like "What toy is that little girl playing with? That game looks interesting."


Avoid simply telling the kids to go play with another child. They'll be more likely to play next to another child if they're curious.

