 Find an adequate space without distractions. Unroll your yoga mat evenly onto the floor. If you need additional padding for high-pressure poses, place it under where your shoulders will be when you lie down. Put on clothing that allows you to move freely. This is not an easy position to accomplish. You will want to be as comfortable as possible throughout the pose.


If you know you have problems reaching to touch your toes, you may want to position yourself near a wall. You can use the wall to position your legs above you later.;
, Straighten your back and legs. Keep your legs in front of you and unbent. Practice breathing slowly in and out. This prepares you for the stretch or first position. Get into a consistent and slow breathing rhythm.
 Keep your legs straight and unbent. Keep your back straight as well. Resist the urge to bend your back as you reach forward. You should feel tension throughout your back and into the back of your legs and calves. Bend your head to stretch your neck muscles as well.
 With each exhale allow your body to drop a little more. If you feel the tension is too much, stop. Your goal is to stretch your muscles--not pull them. When you have gone as far as you can, hold the position for 15 seconds.


If you cannot touch your toes, do not be discouraged. With time and repetition, your stretches will become more successful. The goal of this stretch is to prepare the muscles in your back and legs to move into the pose. You can accomplish the shoulder standing pose without being able to touch your toes.
 Once you are finished, relax back onto your back. Slowly straighten your neck. Your back and legs will be stretched. Move back slowly to avoid cramping. Lay on your back for a few moments before starting into the shoulder stand position. Continue your relaxed breathing rhythm.
 Keep your back and legs straight. Your arms should be palms-down by your side. Your hands and arms will keep you balanced as you position your body. You want to keep you back straight to avoid overextending your spine. If you feel your back is coming off the ground, straighten it back out.
 You should now be stretched similarly to how you started stretching to touch your toes except your legs are in the air this time and your arms still on the floor. Keep your back as straight as possible and on the floor for now. Your knees or shins should be above your body and straight. Your weight should be on your shoulders, back, and arms.
 If you feel any weight on your head or neck, adjust to free your neck from undue strain. Keep your back straight. Allow your legs to move closer to your head. Keep all your weight on your arms and shoulders. There should be no pressure on your neck to balance or hold your body in position. You don't have to raise your hips too high, just enough to get your arms to support them later. You can go higher if you can keep all your weight on your shoulders.


If you feel you cannot do this without putting pressure on your neck or head, stop. You are going beyond your limits. You will need to stretch more before attempting this position. You can cause serious spinal injury from this pose if not completed properly.Allow your legs to fold.If your legs are too tight you may want to allow your legs to fold to get your back off the floor sufficiently. It is more important to keep your back straight than to keep your legs straight. Protecting your spine from bending is more important than stretching your legs.
Use a chair to hold your legs straight. Another way to accomplish this is to position a chair above your head. When your legs extend above your head, let your toes rest on the chair. As you lift your hips off the floor, the chair will support the weight of your legs and help you keep them straight while you focus on keeping your back straight.
 Shift your weight to your shoulders as much as possible avoiding any pressure to your neck or head. Move your outstretched arms to touch each other on the floor. Then, keeping your elbows against the floor, rotate your arms and hand and use the palms of your hands to support your back's weight. Shift weight off your shoulders onto your hands. Your hands will support your back as you lift your legs up above you.
 There should be no pressure on your neck.All your weight should be on your shoulders. Slowly stretch or move your legs up above you. Your back should remain straight throughout the motion. Your legs should end perpendicular to the floor and straight. Hold the position for a few seconds at first and longer when you are comfortable with the pose.At this point you are doing the supported shoulder stand pose. To accomplish the more difficult unsupported shoulder stand pose you need to move your arms. Simply shift all your weight to your shoulders and place your arms beside your raised body. This is an advanced move and should only be attempted when you are highly proficient at the supported shoulder stand pose.
 Slowly relax your legs. Let them come back to their previous resting position. Remove your arms from your back. Let them lay palms-down in the starting position. shift your weight to them again as you move back.
 Slowly lower your back to the floor. Bring your legs back down to their starting position as well. You should now be lying on your back in the starting position. Continue your breathing rhythm as you relax from your pose.
 Move your hands slightly under them. Lower your hips back to the ground. Your hips should be on the floor and also on your hands. This is to help hold your hands in place and support your hips for the counter pose.
 Bend only at your hips as if you are sitting up. Adjust your arms so that your elbows are supporting the weight of your shoulders. Try to keep them under your hips as much as possible for support.


This is counter pose is called the fish pose. an alternative counter pose is the locust pose.Similar muscles will be stretched in both but the locust pose is more involved and less relaxing.
 You should be able to slowly relax your neck. This allows your head to slowly fall to and touch the floor. The top and back of the head should now be on the floor with now pressure on them. All the weight of your upper body should be on your elbows and forearms.


You should notice that this stretch is focused on the muscles in your abdomen, chest, and shoulders. This counter pose is intended to stretch the muscles used in the shoulder stand pose. This will reduce cramping.
 Slowly lift your head up. Then lift your upper body so that no pressure remains on your arms. Slowly lower your upper body to the floor. Your arms should be resting beside you rather than under your hips. This is a relaxed position. Continue breathing in your controlled rhythm until you decide you are finished with the exercise.

