 Do this the night before your worm hunting. This will attract worms., Earthworms spend their days burrowed underground in the soil, they surface at night in order to feed on organic matter.Therefore, you can collect earthworms at night without having to dig like you would in the day. You won’t need any fancy tools for earthworm hunting, but you should take:A flashlight with a dull or red light in it. Earthworms can’t see, but they can sense light, and will shy away from a bright flashlight.
A shovel or small spade to move soil around or turn it over.
 You can use a container made of Styrofoam, metal, plastic, glass, or cardboard. Fill it three-quarters of the way with moist soil, and cover the soil with dead, wet leaves. The leaves will help keep the soil moist and provide the worms with food.A butter tub, coffee can, jar, ice cream tub, or old bucket will do. Make sure your container is empty and clean before storing worms in it.
Worms need oxygen, so poke holes in the lid that are large enough to let air pass through, but not so large that the worms can stretch and wriggle their way out.
 When it does, go to your front yard, backyard, or garden. You can also try a forest, field, or even a golf course. Walk softly, slowly, and quietly. Worms cannot hear, but they can sense vibrations.


You can also hunt for worms during the day if it has been raining. Worms need moisture to survive, so they often come above ground to migrate during rainstorms or when the ground. After the next storm, go outside and look for worms to collect on the lawn, sidewalk, and driveway., Gather those you find and store them in your container. You will have to work quickly, because if the worms sense you coming, the will wriggle back into the soil.


Earthworms are most active in the spring and fall, because they don’t like extreme cold or hot.However, they will also be active during summer nights.
Look for pellets or small piles of soil on the surface of the ground that are evidence of earthworm activity., Also turn over stones, logs, and leaves. Worms will be attracted to the moist soil underneath things in the ground, so turn over anything lying on the ground to find worms.Use your spade or shovel to turn over leaves and the top layer of soil if you’re having trouble finding worms.

