 There are several treatment options, including medication management, therapy, behavioral coaching, or other options which can help you handle your ADHD. Your health care provider can provide you with information about your options, provide recommends or references, and provide treatment to help you manage your ADHD.You might ask your doctor, “What treatment options are available for me? Will any of them help boost my self-esteem?”
Your physician can also refer you to support groups, online forums, and other professionals that can help you manage your ADHD and improve your self-esteem.
If you are feeling especially bad about yourself, ask your physician about mental health care. For instance, you might say, “I’ve been feeling really bad about myself because of my ADHD. Is there help I can get for that?”

, Being around other adults with ADHD can help boost your self-esteem in several ways. The people there can offer strategies and suggestions to help you find your self-confidence. They can also encourage you when you are feeling less than confident. And they can offer tips and experience to help you manage your ADHD.

Ask your healthcare professional for a reference to a support group in your community. You might say, “I’d like to try a support group. Could you recommend one or two in my area?” You can also look into CHADD (Children and Adults with ADD/ADHD) to find out about support groups in your area.If you can’t join an in-person support group, consider participating in an online forum or group for adults with ADHD.
 You can manage adult ADHD and boost your self-esteem if you get support from your family and friends.Let the people close to you know how you are feeling and that you need their help and encouragement.

Share your feelings. Telling someone what’s going on with you can help you feel better about yourself. You might say to your best friend, “Can I talk to you about how I’ve been feeling about myself?”
Ask for encouragement. It’s okay to say, “Could you tell me when I’m doing a good job or do something right? Sometimes all I can see is what I do wrong.”
Let them know what specific support you need. For instance, you might tell your brother, “Can you remind me to keep my journal with me?”

, You should always want to do your very best and put effort into what you do. But you should also be realistic in your expectations for yourself.Recognize that you don’t have to be perfect or even better than anyone else, but you do have to try your hardest.

For example, if you know you have trouble concentrating on long reading passages, don’t expect yourself to pay attention to a long reading assignment without taking a break.
Tell yourself, “My work doesn’t have to be perfect, but it does need to be my best work.”
When you set goals and expectations for yourself, make them challenging, but not so difficult that they’re unrealistic. Make sure to start out with small goals and expectations and then build up from there. Journaling can help you to keep track of this process.
 Being as organized as possible will help you stay focused, keep up with things you need, manage your time better, and, as a result, feel better about yourself. Get rid of the clutter around you and remove things that distract you from your space. Although it may take some time and effort to get yourself organized, once you do, you can feel good about yourself for doing things that will help you manage your ADHD.Designate a specific place for commonly used items like your keys, glasses, and wallet. For example, you might always put them in a basket by your bed.
Invest in cubbies, drawer organizers, hooks, baskets, and other things to help you get organized.
Make sure that you have everything you might need, such as snacks, water, coffee, pens, paper, etc.
Use color-coding or other techniques to help you organize paperwork and files.

