 To add an overbustle, start by measuring the back seam of the dress’s train from the waistline seam to the floor and again from the edge of the train to the base of the dress.Mark the place between these two distances with a pin.
 Lift the center back seam where you made the pin mark and position it so it is flush against the center of the waistline, at the base of the bodice. Adjust the positioning so the train is ½” – ¾” (1.3 – 2 cm) off the floor.Attach the train to the seam using a pin.
 Lift the dress’s train off the floor, and pin it so the sides of the train are positioned ½” to ¾” (1.3 – 2 cm) off the floor and secured to the sides of the dress’s back seam.Fold and pin the train to lift any remaining train off the floor.
If the train is too long or heavy, redistribute the already existing folds into two smaller folds.
When the folds are securely pinned, release the bustle and remove the pins.
 In order to secure the dress on the day of the wedding, the bustle will need to be connected to the dress using either buttons or hooks. Sew these on wherever you made pin marks along the waistline.Make sure to stitch securely – you don’t want the bustle coming undone.
If the buttons or hooks need additional reinforcement, attach a small piece of interfacing under each one.
 Use strong thread to thread the needle, then knot the ends of the thread together. Place a small piece of interfacing on the topside of the dress’s train, wherever you made a pin marking denoting a button loop.Insert the needle at the pin, next to the seam-line, then pull it through the interfacing and train.
Make a small backstitch from the right side of the train. Pull the thread to make a loop reaching 1” – 2” (2.5 – 5 cm).
Place your fingers inside the loop and grasp the loop.
Pull the thread to tighten the first loop and create a second loop. Repeat this until you have a thread loop that’s big enough to fit the button or hook.
Use several back stitches to secure the thread to the underside of the dress.
 Once the loops have been added to the dress, bustle the train by fastening the loops to the buttons or hooks. Adjust the folds of fabric on the train to create a fuller and more voluminous bustle.If you don’t like the look of the exposed buttons or hooks, you can hand-sew lace appliqués on top of the buttons or hooks to conceal them.
Be sure to stock up on safety pins. American bustles are not as strong as French bustles and there's a chance that the bustle may break over the course of the evening.

