 In other words, compose a mission statement and spare no detail. This really is the most important first step, for it helps you organize your thoughts. It all starts with YOU.;
, Have you decided that they're all pigs and swine and wolves? If so, why would you want one in your life? Be grateful for every good guy you see out there - whether he's married or not - for it's proof that there are still good guys in the world.
 When you see another sister getting married to a good guy, be grateful and rejoice with her! The Buddhists call this Mudita - it's the practice of finding joy in someone else's happiness and it's a good habit to establish.
 Beautiful women are inundated with emails from men, but men get very few emails from intelligent women. Be proactive. Be assertive. Above all, be true to your authentic self.
 Inner beauty really does magnetize and inner beauty comes from being your real authentic self.
 Start paying attention to those whispers of the soul. Listen to your heart. If you're a proactive woman, behave like a proactive woman. Above all, don't "act." Be real. The Latin word for "personality" is the same word for the mask that actors wore in a play. Don't don your "personality mask" just to get a man. It's futile, frustrating and leads to misery for all parties involved.
 On a first date, your job is not to blather on about yourself but to listen. The words "silent" and "listen" have the same letters. We must be "silent" sometimes in order to be a good listener. Women have a tendency to be the talkers. A first date is a great place to break that pattern. You're there to learn about him.
 If you're nervous and on edge, you might candidly ask Mr. Wonderful if anyone has ever taken out a restraining order against him. You'll be shocked at how many men reply, "Yes."

, Men will reveal a lot about themselves by the answer they give to this question.
 If a man uses ugly words to describe his former loves - or worse - the mother of his sweet little children, this is a huge warning sign!

,,, Be honest. Be a little cheeky and sassy. Be bold. And for gosh sakes, don't start your profile with these three words, "I am a...." Start your profile with a favorite poem or quote. Be original.
 Intelligence is very attractive. An error-ridden profile is a real turn-off to smart men and women. If you don't know how to write, get some help from someone who knows the rules of grammar. This is a major point!

