 Contests are one of the main ways that people can become famous. There are writing contests, dance contests, beauty pageants and more. Look for contests that will allow you to show your talents.


Get familiar with the contests that are well-respected in your field. Some contests are just money-makers for the sponsors who put them on. If a contest isn't well-respected by professionals in your field, you won't get famous.Always do your best in a contest. Even if you don't feel like it's a good one, it will be good practice for your next time.
If you don't win your contest, don't quit trying. The judge's personality and the kind of competition there is that day all impact the results of any contest.;
, Shows such as American Idol, The Voice, or other well-known competitions are great ways to become famous. Auditions for these shows are held in locations all over the country.Remember that competition for these shows is very tough! You'll find yourself in line with literally thousands of other children, all dreaming of becoming famous.
Part of these shows includes the judges being mean to the contestants. Be prepared to be ridiculed, no matter how talented you are.
 Look at the professional journals and magazines, such as Backstage Callsheet. This lists all the talent agencies in Los Angeles and New York. Look for the ones who represent famous children, and contact them for representation.Remember, no quality agent will sign you without your parents' consent if you are younger than 18. Never follow an agent's direction without consulting with a responsible adult.
Always be honest in representing yourself to potential agents. If you don't look anything like your photograph, no agent will sign you.
Never lie about your age if you're under 18.
 Every contest costs money to enter. You'll have to have the best gear you can afford for your talent or sport, which may be expensive. You'll need to dress well, and look good. While you can save money by learning to do some things yourself - like sewing your own outfits, or shopping in thrift stores - there are certain inevitable costs associated with becoming famous.Talk to people who might be willing to support you financially.
Look for scholarship opportunities in your area of interest.
Consider trying a crowdfunding site, such as Go Fund Me, to help raise money for your endeavor.
 It is easier to become a famous singer, if you're already living in Nashville. If you're in Los Angeles, it will be easier to break into show business. If you are in an area where other famous people are already, it will be easier for you to become famous.Use the connections you have. Talk to everyone you know about your talent, and follow up on suggestions for meeting others.
Attend events whenever you can which are part of your talent or area of skill, even if you're not on stage.
Be supportive of others who are trying to get famous. After all, that person may end up helping you!

, If you really want to be famous, you'll need to know everything you can about your talent area. Find the people who are famous in your field, and follow everything they do. Can you imitate them, or improve upon what they're doing? What were they doing when they were kids?Follow your role models on social media. Learn more about the things they do, the places they go, and their routines of daily work and life.
If you pay attention, you'll likely learn that nobody is perfect. Even the most famous people make mistakes. Learn from their mistakes, and try not to repeat them.
 Everyone can be famous, but most people aren't. This isn't always because they're not talented, but because they decide that other things in their life are more important than being famous. If you truly want to be famous, you'll have to be persistent.If one agency turns you down, move on to the next one.
Most people lose more contests than they win. Keep entering contests and your chances automatically improve.
Don't get distracted. If you're serious about your career and getting famous, you don't have time for getting involved in petty quarrels with classmates, siblings or neighbors. Stay focused, and your chances for success increase.

