 Meditate, shop or dance. Do something that you enjoy to take your mind off of everything. Do whatever you have to do to make yourself feel better. You are more likely to find a worthwhile solution while doing something you enjoy or having fun. It sounds counter-intuitive, but creative solutions often come out of doing something fun even if is not related to the task at hand.


Relating back to the example above, you should remove yourself from the situation. You don't want to be around people who know your secret. Retreat. Remove yourself from the situation. Go do something relaxing.
 Avoid self-blame. Don’t assume that everything is all your fault and you always mess things up. Try not over generalize with statements like, “This always happens to me.” Over generalizing leads to depression.Everyone makes mistakes and has accidents. “Bad things” happen to everyone. Blaming yourself for everything that has occurred paralyzes you from moving forward, which makes it harder for you to let go and move on with your healing.If we continue with the previous example, don't beat yourself up for telling your "big mouth" friend your secret. Instead of thinking, "I'm so stupid. Why did I do that?" Think, "Well, I made a mistake. Everyone makes mistakes."

, If you believe that your friend has betrayed you, and you have not received an apology, re-frame the incident so that the blame is not placed on you. It’s imperative that you manage your own feelings about the situation in a way that is healthy for you so that you can move forward. Re-framing also helps you work toward forgiveness.For instance, instead of thinking that it's all your fault, think about how you now realize that your friend talks a lot and can't keep secrets. Although you know that now, you didn't know it at the time when you shared your secret. You made the best decision that you could at the time. If you could choose again, you would do it differently.
 For many people, the best way to let out frustration is to vent. So, choose a person who you trust that does not mind listening to you talk about the betrayal. You may want to choose a person who is far removed from the situation to avoid bias or any further conflicts among friends. Vetting helps you release your negative emotions about the situation.Try not to be too emotional or too negatively entangled in what happened. For you are stuck in avoidance or self-blame, you won’t be able to express yourself adequately.
Choose a person who is not likely to “have a pity party” with you. You don’t want your confidante to become sad and hopeless after hearing your story especially if you already feel that way. Choose a person who will remain positive and might be able to offer you good suggestions about what to do. If you’re not the kind of person who wants to vent to others, then there are other ways of getting out your frustration especially if you’re active person, or even if you’re not. Go on a walk or a run to release some of those negative emotions. If you play a sport, play with friends or kick a ball around. Boxing, kickboxing and even yoga all can be helpful ways to get your stress out of your body.Talk to another friend about your feelings of betrayal. If you don't have a friend or family member to talk to, then journal about it.

