 You're going to need an adequate space to do your workouts. You can use a room in your house if you can move the furniture to have enough room, although you might not have all the equipment you need. You can try to use gym equipment at your school before or after classes.


Be sure to talk to your gym teachers if you want to use your school's equipment. A gym or your school's equipment would be better than exercising at home, since you would have more weights and machines available, as well as someone to supervise for safety.
 Before every workout, you should always start by warming up your major muscle groups to prevent injuries and strains. A good way to warm up for a work out is to keep your body moving. The point of a warmup is to get your heart pumping while stretching out your stiff muscles to prepare them or the workout.If you're working out your upper body, a good warm-up exercise is arm circles. Rotate your arms in large round circles from your shoulder, and move them forward and backwards.
For legs, you can try jogging in place or kicking your knees up to your waists.
Always do torso twists, which is twisting from your waist to the left and all the way around to the right. You use your torso for almost every exercise, even if you're focusing on your arms and legs.
 Perform exercises to strengthen your muscles rather than strengthen your endurance. Endurance is good for running long distances, but muscle strength is what visibly builds and makes you look tough.


Make sure you're working out hard enough. If you can hold a conversation during your workout or you're not sore the next day, you may need to increase the intensity of your workouts., Lifting weights is a great way to build muscle and look tough. It can also be a sport, if you want to get competitive. Many schools offer weight-lifting as extra-curricular activities, and it's a great way to start looking tough if you don't have a gym. Also, it's a good way to make new tough-looking friends.


Lifting weights in high school can offer many benefits, but it might not always cause you to gain significant muscle right away. Don't be scared if you don't see immediate changes., A lot of "tough guys" you might see in school could be on the football team or the baseball team. High-contact sports require athletes to be tough in order to participate. Joining a sports team in school can help to not only strengthen your muscles, but it keeps your image looking tough, as well.


There are many benefits to joining a sports team. They can help you do better academically, which may not seem so tough, but is important for your future. They also improve health and fitness.What's better than a fit, healthy tough guy with good grades?

, Always shower after a workout. You've worked so hard to look tough, so don't ruin it by having poor hygiene and body odor. You can look tough during a workout, but looking and smelling like you just worked out doesn't always look tough in the hallways at school.


When you exercise, your goal is to sweat. The harder you work, the more you sweat, and the better your muscle-building goes. Sweating causes odor and accumulates dirt on the skin.Always shower after a workout to keep yourself fresh and clean, so you can be tough the rest of your day.
 During your workouts, your muscles use energy and need to rebuild. Protein helps rebuild your muscles. You should see a significant increase in muscle-building if you consume enough protein on a daily basis.You can get protein in a variety of ways. If you don't feel like eating chicken every day, you can chew on a protein bar. Choose the best way to get protein that fits your lifestyle.

