 Don’t indulge an unfaithful partner’s ego by acting jealous or possessive. Sometimes, people cheat to put themselves at the center of attention or because they don’t feel validated. By allowing yourself to get worked up, you’re giving them exactly what they want. Responding with total apathy shows them that you’re the only one in control of your emotions, which means you can’t be manipulated.It will take an incredible amount of self-control not to show anger or sadness, but as you make a conscious effort to display indifference, you’ll have an easier time putting things in perspective and letting go of negative emotions.
 Not everyone who gets cheated on decides it’s worth ending their relationship over. If you’ve been together for a long time, and especially if you’re married, there may be other circumstances to consider before simply turning your back on your partner. Think long and hard about whether it’s possible to rebuild and make things work or if it might just be time to move on. Whatever you decide, make sure it’s a healthy, productive course of action that’s going to be good for you in the long run.Don’t be afraid to end things. It can be hard when you’ve invested so much of yourself in another person, but you should be able to recognize when you’re just being hurt and walk away.If you and your partner decide to work on your relationship, you should make it understood that you both need to be willing to communicate openly about when your needs aren’t being met.
 As the old saying goes, "living well is the best revenge." Turn your partner’s weakness into your strength. Channel your anger into productive activities like exercise or putting time into practicing a creative hobby. Make it obvious to your cheating spouse what a mistake it was to give up someone as beautiful, talented and ambitious as you. It’s natural to feel less desirable after being cheated on, but if you channel those hopeless feelings into more positive avenues, you’ll emerge a more confident person better equipped to cope with grief.


You should be motivated by the desire to improve yourself, not by insecurity.
If nothing else, take some time to be alone and enjoy the benefits of solitude. Meditate, catch up on your reading or simply find a quiet place to sit and reflect. It is extremely important to reclaim your peace of mind., Your partner’s choice to be unfaithful has nothing to do with you. Don’t hold yourself responsible or look for reasons why they might have been driven to cheat. You might find yourself questioning whether or not you were attractive or fun or supportive or emotionally available enough to keep your partner satisfied, but this line of thinking is useless. The best you can do is accept what’s happened, acknowledge that you deserve to be treated better and move on with your life.Accept circumstances as they are. Don’t waste your time wishing things were different—instead, make the best of a bad situation and compel yourself to make a positive change in your outlook and ability to stand up for yourself in your relationships.
 If your partner is willing to endanger your bond by cheating on you, they've shown that they either can't or won't meet your needs. Once infidelity has been committed, it can be nearly impossible to restore trust and intimacy. In most cases, you'll be better off moving on and starting a new relationship. You owe it to yourself to be with someone who cares about you and appreciates the effort you put into your relationship. Life is too short to waste your time settling for less than what you deserve.Ending a relationship is never easy, especially if you've been together for a long time. Just know that the pain will gradually fade, and that you'll soon find happiness again.Don't let yourself become paranoid or distrustful because you've been cheated on. This will just make it harder to establish a strong emotional connection in the future.

