 IcyHot can be used to treat minor aches and pains of the muscles and joints. Products like IcyHot use menthol and methyl salicylate to cause the skin to feel cool and then warm. This effectively distracts your sense of feel away from the ache or pain beneath the surface of your skin.


Use IcyHot only on the skin. Do not use IcyHot on your face or in your nether-regions. Do not touch those areas of your body when IcyHot is on your hands.
Apply a thin layer to the uncomfortable area up to 4 times a day, but no more. Rub the ointment into your skin gently, but thoroughly. Wash your hands after applying this medication.
Do not use IcyHot, Biofreeze, or Bengay on skin that is cut, scraped, sunburned, or otherwise injured. Do not use this medication in proximity to activities or environments that will increase your skin temperature.
Since there are many products similar to IcyHot available at varied strengths, always read your medications’ labels and consult a doctor with any questions.
 You’re going to be dealing with a lot of aching, itching, and swelling. Consider taking a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). However, be aware that the chronic use of NSAIDs can lead to gastric bleeding and ulceration. Therefore, be careful how long you are on the medication. NSAIDs are available as various types of over-the-counter pain-relievers including:


Aspirin (such as Bayer or Excedrin). Take 650mg (usually two pills) every fours, with food. Do not give aspirin to children. Naproxen sodium (Aleve). Take 400-440mg twice a day, with food. Do not take more than 500mg in one day. Talk to your doctor about Aleve for patients under 13.Ibuprofen (such as Advil or Motrin IB). Ibuprofen may be ideal for ankle injuries because it is both a pain medicine and an anti-inflammatory.Take 200-400mg every 4-6 hours. Do not take more than 1,200mg in one day unless advised to do so by a doctor., If you are overwhelmed by your choices, then ask your doctor. Other reasons to talk to your doctor first are if you:Are over 60 years old.
Are pregnant or nursing.
Drink three or more alcoholic beverages daily.
Have liver, kidney, or heart disease.
Are taking medication to thin the blood, for high blood pressure, or have other bleeding problems. If you’re already taking aspirin to help prevent blood clots, always take your aspirin 30 minutes before any other NSAID., When taken for less than ten days straight, NSAIDs are safe for most people. That said, several studies have raised concern about bone healing and NSAID use. More studies have been recommended. Without definitive proof of negative effects, NSAIDs are widely considered useful medications in fighting pain for those with leg injuries, though some medical professional encourage the use of acetaminophen (such as Tylenol), which relieves pain but does not have anti-inflammatory properties.Do not take NSAIDs if you are at a high risk of bone healing impairment.