 When you have a new baby, you are going through a lot of changes. These changes aren't just physical. Pay attention to the emotional shifts that are occurring, too. Your emotional well-being is important when you are reestablishing a sexual connection with your partner. Start by accepting the changes that have happened. For example, you may notice that your breasts feel and look much differently.
That's normal. Try not to let your feelings about your body impact your desire to have sex.
Another common worry is that your body will feel differently to your partner after you give birth. It's possible that it might.
Accept that your body has physically changed, and that sex will be different for both of you. But that does not mean that it is not still good.
 Pregnancy and giving birth greatly affect your hormones. Your hormones likely will not return to normal until you start menstruating again. For many women, this doesn't happen until for anywhere from 4-12 weeks after giving birth.When your hormones are out of balance, your sex drive can vary. Many women will feel ready to have sex, but just as many won't feel ready for several months.
Remember that feeling either way is fine. And it's normal for your feelings to shift from day to day, and even hour to hour.
You will also be spending most hours of the day holding and caring for your newborn. When it's finally time to take a break, you may feel the need for some personal space. It's ok if you don't feel like being touched.
 Try not to think too much about what other people do. Your sex life is between you and your partner. You two should resume having sex when it is right for you. Having a great sex life after a baby may take some adjustments, which is normal. The best thing you can do is to be patient with yourself and with your partner.Some couples begin having sex 1 month after giving birth. Others prefer to wait 6 months. Give yourself time to feel ready to be intimate again.
If you feel nervous about sex, you won't feel aroused. Wait to try until you feel ready.
Take it slow. Once you feel ready for sex, be gentle and take the process slowly. This can help ease your fears about physical discomfort.
 It's hard to feel sexy when you are exhausted and stressed. Taking care of yourself emotionally and physically can do wonders for your sex life. Pamper yourself a little. You will feel relaxed and ready for amazing sex with your partner.Allow family and friends to help. When you're a new parent, you might feel the need to be with your baby 24/7, which is normal.
If a trusted family member or friend offers to give you a break, take them up on their offer. You and your partner deserve a little time for yourself.
Consider treating yourself and your partner to a relaxing activity. It might feel good to get a couples massage or go out for dinner.
Spending some time together as a couple can help you reconnect. This can inspire both of you to put more focus on recharging your sex life.
 It can be difficult to feel sexy after giving birth. Maybe you are stressed about losing the baby weight. Or perhaps you're uncomfortable looking at your stretch marks. If you don't feel confident in your body, it can be difficult to feel interested in sex.In order to start having great sex again, it's important to try to regain your confidence in your body. Remind yourself that your body is amazing--giving birth is no small accomplishment!
If you feel up to it, start getting some exercise. You can take a long walk or attend a post-natal yoga class.
Physical exercise can increase your confidence levels. Just make sure to clear it with your doctor before you resume your workouts.
Try cleaning yourself up. It can be easy to forget to shower or put on actual clothes when you're a new parent.
When you feel ready, dry your hair and put on an outfit that makes you feel good. This can make you feel more like yourself again, and ready for sex.

