 Remind yourself that there is nothing wrong with you, but rather something wrong with the bully and how they feel about themselves.Usually bullying comes from a place of anger, insecurity or hurt on the part of the person who is bullying. Even though they are saying things about you or doing things to you, it is not really about you. This in no way makes what they are doing okay, but it may help you understand why they are the way they are.


They may have only ever learned anger as a response to deal with different emotions.Their insecurities may cause them to call attention to the perceived shortcomings of others as to draw the attention away from their inadequacies.The old phrase “misery loves company,” if they are hurting they may just want others to hurt too., Knowing what type of bullying is happening to you, may better help you to determine how to best take care of yourself.It is recommended that you talk to an authority figure, no matter what.


Does the bully physically threaten you? If it is someone who physically threatens you, tell an authority figure immediately and develop a plan so you will be safe.
Are they a name-caller or someone who insults you verbally? Verbal bullying is just as serious and often more common.
Do they pretend to be your friend only to make fun of you? This type of bullying is known as relational aggression or emotional bullying and can sometimes be the most hurtful because the person is supposed to be your friend.
Are they someone who bullies you online? Bullying does not only happen at school or work; if they bully you online, they are a cyber-bully.
 If you are being bullied, some anger is going to build up and you're going to be upset. You may feel down or sad. Make sure that you are addressing your emotions while you are working through this.Talk to someone about it, maybe call your best friend. Talk to them about everything that's going on and how you are feeling.
Journal about what you are going through. You can even say all of the things you wish you could say to the bully in a letter and then tear it up.
If you are really struggling, speak to a professional about it.
 Write a list of qualities you like about yourself. Focus on how strong you are and how much courage it takes to rise above situations like this.


Use your self-worth to set up boundaries and enforce them with others. “It is not okay for you to comment on my weight, my body, what I eat, or what I do with my life.”Communicate your discomfort. Even a simple “wow” can communicate to the bully that their comment was over the line and unacceptable.
