 Part of being resilient is being able to solve problems and face challenges when they arise. When your child is nervous about something or faces a challenge, don’t tell them to give up or walk away. Instead, work with them to come up with a solution or a way to overcome the nerves.For example, if your child is nervous about going away to visit their grandparents, instead of telling them to stay home, help them to come up with ways to overcome homesickness. If your child is struggling with a subject in school, help them to come up with strategies to improve, such as using more effective study skills or asking the teacher for help.
You can say, "How can you improve your performance in that class?" or "How do you think you can get used to being away from home at night?"

, How questions encourage problem solving skills and creative thinking. When your child does something, ask them “how” they will fix it or address it instead of “why” they did it. The “why” is not important because the deed is done. The “how” of how the child will deal with it, both now and in the future, is more important.For example, if your child is struggling with a subject in school, ask them, “How will you improve your grade?” If your child is having problems with friends at school, ask, “How can you deal with those people?”

, Help your child learn how to achieve goals by learning goal setting strategies. Teach your children that no goal is going to be achieved immediately. Show them how to break goals down into smaller steps so they can notice progress even if the goal hasn’t been achieved yet.Explain to your child there is a difference between short term and long term goals. Tell them that they can have a long term goal that may take years, but make short term goals within the long term goals. For example, if they are trying to learn to play the guitar, the long-term goal may be playing an entire song. Short term goals may be learning to read the music, learning a few bars, or learning to play the chorus.
Help your child understand that sometimes, you make a mistake or get off track from your goals. A setback doesn’t mean complete failure. Explain how to be resilient when they experience small missteps by getting back on track and refocusing on their goals. Tell them, "If you get away from your goal, that doesn't mean you have abandoned your goals. Get back on track so you can achieve your goals.
 When your child is struggling with something, your first instinct may be to help them or do it for them. Instead of that, let the child figure out how to do it themselves. This helps your child improve problem-solving skills and independence, while helping them understand that no one is going to do things for them.For example, if your child is having trouble putting on their clothes, don’t put on their clothes for them. Let them figure it out. You may give them tips to put them on the right track.
 Another part of resilience is to keep trying even if things get too difficult. Some skills take a long time to master, and it can get frustrating as the child learns. They may feel like they want to give up. Instead of letting them give up, help them learn how to keep trying even if they are frustrated and how to keep going when things feel difficult.For example, you may encourage your child by saying, “I know it’s frustrating, but keep going! You are doing well. I know you can do it if you keep practicing.”

