 Notes consist of several parts. Like the lines and circles that make up the written English language, the lines and circle of the notes change how that note functions in its musical sentence. Understand the parts of notes in order to understand how they sound.


The head is the round part of the note. It can look like an open circle or a closed dot. The location of the head indicates what pitch the note should be.
The stem is the line which it attached to the head. It can point up or down, it does not affect the music (it is only determined by where on the lines the note is located).
The flag is the little tail which you may see coming from the end of the stem. There can be one flag or two.
 There are several common types of notes which are made by changing different things about the parts that make up a note. There are also rests, which indicate that no sound is played for a certain period of time. Here is a list of the most common notes:

A Whole Note: A whole note is indicated by an open head with no stem. These are indicated with a 1 in the time signature.






A Half Note: A half note is indicated by an open head with a stem. These are indicated with a 2 in the time signature.






A Quarter Note: A quarter note is indicated by a closed head with a stem. These are indicated with a 4 in the time signature.






An Eighth Note: An eighth note is indicated by a closed head with a stem and one flag.These are indicated with an 8 in the time signature.






A Sixteenth Note: A sixteenth note is indicated by a closed head with a stem and two flags.






Joined Notes: Eighth and sixteenth notes can be joined together by turning the flags into a bar which spans between them. These are indicated with a 16 in the time signature.
 There is no elegant way to put it: quarter rests look like a squiggle. Eighth rests look like a diagonal line with one tail, while sixteenth rests have two tails. Whole rests look like a bar in the upper half of the middle space, while half rests are in the lower portion.

