 You’ll want to use a strong paper, like cardstock, or a lightweight cardboard.


If you don’t want to go out and buy paper or cardboard, you can use a deconstructed cereal box or the cover of an old composition notebook, as these are an ideal weight.
If you’re uncomfortable drawing antlers freehand, find a free template online to print out and use as a stencil.Make sure the sections of your design are wide enough that they will be easy to cut. Your design just needs to represent an antler shape. It doesn’t have to be completely accurate to nature.
You want the antlers to be tall enough that they sit high above the head, but you don’t want them to be so large that they flop over. About 12” high is ideal, but feel free to customize and experiment.
You can use identical antler shapes for both antlers. You’ll just make sure that you glue on onto your headband facing the opposite direction of the other. Only draw one of the antlers.;
, Make sure to stay close to your lines. Cut slowly and carefully.


After you cut your first antler, use it as a template for the second. Place it on your paper or cardboard and trace around the edges.
Cut out the second antler.
 You’ll need more paper or cardboard to create this band. It doesn’t have to be exactly the same as the material you used for your antlers.


Wrap the edge of your paper or cardboard around the middle of your forehead until it reaches all the way around. Hold with your finger the place where the edges meet, and then mark this with a pencil on the paper. Mark again about another inch out from your first mark because you’ll want some overlap to attach the band.
With this measurement, cut a band from your material. It should be about 2 inches wide, but you can make it wider if you want more space to decorate.
 Brown is a typical color for antlers, but you can choose other colors you like more.


Use acrylic or craft paint. This gives a solid color and dries fairly quickly.When you paint your headband, only paint to the line you drew marking where the end should attach based on your head size. You want to leave a little unpainted space at the end of the band so you know where to attach it.
After the paint dries, you can add fancy touches to your creation with accessories like glitter glue, sequins, stickers, or pom-poms.
 After the paint dries, you’ll want to create your headband from the strip of paper or cardboard you cut out for it.


Use staples, glue, or tape, to fasten it together. Use your line as a guide for where to fasten it together. If you use glue, let the glue dry before you move on. Use a clothespin to hold the pieces together while the glue dries.
Try it on. Put on your headband to make sure it fits comfortably and slides far enough onto your head but isn’t too loose.
 You should connect the bottom of your antler pieces just slightly above the bottom of your headband.


Again, you can use staples, glue, or tape.
If you use staples, place a small piece of duct tape across the staple on the inside of the headband so it doesn’t scrape the wearer.
If you use glue, let it dry before wearing. Try placing the headband antler side down on a table and put small heavy objects, like paperweights, on top of the ends of the antlers to help them adhere as they dry.

