 There are many ways that a child or a teen under the age of 18 can be abused. It is possible that your mother's boyfriend is abusing you in ways that you are not aware of. There are five types of abuse that happens to children or teens:Physical abuse. This type of abuse consists of hitting, punching, slapping, pinching, kicking, choking, shaking or pushing. Offenses may leave marks like cuts or bruises.
Sexual abuse. This happens when an adult or someone much older touches your private body parts (e.g. breasts, buttocks, penis, vagina). The abuser may touch your private parts or tell you to touch his. No matter if you are curious or it doesn't hurt, sexual touching from an adult is not okay.
Verbal or emotional abuse. This kind of abuse happens without a touch. You may be verbally or emotionally abused when someone calls you names, makes you feel bad about yourself, or makes threats to leave or send you away.
Physical neglect. This happens when you are not having your most basic needs met. If your mother's boyfriend refuses to see to your basic needs, such as bathing, eating, and having a warm bed to sleep in.
 No matter what the abuser tells you, abuse is never the victim's fault. If your mother's boyfriend is hitting you, calling you mean names, or touching you inappropriately, it is his responsibility. Remember, you are not to blame., The first person you may want to tell about the abuse is your mom. Go to her when her boyfriend is not in the home. Describe to her the way he has been abusing you in as much detail as possible. Ask for help.


Unfortunately, there is a chance your mother will not believe you or tell you to keep the abuse a secret. Don't listen.
 Until your mother can get you and any siblings out of this situation, it's important to protect yourselves as best you can in the circumstances. Come up with a safety plan for yourself and your siblings if your mother's boyfriend is treating you abusively.Go over the plan with everyone. Agree on a "safe place" in the house or the neighborhood where you all can get out of harm's way. Identify friends or relatives you can call for help.
 If your mother does not attempt to help you or stop the abuse, do not give up. Keep telling an adult until someone listens. If you are afraid to talk about this in person, you can call someone on the phone or write a letter. Just be sure the abuser does not find out. Others you may be able to confide in may include:Family members such as older siblings, aunts/uncles, grandparents
Teachers, counselors, or nurses at school
The parent or older sibling of a friend
The person who answers the phone on the National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD

, Sadly, many kids go through similar situations of abuse in their homes. They may grow up to experience emotional, psychological, or behavioral problems. The earlier you tell someone and get help for abuse, the better your chances for recovery.