 You may be limited in the methods of remittance you can use with this method. For instance, you may only be able to apply for a wire transfer or Foreign Currency Demand Draft (FCDD). You may also be required to be an account holder at the particular bank. Whether or not you are an account holder, be prepared to:


Show identification, such as a passport
Give information on the recipient of your funds, including an account number to transfer the money to
Show proof of the purpose of your remittance, such as an invoice
Choose an account (checking, savings, etc.) to transfer your funds from;
, Log in to your bank’s online service, and look for a “transfer” or “remittance” option. You will need to give information on the recipient of your funds (including an account number to transfer the money to), and you may need to show prof of the purpose of your remittance, such as an invoice.
 These include Money2World, PayPal, or Book My Forex, and services offered by some banks to non-account holders.These are subject to a limit of $25,000 USD per month per transaction.


If you are not an accountholder at the institution making your outward remittance, you will need to provide proof of identification and residence (such as a passport).
You will most likely have to complete a one-time registration process, which will record your account number and other personal information. This information will be used to verify the remittance, and any that you would like to make in the future.
You may also be required to register and verify the recipient of your remittance. This is to protect the security of your fund, to prevent fraud, and to make future remittances more streamlined.
After you register with a funds transfer service, you will most likely have to wait a short period of time (such as 24 hours) before you can use the service for an outward remittance.
 Outward remittances sent in rupees are subject to more restrictions than those sent in foreign currencies. You can arrange to have money sent from India in a foreign currency, such as USD or Euro, as long as you have access to this money via a checking or other account. These foreign funds can then be sent in a variety of ways, including wire transfers and checks.


Be prepared to provide proof of the purpose of your remittance, such as an invoice.
You can purchase foreign currency from many banks as well as private currency exchanges.
You can also remit money in a foreign currency using an FCDD (available through many banks and financial institutions), although this will be converted from rupees, and therefore subject to the restrictions imposed by the Indian government.
 Outward remittances are typically restricted to certain purposes. You must also provide proof of the purpose, such as an invoice, bill, or debit note. The invoice or other document must be in the same name as the account requesting the remittance. You may send money from India when it will be used abroad for one of the followingEducation expenses
Emigration fees
Employment
Care for a close relative
Medical treatments
Visa fees
Police verification
Visits abroad for private purposes

, Most funds transfer services have limits on the amount on money that can be sent from India. For most purposes (called “Small Value Remittances”) the limit is $25,000 USD per financial year.One exception is the Liberalized Remittance Scheme, which allows Indian residents to send up to $125,000 USD per financial year for purchasing shares or debt investments in a company abroad.
You can remit up to $100,000 for medical expenses, and more if a doctor estimates a cost above this.
You may send $100,000 per financial year for medical, educational, employment, familial, or emigration expenses if you are an Indian resident. Corporations are not eligible for this program.
Accounts held by non-residents are not subjected to these limits.
 Typically, there is more than one way to send funds to a beneficiary via an outward remittance. Fees for the remittance will vary based on the type of service you use, and the amount of money you remit. Common ones include:Wire transfer. This method sends funds from one account to another quickly and electronically, in the amount you specify in your currency. The fees for this service may be relatively higher, but it is the best choice when you want to send a specific amount in your currency.
A Foreign Currency Demand Draft (FCDD) sends a specific amount in a foreign currency, and withdraws the equivalent amount from your account in your currency. Funds may be delivered as soon as the next business day. Common foreign currencies used are US Dollars and Euro; however, your bank may offer FCDD's in numerous others.FCDD's typically have lower fees than wire transfers, and are the best choice when you need to send a specific amount in a foreign currency.
 If you are an accountholder at the bank or service making your outward remittance, then the funds will be withdrawn from the account you have specified. If you are a non-accountholder, you will need to make a payment by check, draft, or cash deposit for the funds that you want to remit.