 If you prefer, you can call FINRA toll-free at 800-289-9999. Someone is available Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., You can check online to find the brokerage firm and the individual registered representatives of a brokerage firm. The term Broker technically refers to the firm or individual holding the license and the individuals who work for the firm are registered representatives. FINRA’s BrokerCheck website is located at http://brokercheck.finra.org/. You will need the following information to run a report on either the individual broker or a brokerage firm:Broker name.
Central Registration Depository (CRD) number (if you know).
Firm name.
 If you don’t remember the broker’s name, then you can search instead by entering your zip code and then a geographic range (e.g., within five miles of you). Click the search button.


A list of brokers will pull up. You can get individual reports by clicking on the red “Get Details” button beside the broker’s name.
A link is also provided to a detailed PDF report which you can download.
 FINRA will pull information from its Central Registration Depository on each broker or brokerage firm that you search for. The following information will appear in the report:Current registrations and licenses.
Industry exams passed, including the date of passage.
Registration and employment history for the past 10 years.
Firm profile and history, as well as active licenses and disclosures (if searching for a firm).
 The report will also contain information about certain disclosure events. You should pay close attention, because these could be red flags indicating that the broker or firm isn’t reputable. All registered broker-dealers must provide information about the following:Customer complaints.
Arbitrations.
Disciplinary actions.
Termination from employment.
Financial matters, such as bankruptcy filings or judicial proceedings.
Criminal proceedings.
Broker’s comments on the event.
 A report doesn’t contain certain information which you should be aware of as you read it. For example, you won’t find the following at BrokerCheck:The broker’s Social Security number or residential address.
An opinion from FINRA about a broker-dealer.
A guarantee from FINRA that the broker-dealer will do a good job.
Information that is too old. For example, bankruptcies more than 10 years old are removed.Information might also be missing if it is too new. For example, brokers have 30 days to update their professional and disciplinary actions. Once reported, the profile is updated usually by the next business day.
 Brokers also are registered with individual states, so FINRA recommends that you also check with your state regulator.States might have some information that FINRA does not.


You can find a link to your state’s securities regulator by visiting http://www.finra.org/investors/state-securities-regulators. Click on your state.
Depending on your state, you might have to call or check online. In Illinois, for example, you can call the Illinois Securities Department’s Registration Division at 800-628-7937., You can find more information about disciplinary actions from 2005 and later by visiting http://disciplinaryactions.finra.org/. You can search for disciplinary actions by using the broker’s individual or firm name, or their CRD number.


The disciplinary decisions will contain more information about any infractions committed by the broker and the surrounding circumstances. If you see disciplinary actions listed in the BrokerCheck report, then you should try to find the decision from the disciplinary committee so you can find out what rules they violated.
 Arbitration is like a lawsuit, except it is held before a panel of arbitrators instead of a judge. You can visit the FINRA website at http://www.finra.org/arbitration-and-mediation/arbitration-awards to find arbitration awards involving individual brokers or brokerage firms. You might want to see if a broker-dealer has been sued, and how much they had to pay their victim. You can search arbitration awards using the following information:


Case number.
Name.
Keyword.
Date of the award (use a range).
The document type (e.g., arbitration award, order to confirm, or order to vacate).
Forum that heard the arbitration.

