 Eating healthy, balanced, and regular meals can help you lose any weight and burn fat. Foods that have moderate fat, complex carbohydrates, and are high in nutrients, for example, are best for your general health.


Stick to a diet of about 1,200-1,500 nutrient-rich calories a day, depending on how active you are.You will get proper nutrition if you incorporate foods from the five food groups every day. The five food groups are: fruits, vegetables, grains, proteins, and dairy.You need 1-1.5 cups of fruit per day. You can get this from eating whole fruits such as raspberries, blueberries, or strawberries, or from drinking 100% fruit juice.Make sure to vary the fruits you choose so that you get a range of nutrients.
You need 2.5-3 cups of vegetables per day. You can get this from eating whole vegetables such as broccoli, carrots, or peppers, or from drinking 100% vegetable juice.Make sure to vary the vegetables you choose so that you get a range of nutrients.
Fruits and vegetables are an excellent source of fiber, which you need more of over 60. Not only will fiber keep you regular, but it can also help you ward off heart disease, strokes, diabetes, and improve your skin. Fiber will also help you to lose weight.You need between 5-8 ounces of grains per day, of which ½ should be whole grains. Grains include foods such as brown rice, whole wheat pasta or bread, oatmeal, or cereal.Whole grains are a good source of fiber, which helps counteract the slowed digestion that can occur with age.You need 5-6.5 ounces of protein per day.You can get protein from lean meats including beef, pork, or poultry; cooked beans; eggs; peanut butter; or nuts and seeds.These will also help you to build and maintain muscle.Aim for 2-3 cups, or 12 oz., of dairy per day.You can get dairy from cheese, yogurt, milk, soymilk, or even ice cream.These will help build and maintain strong bones and muscles, which get weaker as we age.Men 51 and over need 1000 mg calcium per day, while women need 1,200 mg per day. Take supplements if your dairy intake falls short of this goal.
Avoid excessive amounts of sodium in your diet, which is prevalent in mass-processed foods. Your sense of taste decreases as you age, and you may want to salt your food. Try using alternative seasonings such as garlic or herbs to help you avoid excess sodium and gaining water weight.;
, If you’re trying to lose weight, it’s a good idea to avoid unhealthy or junk foods, many of which are loaded with fat and calories. Potato chips, nachos, pizza, burgers, cake, and ice cream will not help you lose weight.


Stay away from starchy, refined carbs such as bread, crackers, pasta, rice, cereal, and baked goods. Eliminating these foods can also help you lose weight overall. These can cause spikes in your blood sugar and may exacerbate or lead to diabetes.Look out for hidden sugar in your food choices. As your ability to taste decreases with age, it may be difficult to detect a lot of sugar in foods, which can cause you to gain weight. Make sure to read packaging and look for terms that indicate sugar such as corn syrup, sucrose, dextrose, or maltose., While you may be excited to completely overhaul what you’re eating, it’s important to gradually make changes to your overall diet. This will help you stick to eating healthy.


You can slowly replace processed foods. For example, if you eat white rice with every meal, switch to brown rice and then gradually add more vegetables and less rice.
 Planning your meals in advance will reinforce good habits. It will also help ensure that you’re getting plenty of nutrients and may even save you money.For example, plan your breakfasts to help start off your day on the right foot. If you don’t have lunch meetings, packing a healthy lunch can help you avoid buying unhealthy fast foods. If you do have a lunch meeting, order the least processed and healthiest food on the menu, such as a salad.
 No person is perfect and sometimes you crave unhealthy foods. Allow yourself occasional cheat days to enjoy junk food or foods you wouldn’t normally eat on your plan.There is increasing evidence that allowing yourself to cheat occasionally and consciously will help you maintain your diet in the long run.Never berate yourself or let mistakes or cheat days derail your overall healthy habits. Setbacks are normal., Eating out can help keep you social and stimulate your mind after 60.But it can also cause a major setback for many diets because of processed, high fat and calorie dishes. Consciously avoiding certain foods and making good choices at restaurants when your with friends can help you reinforce your good eating habits, continue to lose weight, and stay mentally acute.Avoid unhealthy pitfalls like breadbaskets, fried foods, or dishes in heavy sauces such as fettucine alfredo.Salads or steamed vegetables and steaks are good choices of healthy and minimally processed foods.
Avoid buffets, which are often filled with unhealthy and processed food choices and can encourage you to overeat.Have whole fruits instead of processed desserts.