 Examples include smoke detectors, remote controls, garage door openers, and wall clocks. Moderate to high-current draw devices get regular use and need to have batteries changed every 30 to 60 days. These include video game console controllers, digital cameras, smartphones, and laptops.
 Depending on the amount of energy required, you may be better off with primary (disposable) batteries. This is because disposables - whether alkaline or lithium - lose power at a much slower rate than rechargeable batteries. Regardless of the power required by a device, rechargeable batteries will lose charge at a consistently higher speed. Therefore using them with low-current draw devices will actually be more expensive than using disposable batteries., Look in the battery compartment of your electronics and determine whether it uses AA, AAA, C, D, 4.5V, 6V, or 9V batteries.
 The four most common forms are nickel metal-hydride (NiMH), nickel cadmium (NiCad), rechargeable alkaline, and lithium ion (Li-ion). In terms of immediate cost alkaline batteries are the cheapest and lithium-ion the most expensive (in addition Li-ion batteries require a special charger). However, rechargeable alkaline batteries perform poorly with high-drain devices and so may be a poor choice. Between NiMH and NiCad batteries, the cost is equivalent, but ultimately NiMH are a better choice as they last longer and contain less toxic materials.


NiMH batteries will be the most cost efficient choice overall for all high current draw devices. The exception to this would be laptops, digital cameras, and cell phones, which would all be best suited to lithium-ion batteries., Although it seems counter-intuitive to saving money, buying a cheap battery charger will actually cost you more in the long run. This is because they work too quickly, overheating batteries, and causing progressive damage to their capacity.


Quality chargers will actually increase your battery's lifespan, because they observe the charging process and shut off when charging is finished to prevent any damage.

