 Sounds simple, right? Wrong... the idea is based on the real-life Stock Market, except in the game, we use turnips instead of shares. So, we should all know that you can't guarantee what will happen in situations like these. You can earn a healthy profit of around 16,000 - or you could lose a few coins. Or bell bags.


White Turnips are a slightly easier method than Red Turnips in some cases, but it can be the opposite. Firstly, you don't have to cater their every needs. Just sell it when Nook prices them right. But this is the hard part. The idea is to earn more than you paid for them, so if Joan offers a good price, reap. Buy enough white turnips that you will earn a good amount, but not so many that if you do have to sell them for less you won't lose as much. The trick is you have to sell before Sunday or they rot, so if you see a deal better than you paid for your turnips on Monday, but the rest of the days offer a price under what you paid, Monday would give you the best profits. But if you buy on the first day, sometimes later days offer a better price. It's confusing, but it's a game of chance. A trick to keep your turnips from rotting is to store them on a table in your Animal Crossing house. But this will reduce Happy Room Academy points and neighbor's star ratings they rate your room if they visit.
Red Turnips cost 1,000 bells per turnip. Some say that Red Turnips are easy money. Easy. Cinch. Not always the case, because unless you water your Red Turnip daily and look after it too well, it will die, losing 1,000 bells as a result.

To look after a red turnip, put it in a corner or place where villagers usually don't walk on, but make sure you will remember where it is. Then, simply boot up your DS to this game daily for about a week to water it. On the Sunday after you bought your turnip, dig it up. If it is healthy and you kept up your patronage to it properly, you will earn a large Red Turnip, worth around 16,000 bells, which earns you a 15,000 bell profit (since the turnip cost 1,000b to start with). So, if you are ready to be dedicated to your turnip, the results are pleasing.



