 Persuasive prompts direct you to make an argument that convinces another person of your point of view or opinion. You will need to use logic and examples to convince the other person.You may be trying to convince the tester who will read your essay, or you may be asked to write as if you were trying to convince a hypothetical person.
Other signals that you are writing a persuasive answer include "How do you feel about" or "What do you think about". If a prompt asks whether you agree or disagree with a statement, it is a persuasive prompt., This will depend on who your audience is. For example, if you have been directed to convince a hypothetical committee to fund a project, you will want to use logical, factual arguments. If you have been instructed to persuade your peers that school lunches are important, you may want to use more emotional arguments.


Cause and effect are a common persuasive thesis. For example, "Giving underprivileged students free school lunches raises their performance and makes the whole school better" is a cause and effect argument.Value is another common tactic. This type of argument emphasizes the importance of something. For example, "Allowing global warming to continue will destroy habitats for animals such as polar bears and penguins. We cannot allow our world to lose this rich wildlife.", These possible objections may even be in the prompt itself. Read it carefully and consider what possible objections could be.For example, someone might object that providing free school lunches places a burden on taxpayers, or singles students out as "poor" in the eyes of their classmates.
To refute these objections, consider the type of argument you want to make. If you're making a logical argument, use logical refutations. If you're making an emotional argument, use emotional refutations.
 Give the important context or information that your readers need to know. End with a thesis statement that tells the reader what you want to persuade her to believe.For example, if you are writing about the necessity of stopping global warming, you will need to identify what scientists believe are the main causes of it. End with your thesis that states that although it will be difficult to stop global warming, we cannot afford to lose the rich wildlife that global warming is destroying.
 Depending on the instructions in your prompt, provide body paragraphs that give your main arguments. In each paragraph, provide evidence or examples that support your arguments.


Most persuasive essays will include at least 3 body paragraphs., This paragraph usually comes right before the conclusion. Use the information from your brainstorming session to refute the point., Persuasive conclusions often end by restating the thesis and emphasizing the importance of the argument you have made. You can also include a call to action for the reader, or end with a quotation or question that encourages further thought.