 Attach the yarn to the crochet hook using a standard slip knot.


This pattern calls for a size G (4.25 mm) crochet hook and lace weight (#0) or super fine weight (#1) yarn, but you can easily adapt it for use with different hooks and yarn. Keep in mind that larger hooks and heavier yarns will create chunkier bows.;
, Work 45 chain stitches from the loop on your hook to create a foundation for the bow.


You can also vary the number of chains to create smaller or larger bows. The length of the foundation chain will be nearly six times as long as the final width of the bow.
A foundation chain of this size should create a bow measuring approximately 3 inches (7.6 cm) across.
 Single crochet once into the second chain from the hook, then work one single crochet into each chain across the foundation.


Your stitch count for this row should be one less than the stitch count of your foundation. If you started with 45 chains, you should complete 44 single crochets in this row.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail measuring about 3 inches (7.6 cm). Pull this tail through the last loop on your hook to fasten off the yarn.


Use a yarn needle to weave the start and end tails into the completed stitches. Doing so should hides these ends while further securing the yarn.
 Loop the completed strip into the shape of a bow.


You can either tie a basic bow from the strip or loosely fold the strip into the basic bow shape without tying it. Either option should work.
Make sure that the loops and tails of the bow are even on both sides.
 Cut 6 inches (15 cm) of yarn. Slide the new yarn beneath the center of the bow shape, then tie a basic overhand knot over the center of the bow.
 Wrap the long end of the new yarn around the center of the bow several times. Once you're satisfied with the way it looks, tie a knot at the back of the bow using both ends of the new yarn.


You should wrap the center at least four or five times to secure it. If you prefer a chunkier center, though, you can make additional wrap-arounds after that.
Use the yarn needle to weave in both ends of the center yarn when finished.

