 Fee simple title is ownership in land, which includes the surface, the subsurface, and the air above the property.If there are minerals below the surface, then the “fee simple” holder should own those mineral rights.


Fee simple title, however, can be carved up. Whoever owns fee simple title to land could sell the subsurface rights to the land, which includes the minerals below the surface. Furthermore, some minerals can be sold while the owner retains others.;
, If there are minerals beneath the surface of a piece of property, then your starting point will be to find the deed to the property. Look to see if you were conveyed fee simple title to the property.


You should understand that property deeds can be inaccurate. A property deed could state that it is conveying fee simple title when, in fact, the mineral rights were sold decades ago.Accordingly, you cannot trust the deed 100% and will probably have to do a title search.
 In order to make sure that your deed is accurate, you need to research the chain of title. By doing this search, you will try to find out if the mineral rights were sold off at some point in the past.To find a title search company, you can look in your phone book’s Yellow Pages. You may also want to hire a member of the American Land Title Association, a national trade association. You can find a company by visiting the organization’s website and clicking on the “For Consumers” link at the top of the page., Title searchers will agree to go back only so far in time. For example, some title companies might only trace the chain of title for 40 years.However, mineral rights might have been conveyed at an earlier point. Title companies may agree to go farther back in history.


To save on costs, you could ask a researcher to give you a “take-off.” A take-off is a listing of the books and pages where the relevant deeds and conveyances in the chain of title can be found. You can further specify that you do not want a list of all deeds in the chain of title but only those that convey mineral rights., If you know that you have valuable minerals underneath your property, then you might want to consider hiring a lawyer. A lawyer can perform a thorough title search, though he or she will probably be more expensive than a title company. Nevertheless, if you have valuable minerals under your property, then you will eventually need a lawyer to help you contract with a company to extract them, so developing a relationship with a lawyer soon is beneficial to you.


Some state laws have tried to make people more secure in their title. These laws create “marketable record title,” which could extinguish a prior ownership interest in your land.These laws are complicated for the lay person to understand. A qualified attorney, however, will be able to inform you of your legal rights based on your own unique circumstances.
To find an experienced mineral rights attorney, you should visit your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program. Once at the referral website, you should be able to search by lawyer specialty.
If “mineral rights” is not a specialty you can use to search, then look for attorneys who specialize in real estate, property, or land use.
 To begin your search, you need to go to the office for the county where the land is located. You should call your town office if you are unsure where the Deeds office is located.
 Offices preserve their records in different ways. Some offices may store all of their records electronically. Some may store newer deeds electronically while leaving older deeds in leather-bound books. Still others may have all of their deeds in paper form.


Show the staff your deed and inform them that you are searching the chain of title to look for mineral rights. Have a staff member show you how to search.
 To start searching the chain of title, you will begin with the land deed that immediately precedes yours. The person you bought the land from bought it from someone else. Accordingly, you need to see the deed used to transfer the land between those two parties.


Once you locate the copy of that deed, read it carefully. Look for mention of minerals or subsurface rights being reserved or transferred.Read the whole deed, including attachments or addendums.
 After you find the deed for the transaction immediately preceding yours, you need to find the deed for the transaction before that. Continue to work backwards, scrutinizing each deed. You need to go as far back in time as possible, preferably to the original land grant.


It is in your best interest to copy every deed that you find in the chain of title. These documents can be confusing to read and you might overlook something as you work in the Recorder of Deeds office. If you copy them, then you can take them to a lawyer to look over.
 This break in the chain of title causes a “gap.” Filling in the gap can be tricky. You can try the following:


Look at divorce records or probate files. These may be available from the court clerk (instead of the clerk at the Recorder of Deeds office). Interests in land can be conveyed by wills or in a divorce decree.Research tax sales.If the owner of a piece of property was delinquent on paying taxes, then the property may have been seized and sold as part of a tax sale. Records of tax sales should be held in the tax assessor’s office.
Look into mortgage foreclosures. Pay close attention to recorded mortgages on pieces of property. If the owner defaults on the mortgage, then the bank or other mortgage holder could have foreclosed on it and sold it.Accordingly, you might have to search for the bank as the parcel’s owner in order to fill the gap.
 If you find that mineral rights were severed from the fee simple estate at some point in time, then you will need to move forward to find out who the present owner is.Mineral rights can be conveyed just like any other interest in property, so you can’t assume that the person or entity that was given mineral rights in the past still holds those rights.


To illustrate: suppose you research the chain of title to your property and discover that in 1905 mineral rights were severed from the fee simple title to your property. Now you need to know who owns those rights today. The person who received the rights in 1905 probably either sold them to someone else or left them in a will.
If they were conveyed by deed, then you will need to research the chain of title forward in time, finding out who the rights were conveyed to.
If you find that mineral rights were severed, you should definitely work with an attorney to find the current mineral rights owner. This search could be like finding a “needle in a haystack.”Your lawyer will probably have to track down probate records, which can be difficult to find.

