 Before you can start stress management treatment, you need to work with your counselor to figure out the different kinds of triggers for your stress. Triggers can take many forms and will be different for each person. These triggers fall into four categories, which are:


Internal, which are the ones that relate to your personal feelings, goals, or expectation
External, which are stressful situations that happen to youAcute, which result from specific and situations that are new and unpredictable
Chronic, which results from continuous exposure to stressful situations, There may be stress triggers in your life that you can avoid. Work with your counselor to figure out which triggers you can remove from your life. This may be hard, especially if there are people in your life causing you stress.If there are people or certain situations that you can’t or don’t want to remove from your life, work with your counselor to figure out how you can make them better.
For example, if your friend’s constant discussion of wedding preparations are causing you undue stress, then you might ask her not to discuss her wedding planning as much when she is around you.
 When you go to counseling for stress management, you can learn how to reduce your stress by changing your thought patterns. Your counselor may use cognitive behavioral therapy techniques to help you identify your stress triggers and then turn them around to more positive ones.


Once you view the stressful situations in a more positive light, you will be less stressed on a regular basis.
For example, your counselor will help you take your stress reaction to getting stuck in traffic and turn it around to a more positive one. Instead, you can learn to think about it as more time to listen to your audio book, listen to your favorite music, or make phone calls.It may be hard to go straight from negative stress to positive. Try to make the situation neutral at first by thinking about how the situation will not affect your enough for you to stress about., A good way to relieve stress is to have more humor in your life. When you are stressed, you may be less likely to allow yourself to find humor and joy in your life. Work with your counselor to learn to laugh at yourself and the situations around you instead of getting too wrapped up in the stress.


Try to see humor in being cut off in traffic or other stressful situations.
If you can’t, go in search of humorous things, such as jokes or comedies, to help you laugh when you are feeling too stressed., Some of the stress triggers in your life can be solved and taken care of by you. Work you’re your counselor to determine which triggers you can come up with a solution to solve. Then work with your counselor to come up with a targeted stress management, problem solving scheme for those triggers that will lessen your overall stress.


This is especially true of internal triggers, which you put on yourself.For example, you may be stressed because you may be up for a promotion at work. Instead of stressing about the situation, come up with a plan that helps you perform your job so you know you are doing your best. Once you accept there is nothing else you could be doing to secure the promotion, you can let the stress go.

