 Many people can't interpret hunger cues, leading them to think they’re hungry when they’re not. If your hunger recognition is off, you can use some tricks to learn how to tell when you’re hungry.Think about when you last ate. Hunger cycles peak every 90 minutes or so, but if you ate within the last 2 or 3 hours, you’re probably not really hungry. (Obviously, you may have different hunger needs if you're an athlete or if your job is very physical.)
Chart your hunger on a scale from 1 to 10, where 1 is “totally full” and 10 is “I might die if I don’t get a pizza right now.” You may not be very accurate with this at first, but thinking about the scale will help you learn to think about your hunger in context.
Watch for physical cues. A rumbling stomach, headache, feeling weak or shaky, or feeling tired for unexplainable reasons may all be signs that you need to eat.Think about whether you’re hungry or just experiencing a craving. In many cases, if you’re craving a particular food, such as chocolate or macaroni and cheese, you may just want comfort from a specific taste.
 Research shows that how you think about what you eat and drink affects how full you feel. One study presented the same liquid as a soup and then as a beverage. People rated the soup as more filling even though they were given the exact same amount of the exact same liquid!You’re more likely to feel “full” if you think of what you’ve eaten as a meal rather than a snack.Putting everything you eat, including snacks, on a plate may help you control mindless eating. Using small plates will help you control portion sizes, too.Try scheduling your snacks to help you cut down. If you’re “supposed” to be eating at a particular time, you may be more mindful of what you consume.
 If you find yourself eating a lot between meals, try making your meals more filling. Research shows that feeling full, or “satiated,” makes you less likely to overeat.Foods with a lot of fiber, such as fruits, vegetables and whole grains, will help you feel full for a longer period of time.Foods that are high in water, such as vegetables and fruits, are very good for helping you feel full. Try to incorporate these into all of your meals. If you must snack, choose a handful of carrots over a handful of chips: 1 ounce of carrots contains a mere 25 calories, vs. 152 calories in 1 ounce of potato chips.
 If you’re the type to skip a healthy breakfast in favor of a latte, you might want to reconsider. Numerous studies show that people who skip breakfast are more likely to overeat throughout the day. They’re also more likely to eat unhealthy snacks, such as high-fat or high-sugar foods.Breakfasts low in sugar and high in protein are the best choice for feeling attentive and less hungry throughout the day.
Eating breakfast also enhances your attention and performance throughout the day.Because boredom can often stem from an inability to pay attention to your own thoughts and your environment, the cognitive boost from eating breakfast regularly may help keep you from getting bored.
 It takes up to 20 minutes for your brain to feel “satisfied” after you eat. If you eat your meals and snacks quickly, you may end up eating a lot more than you need because you haven’t given your brain time to catch up with your mouth.


If you have to have a chocolate bar, buy the miniature bars and eat only one. Research shows that you can learn to be just as satisfied by a small portion of a comfort food as by a bigger one., Research shows that keeping snacks and sweets visible and within reach, such as on your desk, increases consumption.Even having to get up and walk across a room for a snack significantly lessens your likelihood of snacking.

