 Sketch a circle in the center of your paper, making the diameter approximately one-third as large as you wish to make the finished lily.


This circle will become a hidden bud or base for the lily petals. You'll need to draw over it, so keep the pencil lines light enough to erase later.
 Draw two trumpet-shaped petals, placing them on the right side of the circle.


Trumpet-shaped contours are similar to teardrop-shaped contours, but the outlines should be curvier.
Both petals should be roughly twice as large as the circle.
The wide portion of one petal should point upward with the tip pointing down. Place this petal directly over the right side of the circle, allowing it to slightly overlap the circle itself.
The wide portion of the other petal should point down with the tip pointing up. It should touch the side of the circle and the side of the other petal.
 Draw two more trumpet-shaped petals, placing them on the left side of the circle.


Draw the top petal first, followed by the bottom one. Both petals should be attached to the contours of the first two, and the base of each one should be hidden beneath the existing petals.
The size of these petals should roughly match the size of the original two, and they should completely cover the remaining width and height of the circle.
Angle these petals in the same general direction as the first two petals.
 Place two small, pointed petals in between some of the other pairs. The first should go in between the top two petals. The second should go in between the two left petals.


These petals should be slightly curved but slightly straighter than the others.
Only draw the tips of each petal. Doing so makes it appear as though the lower portions are hidden by the upper petal layers.
 Carefully draw a smooth line down the center of each existing petal contour.


Keep each line in the center of its respective petal and curve the line along the curve of the petal. Extend it from base to tip, too.
 Draw five to seven lines sticking out from the center of the lily. Draw small, flat ovals at the end of each line to finish the stamen.


Each of these lines should be no longer than half the length of the longest petal.
Position the stamen so that they point out to the left. Let the top few curve upward, but give the bottom few a slight curve downward.
 Draw a horn shape coming from the base of the flower, then sketch a downward pointing stem at the base of this horn.


The horn should look like a "V" tips on its side. Point the wide portion toward the original circle and hide it beneath the petals. Angle the narrow portion away from the petals and do not close off the tip.
From the narrow tip, draw two parallel, curves lines. Both lines should point down. These will be the stem of the flower.
 Erase your starting circle and any other stray lines. Leave the lily as it is or add other details as desired.


Consider adding long, slivered leaves extending upward from the base of the stem.
Add shading or coloring to the picture, if desired. Use lighter shading or colors on the areas receiving direct light, but use heavier shading or darker colors on any area hidden by shadow.

