 This step only applies to kittens that are still with their mothers. The mother will stop allowing her kitten to nurse at around 4-6 weeks after its birth.That’s when her milk begins to dry up.


If the mother has fully weaned her kitten off milk, the kitten is probably about 7 weeks old. After 7 weeks, mother cats will no longer allow her kittens to nurse. You might notice that the kitten tries to approach its mother to nurse, but is swatted away and rejected.
A kitten of 7-8 weeks will begin leaving her mother more frequently and for longer periods of time for more adventurous exploration., A kitten’s proficiency in walking can indicate her age based on normal development. Kittens are unable to stand or walk around until they reach around 2 to 4 weeks of age.Until then, they spend their time snuggling up to their mother and siblings, sleeping, or nursing. If a kitten needs to move in the first few weeks, she does a belly-crawl.


Wobbliness and uncertainty when your kitten walks indicates that your kitten is around 2 weeks old. If your kitten is beginning to look confident in her ability to walk, she is likely older than 3 weeks.
Between 3-4 weeks, a kitten will begin to demonstrate the righting reflex, which is the ability to turn in mid-air to land on their feet.Around 4 weeks of age, the kitten will be able to walk more steadily and explore its environment. Its natural curiosity and playfulness will emerge with this increased mobility. Kittens of this age will begin to show pouncing behavior.A kitten who can run is at least five weeks old. , Although the eyes and ear canals begin opening in the second or third week of life, those senses are still developing at an early age. Response to external stimuli indicate an age of about 3.5 weeks.
 A healthy kitten will grow more confident around the fifth and sixth weeks of its life. This is due, in large part, to its growing coordination and mobility. A kitten of this age will begin exploring its environment more fearlessly than a younger, more hesitant kitten.


By 7-8 weeks, a kitten should be highly coordinated and mobile. She will enjoy running around, playing and socializing with humans and other pets, and exploring higher spaces by practicing its jumping motions.

