 It's important to buy a car seat that feats neatly into the back of the car. If the seat is too big you will not be able to secure it properly, which is unsafe for the child. Measure the available space in the back of your car to figure out the maximum possible car seat size.


If possible, test out the car seat before buying to ensure that it fits comfortably into the back of the car. Most stores will be happy to let you do this.Also consider how the size of the seat will affect any other passengers. If you need to fit two more children into the back of the car, you will not want a car seat that takes up too much space and makes them uncomfortable.
 Shop around before buying a car seat to ensure that you find the right one for your needs, at the best possible price. Go to a number of stores to compare car seat styles and prices.


Figure out if you're eligible for any discounts or if you have any coupons that you could use at a particular store.
Shopping online is another option, but it's usually best to see the car seat in person and test to make sure that it fits into your car before you buy. If you do decide to buy online, make sure you check out customer ratings and reviews before you order.
Another good option is to find the car seat that you like in a store (where you can test it out) then see if you can find the exact same car seat online, at a cheaper price.
 When buying an infant car seat, look for one that will be easy to carry. This is important, as you will spend the next few months carrying your baby in and out of your house, into stores and to visit family and friends.


To test out the seat, place something heavy (like a stack of books) into the seat and try carrying it around the store for a few minutes. This will give you a good indication of whether it's comfortable and easy to carry.
 What type of material the car seat is made from is another important consideration. Ideally, you should choose something natural and breathable, like cotton. This will prevent the child from getting too hot and sweaty in their seat.


Additionally, you should choose a material that is smooth and easy to clean. Anything that has grooves or rough weaving (like corduroy) will trap dirt and be more difficult to clean.
 It's a good idea to place your baby or child in the seat before buying to make sure they are secure and comfortable in it. There are several things you should look for:


The baby/child should not be bent or hunched over when the straps/belts have been secured.
The baby/child should be able to move their arms and legs, but in a limited fashion.
The baby/child should be sitting upright, rather than tilted to one side.

