 After you finish printing or drawing your design on your stencil, you will begin to cut it. Cut on top of a cutting board or a piece of cardboard using an X-Acto knife, carefully carving away the more detailed sections of your stencil where you want the paint to be applied.If you are using a photograph that you altered as the base of your stencil, cut away the black areas or the areas you colored, in the case of multi-color designs.
If you are cutting a stencil that is based on a design you made, cut away the areas that you shaded. The shaded areas indicate the places where the paint will be applied.
It’s best to cut away the smaller shapes first rather than the bigger sections because as you cut more material away, the less stiff and more flimsy the material gets, giving you less control over your cuts.
Cut slowly and carefully while holding the stencil down, keeping your fingers away from the blade of the knife.
 After you have cut out the more detailed parts of your stencil, go back in with the X-Acto knife and focus on the larger sections of your design. Remember that it’s always better to shape sections gradually than to accidentally remove too much of an area and mess up your design., By this time, you should be nearly finished cutting your stencil. Place your stencil against a black piece of paper and stand back. The black cut outs should give you an accurate idea of what your design will look like once you spray your stencil.

If notice that your design needs alterations, refine it until you are happy with how it looks.
 After you finish cutting out your stencil, it’s time to create your artwork! Stick your stencil to the walls of a graffiti park, a large canvas, or wherever you are planning on painting.


If you have a basic stencil without a lot of intricate details, you can simply place your stencil on the surface, then tape it on all four sides using duct tape.
If your stencil has a lot of intricate details, it’s better to use spray adhesive, which will ensure that all the areas of the stencil lie flat.
To use spray adhesive, place the stencil on the ground with the side you will be pasting to the wall facing up. Hold a can of spray adhesive about a foot from the stencil, then spray evenly over the entire surface of the stencil. Lift up the stencil by the corners, then place it against the wall and use your hand to smooth over the stencil so it sticks to the wall.
Make sure that the stencil is flush against the wall. Gaps between the stencil and the wall may let paint cover areas of the design that are meant to be blank.Keep in mind that you should always paint in a well-ventilated area.
 Spray paint is toxic, and can cause brain damage if inhaled excessively. To protect yourself and keep your hands clean, put on a face mask, such as a doctor’s mask or ideally a respirator. Also wear disposable gloves.

You can also wear a bandana across your face, though a mask or respirator is more effective.
 Give your bottle of spray paint a good shake so that you can hear it rattle. Then hold it about nine inches (22.8 cm) from the wall at a 90-degree angle and spray. Move your hand in a controlled, constant movement to avoid dripping.


It’s better to spray in thin layers rather than to heavily paint section by section. Keep your hand moving constantly in left to right lines, and don’t worry if you haven’t completely covered a section, because you can add more layers.
Try to use spray paint bought from an art store that is meant for making art. Brands of spray paint meant for painting furniture are lower quality, and they have a tendency to drip and apply patchily.
When you are spraying, try your best to only spray inside the stencil. If you spray around the stencil, it will create blurry lines around your design that will detract from your art.
 After you have sprayed over the entire stencil, look carefully at the painted sections. Spray over any sections where the paint looks translucent. Also look at the edges of your design and spray over any places where the edges look blurry to help make them crisp and defined., If you have created multiple stencils, paint one color at a time. Begin with the dominant color, usually black, which you may have used to outline the image. Trace around the corners of the stencil so you know exactly where it lies on the wall.After you finish the stencil in one color, pick up the next stencil and place it on the wall, referring to the crop marks you made. Then paint the second color. Continue until you have filled in all the colors.
 Wait around thirty seconds, then carefully remove the stencil from the wall, either by removing the tape and pulling the stencil slowly from the wall, or by peeling it gently away from the wall if you used spray adhesive. With your stencil removed, you can admire your newly completed piece of art!