 If you are nervous about public speaking, flirting on dates, or doing a good job at work practice can make you more confident and alleviate nerves. The more experience you have, the more used to the situation you will feel. If you are nervous about dating, try getting a friend to go on a practice date with you. Go to the place where you plan to have your date and practice having conversations and doing the activities you will do on the date.
If you are nervous about public speaking, seek out opportunities to practice talking in public. Volunteer to talk in your class at school when there are opportunities. Attend a public meeting and voice your opinion.The more you get a chance to practice, the less nervous you will be.;
, Preparation for the specific task that makes you nervous will make you feel ready and self-assured.For a big meeting, plan out how the meeting will unfold and outline important information you may need so you can have it ready.
For a job interview, do research on the company and the position so you can speak knowledgeably. Try to think of some potential questions that may come up and plan out your answers in advance.
For a date, think about questions you can ask your date about themselves. If there are any lulls in conversation you can have an interesting question ready and not have to come up with things to say.
 Visualize yourself doing well and not being nervous. Walk through the event that makes you nervous in your head and imagine yourself calm and successful.For a date, imagine the date going well and that you both are relaxed and having a good time.
For a big speech, visualize yourself in front of your audience. Think about yourself giving a relaxed and successful presentation. See your audience enjoying your speech.
 Try to relax yourself ahead of time to reduce nervousness. Take a few minutes before situations that make you nervous and try to work out your nervous energy and get relaxed.


Try sitting in a dark, quiet room to calm your mind.
Progressively relax your body. Tighten and then relax each of your muscles. Start at the top of your body and work your way down. Tighten your shoulder muscles then relax them. Tighten your arm muscles then relax them, and so on.
Go for a walk to get out some nervous energy and clear your mind.
 Try to think about your breathing and take slow, deep breaths.Thinking about breathing slowly not only calms you down physically, but can also distract you from your nervousness.
Take ten deep breaths while thinking about the air moving in through your nose, filling your lungs, and moving out through your mouth. This might make you feel focused and calm.
 Use some simple steps to avoid sweating too much when you are nervous.


Wear cooler clothes.
Use a strong antiperspirant.
Avoid wearing hats.
 Even if you feel nervous try not to fidget around nervously.


Stand still instead of shifting your weight from side to side.
Hold your hands loosely at your sides instead of making nervous gestures.
Hold a pen in your hand if it helps you remember not to fidget.
 Ask yourself why you are nervous and whether your feelings are really founded. Think about what could really go wrong and consider that the worst outcome you imagine would not be so bad.
 Others can not tell how nervous you are so don't worry about appearing too nervous. Often people feel much more nervous than they appear.