 Do not assume that an insect repellent works against ticks. Make sure you read the label to verify the product is effective at repelling ticks.Effective tick-prevention products that you apply to the skin generally contain DEET.
The CDC recommends repellents that contain 20% or more of DEET.
 These repellents contain potentially dangerous chemicals and should be applied carefully, making sure to follow the product’s specific instructions.Avoid the hands, eyes, and mouth.
It’s a good idea to talk with your child’s pediatrician or a medical professional about the safety of using these products on children.
If you are pregnant, check with your doctor about whether it is safe to use this product.
Reapply the product every few hours or as instructed.
Wash the repellent off when you go indoors.
 Ticks are often located at the ground level, and spraying your shoes with repellent will greatly reduce your risk of tick exposure.Think of this as one of the first lines of defense to prevent tick bites.
 Permethrin has been shown to be highly effective at repelling and killing ticks, but it should not be applied directly to the skin. Instead, you apply the product to clothing and it offers protection through multiple washings.You can find repellents with permethrin at sporting goods, camping stores, and online.
Read and follow product instructions.
Don’t forget to apply the repellent to the inside of your clothes to prevent tick bites if ticks crawl under clothing.
If you would rather not apply the product yourself, you can research and purchase clothing that has already been treated.
Clothing that has been commercially treated with permethrin, usually offers longer-lasting protection through more washes.
 If you have concerns about the potential health risks of applying chemicals directly to your skin or on your clothing, try researching and testing natural tick repellents.There are many different products you can purchase or recipes that you can make at home that claim to repel ticks.Many of these products and recipes contain essential oils such as lavender, rose, geranium, and cedarwood.
As with any product, read and follow the instructions carefully.
It’s better to be cautious and talk with your doctor and/or veterinarian before applying natural or homemade products to your children or pets.
 Repellents that are safe for you are not necessarily safe for your pets. Make sure you apply a product that says it is safe to apply to pets.It’s best to talk with your veterinarian about the right tick-preventative for your pet.
Products are available in many different forms such as creams, collars, or pills.
Many pet stores carry products to repel ticks, but veterinarians can make sure you know how much to use and offer tips on application.

