 Rather than writing about everything and anything, it is best to find a theme to focus your writing. If you have a passion for food, consider focusing your study abroad blog on the local food culture. If you have a passion for sports and exercise, consider whether you want to focus your blog on the local sports scene. Once you have a theme, search out opportunities to learn more about it in your travels., Read relevant books, articles, newspapers, and other sources that relate to the theme of your blog. Take notes during your research and try to include appropriate references in your blog posts to relevant books, articles, films, or other sources.


If you decide to focus on the local food culture, try to find existing books and articles about this topic. You might want to read restaurant guides for the area you are visiting or local restaurant reviews.
 Take a small notebook with you wherever you go. In your notebook, write down observations of things you see, smell, hear, touch, and taste. If you are focusing on local food culture, you will may want to pay special attention to taste. If you are writing about art and architecture, you will want to attend to all of your visual impressions. Use your notebook observations when you write your blog posts., Start by writing in your private travel journal. As you write, consider what observations and reflections you would want to share with a wider audience. Reflect on your personality and the tone you would like to convey in your blog. If your friends think of you as a funny person, think about how you could convey your sense of humor on the study abroad blog. If you are more of an introspective and quiet person, think about the kinds of reflections you would want to share., Bring your camera with you wherever you go. Take pictures of the places you visit, the people you meet and the things you do. When you compose a new blog post, choose one or two pictures that illustrate key themes in the post.If you don’t have a good picture for your post, you can also find images on creative commons. Creative Commons is a charity that allows people to use and share images in a legal and open way. It distributes free licenses that allow people to specify the rights they wish to waive for the benefit of creators and which rights they wish to retain. You can find images that are free to use on Creative Commons.
If you use something that is not your own and not from Creative Commons, you will have to get permission for the use of the image in your post.
 Think about the kinds of stories and reflections that your audience will most appreciate. You may have future study abroad students as part of your audience, so you should consider including posts that you think they might find useful. If you have learned something on your trip that you think others would find useful, include it in your post. If family or friends are following your blog, consider the kinds of stories that they might enjoy hearing., You will need to post on a regular schedule in order to build an audience for your study abroad blog. Try to be realistic about your time and the expectations from your readership. If you think you can post once a week, try to stick to it so that your audience knows when to expect a new post. Regardless of how frequently you can post, try to stick to a regular schedule.