 VOCs are chemicals that easily escape into the atmosphere through common use around the house. Check the front label of household products to determine if they contain VOCs.


Examples of common products include nail care products (acetone, ethyl alcohol), paint strippers or adhesive removers (methylene chloride), and aerosol spray products (butane).Check the National Institute of Health's household product's database for more information about specific products and their ingredients.Shop for "green" products that don't contain VOCs.
If you must use VOC products, buy in small quantities that can be used quickly instead of stored. If you must store the product, do so in a tightly sealed, original container, in a well-ventilated area.
 Gasoline emissions is one of the major causes of smog--whether from vehicles or lawn equipment. Try eco-friendly lawn mowers, hedgers, trimmers, or any other lawn equipment that can be powered electrically.


You can also avoid mowing altogether by changing the material in your yard. Opt for artificial grass, succulents, hard landscapes, or rock gardens to do away with mowing forever.There are also "real grass alternatives" that look and act like traditional grass turf, but require less maintenance., When you buy products that are made locally, it cuts down on the cost of transport which reduces emissions. Local farmer's markets and grocery stores can help you determine where items were produced.


There are many sites online that link local buyers and sellers such as Direct Local Food, GrowBuyEat, and AgLocal.Besides farmer's markets, try local farmer's stands, farms, and wineries.
There are even many restaurants that are joining the movement towards supporting locally grown items.Make a community garden. Grow vegetables and fruit for your community and local distribution.
 The less energy you consume at home, the less pollutants that are released into the atmosphere. There are many ways to decrease energy consumption including through lighting, heating and cooling, and appliance use.


Replace your old incandescent light bulbs with energy saving halogen incandescents, CFLs, and LEDs which can be found at your local hardware store.For heating and cooling try energy-saving thermostats that automatically reset temperatures while you're away from home.
Shop for energy-efficient appliances that use less energy such as washers, dryers, refrigerators, and dishwashers.

