 Once you have cleared time in your schedule for me-time, you need to decide how to spend it. One fulfilling way to make the most of any free time you get is to engage in your interests. Even if you only have 30 minutes to dedicate to it, having a hobby helps you manage stress, offers an opportunity to make new friends, and adds a layer of intrigue and meaning to your life.Start back doing something you stopped like sewing, playing soccer, baking, or bird-watching. Your hobby can be virtually any activity that brings you joy.
If time for yourself doesn’t necessarily translate to time alone for you, invite a friend or partner to join you. The two of you can strengthen your bond and relax during this stressful time of year.
You might also consider finding an accountability partner to encourage you. You will be more likely to engage in an activity if you have someone counting on you.
 Being prepared for leisure time means you won’t spend your precious moments searching around for what you need to relax. Depending on your preferences, fill a box or bag with all the essentials you need to unwind. Keep the box in the same place, and the items fully stocked, to save time.


If loved ones are asking for gift ideas for you, think of things they might be able to add to your self-care box.
Think of your self-care box as a first aid kit for your mental wellness.Include various items for rest and relaxation such as bath salts or bombs, tea, chocolate, headphones, a journal, a coloring book, or a spine-tingling novel.
 Another way to spend your special time is by taking a quick power nap. The holiday season can lead to nights up catching up on work before the break or early mornings making Christmas crafts with the kids. If you’re experiencing an afternoon slump, consider getting some shut-eye to reenergize.


Naps are actually good for you. Taking a 20-minute nap can boost alertness, lift your mood, and reduce tension., Spending a few minutes recognizing all that you’re grateful for in your life is a wonderful practice to cultivate during the holidays. Expressing gratitude improves your own well-being and that of the people you express it to.


Spend your me-time writing special notes on holiday cards to thank all the people who make you life full such as friends, coworkers, neighbors, and relatives.
You might also spend a few minutes each day writing in a gratitude journal. Jot down 3 to 5 things that you are thankful for.