 Until he comes home with you, odds are your miniature schnauzer puppy has only known life with his mother and siblings. Give lots of love and attention in your first few days together and let him gradually adapt to his new home., Miniature schnauzers are smart and highly trainable, but they can also be independent and stubborn. To effectively train your puppy, start soon after he comes home. Be calm and assertive, as well as consistent.Training your miniature schnauzer puppy to sit is a good skill to start with, since it will be the basis for many of your commands.


Miniature schnauzers are motivated by positive reinforcement (like praise) and treats.
They get bored easily, so keep your training lessons short.
 Barking can be a hobby for your miniature schnauzer puppy, so you need to work with him early to avoid problems with this. When guests enter your home, for example, command your puppy to stay and sit so that he doesn’t jump and bark at your visitors. Then reward him with a treat when he complies.Miniature schnauzers tend to bark when bored. When the dog starts to bark continuously, distract him with your voice or hand gesture. When the dog stops and looks at you, offer a toy or a walk. If you offer the toy while the schnauzer is still barking, the puppy may learn to bark for a reward.
 Introducing a crate while your miniature schnauzer is still a puppy helps your dog get comfortable with being confined. This is useful if he ever needs to be hospitalized or boarded in the future. Additionally, if you put his bed in the crate at first, he will have a sense of security in that confined area that may help him sleep.Be sure to leave the door of the crate open so your dog doesn’t feel trapped while inside., To housebreak your miniature schnauzer puppy, you will need to be consistent and firm in your commands. Choose a potty spot and command that you will use every day. Also, since puppies have small bladders, take your puppy outside each hour for a potty break.


Praise your puppy each time he goes in your designated potty spot.
Take your puppy out for a break within 30 minutes of eating.
If you need to leave your puppy for 3 or more hours at a time, use pee pads to offer a spot for your puppy to relieve himself.