 To sweeten a drink without leaving sugar granules to sink in the glass, bartenders dissolve the sugar in water to make a simple syrup. You'll want to start with granulated sugar (or superfine/caster sugar, which will dissolve faster), but choosing the variety depends on your cocktail:White sugar creates a clear syrup, which won't discolor white spirits such as vodka and gin.
Raw sugar has a rich, molasses flavor, excellent in many drinks based on whiskey, rum, or other dark spirits. Turbinado and demerara are two similar sugars commonly used in cocktails.
 If you're following mixing instructions that call for simple syrup, the author probably means 1 part sugar to 1 part water. Many bartenders prefer a "rich simple syrup" of 1.5 or 2 parts sugar to 1 part water. This lets you sweeten a cocktail with less syrup per drink, reducing the amount of water in the cocktail.A rich simple syrup also lasts longer in the fridge, up to several months."Simple syrup" may refer to the 2:1 recipe in the UK., For more accuracy, weigh the ingredients on a kitchen scale to get the ratio you chose.If you don't have a kitchen scale, you can use measuring cups instead.


Most cocktails use ⅛ cup (30 mL) simple syrup or less. Most home mixers can safely start with 1 cup (240 mL) water, unless they have party plans.
 Turn the stove to medium heat. Stir constantly until the sugar has completely dissolved, with no granules visible. This usually only takes a few minutes, but a larger or more sugar-saturated batch may take longer.


Don't let the mixture boil, as this will evaporate water and throw off your careful measurements., As soon as all the sugar has dissolved, remove the syrup from the heat. Let cool to room temperature before using.
 The 1:1 syrup lasts about 1 month in the fridge, while the rich 2:1 recipe lasts 3–6 months. To increase the lifespan before it goes moldy, take the following steps:


Sterilize a jar or bottle by pouring boiling water into it and over the lip and lid. Pour out the water and fill the jar with syrup.Add a spoonful of vodka to the syrup for further preservation.This shouldn't noticeably affect the taste in cocktails.
 Simple syrup works wonders in practically any cocktail that calls for a sweetener. Here are a few examples:

Long Island iced tea
Any mojito recipe
Daiquiri
Holy Poli

