 In your lectures, instead of relying on vocal descriptions or audio lectures alone, incorporate more visual materials in your lectures. This will give your deaf student a visual representation of the concepts to which you are describing, which will make it easier for them to understand it before they see your notes.


You can do this easily with computer presentations using computer programs such as Microsoft PowerPoint or online presentation tools such as Prezi.
Make sure you provide captions for any image you use so your student will know exactly what the visual examples represent.
Try to relate similar or previously discussed concepts together by linking their visualizations. This will not only help your deaf students make the connections, the visual reminders will also help your other students as well., If you are showing a film in class, avoid those that lack captions. In these situations, your deaf student may miss out on a key point in your lesson by missing the contents of the video.Most store bought DVDs have closed captions. Make sure to play these when you watch a video in class.
There are online services, such as the Described and Captioned Media Program, that provide 1,000s of videos already embedded with captions. YouTube also has a closed caption option if you are able to find your video clip uploaded there.If you cannot provide captions, look for a transcript of the contents or ask a fellow student to transcribe the video for your student so he will be able to receive the information.
 If you know you are going to have a lecture heavy day, give a print out of your lecture notes or class summary to your deaf students. These can be helpful in digital form so your student can annotate them while he is in class.


Being able to see a written version of your lecture will help your student relate any activities in class to the concepts you write down. These will be helpful in conjunction to the notes he receives of your live lectures., If you add new information in a lecture that is not in notes given to your student, use an overhead projector to communicate this information. You can also use a projector to give visual examples if your deaf student is having trouble understanding a concept.This method is also helpful to communicate homework or other time sensitive information not covered in his notes.
 When you are trying to accommodate a deaf student into your classroom, contact your institutions Office of Disability Services. They will have knowledge of what policies are already in place for your school and how you can get access to them. You should also ask your student if he has preferences about what technology would work best for him.


If you already have ideas about what your student prefers, take these ideas to the Office of Disabilities and see if they will can help. If not, present your student with what is available and see what he would like to use the most.

