 These signs are a dead giveaway that you have a termite infestation.Termites are similar in appearance to winged ants. Unlike ants however, termites often shed their wings.Termites will leave worm-like mud tunnels that are visible on the surface of walls within your house. These tunnels are used to protect worker termites.To determine if it’s an ant or a termite, look at its antennae. If they are bent, this is a sign you have flying ants. If they are straight then they are termites.;
, Termites like to live in dark, damp places and will often bore into wet wood to find a home.Look for sawdust like material around any holes or cracks around your house.


The sawdust like matter is known as frass, which is a form of termite excrement.Probe the small holes with a pin or other thin object to see if you can locate an exit hole for the termites., Termite tunnels that run too close to the paint on the surface of a wall will leave blisters and cracks.This is a sign that termites have created colonies in the walls of your house.


Common places to look include your door, window frames, trim, perimeter, walls, and baseboards, especially if your house is constructed of wood.Check any place in your house that contains wood if you suspect there are termites.
 Termites are capable of breaking down cellulose in wood which creates a digestible food source for them.Sometimes this can include entire walls.


Solid walls should make a thud noise and sound like there is something behind it.
If your walls make a hollow or echoey sound when you knock on them, there’s a good chance your walls are hollow and you have termites., Termites are attracted to wet wood, whether it be a part of your house or a wood pile next to your property. These are the most likely places you’ll find termites, so examine these areas of your property carefully.


Leaking pipes over wood flooring make a perfect breeding ground for termites.
Recycle leftover wood after you landscape to prevent your property from attracting termites.

