 Most rape survivors feel some guilt and shame from being raped, but you have to realize and remember that you did nothing wrong. There is nothing you could have done to make someone do this to you.Rape is the fault of the perpetrator and in order to deal with it and move on, you can’t blame yourself for what happened.


Don't believe anyone who says it's your fault. It is a myth that males cannot be raped. Your experiences are real and they matter.
You might tell them, “It bothers me that you don’t believe me. But it happened and it was not my fault.”
Look in the mirror and tell yourself, “What happened is not my fault. I am not to blame for being raped.”
Write in your journal about the rape as if it happened to someone else. This can help you see that you didn’t do anything wrong.
If you were very young during the attack, remind yourself that the other person likely targeted you due to your age. You were innocent and had no way of stopping what happened.
 There may be times that something triggers a memory and strong emotions about the rape. You may find yourself anxious or even having a panic attack. Coping strategies like deep breathing can help you deal with the feelings and physical reactions you may have.Take a deep, slow breath in through your nose.
Hold it for a count or two, then exhale slowly through your mouth. Repeat this a few times.
 Using meditation techniques can calm you down in the moment if you are experiencing a panic attack or other negative effects of being raped. These strategies can also help you cope long-term with being a male victim of rape by keeping you calmer and more peaceful in general.Try to find somewhere quiet, with few distractions. Sit or lie in a comfortable position.
Clear everything from your mind and try to focus only on your breathing or how you are feeling in the moment.
 The trauma of rape can affect you mentally and emotionally, as well as impact your eating and sleeping habits. Altogether you may feel tired, cranky, or unfocused. You can deal with being a rape survivor better if you take care of your body as you also heal your mind and emotions.Go to sleep and wake-up at regular times each day. Establish a bedtime routine to relax you and a morning routine to energize you.
Make healthy snack choices and have balanced meals. Avoid skipping meals or binging.
Avoid alcohol and drug use. Substance abuse won’t help you deal with being a male victim of rape and may even cause you other problems.
 Being active is great for your physical health and well-being. It can also release tension and stress that you may experience as a result of the rape.

Do a group activity like a team sport so that you can be around people doing something fun while you are being active.
Doing a solo activity like biking, hiking, or swimming can allow you time to meditate.
 One of the best ways to deal with your own rape and move past it is to share what happened to you with others. You don’t have to share what happened to every stranger you meet, but breaking the silence about being a male survivor of rape helps raise awareness about the crime and helps remove the stigma of being a victim.If you haven’t reported it, then do. Even if it was weeks, months, or years ago, it is not too late to tell the police what happened.
Consider telling about what happened to you and how you dealt with it at events and activities for Sexual Assault Awareness Month in April.

