 When your loved one has a panic disorder, their needs will likely change depending on when you see them. When you spend time with your loved one, try asking what you can do to help.For example, you may say, "What can I do to help you feel more at ease?" or “Is there anything I can do to help you feel more relaxed?”
Your loved one may not need anything but your company. However, if your loved one does need you to help when you are together, try to do the best you can to be sympathetic of their situation.;
, When your loved one has a panic disorder, there will be small, everyday things that they need to conquer. When you see small improvements in your loved one's behavior, let them know how well they are doing or encourage them to keep going.People with panic disorders often develop phobias of events or places where they have had a panic attack.If your loved one works towards overcoming these phobias, give them positive encouragement.
For example, if your loved one typically avoids going to crowded places but goes with you to the mall, let them know how proud you are of them, but don’t call attention directly to your loved one’s panic disorder. Try saying something like, "I know coming with me today wasn't easy for you. I'm so proud of you."

, When you spend time with your loved one with a panic disorder, talk to them about setting realistic treatment goals. Your loved one shouldn't focus on being cured as the only outcome of treatment. This will only make your loved one feel discouraged when he or she does not get better immediately. Help your loved one choose small milestones to reach for that are attainable so he or she won't get discouraged.For example, when you spend time with your loved one, ask them how they are doing on their treatment goals. This will let your loved one know you care as well as help keep your loved one on track with their treatment.
 Your loved one's therapist may suggest that you and your family come to a group therapy session.These are suggested in order to help your loved one deal with issues relating to their family as well as train you and the rest of your family in the best way to help with your loved one's treatment.


If you aren't sure this is needed for your loved one, you can ask them to see if they would like you to come with them or need your help.
You can also ask your loved one about any medications they are taking in case they need any while you are around., When your loved one suffers from a panic disorder, their anxiety and panic are major components of their lives. Even if you have felt anxious or panicky in your life, these are not the same thing as what your loved one is going through. When you are around your loved one, try to be compassionate towards your loved one.For example, you can try saying, "I may not understand what you are going through, but I am here for you," or "Since I have never experienced this, I can't know what you're feeling, but I am here for you anyway."

, Your loved one may start avoiding social situations as part of their panic disorder. This is not going to help your loved one get better. When you spend time with your loved one, encourage them to go to social functions with you. Doing it a little bit at a time may help your loved one realize there is nothing to be worried or panicked about.Do not push your loved one too fast, however. For example, you can try encouraging your loved one to go out with one or two close friends or family members to start.
You may tell your loved one, "Your friends will be so happy to see you!"

, Try doing some relaxation techniques with your loved one to help them be calmer on a daily basis.


These techniques include deep breathing exercises, progressive muscle relaxation, mindfulness exercises, meditation, yoga, tai chi, and anything else your loved one uses to calm down.
Try going to a yoga class with your loved one. This will help your loved one relax and help them take part in more social situations.

