 Toddlers emulate the adults around them. You can use this to your advantage when your toddler is in the refusal phase. Instead of asking her to do the thing that she has refused to do before, simply do the action in front of her. To add a touch of drama, you can even say something like “It’s the grown up thing to do” while doing the action. For example:


If she doesn’t want to wear her jacket when it’s freezing outside, show her that you are using your jacket because you don’t want to get cold and get sick later on.
 If you pretend like you don’t know what you’re doing and need your child’s help, your child may be more inclined to do the thing that you want her to do. There are three ways that you can do this: being forgetful, being wrong, and being incompetent:


Be forgetful. For example, if your child refuses to put her toys away, pick some of them up yourself and—making sure that she is watching—put them away in weird places, like the laundry bin, cupboard, or under pillows. Your child will likely reprimand you for forgetting where her toys go, and will pick up some of her toys and place them in their proper places.
Be wrong. For example, the next time you foresee a war ensuing during mealtime, start eating her cereal from her plate or bowl and use her utensils. You will most likely hear her say “That’s mine!” and she will then want to eat the remaining cereal so that it does not end up in the wrong tummy. Almost immediately, you will hear another one of their favorite words “That’s mine!” and she’ll get the bowl of cereal from you and eat all of it lest it ends in the wrong tummy – yours.
Be incompetent. For example, wear your shoes on the wrong feet, and make sure that she notices. Say something like, “I’m ready to go to school! Are you?”. Chances are, when your child sees you doing something wrong, she will laugh and correct you. She will then show you what you should have done by putting on her own shoes correctly.
 Most tantrums are caused by hunger, fatigue, or frustration. To avoid these things, set reasonable expectations when it comes to your toddler. Outlining goals for your toddler gives her a clear picture of what the day will be like, instead of letting her assume that after a certain activity, there will be time for ice cream or some other treat. For example:


Before going to the grocery store, set expectations. Tell your child, when she is still in a good mood, that you are just going to buy milk, cereal, fruit, some things for mommy or daddy. Then ask her what she wants (but only give her two choices) and explain what you will both do at the store before you head home. Just before arriving at the store, remind her of what you are getting and what you will get for her based on the choice she made back at home.
 Rewarding toddlers can be tricky because they learn quickly; if they act a certain way and are rewarded with candy, they will assume that they will always get candy when they do that certain behavior. Instead, reward good behavior with hugs, kisses, and cuddles—items that are always readily available.
 Reverse psychology is when you pretend that you don’t want your toddler to do something that you actually really want her to do.This can work in instances where no other option seems obvious and you are getting tired of being refused. For example:


If you want your child to take some medicine and she refuses say something like “But I’m not sure you can drink this medicine to make you better because usually only grownups are brave enough to drink this medicine…” Chances are, she will say she’s old enough and brave enough. Remember to praise her and reward her with affection after she does what you want.

