 Your first line of defense is simply removing all dangerous items from the area your dog has access to. To this end, high shelves and locked cabinets are your friend. You may want to install childproof latches on a few cabinets for extra security.Items to move include:


Medication
Make-up
Children’s toys
Cleaning products and chemicals of any kind
Plastic bags
Food waste;
, Dogs are driven by their noses, and they are naturally drawn to explore trash. When dogs get into the trash, it isn’t just messy, but potentially dangerous. Take steps to insure that your dogs cannot access trash in your kitchen or bathrooms.Use trashcans with tight-fitting lids in both your kitchen and bathroom.
Select heavier trash bins that your dog cannot knock over.
Place trashcans inside of cabinets, and secure these cabinets with childproof latches.
 Food can also present a hazard for your dog. Coffee, onions, and chocolate can make your dog ill, and wrappers, peels, or other food items may present a choking hazard. Try to ensure that all food items and packaging are placed in areas your dog cannot reach. This also includes your dog’s food and any other pet food in your home.Secure food inside your pantry, refrigerator, or cabinets. Ensure that these are kept closed.
Use hanging baskets for fruits and vegetables.
Keep snacks and packaged foods off of counters.
Secure your dog’s food in a dog-proof container (such as a dog food vault).
If your dog is choking, try to dislodge the object and call your vet.
If your dog ingests a poisonous food item, contact your vet or call the ASPCA poison hotline at 1-888-426-4435.
 Keeping your dog confined to certain areas of your home at certain times—such as during meal times, when you are using art supplies, or when you are cleaning—can help keep your dog safe. Consider installing gates in areas where you’d like to keep your dog in (or out).Gates can be purchased at big box stores, pet stores, or online.
Most gates will be approximately waist-high, which will work for most dogs. If you have an especially large dog, you may want to seek a specialty gate (available at most pet stores).
Avoid keeping your dog confined for more than a few hours.
 Curious dogs will investigate open cabinets, and this can present hazards for your dog. It is crucial to get into the habit of keeping all cabinets and cupboards closed. Additionally, many dogs can open kitchen and bathroom cabinets. You may want to install childproof latches on your cabinets to keep your dog out, particularly if a cabinet contains something dangerous.It is also important to keep appliances—such as your dryer or dishwasher—closed at all times.
Before you exit a room, perform a safety check. Ensure that all cabinets, etc. are closed and that all hazards are out of reach.

