 Make sure that it is not too strenuous and that you cut back on repetitions and overactive sessions as your pregnancy progresses. Exercise will help exhaust you so that you can sleep deeper at night. Additionally, exercise will help reduce the risk of leg cramps that often occur at night when pregnant. Opt for Yoga or Tai Chi as your exercise choice, as they are both meditative and will allow you some time to relax and be calm while pregnant.;
, Foods that are too heavy, acidic, fatty and spicy will often cause heartburn and indigestion on a regular basis; but when pregnant, these side effects are typically worse. Try to cut these types of food out of your diet. Another option is to avoid eating within 2 hours of bedtime so you can get better pregnancy sleep.
 Pregnancy side effects include swollen legs and ankles. The more fluids you drink, the less fluid your body will feel the need to retain. Additionally, remaining hydrated will help avoid headaches. Just make sure that you drink most of your fluids during the day so that you are not up all night going to the bathroom.
 As your pregnancy progresses, you may find that it is getting more difficult to get comfortable in bed. You cannot sleep on your back in the third trimester, it's impossible to sleep on your stomach and it's uncomfortable for your back and pregnant stomach when you sleep on your side. A maternity pillow can solve all these concerns because it is long enough for you to hug, lay under your stomach for support, and extend down to between your knees. Consider a pillow wedge to support your back also.
 As your stomach expands, you should consider wearing pajama bottoms with tie waists so that you can adjust them to over or under the stomach. Sleep shirts are also a comfortable option. Note also that the body temperature changes regularly when pregnant, so opt for cotton sleepwear that is breathable and will avoid the body getting overheated.
 Your body will get used to a routine and will be ready to sleep when the time comes.

