, Lifting the vehicle allows more freedom for the tires to move under the wheel wells.

Higher quality suspension systems like Jeep's Rubicon or Rubicon Express allow the axles and tires to articulate and move in relation to objects, thereby supplying much improved traction.



 


The most common lift ranges are 1-4 inches (3-10 cm).
If you do not lift the vehicle, there is reduced body-to-tire clearance and increased risk of damage to the undercarriage, frame and suspension. On the other hand, too much lift will cause the vehicle to be top heavy and is, generally, not very practical.
 Skid plates, "Nerf" bars and roll cages can help protect you and your vehicle while out on the trail.



Large tires add extra ground clearance and allow for a smoother ride and better handling.
Surfaces of the trails greatly and these may require differing tread designs. The universal or "knobby" tires are a minimum requirement and provide a good starting tire for most off roading trails.
Tires ranging from 29 to 35 inches (75-90 cm) in height will be sufficient for most off-roading adventures.
These tires are also designed to run at a very low pressure (5-15psi or 35-100kPa). Low tire pressures are preferred for flexing around tight spots and corners in the trail. The low pressures generally give more traction and the tires are less likely to be punctured by sharp rocks and other debris.
 Many trails can be found in books, online and through your local group or club. Trails range greatly in difficulty: The novice should start with easy or medium trails.


Easy trails are usually just basic off-asphalt trails and require no technical or extraordinary handling experience. Any four wheel drive (FWD) or all wheel drive (AWD) vehicle should be able to easily navigate these trails.
Medium difficulty trails will likely be relatively mild with no extreme grades and only a few more technical obstacles. A small SUV is recommended,— one, preferably, with after market tires and/or suspension.
Hard trails should be left to the well seasoned and experienced off roader. Once your vehicle is prepared with after market tires and suspension, the vehicle should be outfitted with a roll cage. Roll cages should be considered a necessity and should be installed before you attempt this class of difficulty.
 Rocks can move, boulders can be slippery and water driving can be tricky. Each can be more intense than anticipated.
 Observe the terrain, obstacles and upcoming features closely and react with a level head. Going slowly allows you more time to react to your changing environment. Remember, off-roading isn't a race. It requires technical driving, some finesse and large measures of patience and restraint to maintain a constant, slow speed and "crawl" the terrain successfully., Try tackling some hills and a couple of rock beds. They offer a slippery surface and a stiffer challenge when attempting to crawl your vehicle. Once you build confidence and ability, your off-road driving experience can go one of two ways.— It will only get easier or it will become more challenging ans intense. The choice is yours. You should look expand your horizons and attempt new challenges.

When driving on more challenging rock beds, always have a spotter outside your vehicle to help you with wheel placement. A spotter is a person that looks for what you are unable to see from inside the vehicle and will help guide wheel placement.






When driving on sand, snow or ice, loss of control is also a possibility. Drive much more slowly than normal and use snow chains or studded tires to greatly improve performance and ease of handling. On these surfaces, you will need to keep tires from spinning by providing the best traction possible and changing your speed gradually. That is, accelerate from a dead stop to speed and decelerate from speed to a stop should be slow, even and gradual.






On sand, knobby tires can greatly increase traction. As the tires spin, they act as paddles to propel you forward or backward. Still, no matter the tire type, you cannot spin too much. There is a very real danger of sinking your tires in the sand and it can happen before you know it. Increase your awareness and, if this starts to happen, stop before you are more than a few inches deep (especially if you aren't actually moving any at all). Try backing up, or rocking the vehicle out of the depression before it becomes a crater.
 The best way to learn how to traverse all kinds of obstacles and surfaces is to try it— learn by doing. Up the difficulty of your playground and don't be discouraged if things become tougher than you expected. Respond to the challenges as best you can, then listen to the experienced off-roaders. They may offer suggestions about how to better spend your time on the trail or to more easily surmount recent challenges you have faced.


If you are unable to complete a section of the trail, other drivers on the trail will probably be willing to help you navigate the obstacles by spotting or will give you advice.
Forcing your way through an obstacle or trail, may damage your vehicle. Remember: Your vehicle should survive the ordeal with little or no damage and live to off road another day. Your vehicle will be needed to carry you and yours safely home from the trail and is likely used around town too, so avoid powering through difficult situations.

