 You can use any kind of paper for this glider. Origami paper works well but regular printer paper will do fine.


The bigger the paper, the better the plane will fly.
If you're starting with a rectangular piece of paper, make it into a square with the following method.

Measure the length of the shorter side of the paper. For standard printer paper, this is 8.5".
Mark the point along the longer side of the paper that's as long as the shorter side. So for standard printer paper, use your ruler to mark a spot 8.5" up the longer side.
Draw a horizontal line using the mark as a guide.
Cut along that line.
 Take two opposite corners of the paper and make them meet. Fold the paper in half this way and crease it well. It should now look like a triangle.
 Turn your paper so that the triangle points away from you, with the creased edge facing you. Fold the creased edge on itself a little ways, something between half an inch and an inch, depending on how big your piece of paper is. Crease well.


If you're using 6" origami paper, fold it up about 1 cm. If you're using standard printer paper, fold it up about 1".
 Fold the two ends of the paper toward each other so that the folded up edge is on the outside. Fold it roughly in a circle shape.


At this point you should be holding the paper so that it makes a ring by holding the two ends of the triangle near each other. The edge that you folded up and creased should be on the outside of the ring.
 Stick one of the thin folded up edges into the opening in the other as far as it will go, so that the paper is circular in shape.


The 1cm to 1 inch thick folded edges are what you're sliding into one another.
You'll still need to hold the paper in the ring shape as it hasn't been secured with tape yet.
 Use your fingers to work out the creases in the paper so that it's as circular as possible. Smooth the circle shape out.
 Use a little tape to secure the glider's circular shape. Just take a small piece of regular clear tape and wrap it around where the two ends meet and form the ring.
 Hold the glider by the pointed end between your index finger and thumb. Hold it as high as you can, preferably from over a balcony or the like, and let go. It will fall and start gliding forward.