 Emma has gorgeous, shiny blonde hair which she brushes and styles well every day. This means to take very good care of your hair. Emma enjoys keeping her hair in mostly ponytails. Sometimes, she has hair-grips or bobby pins to keep her side bangs back. Emma also wears her hair in a half ponytail (half-up, half-down) on certain days. She likes wearing headbands, so try doing it!;
, Emma always has makeup on, but she doesn't go overboard with it! Just put on foundation, concealer, eyeliner pencil, mascara, some girly eye shadow, light pink blush, and lip gloss!

, Emma has a certain sassy, girly style and she isn't afraid to show it!

, Emma has a collection of blazers in her wardrobe. If you want to look like her, have some hanging in your wardrobe as well! Striped blazers and different colored blazers are what you should have.
 Emma has different printed tops, sometimes with a blazer on top. Have vest tops, lace tops, and stuff like that!

, Emma has neutral colored shorts with different colored tights. Make sure the shorts aren't brightly colored, or they'll stand out!

, Emma has knee socks and usually wears them with combat boots or flats.
 Emma wears combat boots all the time with her outfits, so try wearing them if you like!

, Try to find an idol yourself, but if you prefer not to, it's fine! Emma also has an enormous crush on Jordan Taylor. Have a celebrity crush as well.
 You should at least have a phone, laptop, iPad, etc. Have a basic understanding of how it works.
 Try not to make any enemies! Sometimes, Emma can be a little sarcastic and she throws witty remarks at her family once in a while. You can do that if you like, but try not to copy her negative side.
 Don't ask them out; wait for them to ask you out. You could maybe flirt with them a little bit!

, Emma is a really bubbly, optimistic, and happy person who is quite satisfied with her sweet life in a penthouse. She loves and appreciates her loving- yet nutty-family, and is never embarrassed of them ( except for maybe Luke, Jessie, and Bertram). So don't be depressed a lot, or ruin everyone's day. Instead, be happy!

