 If you have a friend or acquaintance who is struggling financially, then this person may benefit from your help. You might consider offering financial assistance to help the person if you can, or you might look for other ways to help this person using your skills or assets.Some people may feel uncomfortable if you make a big deal of helping them financially. Try to be subtle about offering financial help. For example, if you notice that a friend is struggling to afford her basic needs each month, such as food, rent, and utilities, then you might try inviting her to dinner once per week and send her home with some leftovers. You can say something like, “I will never be able to eat all of this extra food! Can you please take some home with you?”
Be direct and considerate if you want to give someone money. If you want to offer money to someone, then you might say something like, “I have noticed that you are struggling. I care about you and I want to help. Will you please let me give you some money to help with your groceries this month?”

, People who are struggling emotionally may also benefit from your help. If you see someone who is going through a difficult time, offer to spend time with them, talk with them, and support them however you can.


For example, if you have a friend who seems depressed, then you might offer to help by saying something like, “I have noticed that you seem a little down lately. Do you want to talk about it? I am always here for you if you need me.”, Try to be on the lookout for opportunities to help people, but you can also help someone who asks for your help. This might be someone who you know well or it might be a stranger. But being willing to help when someone asks you is a great way to be that person’s guardian angel.


For example, if a friend calls you and asks if you can talk, then take some time to meet up with her and find out what is going on.If a homeless person asks if you can spare a dollar, give the person a dollar if you can.

