 You will need tissue paper, the gift, ribbons or embellishments, a gift bag, and a card.You will need several colors of tissue paper that complement the color of the gift bag. Colored tissue paper makes a gift more festive!
Make sure your gift bag is appropriate for the occasion.
If you are going to curl ribbon to add as a decoration, you will need scissors to curl ribbon or pre-curled ribbon.;
, This will give the paper more volume and presence as you are adding it to the bag.









When you give the paper volume by opening it completely, it will make the gift bag look full.
Do this carefully. Tissue paper is thin and prone to wrinkling and tearing.
It is best to do this on a flat surface such as a table or the floor.
 Arrange the sheets of tissue paper so they extend out the top.









Alternate colors of tissue paper to give your gift some flare.
You can place the different colored tissue paper in one sheet at a time, each sheet perpendicular to the last to give the look of alternating colors coming out of the top of the bag.
After you've placed all the lining sheets into the bag, you can arrange the parts of paper coming out of the top of the bag to make sure they look right.
 Make sure you can't see them through the sides of the bag if your bag is transparent.









Be careful as you do this to prevent wrinkling or tearing the tissue paper you just put into the bag.
Make sure your gift bag is the appropriate size for the gift.
 No part of the gift should be visible.









Place these in the bag neatly so you don't give the appearance of rushed wrapping.
Inspect the wrapped package. The tissue paper should not look wrinkled, torn, or placed in the bag haphazardly.
No part of the gift should be visible or distort the shape of the gift bag.
 You can place a card inside the bag or attach it with tape onto the outside of the bag.









Ribbons and bows can be added to the handle of the bag to add a creative twist.
You can also add a gift tag with your name and the recipient's on it for easy identification. This can come in quite handy at showers and holiday events with many gifts.

