 Vegetables like broccoli or green beans must be trimmed to remove tough and inedible portions of the veggie. For broccoli, this would entail removing the thick bases at the bottom of their stems. For green beans this would include snapping off the inedible ends. Rinse your vegetables under cold water after trimming them.


For vegetables with tough stems like broccoli, cauliflower, or asparagus, you can use a knife to cut off the bottom parts of the vegetable.For corn, you want to remove the thick stem and husk it, or remove the green outer leaves.
Most frozen vegetables can be boiled before they are thawed.Leafy greens also posses thick, fibrous stems that should be removed before boiling.If you are cooking leafy greens like lettuce or cabbage, you will need also need to remove the core., All pieces of your green vegetables should be a similar size to ensure even cooking among different greens. If you are cooking leafy greens like cabbage, cutting the leaves into smaller pieces will help you fit more of the cabbage into the pot.


For some vegetables like green beans or broccoli, you may have to cut down larger pieces, to accommodate the varying sizes of each piece.
 Boiling softer green vegetables is more effective if you are starting off with boiling water. Because they are not as thick as root vegetables, and don’t posses a hard exterior, green vegetables usually cook faster.


Salt raises the boiling point of water and can also help season your boiled vegetables., Once your water is a at a rolling boil, gently place the vegetables into the boiling pot of water. You can use a slotted spoon for this.


Cabbage typically takes 5-10 minutes to fully cook through.Green beans will take anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes depending on how they are cut.Broccoli only takes 3-4 minutes to boil in water.Corn on the cob takes 5 minutes to fully cook through on the stovetop.It’s advised you don’t boil frozen vegetables because they may become mushy.However, if you must it should only take 3-5 minutes, depending on the vegetable. Make sure to read the back of the package for boiling times.
Be careful not to plop your vegetables into the water or it may splash you.
 When you put your vegetables into the pot, it will likely stop boiling. Wait for the water to fully boil again, and reduce the heat.


You can prevent this by placing smaller portions of vegetables in at a time, instead of dumping them all in.
 You can test your vegetables by poking them with a fork or knife.


Putting the lid on the pot and reducing the heat will prevent your pot from overboiling.
 Once your vegetables reach the desired firmness, drain the excess water out of the pot.


Leaving your vegetables in water can make them mushy.

