 Vacuum bags are special bags designed to reduce the volume of your clothes by compressing their total volume. These are especially useful for packing bulky items like coats and bedding. But remember, packing bags will only reduce the size of your luggage, not its weight., Your carry-on bag is the one that you’ll be able to bring with you onto your flight. You should pack your carry-on bag full of things to make your trip more pleasant. For instance, you might want to bring your portable MP3 player, phone, chargers, laptop, a snack bar, a book, and other odds and ends that you might want.If you have an ebook reader, you might want to bring it along, too. Instead of limiting yourself to just a book or two, you can bring a whole library of books with an ebook reader.
 If you’re working or even studying in another country, you might be considered disrespectful for dressing slovenly. Avoid wearing sweatpants, hoodies, and flip-flops to class or work. Choose clothing that is professional and projects the sense that you’re a mature and intelligent person. Failing to do so could result in you packing a lot of clothing that ends up serving no use while you’re in-country.Do some investigating about cultural mores in the country where you’ll be spending your year abroad. If you have a trip coordinator, ask them about what kinds of clothing is acceptable in the nation you’re headed to.
 Assuming you’re spending a year abroad for work or study, ask your host institution if you need to bring your own sheets. Often, the answer is that you don’t, but it’s best not to assume one way or the other. The last thing you want to do is find out that you’ve packed your bed set but don’t actually need it.If you don’t want to pack an entire sheet set, which can be quite bulky, pack a rolled-up sleeping bag. If it’s small enough, you might even be able to put it in a duffle bag and take it with you as carry-on luggage.
 If you’re headed to a cold climate, wear your big parka on the plane instead of trying to pack it. The same goes for at least one pair of gloves and a winter hat. Anything you wear on the plane will save space and weight in your luggage. You can always take it off and place it in your lap if you get uncomfortable while on board.