 CoD Ghosts is somewhat demanding when it comes to system requirements so make sure your PC has at these specs to run this game.


Minimum System Requirements. These specs will run CoD Ghosts in its lowest quality possible. You might experience lags and freezes from time to time with this setup.

OS: Windows 7 64-Bit / Windows 8 64-Bit
CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo E8200 2.66 GHZ / AMD Phenom X3 8750 2.4 GHZ or better
RAM: 6 GB RAM
HDD: 40 GB HD space
GPU: NVIDIA GeForce GTS 450 / ATI Radeon HD 5870 or better
Sound: DirectX compatible sound card
DirectX: 11
Internet: Broadband connection and service required for Multiplayer Connectivity


Recommended System Requirements. If you want to enjoy CoD Ghosts fully, you better have these specs when you run this game. Mind you, this is the optimum setup that your PC should have if you want to experience a lag-free gaming experience.

CPU: Intel Core i5 680 3.6GHz or AMD Equivalent Processor
RAM: 8 GB
GPU: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 760 4GB or AMD Radeon Equivalent Graphic Card

;
, The problem with playing in minimum system requirements is that sometimes you will still encounter errors as if your system does not reach the minimum requirements. Here is how you will solve these errors.


Try installing .Net Framework, Microsoft Visual C++, Direct X, and NVIDIA Physics
Check if you have the latest drivers in your system. If not, update the outdated ones.
Don’t overlock your system. Better yet, run your system at its factory settings.
While running CoD Ghosts, make sure it is the only application running in your system.
Make sure your BIOS is also updated.
 Sometimes due to lag, some audio or dialogues will be delayed. Worst, there are times there will be no sound at all. Here are things you can try to solve this problem.


Make sure you have Direct X installed. Also, make sure it’s updated.
Sometimes this problem happens due to outdated sound cards. Again, make sure you have updated sound card drivers.
 This a known issue where the screen seems to be blinking at times. It will be probably solved by an update patch but for now just try playing the game in low resolution.
 Mostly an issue for multiplayer matches, this is really one of the most hated problems in CoD Ghosts. Here are some workarounds to solve this problem.


Connect to your Internet connection directly to your modem. Using a router to connect lowers connectivity strength sometimes.
While playing, stop downloading or uploading files on your PC’s background. You will need all the bandwidth you can get.
Avoid recording your online gameplay for that also shares bandwidth.
 In times that the game just fails to launch, most likely this has something to do with your PC’s specs. You should check if you have .Net Framework, Microsoft Visual C++, Nvidia PhysX, and Direct X installed and updated. If these seem to be in order, check your OS if it is on its latest service pack.
 Again, a known issue for CoD Ghosts. In case you experience low FPS like freezing and stuttering, here are some tricks you can try to fix this issue.


Close all other programs and applications running in your background.
Run CoD Ghosts in normal priority.
 Mostly rampant on those players playing in Windows 8.1, mouse sensitivity/acceleration is really a real problem especially when playing online matches against other players. Here’s what you can do to fix this problem.


Disable the Enhance Pointer Precision option for your mouse in the Control Panel.
Switch off mouse acceleration in its software.
Set your mouse’s polling rate to 250Hz or 125Hz via its software.

