 Each state has a minimum requirement regarding the amount of car insurance coverage drivers must have. When you’re in the process of buying car insurance, the first thing you’ll need to do is research the requirements for your state.Every state except New Hampshire requires a minimum amount when it comes to liability insurance. This amount varies from state to state, however.A quick internet search should let you find the information you need about the requirements in your state. If not, try contacting your Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV).;
, How much car insurance coverage you need can depend, in part at least, to your driving patterns and habits. People who drive a long distance to work or frequently drive on dangerous roads may need more comprehensive coverage than someone who doesn’t face this type of commute. Check into some of the following before deciding what type of coverage you need:


Do you have a lot of fender benders in your driving history? Are there a lot of speeding tickets on your record? What is your commute like?It might be worthwhile to obtain a copy of your driving record from the Department of Motor Vehicles. This can give you a solid idea how many accidents you’ve been in and how many tickets you’ve received over a certain time frame., The neighborhood in which you live can also play a part in determining how much coverage you need. Comprehensive coverage covers you if your car is damaged through theft, fire, or flood. Where you live can play a part in determining whether or not you need comprehensive coverage, or how much you need. Ask yourself:


Is my neighborhood prone to flooding or other natural disasters? Is it a generally crime-free part of town? Has anything like this happened to my neighbors in the past few years?, Liability insurance covers the amount you would be held responsible for paying if you were found legally liable for an accident.This can include such things as lawyer fees from the other party in the accident, coverage of their hospital bills, and damage to their car. As a general rule, it is recommended that you get $50,000 in bodily injury liability for one person injured in an accident, $100,000 for all persons injured in an accident, and $25,000 for any property damage. (You might see this displayed in insurance shorthand as 50/100/25.)


However, many experts recommend you decide how much liability insurance to buy depending on the amount of assets you have. The more assets you have, the more assets can be seized from you in the event of an accident. Therefore, the more assets you have, the more liability insurance you should choose.
For example, if you have $50,000 in bodily injury liability coverage, but $100,000 in personal assets, and you’re found at fault in an accident, the other party could come after you for the additional $50,000 not covered by your insurance., Collision coverage pays for damage done to your car from hitting an inanimate object like a parking meter or fence. While adding it to your policy might be a good idea, depending on your situation, collision coverage is not required.


For instance, if you have an older car and a great driving record, it might not be worth it for you to add collision coverage. In this case, the likelihood of you getting in an accident is low and it may not be worth it to fix your car if it is totaled.Consider what you discovered about your driving record to help you decide whether or not you need this type of coverage.
You will be required to choose a deductible—usually between $250 and $1,000—for this type of coverage. The deductible is the amount you’ll pay before you insurance takes over. The higher the deductible, the lower your insurance premium for this coverage., Like collision insurance, comprehensive coverage is optional and covers damage to your car that was not caused by a wreck. For instance, comprehensive coverage would cover damage from a fire, flood, or theft.Think back to the questions you asked yourself about where you live to help you decide if this is something you need to get.
Like collision insurance, this type of coverage will require you to pay an out-of-pocket deductible before your insurance kicks in., There may also be some a la carte options for you to add to your insurance coverage, all at an additional cost. The most common of these items is rental car reimbursement, which pays for a rental car while your car is being fixed, and roadside assistance, which provides you with towing services.


Check to make sure you do not already have coverage like this through other means. For example, if you have a AAA membership, you likely are already paying for roadside assistance., Before you begin gathering price quotes from insurance companies, it might help to review your current policy documents. See what types of coverage you have and what your rate is. This can give you a starting point from which to compare the quotes you receive during your research.


Find both your monthly and yearly rate since quotes might be given to you using either of these figures.
In addition, review your driving record so you are familiar with any offenses you’ve had in the last few years. The price you pay for insurance will in part be affected by how many accidents and tickets you’ve received over a certain number of years, so it is important you have a record so you know whether the insurance company has the correct information on which to determine your policy price.
Also have your driver’s license number and vehicle registration handy. You will often need these to complete an online quote form., Most major insurance companies will have an online quote form you can fill out to find out how much a policy will cost with their company. Each form usually takes approximately 15 minutes to fill out.


Make sure you are entering all the same criteria in regards to the type of coverage you want (liability, collision, and comprehensive). This way each quote you receive will be for the same amount of coverage.
Also keep track of the companies’ payment policies and their toll-free numbers so you can call with any questions.Be wary of quotes that seem too low. If the offer seems too good to be true, it just might be. Scrutinize these offers to make sure there are no hidden strings., In addition to filling out quotes on individual websites, using a comparison tool can make it much easier to see the differences between several policies side-by-side. Comparison tools normally allow you to add three or four insurance companies and then choose the criteria you’d like to compare, like price and coverage.Not all insurance companies participate in these online comparison tools. If you can’t find the company you’re looking for, you can usually obtain a quote directly from its website., There may be some companies from which you weren’t able to receive an online quote. Perhaps their website was malfunctioning or they simply don’t offer this option. Contact any remaining companies by phone to finish gathering all of your price quotes., Although it is not necessary to meet with an insurance agent in person (you can easily buy insurance online without going through an agent), it is a good idea to do so. An insurance agent can help answer any remaining questions you have about the policy and can help you make sure you’re getting the right policy for your situation.There are two types of agents you can meet with. First, affiliated agents are those that work for one particular company. Because these agents are employed by a single company, they cannot usually offer price quotes from other companies and may be limited in the options and features they can provide to you.
Second, independent agents are not affiliated with any one insurance company. They work with many different providers and, therefore, are able to obtain the most competitive prices for their customers., There are often a number of discounts you might qualify for in regards to car insurance. While you are researching rates, be sure to ask each company if they offer any discounts. Some possible discounts include:


Good driving record—for drivers who haven’t been in an accident, gotten a ticket, or made a claim in at least three years
Good grades—for young drivers who maintain a B average or higher in school
Driver’s education—for drivers who complete a driver’s education or safety course
Multiple policies—for drivers who have more than one policy through the company (renter’s insurance and car insurance, for example)
Safety equipment—for drivers whose cars are equipped with safety equipment, like anti-lock brakes, or anti-theft devices
Longtime policy holder—for drivers who have had insurance through the same company for a number of years, Price isn’t the only consideration you should have in choosing an insurance company. You’ll also want to research each carrier to assess things like how they treat their policy holders in the event of a claim, how financially sound they are, and what their track record looks like. Your first stop should be online sites like the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ Consumer Information Source. This site will provide you with information on the company’s complaints, key financial data, and licensing information to help you make sure the company is stable in its offerings.


You can also check your state’s department of insurance for rate comparison surveys and consumer complaint ratios., For questions you can’t find online, try contacting an independent insurance agent. If they don’t know the answer to your question, they should be able to guide you or put you in touch with someone who can answer your question., You can find consumer satisfaction surveys at sites like J.D. Power and Consumer Reports. These surveys can help paint a picture of how the company treats its policyholders., Consult your friends and family about their experiences with car insurance companies. This can give you an idea what their customer service is like and if they live up to their promises., Once you have decided on a policy, go over it one last time to make sure you got everything you need and won’t have any surprises. Double check the following before signing:


You got the amount of coverage required by your state.
You got the right amount of additional coverage and optional coverage you wanted.Keep an eye out for things like the use of “new factory,” “like kind and quality,” and “aftermarket parts” in fixing your car. If you have a relatively new car, you might not want to use these types of parts so this might not be the right policy for you.
It is much easier to clarify and ask questions before you agree to the policy than it is to negotiate the terms you agreed to later., Once you agree to a policy, your insurance company will send you an insurance ID card for each car that is insured on your plan. Put this card in your glove box or the middle console of your car so you are sure to have it on you at all times. Most states require drivers to have proof of insurance on them at all times in case of an accident or a traffic violation.It may take a few days or weeks for your new insurance cards to reach you. In the meantime, you may be able to print a temporary card from your insurance company’s website.
 Once you have finalized your insurance through the new company, cancel your old insurance policy to avoid double-paying. You can usually cancel online or by phoning the insurance company’s toll free number., In case you are not satisfied with the resolution to the complaint as provided by us, you may approach the Insurance Ombudsman for review