 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cookies when they’re ready, set the temperature to 200 degrees Fahrenheit (95 degrees Celsius). Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper so the cookies don’t stick.If you prefer, you can line the baking sheet with a silicone baking mat instead of parchment paper.;
, Add 3 egg whites that are at room temperature to the bowl of a stand mixer that’s fitted with a whisk attachment. Mix the whites on medium until they become foamy, which should take 1 to 2 minutes.To separate the egg whites from the yolks, break the eggs against a flat surface. Over a bowl, separate them into two pieces, with the yolks falling into the lower half. Move the yolks back and forth between the halves, so the whites drip into the bowl below. Continue moving the yolks back and forth until all of the whites are removed.
You can beat the egg whites with an electric hand mixer or by hand, though working by hand will take longer. Make sure to use a non-plastic bowl, though, because plastic can retain residue even after cleaning that makes it difficult for the whites to form peaks.
 After the egg whites have become frothy, add ⅛ teaspoon (1 g) of salt to the bowl. Beat the mixture on medium until soft peaks form, which should take 1 to 2 minutes.You’ll know that the mixture has reached the right consistency when the peaks that form after you remove the whisk fall over quickly.
 Once the mixture has formed soft peaks, add ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of cream of tartar and ¾ cup (185 g) of granulated, superfine sugar to the bowl with the mixer on medium-low. Mix in the sugar 1 tablespoon (14 g) at a time, though, and wait until all of it has been incorporated before adding more. Continue beating the egg white mixture until you can no longer feel the sugar granules and firm peaks form.Superfine sugar is also known as caster sugar.
Be careful not to get any of the sugar on the sides of the bowl as you add it the mixture. If it does, stop the stand mixer and use a spatula to scrape down the sides of the bowl.
You’ll know that the mixture has formed firm peaks when they don’t fall over after you remove the whisk.
 Once the sugar is fully incorporated, turn off the mixer. Pour 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of pure vanilla extract into the bowl. Turn the mixer back on to medium-low, and blend until the vanilla is fully mixed in., After you’ve mixed in the vanilla, turn the mixer off again. Add 4 tablespoons (30 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder to a sifter, and sift it in an even layer over the meringue. Discard any solid pieces from the sifter.If you don’t have a sifter, use can use a fine mesh sieve to sift the cocoa over the meringue. Use clean hands to gently press the powder through to remove any lumps.
 When the cocoa powder has been sifted over the meringue, turn the mixer back on to low. Beat the mixture until the cocoa is just incorporated, which should take approximately 15 to 30 seconds.If there is any cocoa that isn’t blended in after mixing it, use a rubber spatula to gently fold it in. You don’t want to knock too much air out of the meringue by overmixing.
 After the cocoa is incorporated into the meringue, fit a pastry bag with a star tip. Use a spatula to add the meringue mixture to the bag.If you don’t have a pastry bag, you can transfer the meringue to a large plastic zipper bag. Seal the bag and cut off a corner so you can pipe from it.
You can also make mounds of the meringue for the cookies with two spoons if you don’t want to use any type of piping bag.
 With the meringue in the pastry bag, carefully pipe it into spiral mounds on the lined baking sheet to form the cookies. Make sure that the mounds are about 2-inches (5-cm) apart.For the easiest piping, shake the meringue down to the bottom of the bag and twist it so the meringue comes out in a steady stream when you squeeze.
 After you’ve piped the cookies onto the baking sheet, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the cookies to bake for two hours.Be sure to place the cookies on the center rack of the oven so they bake evenly.
The cookies will puff up slightly as they bake.
 When the two hours are up, turn off the oven without opening the door. Let the cookies sit inside the oven for another two hours or until they are completely dry.You may need to leave the cookies in the oven as long 4 to 6 hours. You can even leave them in the unopened oven overnight to be sure that they’re dry.
 When the meringue cookies are fully dry, use a spatula to gently remove them from the baking sheet. Transfer them to a platter and serve.Store any leftover cookies in an airtight container at room temperature. They should stay fresh for 3 to 4 days.

