 A number of printed references to collectible books exist, many of them specialized by the type of book. Among them are these:


Allen and Patricia Ahern's "Collected Books: The Guide to Values" covers first editions.
Tom Broadfoot's "Civil War Books: A Priced Checklist" and E. Lee Baumgarten's "Price Guide for Children's and Illustrated Books for the Years 1880-1945" are among the many references to books of a specialized type or subject.
American Book Prices Current" and "Book Auction Records" are two of the reference guides for prices old books fetched at auction, while the semiannual "Bookman's Price Index" summarizes the information from book dealers' catalogs to produce its list of prices.
 Several online references exist to help you research the value of an old book; among them are Abebooks, Addall, Bookfinder, and the Advanced Book Exchange. Some of these sites require you to pay a fee, while others are free. Either pay or free sites may require you to register before you can search their databases.
 Appraisals can be done by a certified book appraiser or informally by a dealer in second-hand or rare books. Depending on the depth of the appraisal, you may have to pay a fee for the service.


You can find a second-hand or rare book dealer in your community by consulting your local telephone directory. To find a dealer nationally or internationally, consult an organization such as the Antiquarian Booksellers Association of America, the International League of Antiquarian Booksellers. You can also consult the Sheppard's series of reference directories to find an antiquarian bookseller in North America or Europe.
To be referred to a certified appraiser in the United States, contact the American Society of Appraisers or the Appraisers Association of America.
When having a book appraised, let the appraiser see the book itself if at all possible. If this isn't possible, photograph the front and back of the title page, the first and last text pages, the outer covers, and the spine.

