 If you want to add your name to a slipper, this can be a nice personalized touch. However, before adding your name, stop and consider where you want to add your name and the color thread you will use.


Choose a color that you like and goes well with the current color of your slippers. If you have yellow slippers, for example, they may look great with blue lettering.
Decide where you want to stitch your name. The main body of the slipper is probably the best place to start, as this is where you will have the most space.
You can try lighting writing your name with a fabric pen or pencil first so you have a line to follow when you sew.;
, A simple back stitch can be used to add your name to a pair of slippers.To make a back stitch, start by making one simple stitch.Insert your needle through the underside of your slipper and then pull it upward.
Move the needle forward slightly and then pass it back down through the slipper. A small space away from the first stitch, poke the needle back to the top of the slipper.
This should leave you with a single stitch. You will make a series of stitches to write out your name on your slipper.
 From here, you want to back stitch to form a solid line. To do this, poke your needle back through the top of the slipper. Insert the needle where the first stitch ends and then push it through to the back side of the slipper. This should create one long line., Place the needle a small space away from the line you formed. Pull the needle back up to the top of the slipper. Then, stitch back again by feeding the needle through the top of the slipper where your line ends.When you're done, an even longer line should be formed with your thread.
 Continue this pattern of backstitching, moving your thread until it forms your name. When you're done, tie a tight knot with the thread to prevent it from coming undone. Cut away excess thread with a pair of scissors.If you don't have the space to write your entire name in thread, you can just write you initials.

