 A dirty person is not attractive.  Make sure to shower or bathe daily, making sure to thoroughly cleanse your body with body wash or soap from shoulders to feet. Wash your neck to if you think having a clean neck will make you charming. Brush your teeth at least twice daily and for at least two minutes.  Make sure to always wear clean clothes and apply deodorant if necessary.;
,  Always wash your face in the morning.  You can either do this by splashing it with cool water and gently patting it damp, or taking a face cloth, soaking it in warm water, and gently wiping your face clean.  Use a facial cleanser if necessary.  Make sure to always apply moisturizing facial lotion after washing your face. Also apply moisturizing body lotion to your body after showering or bathing.
 Get braces if your teeth are crooked.  Even slightly crooked.  Perfectly straight teeth are very appealing and charming according to some.  Brush your teeth two to three times a day, using a whitening toothpaste and optional, a high-quality, electrical toothbrush. Brush for 2-3 minutes. Floss once at night and use mouthwash if necessary, this is essential to being charming.
 Leave your hair medium or long lengthen, or short. Hair lengths have little to no bearing on how charming anyone is. Wash your hair with a shampoo that works well with your hair.  Make sure to massage your scalp when you lather the shampoo in and rinse thoroughly.  Use conditioner on your hair from the bottom of the neck, down.  Using conditioner on your roots will make your hair flat and greasy.  Wash your hair every other day to every 3 days.  Style it different everyday and try out different hairstyles and haircuts.  Make sure to brush your hair in the morning and rid it of all tangles and knots.  Don't use heat on your hair or dye your hair too often.
  Cut down on all the junk foods you eat and replace them with whole, healthy foods.  Make sure to get your daily dose of protein such as chicken, fish, tofu, nuts, etc. Also stack up on the fruits and vegetables.  Exercise daily for 30 minutes to an hour.  Drink lots of water and get at least 7 hours of sleep a night.
  Experiment with different clothes and wear appealing, flattering clothes that are comfortable and that fit.  They cannot be too tight nor too baggy.  Slightly loose clothes are fine, though.  Sometimes just wear casual clothes like sweatpants and an oversized t-shirt.  Make sure your clothes are charming.
 Makeup can really help spark up your creativity and make you look even more glamorous than you already are and make your beautiful features pop. A little bit of brown mascara (clump-free), neutral eye shadow, concealer that matches your skin tone, powder, and lip gloss or balm is fine.

