 Things can change quickly. If shooting up into the sky a lot, you will be in danger of the colors in the sky being blown out as the day moves on and weather or lighting changes occur.


Know how to use the manual exposure on your camera; this may be useful if the camera's automatic mode loses the bird against an endless sky.
 Early morning and late evening light is good for bird photography; aim to reduce the glare of taking images of birds into the noonday sun. Lighting can add elements to the photos that make the birds more interesting; even a sparrow can look amazing in the right light.


Have you thought about background lighting? This can add mystery, elegance or sparkling features to the photos.
 Don't just 'spray and pray'. You might get a shot, but most of the time, its quality won't be what you want. Patience is what pays off with bird photography, and the more patient you are, the more likely it is that you'll capture some amazing bird moments.


Aim to get a good shot of the bird's eye. If this can be achieved, blurring effects around it can often be forgiven.Sit still and simply be. Some birds are content to go about their business when the beings around them are thudding through the forest or talking loudly.
 Unless the background is amazing, a sitting or standing bird often won't be as interesting as a bird doing something. Action includes preening, fishing, flight, fighting, feeding and waddling. That said, if the background is of interest or the lighting is amazing, or if the bird's own colors or markings are the feature of the shot, a still bird can make a great shot.


Think of a duck floating mid-lake on a dull day with nothing to break up the endlessness of the lake, as opposed to two ducks fighting mid-lake––which one is likely to hold more interest? However, that floating duck might be amazing if it's floating in front of old ruins on the shore and a snow-peaked mountain in the distance.
 For most birds, it's really important to get as close as you can––markings, facial features, beak outlines and eyes are all of interest to the bird lover who will be looking closely to see the bird's individuality; this needs to be captured as best you can.


For ground birds, get on your stomach. Bring along a cloth or map to protect clothing if the dirt or bird poop bothers you.
For flying or high roosting/landing birds, get as high as you can and/or catch them at takeoff or landing.
For water birds, put on your waders and get into the water, among those reeds if it's safe to do so.
 This is especially important if you want to sell the photographs or make a book of birds. But most of all, it's about having a sense of achievement that you're captured the birds in the best way possible.

