 Teasing over text is a great way to flirt with your crush. You can be a little bit playful and make fun of your crush, and let your crush make fun of you back. This shows that you don't take yourself too seriously and that you're invested in the person you're texting.


Keep it light. Tease your crush for watching a silly movie or spending too much time with his guitar.
Make sure your crush gets that you're joking. It should be clear that you're not trying to be offensive and that you just want to have some fun.
If you have a silly nickname for your crush, use it when you're texting.
Send a wink face emoticon to show that you're just teasing.
 If you want to flirt through texting, then you should find a way to make it clear that you care about the person you're talking to, whether it's by asking a question about his life or just asking how he's feeling.


If your crush is feeling sick, check in to see if he's feeling better.
Use your crush's name occasionally. This will surprise and excite the person you're texting.
Ask your crush's opinion on a new movie or restaurant. This may even turn into plans to check out the new event together.
Compliment your crush. Find a subtle way to let her know she looked cute the other night, or that you liked her new haircut.
 You can find subtle ways to arouse your crush through texting. You don't have to say "What are you wearing?" to show that you're thinking about your crush in a less-than-PG-rated manner. Here are some tricks to try:


Casually mention that you just got out of the shower.
Be open. Just say, "I can't stop thinking about that dress you wore the other night."
Say, "I have a bottle of wine in my fridge, and it looks so lonely without you." Inviting your crush to share a bottle of wine is an invitation for more.
 Remember that you're supposed to play it cool when you're texting, so you shouldn't be the person who sends a hundred questions in a row or asks a question with a million question marks. If you're too excited about texting the person on the other end of the conversation, it will be a major turn off.


Make sure that you and your crush roughly text each other same amount of times. If you send her five texts for every one of her responses, you have a problem.
Emoticons are great for occasional flirtation, but don't overuse them. The same goes for exclamation marks and questions.
Don't respond the moment you get a text. Play it cool and wait a few minutes, or even a few hours, to respond unless the text is time-sensitive. If your crush takes a day to get back to you, don't fire back a text right away or you'll look desperate.
 No relationship is made or broken through a series of text messages. When you text your special someone, remember that texting is a great way to flirt, to make plans, and to take the relationship into the physical world, but not a great way to build rapport or to really get to know someone.


Remember to keep it light. Flirting is all about having fun and being playful, not about getting into a deep discussion.
If you really like the person, try to spend more time talking to him or her than you do sending text messages to that person.

