 One of the first things you need to consider when preparing to snuggle is your personal hygiene. No one wants to snuggle with someone who hasn't showered in three days.


Make yourself snuggle-able by having a hot shower before your boyfriend or girlfriend arrives. Wash your hair with a scented shampoo and de-fuzz anything that needs to be defuzzed!
Apply some deodorant and place a little perfume or aftershave on your pulse points, such as behind your ears, on your inner wrists, in the crook of your elbows and at the base of your throat. Remember not to overdo the application of perfume or cologne, however; this can be a complete turn off if the smell is too strong!
Also remember to brush your teeth and rinse your mouth out with mouth wash. Snuggling often leads to kissing!;
, The second thing you need to do is set the mood for some intimate snuggling.


Try to get as much privacy as possible -- make sure any parents/siblings/friends/roommates are out of the house, or at least make them promise that they'll stay out of the room.
Dim the lights. Turning off the main light in the room and using a few lamps instead can make the atmosphere much more romantic and suitable for snuggling. Try lighting a few scented candles if you really want to kick the romance levels up a notch.
Make sure the room is comfortably warm, but not too hot. You don't want your date to be shivering, but you don't want them to be too hot to get close to you either. With that said, lighting a small fire can be uber romantic.
 Comfort is of paramount importance when it comes to snuggling, so make sure you and your date won't be sitting on the floor.


Choose a snuggling location with a comfortable couch, love seat, or bed. Pile on plenty of pillows or cushions -- these can be useful when there's an awkward elbow or hip bone getting in the way of a good snuggle.
Get a warm blanket (that's big enough to cover the two of you) and drape it over the back of the couch. Then you'll easily be able to grab it once a good snuggling position has been established. Make sure it's soft, not scratchy like some wool blankets.
 Once your date arrives, steer him/her gently towards your chosen snuggle location and ask him/her to sit down.


Ask him/her if he'd/she'd like a drink or something to eat -- you want to make sure all of his/her needs are taken care of in advance so that something as silly as "needing a glass of water" won't disrupt your snuggling later on.
Tell him/her he's/she's welcome to take his/her shoes off and snuggle up under the blanket -- you want him/her to be as comfortable as possible.
Start the movie or TV show or game or whatever other activity you had planned for the evening.
 Sit down next to your date -- as close as you feel comfortable with -- so you can set the snuggle plan in motion.


Try resting your arm on the back of the couch behind your date's head (this works well for guys, it may feel somewhat unnatural for girls). The when you've built up the courage, you can transfer your arm to your date's shoulder.
Try grabbing your date's hand. You can just hold it or you can play with it, stroking the individual fingers and massaging the palm.
You could start playing with your date's hair (guy or girl), twisting it around or stroking it (without pulling). Alternatively, you could try massaging his/her neck or tugging gently on his/her earlobe.
Really, it doesn't matter what you do as long as you are touching your date -- the point is to initiate physical contact so you can easily segue into a full-on snuggle.
 Once you've broken the touch barrier and start to feel confident, you can smoothly transition into a complete snuggle.


Guys can do this by wrapping their arm around their date's shoulders and pulling her closer. This will allow her to rest her head on their chest or shoulders.
Girls can grab the guy's arm and sort of hug it, while resting their head on his shoulder or chest. If you want to get really comfy, you can also rest your legs across the guy's lap (just make sure this isn't uncomfortable for him).
Congratulations -- you are snuggling!

, Now that the snuggling has begun, there'll be no stopping you! Try some of these snuggletastic ideas:


Try a sitting spoon, where you both sit facing the same direction, with the small spoon sitting in between the big spoon's legs and lying back against their chest. The big spoon can then put their arms around the small spoon's shoulders.
Try resting your head in your date's lap, or allowing him/her to rest their head in yours. Then the sitting partner can stroke the lying partners hair or exposed arm.
If you've finally lost interest in whatever it is you were watching/doing before, you can try some more intimate snuggle poses which require both of you to be lying down. Try lying down facing each other, allowing your foreheads to touch and your legs to become intertwined. This position is perfect for intimate conversations.
Another great horizontal pose is for one person to lie on their back while the other lies on their side facing the first person and resting his/her head on the chest. This is a good position for napping in.
 Solo snuggling can get a little boring, so make sure to grab yourself some tasty treats to keep yourself entertained. Plus, a having warm drink like tea or hot cocoa is like getting a hug from the inside out!

, If you're snuggling solo, you won't have another body next to you for comfort and warmth, so grab the biggest, comfiest blanket you can find and wrap yourself up in it.
 Make yourself a little pillow fort from all of the pillows you can find around the house. Put a couple behind your back and head, press one against your stomach and hold one between your legs (this one is surprisingly good!).
 Okay, so this is cheating a bit on the "solo" part, but there's no denying that cats and dogs (or bunnies, chinchillas and other small furry creatures) make excellent snuggle buddies. Having your pet cuddled up beside you will bring your snuggling to a whole new level.

