 Time-outs can work, especially for children who have a difficult time being redirected, but you should always default to helping them find a better behavior first. You should also be sure that your child is old enough to understand the concept. 2.5 or 3 is when timeouts can generally start, and an especially mature child may be able to start at 2. If they can't sit in timeout without constant supervision, they're probably too young.
 Your child should be doing timeout in a single spot that meets a number of conditions. This spot should not be a place that is used for other things, as your child with end up with negative associations with this place (so don't use their bed). The child should be alone and have nothing to play with so that the experience is negative. The final thing is subject to two schools of thought, so you'll have to experiment to see what is best for you:


Have your child in a room alone, where they cannot see anyone, including you.
Have your child where they can see others playing but where they are not allowed to participate.
 Different ages perceive time differently, so you'll need to leave your child in timeout for a length of time proportionate to their age. The rule varies between 1 minute per year of age, or 1 minute + another for each year of their age (so 3 min for a 2-year-old). Decide which you think is best.
 Having a timer so your child can tell how long they've been in timeout can help them relax (the goal of timeout) and start to behave better. You can get a cute kitchen timer, get a Time Out Pad, or make a "timer" by mixing glitter, water, and clear glue in a bottle (shake and when the glitter settles, the time-out is done).
 If you plan on telling your child to apologize or have other requirements for getting out of time out, then you need to be as explicit as you can be in your instructions. If a child thinks they are doing what needs to be done by only doing the minimum, then you will rightfully anger them by "changing the rules".


For example, if you tell a child to apologize, you need to tell them how to apologize. Say, "You need to look at me and tell me that you're sorry". If you just tell them to apologize and they say sorry to the wall, especially if this is a fairly new concept for them, they are in the right for being angry if you put them back in time out. Remember, they can't read your mind.
 Let the rules apply to you too. This helps model good behavior. If you do something that you've told them not to do and they see you, let them put you in time out. This teaches them about fairness, and will make them better about sitting in time-out themselves.


Ask if you can be done with time-out after 30 seconds. Kids have an iffy perception of time and they'll probably relent.

