, Small cups may seem cruel, but bettas usually stay in a pet store for a few weeks, and are adapted to living in somewhat similar conditions for months in the wild. Because male bettas can't live together, it is difficult for stores to house them ideally, though conditions must be livable. Possible signs of betta mistreatment include:


Consistently dirty water going unchanged.
Containers that are never opened (implying no water changes).
Most bettas are very thin, sick, or dead.
Dead and diseased bettas displayed, or moved to the back and not dealt with.
The same bettas remain in the store for several months (store conditions are rarely acceptable long-term; this usually indicates they order too many fish).
Containers smaller than 3" in diameter.
Containers with no surface air (bettas are labyrinth fishrequiring surface air to breathe).
 Go as a window-shopper, and shop there if possible to establish yourself as a customer to lend more weight to your concerns. While evaluating the situation, don't confront anyone just yet.
 If evidence consistently suggests a store mistreats bettas, speak to a manager about their policies, share your concerns and explain how they may be harming fish.

Suggest better locations to sell bettas so they might find real homes quicker.
Write a betta care fact sheet, so buyers know how to properly care for their new pet.
Bettas can often reside with small schooling fish like Corydoras or Otocinclus catfish, so ask if they can place bettas into real tanks. (Not with any fish the same size or larger, or with flowing fins, as they will attack these perceived "enemy fish".)
Ask to bring in a professional, like an aquarium expert, to explain proper betta care and work towards improvements.
See if a store will implement a 2-week health guarantee on all fish where customers can return sick or dead fish, to encourage appropriate animal treatment.
Work with staff to come up with solutions satisfying everyone, and offer to help implement changes.
 If the store insists that all is fine and declines your suggestions, gather evidence of your suspicions. Note the conditions, ask to take photographs, and accurately document your conversations with the manager.
 If the store is a chain-store, write the main office, detailing your observations in a concerned, compassionate manner. Include photos, if any, and a summary of your conversations with the manager. Discuss your concerns and suggestions, without being aggressive or threatening to win sympathy for the animals, not make enemies. Encourage others to do likewise.
 If the store's mistreatment extends to other animals, contact your local news media. A letter to the editor is a good start, and if the story is compelling, a news station may be willing to report it. Send copies of media reports to the company, letting them know the public is concerned.

