 At this point, a good notepad may be the best way to get the ideas flowing. It's useful to write long sentences, loose words, or entire paragraphs, because all can come in handy when you tackle the actual plot. Reading is also very important, as it is the main source of inspiration, although films, television, paintings, and even people can also inspire.


Identify what you want to write about. Think whether it should be a comedy, action, mystery, romance, adventurous, or nonfiction.





;
, Once you think you have enough ideas to start building the plot, you can join the ideas. Diagrams are of great use in this process. For example if you have pineapples and elephants, you could have an elephant eat pineapples.
 What would be unexpected if this happened? What will get people to read this book? Would I be interested in this book? What is missing? What do people want to hear in a good book?

, Characters at this stage are very simple, and are very much alike. You should not worry as much with their creation now, as to their function on the story. Who's the protagonist? Who's the villain? Does the story have a villain? If yes, is he truly horrific, or just a nuisance? Those are the questions that need to be answered at this point.
 Although not publicized, some plots are non-linear, which means they can go back and forth in time without things like time machines being needed. If you choose to write such a plot, make sure that every excerpt is chronologically coherent with the rest. You don't wanna say that he was in the cave (in the future), and then get to that point, and leave him being in his backyard. In non-linear plots, it's better to leave time references out of the question until the end of the book, to avoid confusion.
 The plot will need to take place somewhere, and as such, the place you set it is as important as who features in it. If you intend to place your story on an already existing place, it'll be easier, as you only have to imagine little parts, and not have to focus on the big picture, as that is taken care by reality, and you can jump the next step. If by contrast yours is a story taken place in an entirely fictionalized setting, keep on reading.
 In creating a new setting, it will require that you imagine every single detail. Don't oversee little things like where people shall work, or how people walk down the street, as those can be of great value in the future. You'll probably get much more details than you'll ever use, but as always it's better to get more than less. In science fiction and fantasy stories, things like the physics that control the world, society stratification, and the average person are all to be taken in account as serious matters.
 Here is where you truly create your characters, leaving no thing to be said. As in creating a setting, you'll get much more than you need, but that may come in handy if you then reuse the character later. Once again, a notepad will do greatly in getting the character as developed as possible. Ask questions like "What is the reason why he dresses this way?", and then get the answers down. Take in account also that a good character is one that evolves over time, so try to make them as flexible as possible (not overdoing it, or they'll seem unsure of their own choices). Try to imagine possible interactions between characters, and links like friendship or family. Get the best out of every character.
 Every action has a reaction, and as such no events are random (unless the point is to illustrate the randomness of it all, of course).
 By now you should have probably started writing, although it is not strictly obligatory, and as such you should get the main conflict, or in other ideas, what makes the characters do what they'll do. In the beginning no such guideline is needed, but it is required later on, for the progression to be logical.
 Rising action is the sequence of events that ultimately leads to the climax. It is normally longer than it's counterpart, the falling action, and shows development in the characters personality. This should be the portion of the plot you should worry most, as it is the one that leads to a weak climax, if not written correctly. As such, have your characters face several challenges, in which they can either be shown with their full potential, or even expand it.
 This is the moment in which your characters will face their ultimate challenge. All fiction stories have a climax, at some point, except for somewhat humorous ones, which resolve in anti-climaxes (normally a resolution that is too simple, and thus sound unsatisfactory: "I faced the dragon with my sword, but it died out of breast cancer" please don't use one of these). Normally it involves all of the characters, and occurs near the end of the story (except if the plot is non-linear, by which case it can occur nearly anywhere, even in the first few lines) and is a moment in which the protagonist seems defeated, and suffers an almost miraculous recovery.


Avoid ending the book with the answer given. Leave it with a mystery, or something that has not been answered yet. This will get them searching for more of your books, perhaps asking you to make more! They want to know the answer, and of course, you will get more viewers this way.
 Before the end of the book, if you feel like it, you should let the action smooth in a little, and tell the readers what has happened to the characters since the climax. This is where the things start to get into place once again, and life is calm again. Do not underestimate the importance of it though, as stories that don't have a proper conclusion can be the most revolting thing you'll ever see.
 By this point, you should have the basic outline of the full plot. If so, it's time to get back to organizing your thought process (hope you've kept the notebook, because it does get handy a lot of times). If you're that kind of person, do sketches, maps, timelines, or even write poems about your story, as it gets you in the mood to fully love what you have developed. But don't think the job is done. You only have the basic outline, that is something easy to do. The part where the basic plot becomes the good plot, is at the next stage.
 Writing techniques which vary from clever plot twists, to known artifices like the Chekov's gun (when an object appearing to be insignificant later resolves the conflict) or the not so appreciated Deux Ex Machina (which is a resolution that appears to come out of the blue: "We were falling to our death, when a blue goat saved us and blasted the evil genius's balloon with its laser beam eyes"). With a combination of these and lots of metaphors, similes, and personifications you'll get the best out of your plot.
, Now it's time to revise what you wrote. Make sure there are no anachronisms, incoherences with your own rules and laws, and that your characters stay consistent (they may evolve in terms of personality, but have to stay consistent with themselves, as keeping the same hair color, or the same height). If you find a main problem, and find that it ruins your entire plot, don't be afraid to change everything. One error can be difference between a good plot, and a plot outline.
