 Replacing a bathroom faucet is a straightforward job, but it does require a few tools that you'll need to remove the old faucet and install the new one. The tools you'll need include:Adjustable wrench
Basin wrench
Bucket
Towel
Flashlight
Measuring tape
Plumber’s tape
Sponge or scrubber
Bathroom cleaner or soap
Rag or cloth
New faucet (purchased after you remove the original);
, Remove everything from underneath the sink. Place a towel below the pipes to protect the vanity from water damage. Place a bucket over the towel and under the faucet to catch any water that drips down.


You can also lay a garbage bag down under the towel for even more protection, or in place of the bucket.
 Locate the water shutoff valve for the bathroom sink. It should be under the sink, inside the vanity. Turn the valve to the right (clockwise) to close the valve and shut off the water to the faucet.Depending on your plumbing, you may have a single water valve for the entire faucet, or you may have two separate valves for the hot and cold water.
If you have trouble locating the shutoff valve, you can turn off the water supply to the entire line running to the bathroom sink.
 To remove excess water from the faucet and to relieve pressure before you start working, drain the pipes after you shut off the water. Turn on all the faucets at the sink and keep them running until all the water has drained out.This will protect your sink, vanity, and floors from leaks and water damage, and prevent water from spraying everywhere when you remove the faucet.
 These are the tubes that connect the faucet to the water supply. Use the adjustable wrench to loosen the nuts where the hoses attach to the water supply. Use the basin wrench to loosen the nut attaching the hoses to the faucet. Turn the nuts to the left (counterclockwise) to loosen them.Once you’ve loosened the nuts with the wrenches, you can remove them the rest of the way by hand.
 Most faucets are attached to the sink by locknuts attached to the tailpieces under the sink.Use your hands or an adjustable wrench to loosen the nuts and unthread them from the tailpieces. Turn them to the left (counterclockwise) to loosen them. Remove the nuts and the washers from the tailpieces.


Once you’ve removed the supply lines, nuts, and washers, the faucet will be loose. Hold the faucet in both hands and pull it straight out from the mounting holes. Remove the gasket if there is one and set it aside with the faucet.
Use the flashlight to locate the nuts under the sink if you're having trouble locating them.
 With a sponge or gentle abrasive pad, scrub the mounting holes around the sink where the faucet sits. Use soap and water or your favorite cleaner or detergent. Once the area is clean, rinse it well, pat it dry, and let it air dry completely.


To remove old sealant or silicone, dampen a sponge or rag with mineral spirits and wipe the area clean. Then rinse the area with clean water and pat it dry., Once you’ve removed the old faucet from the mounting holes, you can figure out what hole configuration you're working with and the type of faucet you need. There are three major types of faucets:Single hole, where the sink will only have one hole for the faucet, and the faucet will all be one simple piece with a single handle.
Center-set, where there will be three holes in the sink and the one-piece faucet will have separate handles controlling the hot and cold water.
Widespread or split-set, which work with three-hole basins, but the spout and two handles come in three separate pieces.
 Before you go to the home or hardware store for a new faucet, determine the type of faucet you have, look at your basin hole configuration, and measure the distance between the holes so that you get the right replacement faucet. Write down the number of holes your basin has, the type of faucet that was on there, and the distance between the holes.If you want to replace your old faucet with a new kind, you'll have to replace the basin as well.
 The gasket is a rubber or plastic piece that sits between the faucet and the sink to ensure a proper seal and prevent leaks. Fit the gasket over the bottom of the faucet, matching the holes in the gasket with the tailpipes and valves on the faucet.


If your faucet didn’t come with a gasket, you'll need to apply sealant or plumber’s putty before installing the faucet. Follow the manufacturer’s directions and lay down a thin layer of sealant or putty right before you put in the faucet., Plumber’s tape is designed to lubricate fittings and create a better seal between components. Wrap the end of the faucet tailpipes with a layer of plumber’s tape, making sure the tape doesn’t extend beyond the end of the pipe.The tailpipes are where the water supply hose will attach to the faucet, and the tape will prevent leaks.
 Hold the faucet in both hands and carefully set it into the mounting holes. Match the tailpipes and valves with the proper holes, and place the faucet into position.


Once the faucet is in the mounting holes, insert a washer over each tailpipe, and then twist on the nuts by hand. To tighten the nuts, turn them to the right (clockwise).
When you’ve tightened the nuts by hand, finish tightening them by turning them another quarter turn with the adjustable wrench if necessary.Avoid tightening the nuts any further, or you could damage the sink.
 Start by attaching the hoses to the faucet first. Attach each hose to the tailpipe of the faucet, and then tighten the nut by hand. To finish tightening the nuts, use the basin wrench to turn each nut a quarter turn to the right (clockwise).


Once the hoses are attached to the new faucet, reattach them to the water supply. Turn the nuts by hand to the right (clockwise), then tighten them the rest of the way with the adjustable wrench., When everything is connected and tightened, turn the water back on by turning the shutoff valve to the left (counterclockwise). Then turn on the taps to flush out the new faucet. When the water is running, check for leaks and drips.


To flush the faucet, simply let the hot and cold water run for one to two minutes.