 This can be accomplished by getting a sufficient amount of restful sleep, eating a balanced diet and including exercise in your routine at least 3 or 4 times each week. A healthy immune system can help fend off the infections that lead to the development of meningitis, offering the best defense on an ongoing basis.;
, Vitamins like A, C, E and D are very helpful in maintaining good health and decreasing the possibility of developing inflammation around the brain and spinal cord. The B family of vitamins supports the immune system as well as the nervous system, making it even harder for meningitis to develop. Don't forget fish oils and other sources of fatty acids that help decrease inflammation in general and serve as food for the immune system.
 This is especially true if those individuals tend to sneeze of cough without covering their mouths and noses. If exposure is constant, consider wearing a face mask to protect yourself from the exposure.
 Infections can be transmitted via kissing, along with other types of physical contact. Know who you are kissing and that the person is healthy and not likely to pass along harmful germs.
 Get into the habit of washing your hands after working in the dirt, using the restroom or playing with pets. Preventing meningitis involves eliminating bacteria and germs that could be transferred from other substances to your skin and eventually find their way into the body.
 Use a sanitizing agent to treat work surfaces, kitchen counters and other surfaces that people share to help reduce the chances of picking up some sort of infection that eventually leads to meningitis.
 Bacteria is sometimes found in meats that are prepared rare to medium well, increasing the chances of exposure. Learn to enjoy meats that are cooked thoroughly and at a higher temperature for a longer period of time.
 Immunization is one of the most effective strategies in preventing meningitis. Different formulas are in common use around the world. Your doctor can advise which vaccination is the best option, given your current state of health.

