 You can download or sync videos to your iPad so that you can watch them offline using the TV app. Other apps, such as YouTube Red, Netflix, and Amazon Prime Video, allow you to download certain content and watch it offline with the proper subscription.


Videos use a lot of your iPad's storage capacity, so be aware of your available storage as you download.;
, You can download or sync music to your iPad from your iTunes library. Once it's been downloaded, your music will be available for listening without an Internet connection. Some streaming services, such as Spotify, also allow for offline listening.
 You can read ebooks or listen audio books on the iPad's built-in iBooks app, or third-party apps like Kindle. Many libraries also lend eBooks and audio books that you can read with apps like iBook, Kindle, Overdrive, or Bluefire Reader. Download or sync the books you'd like to use before you go offline, and you'll be able to use them without an Internet connection.
 With the Camera app, you can take photos or record videos and store them on your iPad until you have an Internet connection or are able to sync with your desktop. You can also edit photos and videos offline with Photos, iMovie, or other third-party apps.
 Many iPad games do not require an Internet connection for play. To see a selection of such games, open the App Store app, tap Search, then start typing "offline games" in the search bar. Tap "offline games" when it appears as a search category. Scroll down to see the selection of suggested offline games.
 Many productivity apps, such as the Microsoft Office suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint), Google Docs, Notes, and Pages can be used offline. Some cloud services allow you to store and edit documents locally on your iPad until you have an Internet connection.
 Use the App Store to explore the apps available for drawing (like My Sketchbook or Paper by Fifty-Three), making music or learning instruments (like GarageBand), or even sculpting (123D Sculpt). Whatever your creative whimsy, there's probably an offline app for it.

