 It is important to keep in mind not all deaf people use sign language. Some deaf people or individuals who are hard of hearing may use lip reading and visual cues to get by in a conversation. Before you start launching into a conversation in sign language, you may start with a simple "Hello" in American Sign Language. If the person responds in kind, you have the all clear to continue the conversation in sign language.Keep in mind some deaf people also will use a different form of sign language depending on their native tongue, such as British Sign Language (BSL). Some deaf people may also use Pidgin Signed English (PSE), which is a hybrid version of sign language. You should allow the person to signal to you which type of sign language they use so you do not make any assumptions when you try to communicate with them., When you use sign language, you should make sure you position your body facing the person, with your head up. Keep your hands at your sides until you are ready to sign.You should also make sure the person can see your hands and your face as you sign. This will ensure they are able to understand you and you are able to understand them.
 Try to sign at a speed that feels normal and comfortable for you. Do not try to exaggerate your handshapes or move them too quickly, especially if you want to have a relaxed, casual conversation with the person.You should try to always sign from the point of view of your viewer. For example, when you are saying "please", you should move your hand in a clockwise motion over your chest from the observer's point of view. This means you actually move your hand in a counter-clockwise motion, moving from the left, down and then to the right. This will ensure the movement appears clockwise to the person you are signing with.
 Some people in the deaf community are comfortable with reading lips and will be okay with you mouthing the words you are signing. But you should try to avoid speaking at all to a deaf person, as it can be considered rude. Instead, opt for only using signing and do not speak or mouth your words as you sign.If the person is comfortable with lip reading, they may indicate they are okay with you mouthing the words. You may then start to mouth your words as you sign.

