 It needs to be a good, wonderful, fun, and exciting with additional episodes. Try to get an idea for one good episode. Think, and write down these steps to help you remember. Then just write the script.;
, Just as much as you need a good idea for your show, you need a good title for it as well. Try to tie your title in with the topic of your show. Not only should it be relevant, it should be distinctive and memorable.
 Pick out some colorful lights, too, if you want to add a little flair and style. Don't forget to give it extra style!

, Pick a colourful, big place to shoot your web show. If you put a plain white blank screen behind you it probably would look boring. If you pick something with a bunch of pictures and add things that show off your own flair. You could also use a large sized printout of an image as a backdrop. When you show your flair don't add too much. It'll overkill it and show you're desperate.
 You'll need a good camera to film your show. You could temporarily use a web cam, but if you want to show quality picture, you should invest in a digital camcorder. But don't worry it's not needed! If you don't have much money you can use your webcam.
 It would be great to have about two to three crew members. One do the actual filming while the other managed other technical aspects. You may also need two to three hosts or actors.
 You can take the ideas you wrote down and fit them into your schedule to remember what time you have to do it.
 If you do, you will probably lose a huge amount of viewers and your precious time of taping shows all goes to waste! You also don't have to be a polite goody two shoes but keep your temper easy too.
 Some people really don't know how to act politely unless they have memorized the script or cue cards fully.
 There are various programs that can help you do this. Add special effects if necessary. Don't let anyone who isn't a good speller or someone who sabotages edit.
 You may want to host your webcast on a video sharing site such as YouTube first, and then if it is really good get your own domain website. Use ratings and comments to your advantage. Listen to what people want to see and what they like.
 Nobody is going to watch your show if they don't know it exists. Use both online and offline methods of spreading the word about your show. This could mean using social media as well as word-of-mouth techniques. Try social networking websites. Tell your friends to tell their friends or relatives. You can even try making posters to hand out.
 Read comments or messages people leave you on your website or video. Don't think your video is bad if some comments are bad, just try to change your show a little bit and spice things up. Pay attention to the viewers that love your show.You should have a place where your fans can go look you up and give you feed back.If you get a lot of feed back that is not so good than just try to change your show a little so your fans will like it more.

