 The power supply is what powers all of the components inside of your computer. It will need to provide enough power so that all of the components can function properly. It will also need to have the correct connectors for your hardware.


Make sure that the wattage of the power supply is sufficient for the hardware you have installed. The CPU and the graphics card will draw the most power. If the power supply is not sending out enough power, your computer may run sluggishly or not at all.
Modern hard drives and optical drives require SATA connectors for power. All modern power supplies have these connectors.
Some of the more powerful video cards require two PCI-E connectors. Make sure that your power supply can accommodate everything that you need to connect.
Some cases have non-standard housings for power supply. Ensure that the power supply you purchase will fit in the case. ATX cases should work with all ATX power supplies, and mATX cases will need a mATX power supply.;
, Laying the case on its side will typically provide the best access to the power supply housing. If there is an existing power supply, make sure that it is unplugged before opening the case.
 In order to access the housing, you may need to remove some of your components, such as the CPU fan. This will depend on your case layout.
 Most housings allow you to slide the power supply in, and it will usually only fit one way. Make sure that any fans on the power supply are not blocked, and that you can screw it in from the back with all four screws. If you can’t, then the power supply may be inserted incorrectly.


Mount the power supply securely with all four screws before moving on. You can use standard ATX case screws if the power supply didn’t come with any.
 Once the power supply is secured, you can start wiring the interior of the computer. Take your time to ensure that no component is forgotten, and to place the wires in a way that doesn’t interfere with system fans or cooling. You will likely have more connectors that places to connect to; try to tuck these extra cables out of the way.


Connect the 20/24 pin connector to the motherboard. This is the largest connector on the power supply. Most modern motherboards require the 24-pin connector, while older motherboards will only use the first 20 pins. Some power supplies have a detachable 4-pin connector to make connecting old motherboards easier.
Connect the 12V power to the motherboard. Older motherboards use a 4-pin connector, while newer ones use an 8-pin. This powers the processor, and should be clearly marked on the cable or in your power supply’s documentation.
Connect your graphics card. Mid- and high-end graphics cards will require one or multiple 6- and 8-pin connectors. These will be marked as PCI-E connectors.
Connect your drives. Most drives use SATA power connectors, which are thin plugs. If you have older drives, then you will need to connect via Molex connectors, which are 4 horizontal pins. There are adapters to turn Molex connectors into SATA for older power supplies.
 Once everything is connected, you can close of the case and plug your monitor and peripherals back in. Plug the power supply into the wall and ensure that the switch on the back is set to on.
 If everything is connected and powered properly, the fan on the power supply should turn on and your computer will boot like it normally would. If you hear a beep and nothing happens, then something inside is not connected correctly, or the power supply is not providing enough power to your components.