 Show interest in your child’s well being by keeping track of how they are doing in school, what their social lives are like, and if they have developed any changes in their lifestyle. You may see changes in their:


Behavior.
Eating or sleeping habits.
Social interactions.
Talk to people that know your children well and ask them if they have noticed any changes in your child’s behaviors or lifestyle. These people could include your child’s coaches, relatives, or neighbors.
 Show your children that you are there for them during this difficult time by suggesting doing things together. While some children may be resistant because they are upset by the divorce, other children may simply want to spend time with you.


When you do spend time with your children, make sure that they know that they can talk to you about anything, including the divorce and how it makes them feel.
 Some children may wrongfully think of the divorce as their fault. Make sure to remind your children that this is not the case; talk about how the conflict only lies with you and your spouse.Give your children lots of assurances that you love them in order to promote their feelings of self-worth and to keep them from blaming themselves.
 Your spouse may have hurt you and you may be very angry with him or her, but it is important to not voice these thoughts in front of your children, as it could be very upsetting to hear their other parent talked about in that way. Remember that your children love you both, even if you do not love your spouse anymore.


Badmouthing your spouse can also teach your children that it is ok to say mean things about other people, which is not what you want to be teaching them at this critical juncture in their lives.
 You should still allow your children to see your spouse, as he or she is their parent too. Allow your spouse to continue to be a parent to the children in order to make this difficult time a little more challenging. Being told that they cannot see the other parent could make them feel negatively towards you.


If your spouse wants to take them out, and it is a reasonable time to do so (such as after they have finished their homework) do not restrict them. When you send your children off, remember to say something to the effect of “Have fun!” so that they know you are happy to see them spend time with their other parent.
 While the relationship you and your spouse have with your children may be altered a bit because of the divorce, it is important to try to maintain the same parenting style. Let your spouse show his or her care for the children in his or her own special way.


This will remind your children that even though you are getting divorced, they still have their mommy and daddy, just as they have always had you both.
 This is a challenging time for you too, which your children will most likely pick up on. When they give you hugs or kisses, make sure that they know you are grateful for their support.


Say things like, “Thank you for asking me how I am doing, I really appreciate it”.
Remember to express your feelings about the situation truthfully, but in a way that won’t upset your children. If you are feeling sad, just say that you are feeling sad because of all the changes that are happening. However, after expressing yourself, remind your children that no matter what happens, or how you feel, you will always be there for them.
 When you start looking for a new place, or begin the move, let your children help make some of the decisions. Listen to their suggestions about how the new home should be decorated, and allow them to pick out things like their own bedsheets.


Including them in the decision making process may make this new home feel more welcoming to them, even though their other parent is not a part of it.
 Try to avoid rushing into something new, both for yourself and for your children’s well being. When you do decide that you are ready to get into a relationship, make sure that you are open with your children about what you are doing.


Keep in mind that while they might like your new partner, they will always hold their other parent in higher esteem than the new partner.
 If your children are having a lot of trouble with the divorce, or you are having a hard time communicating with them, consider seeking the advice of a psychologist or counsellor. They should be able to give you strategies for how to talk to your children and address any negative feelings they may have.


You should also consider talking to friends, family, and support groups that may be able to give you advice.

