 If a food is high in saturated fat, this is an unhealthy fat. If the nutrition label includes it, look for grams of unsaturated fat, including mono and polyunsaturated fats. There are many different foods that are high in healthy fat, but the key lies in finding it in sources you enjoy eating.


For instance, fish is high in omega-3 fats that are good for you. But if you don't like fish, then you may find it difficult to eat it to get more healthy fat in your diet.
 Eating the same thing over and over the same way will get boring quickly, and when you get bored with your food, you are less likely to keep eating it.


For example, you can eat avocados sliced on sandwiches one day, and make them into a fresh guacamole the next. You could bake a tuna steak one day, and grill a salmon fillet another.
 If a food is high in saturated fat, this is an unhealthy fat. If the nutrition label includes it, look for grams of unsaturated fat, including mono and polyunsaturated fats. There are many different foods that are high in healthy fat, but the key lies in finding it in sources you enjoy eating.


For instance, fish is high in omega-3 fats that are good for you. But if you don't like fish, then you may find it difficult to eat it to get more healthy fat in your diet.
 If you are unable to include healthy fats in your diet for any particular reason, including taste preference, expense, time constraints, or preparation, you can take any number of supplements to get essential fatty acids.


Fish oil and flaxseed oil are two relatively inexpensive supplements you can get from a variety of online or brick-and-mortar retailers.
A 500 mg omega-3 capsule taken daily is generally enough, unless you have been instructed by a doctor to take more.
When selecting a supplement, look for ones that do not contain mercury.
Taking supplements should be a last resort, as healthy fats direct from food sources are thought to be more effective than supplemental forms. Supplements are not as well-absorbed by the body. If possible, rely on supplements only on days when you feel your natural intake is not enough, but remember supplementation is better for you than no healthy fat at all.

