 Set the skillet over a medium-high heat and give it a couple of minutes to start warming up. Ideally, the skillet should be large enough to hold two regular-sized slices of bread at a time. Add a tablespoon of butter or canola oil if you wish, or you can simply cook the breakfast meats in their own fat.If the skillet you’re using is not non-stick, lubricating it with a little oil before you start can save you a lot of trouble during the cleanup stage.
The liquefied fat from the bacon or sausage can be used to scramble the eggs right afterward.;
, Add four strips of bacon or four small sausage links to the pan. Let the meat cook until it browns and the fat renders out of it. Turn each strip of bacon over once the liquid fat begins to bubble over the top; if you’re making sausage, make sure to break it into small crumble it as it cooks.Hearty center-cut bacon fries up crisp and meaty, making it perfect for sandwiches.
Remove the outer casing from the sausage links before you put them in the pan., Remove the bacon or sausage from the skillet. Beat 2-4 whole eggs (depending on how many sandwiches you want to make) in a small mixing bowl with a splash of milk. Add salt and pepper to taste. While the skillet is still hot, pour in the eggs and scramble them gently using a flat spatula until they begin to solidify and fluff up. Take the eggs out of the skillet and put them on a separate plate.To cut down on mess and difficulty, keep the eggs in a few large chunks.
 Cheddar and American are the most common choices for a grilled cheese, but you could also use jack, muenster, Havarti, Gruyere or whatever else you prefer. It’s best if the cheese is in broad, flat slices, but shredded cheese will work as well. Use 1-2 slices for each sandwich.If you’re really feeling daring, try mixing-and-matching a couple different types of cheese with complementary flavors, such as manchego and swiss.
Some cheeses melt better than others. You likely won’t have much success with so-called “squeaky” varieties like goat cheese and queso fresco., Slather one side of each slice of bread with a generous helping of butter softened at room temperature (2-3 tablespoons will do the trick nicely). The butter will cook right into the bread, getting it perfectly crispy and golden brown.Use plain packaged white or wheat bread on the fly, or go with thick, fresh-baked sourdough or pumpernickel for a bistro-ready delicacy.
You can also brush on a light coating of olive or canola oil as a substitute for butter. Oil will make for a more even finish., The grilled cheese sandwich is a highly customizable food. Put a unique touch on your sandwich with any other ingredients that you think will pair well with delicious salty bacon or sausage and silky smooth melted cheese. Just make sure you can get it closed to grill it!Let your imagination run wild. Put together different combinations each time you make the breakfast grilled cheese.
Try an omelette-style sandwich with mushrooms, onions or bell peppers, or make a BLT grilled cheese by adding crisp lettuce and freshly sliced red ripe tomatoes.
 After being used to cook the bacon or sausage and scramble the eggs, your skillet will have gotten very hot. Lower the temperature by a notch or two, or remove the skillet from the heat source and let it rest for a moment. That way, you won’t risk accidentally burning the sandwich by cooking it too fast.Take a moment to wipe any small pieces of bacon, sausage or egg remaining in the skillet so they don’t burn and get stuck on the sandwich.
The bread should cook slowly so that you’ll have time to heat both sides of the sandwich once all the ingredients are in place.
 Plop the bread in butter-side down and listen for the delightful sizzle. Allow the bread slices to grill for 20-30 seconds so that it just begins to brown. Lift one corner each slice with your spatula and take a peek at the underside to see how it’s coming along. Once the bread starts to turn a golden color, it will be time to add the rest of the components.If you’re cooking with a smaller skillet or you’ve overstuffed your grilled cheese with delicious toppings, put the sandwich together first, then cook it on both sides until the bread is golden-brown and the cheese is melted., Start by placing a slice of cheese on one of the pieces of bread, or use one for each. Then, distribute the scrambled eggs, bacon, sausage and any extra toppings evenly between both halves of the sandwich. Pat both halves of the sandwich flat so you’ll be able to put them together neatly.Making a sandwich with two slices of cheese will ensure that it comes out extra rich and hold together better.
Add this point, you can add a pinch of seasoned salt, garlic powder or any other spices you want to increase the flavor.
 Fold one half of the sandwich over onto the other, being careful not to lose any toppings. Continue to heat the grilled cheese for another 30 seconds to a minute, then flip the sandwich over and cook for the same amount of time on the other side. This will start melting the cheese, which will smother and envelope the other ingredients. Yum!Pressing down on the sandwich with your spatula will put more surface area in contact with the skillet, cooking it faster and more evenly.
Keep an eye on the bread and don’t let it get too dark. Nobody likes a burnt grilled cheese.
 Scoop the sandwich out of the skillet once it’s perfectly done. Cut it from corner to corner or straight down the middle with the edge of the spatula and give it a couple moments to cool off before you dig in. Serve the grilled cheese with a side of pancakes, hashbrowns, grits, fresh fruit or yogurt, and never skip breakfast again!


It should only take about 10-15 minutes total to prepare all of your ingredients and fix a delicious grilled cheese.
To save even more time, cook the bacon or sausage in advance, then just take it out of the refrigerator and add it to the sandwich when you’re ready to grill one up.