 Breast shells are sold at maternity stores and online. They are soft, circular discs with a small hole in the middle that pushes the nipple forward.


Cup your breast inside the shield and position your nipple through the small hole.
Wear the breast shell under your shirt, undershirt or bra. You may need to have an extra layer of clothing to hide it adequately.
If you are preparing to nurse, wear the shell for 30 minutes prior to breastfeeding.The shell applies gentle pressure to your nipple to encourage it to stay erect. It can be used by men and women as a treatment for inverted nipples.
The breast shell may stimulate lactation in breastfeeding women. Nursing mothers should not wear them continuously for days on end. If you wear the shell during feedings, be sure to wash it in hot, soapy water afterwards, and dispose of any milk leaked into the shell during wearing. Monitor the area around your breast when using breast shells, as they may cause rashes., If you are pregnant or nursing, use your breast pump to evert the nipple tissue.


Place the phalange over your breast, ensuring your nipple is centered inside the hole. Phalanges come in different sizes, so be sure the phalange you're using covers your nipple.
Hold the phalange against your breast, ensuring a seal against your skin.
Holding the phalange or bottle in one hand, turn on the pump.
Pump at the highest comfortable strength.
Turn off the machine by holding both bottles against you with one arm and turning off the pump with another.If you are nursing, give the nipple to your baby once your nipple is erect.
Don’t pump extensively if you are nursing, since it will start the flow of milk from your nipple.
There are a variety of breast pumps on the market; high-quality electric pumps like those used at a maternity ward do the best job of pulling the nipple out without damaging surrounding tissue.
Breast pumps vary from one manufacturer to another. Talk to a nurse or lactation consultant about the best way to use the particular pump you're working with.
 Pull out your nipple using a clean, needleless 10 milliliters (0.34  fl oz) syringe (this size may vary depending on your nipple size).


Use clean, sharp scissors to cut off the end of the syringe where it reads "0 mL". (The side opposite to the plunger.)
Remove the plunger and reinsert it at the end you just cut off, pushing the plunger all the way in.
Place the uncut end over your nipple and draw out the plunger so that your nipple protracts.
Do not pull farther than is comfortable.
Before removing, push the plunger slightly back in to break the suction.
Once finished, disassemble all parts and wash with hot, soapy water.
If you prefer, there is a medical device called Evert-It, which is a modified syringe with a breast phalange. It works on the same principle described above.
 The Niplette is a device that elongates the milk ducts by pulling on the nipple for an extended period. This small, clear, plastic device is worn over the nipple and under clothing.


Apply a small amount of nipple ointment to the nipple and areola and the base of the Niplette.
Insert the syringe into the open end of the valve, pushing firmly.
Place the Avent Niplette over your nipple with one hand and pull the syringe with the other, creating suction. Don't pull too hard - this should not be painful!
Once the nipple has been pulled out, release the Niplette.
Grasp the valve and carefully remove the syringe from the valve. Do this carefully so that no air is re-injected, which would cause the device to fall off.
Wear your Niplette under your clothing. If you're wearing a tight top, you can conceal the Niplette with a specially designed protective cover.
Remove the Niplette by pushing the syringe into the valve to break the vacuum.
Start by wearing the Niplette for one hour per day. Gradually increase by one hour each day, working up to eight hours per day.
Do not wear the Niplette day and night!
Within three weeks you should see results, with the nipple filling the mould., Supple Cups sold online have been designed to help address flat, shy and inverted nipples, by drawing the nipple into the cup. Clinically proven, permanent correction has been observed in inverted nipple clinical trials, in as little as a few weeks.

Center the Supple Cup onto the nipple and squeeze the bottom of the Supple Cup as you gently press it onto the nipple. This creates a gentle vacuum, drawing the nipple into the Supple Cup.
For an improved seal, apply a small amount of nipple cream or butter – such as USP modified lanolin – on nipple and interior of the Supple Cup. If that still doesn’t work, you may want to try a different size.
New users typically wear Supple Cups for 15 minutes on the first day. If no pain or discomfort is experienced, one may advance the time each day, gradually increasing to four hours per day by the end of the first week.
Some are able to wear the Supple Cups under a bra without the Supple Cup being displaced or without discomfort. Alternatively, Breast Shells can be used in conjunction with Supple Cups to prevent a tight bra from flattening out the Supple Cups or from causing uncomfortable pressure or from being detached from the nipple.

