 It can take a while for your body to adjust to the new climate when you travel to a region that is hotter than your normal environment. Passive exposure to heat will eventually lead to partial adaptation, but if you plan on being physically active while you travel it's best to actively acclimate to the heat.In order to fully acclimate, you'll need to engage in about one to two hours of exercise in the heat each day.
Full acclimatization will occur within 10 days if you exercise every day.
It's important to take precautions if you plan on exercising in the heat while you're still acclimating. Drink plenty of fluids and replace any electrolytes you lose during the day.;
, One of the best ways to avoid heat sickness is to restrict your physical activity during the hottest parts of the day. In most warm regions, peak heat hours are between 10:00 AM and 2:00 pm.Early morning and late afternoon or evening are usually the coolest times of day.
Depending on where you are traveling to, it may still be warmer than what you're used to at night or in the relatively cool times of day.
Remember to stay hydrated whenever you engage in physical activity, no matter what time of day it is.
 If you're experiencing excessive sweating while you travel, you may need to change your clothing to better adapt to the climate you're in. Tight, thick, dark-colored clothing tends to induce more sweating and increase the risk of skin irritation and overheating in hot climates.Choose lightweight, loose clothing to allow for the circulation of air and the evaporation of sweat.
Opt for light-colored clothes, as light colors absorb less heat than dark colors.
Wear a wide-brimmed hat when you're out in the sun to reduce your radiant heat exposure.
 While you may be tempted to eat and drink the things you normally enjoy, they may be contributing to your excessive sweating. Certain foods and drinks, like alcohol and spicy foods, are notorious for inducing sweating after consumption.Choose water or 100% fruit juice instead of alcohol. Avoid sugary drinks like soda (or juices that are cocktails or not 100% juice), as these can further dehydrate you.
Try to order your food as mild as possible and avoid anything spicy.
 You can speak with your doctor about a prescription-strength antiperspirant (or even medication to temporarily stop the stimulation of sweat glands), or try a clinical-strength antiperspirant, which is available over-the-counter. Apply this at night and in the morning to clean, dry skin (avoid using lotion in this area, as this can interfere with the antiperspirant). Look for a product with a high level of aluminum chloride hexahydrate, which is the ingredient that closes sweat ducts.Brand names of antiperspirants with high levels of aluminum chloride hexahydrate include Certain Dri, Drysol, Hypercare, Xerac.
Though antiperspirant is meant for use on your underarms, you can occasionally apply it to other areas that sweat a lot.
 It's imperative that you stay hydrated to avoid dehydration and heat sickness; however, if you're prone to excessive sweating, water alone may not be enough to keep you safe in the heat. You may want to consider adding electrolytes to ensure that your salt levels are replenished.You can dissolve two salt tablets in one liter of water to help replenish your electrolyte levels.
Some sports beverages also replenish electrolytes, but they also typically contain a lot of sugar, which may dehydrate you further.
Consider carrying a water reservoir, such as a CamelBak, which will ensure you have enough water, even if you are unable to access water for several hours.
If you anticipate being more active on your trip, even if it is not a warmer climate, plan to drink more water and expect to sweat more than usual.
 It takes a while to adjust to being in a hot climate. If you're not used to a lot of heat and sunshine, being out in the sun during peak heat hours could easily lead to sunburn, further sweating, and possibly even dehydration or heat sickness.The hottest time of day is usually between 10:00 am and 2:00 pm. If at all possible, avoid being out in the sun during this window of time.
If you must be out during peak heat hours, try to limit yourself to no more than 30 minutes of sun exposure in a given day.
 If you must be out in the sun, it's important that you protect your skin from UV exposure. Many people traveling to tropical areas do not realize that it is much easier to get sunburned in these parts of the world, especially if you are coming from a cool region that doesn't get a lot of sunshine on a day-to-day basis.Choose sunscreen that is broad- or full-spectrum. This type of sunscreen protects against both UVA and UVB radiation.
Make sure your sunscreen has a high SPF (sun protection factor). Generally an SPF of 30 or higher is good for traveling to hot, sunny regions.
 Sweating helps cool your body down. But excessive sweating — especially if you're in a hot or humid environment — can lead to skin irritations and embarrassing sweat stains. Managing your perspiration can help minimize or avoid these situations as you travel on vacation.Apply antiperspirant instead of a simple deodorant. Deodorant merely masks odors, but antiperspirants can help reduce sweating.
Try applying talc powder to the parts of your body most prone to sweating. Many people use talc powder on the armpits, groin, and feet to help absorb sweat.(If you are a woman, do not use talc powder on your groin, as this may increase risk of ovarian cancer. Use an alternative, such as cornstarch powder.)
Consider wearing armpit shields. These inserts can help absorb sweat in your armpits and protect your clothes from getting wet.
Choose clothing made of natural fibers. Some sports clothing is even designed to absorb moisture when you sweat.
Change your socks and underwear two or more times each day, if possible.
 A heat rash is a rash or irritation of the skin that usually accompanies excessive sweating. If you're prone to sweating, you may experience a heat rash in any climate, though hot and/or humid weather is more likely to cause a heat rash in some individuals. Heat rash typically looks like a cluster of red pimples or a series of small blisters, and it most commonly afflicts the neck, upper chest, groin, the undersides of breasts, and the creases of elbows.Avoid tight-fitting clothing if you believe you might be prone to heat rash. Instead, opt for loose-fitting clothes that are appropriate for the environment you're in.If you experience heat rash, it's important to keep your skin clean and cool.
Bathe or shower in cool or cold water using a soap that won't dry out your skin. When you get out of the bath/shower, let your skin air-dry instead of using a towel.You can treat heat rash with over-the-counter ointments and creams like calamine lotion and anhydrous lanolin. In severe cases, a doctor might recommend topical steroids., Heat cramps are usually marked by sudden pains or spasms in the muscles. Heat cramps typically affect the abdomen, arms, or legs, and they usually affect individuals who are prone to excessive sweating. As soon as you recognize heat cramps coming on, you should discontinue all physical activity and drink cool beverages, preferably in a cool, shaded place.With proper treatment, heat cramps usually subside within an hour. If you experience heat cramps lasting longer than one hour, seek medical help as soon as possible.
 Heat exhaustion occurs when your body loses too much water and salt in the form of sweat. You may not have an abnormal body temperature during heat exhaustion, but it is usually marked by excessive and heavy sweating.Getting to a cool, shaded environment and drinking cool beverages (ideally water with an electrolyte supplement) can usually reduce the symptoms of heat exhaustion; however, you should seek medical assistance if any of the following symptoms worsen or last for over one hour:


Excessive sweating
Pale skin
Muscle cramps
Fast, weak pulse
Fast, shallow breathing
Feeling weak or exhausted
Dizziness
Nausea/vomiting

, Heat stroke is the body's stress response to being unable to regulate internal temperatures in extremely hot weather.Heat stroke can cause permanent disability or even death, and there is no way to effectively treat heat stroke at home. Seek out immediate medical help if you experience any of the following symptoms:


A very high body temperature (over 102.9 degrees Fahrenheit, or 39.4 degrees Celsius)
Red, hot, dry skin and an inability to sweat anymore
Consistently rapid pulse
Headache with throbbing pain
Dizziness
Nausea
Confusion
Possible loss of consciousness

