 Choose a haircut you know will flatter you. There are good choices to select from a favored celebrity or even people around you. Ask a few friends if you think the haircut would look good on you, and get advice from the hair stylist as well. Bring a picture of that celeb or photos of your friend's hair-do next time you get your hair cut. Ask to get a similar cut while also seeking the stylist's input. Consider the effectiveness of having subtle highlights rather than bold streaks which look dated. Most hair colors could use a little warmth, so ask for a richer, subtle tone.;
, It is essential to create a near-flawless canvas – bad skin is every girl's worst nightmare. Ask your dermatologist for advice on products to try. Never abide dirty skin, always cleanse and moisturize your face at morning and night especially, because in the morning your skin will be that much softer and healthier. Ask your dermatologist what he/she thinks would be good for your skin if it's really bad.
 The best tip is to buy the Sephora Beauty Guide. But remember - less is more. A baby-rose blush is essential for glowy skin. Concealer for zits, dark circles and redness, but only dust your skin-toned foundation where it is needed. And if you're wearing a lot of make-up, don't wear lip gloss – it will just make the face make-up stand out too much. Wear a nude-pink lipstick to make your lips look fuller and natural. Blonds are better off not wearing black or colored mascara; opt instead for brown.
 Style is easy for some people, harder for others. Think of one rule - more than four colors is overkill, and at least one color in your outfit should match something else in the outfit. For example, say you're wearing a yellow floaty shirt, a pink tiered skirt over blue embroidered jeans, and gray sneakers; a yellow cardigan, pearl earrings and a necklace, and a white, yellow, blue, and pink patterned bag would look great and pull together the teen-casual bohemian-classy look. Remember, in the words of Coco Chanel, "When accessorizing, always take off the last thing you put on."

, This is key. Be confident, but not in a "look-at-me" way. Don't put yourself down a lot like some girls do. If anyone asks you if you think you're pretty, give a tiny shrug and say, "I think I look fine." Be nice to everybody, even people you don't much like, and practice effective, assertive comebacks, but never get into serious fights. Hang around with at least one respected and nice girl, and have a list of people you can call up to do something fun with. Popularity doesn't have to be an episode of Gossip Girl.
 Laugh a lot and smile too. When you're walking or sitting on a plane or something, have a dreamy little smile on your face. You'll look like a girl with a good secret, like someone has a crush on you or something. Fact - smiling people look more attractive than frowns. Practice your expressions in the mirror.
 You'll start to unconsciously imitate some of their gestures.
 When you flirt, do it in a genuine way and work at least one compliment into every long conversation, but not too many. Guys love being flattered, as do girls! If you ask a guy out and he turns you down, keep your poise.
 This is a cliché, but life is short. Live a little, carpe diem. Someone asks you to do something fun but you're sulking, go do it. Otherwise you'll just sit feeling sorry for yourself. Always take that opportunity and do it.

