 This can be included in the end paragraph, or as a formal closing. Write something like:


Thank you for your time and attention on this matter.
I appreciate your consideration, thank you for your time.
A simple "Thank you," at the end of your paragraph.;
, This is considered polite and professional when signing any type of business related letter or document. Closing lines should offer help, repeat an apology, or reference a future event. Some examples include:


I appreciate immediate attention on this matter.
We hope to continue relying on your valued input as a customer.
I once again apologize for inconveniences this may cause.
If you require further information, don't hesitate to ask.
Please provide the necessary advice.
I look forward to meeting with you.
I look forward to receiving your response.
 For a business letter it is very important that you format your closing correctly, but don't worry. It's easy. Enter one return or one print-size space between the last line of your letter and the letter closing to format your signature appropriately.


This should be flush with the left margin in block formatted text, or centered below the body of the letter in line with the date in modified block format.
 This is typically a one or two words that follow your formal closing. Choose an appropriate closing for the letter you're writing. The closing of business letters should be professional and respectful. Depending on the purpose of the memo or letter and the person who'll be receiving it, different closings may be more appropriate than others.The complimentary close begins with a capital letter and ends with a comma. No other word listed in the closing should be capitalized.Include something like:


Respectfully,
Respectfully yours,
Sincerely,
Best wishes,
All the best,
Warm regards,
Consider to whom you're writing. A Senior Vice President of a company may require a more formal closing ("Sincerely") than the Sales Representative you play basketball with ("Cheers").Consider the purpose of the letter. A company memo introducing new policies will deem a more formal closing than a note of congratulations to a colleague who was recently promoted ("All best").
Try using something like "best regards," or "best wishes," if the recipient is your close contact. "Yours sincerely" is better reserved for when you know the recipient whereas "Sincerely" is typically used if you do not know the recipient.
 It is important to leave about 3 returns of space before trying your name on what is called the "signature line" (you will need to use space above it later). Indent to keep your text flush with the complimentary closing and type your name. Include any titles like Miss, Mrs., Ms. before your name.The signature line may include a second line for a job title or position (like Course Director) if appropriate.


It is always best to write the first name in full.You may also like to include any relevant contact information like a phone number, email address, mailing address, extension number, or website address.
 In space you have left above your signature line, write your signature in blue or black ink.

