 Although a number of state and national parks are closed to campers during the winter months, in many places you can still camp in the winter months. In order to winter camp, you will need to get tents, sleeping bags, and clothing that are intended for winter temperatures. You should also pack stove equipment because good firewood is often hard to find in the winter.Check with your local outdoor outfitter and the local parks service before you do any winter camping. You should also check the weather and local conditions before you start your excursion.
 A common way that many people spend extra time outdoors in the winter is by either skiing or snowboarding. These activities will help you spend hours outdoors in the fresh winter air. However, in order to properly slide down the slopes, you will need to get the appropriate winter gear to keep your warm and safe.You can also cross-country if you have enough snow and flat enough terrain.
Both sports are also rather expensive. Between the ski passes and the gear, you may end up paying a significant amount of money. Be sure to talk to a sales associate at your local sporting goods store to find the appropriate gear at a good price.
 In certain locations, the winter months offer a unique opportunity to go fishing. This is a great opportunity to get outside and spend some time with others. Once you acquire a fishing license and the appropriate gear, you will be ready to get outside and catch some delicious fish.Before you go, check with the local game and parks department to make sure the ice is thick enough for fishing. It is important that you know when ice is safe.
 Once ponds and lakes are covered with a significant layer of ice, ice skating is a common outdoor winter activity in many locations. With a pair of ice skates, you can glide along the surface of the ice. Besides lakes and ponds, there are also outdoor ice rinks, which are great locations to play hockey or figure skate.


Always check the thickness of the ice before you go out on it. Never skate if you do not know the thickness of the ice.
 If you live somewhere that gets a significant amount of snow, the winter offers some unique opportunities for outdoor play. You can slide down a snow-covered hill on a sled or tube. You can build a snow fort or have a snowball fight. You can also make a snowman or create some snow angels. If you get snow, get outside and take advantage of the fun opportunity.Before you go play in the snow, make sure that you are wearing appropriate winter clothing. You should also check the weather to make sure that it is safe to play outside.

