 Opt for clothing made of breathable materials, such as cotton, linen, or jersey. These fabrics will not constrain your body or cause you to sweat in the heat. They are also great for staying cool and put together, even on a hot weather day.You may look for dresses, tops, and skirts made of cotton or linen. Or you may opt for a jersey dress in a simple cut that you can wear on a hot day.
Shorts made of cotton or linen are also good options for staying cool on a hot day. T-shirts and collared shirts made of linen or jersey are also ideal.;
, Fabrics like polyester, nylon, and silk may look nice on but they are not breathable materials. They will cause you to sweat and will retain body odors, making your hot weather day that much more uncomfortable.You should also avoid clothing made of rayon or wool, as they are not breathable and will cause you to sweat more than you already are in hot weather.
Silk is also a fabric that repels water, which will create a rippling effect on the fabric when you wear it on a hot, sweaty day. However, if you need to dress up for an event, you may opt for silk over more constricting fabrics like polyester or nylon.
 When you are choosing clothing for a hot day, you should go for fabrics that are light in color. Pastels and colors on the lighter end of the spectrum, such as white, beige, and gray, are all good options as they will absorb less sun than darker colors.Avoid clothing in dark colors or jewel tones, like emerald, purple, or blue. You should also avoid black clothing, as it will trap light and make you feel more hot in hot weather.
 If you work outside often or are walking around outside on a daily basis in hot weather, you may opt for the comfort and breathability of work out clothing. A lot of work out clothing is made of materials that absorb sweat and keep you cool as you sweat. Often, work out clothing is also made to be comfortable and easy to move in as you go about your day.If you work in an office setting or another professional setting, work out clothing may not be appropriate. But if you are running errands throughout the day or having a casual day out, you may be able to get away with wearing your work out clothing. Work out gear has become more fashionable with the rise of “athleisure” clothing, where you wear stylish work out clothing as part of an outfit., Avoid skin tight clothing and clothing that will constrain your body as you move around on a hot day. In general rule, looser is cooler in hot weather. This will help to create a layer of air between your skin and your clothing.Look for dresses that are A-line cut, with a loose fit on your arms, chest and waist. Choose tops that are cropped so they do not hug your stomach or torso. Go for skirts and shorts that have a loose fit around your waist and legs.
 Go for bottoms that will not cover up your legs with material, especially if you want to feel cool on a hot day. Look for shorts or skirts in breathable fabrics and cuts that do not constrain your legs.You should avoid wearing pants, unless you have to wear them due to a professional dress code or a formal dress code. If you do have to wear pants, opt for pants made out of cotton or linen in a loose cut. You may also wear pants that you can roll at the hem so they do not squeeze or constrain your legs.
 You should also look for tops that have short sleeves or that are sleeveless. If you tend to have sweat lines, you may opt for sleeveless tops so your sweat lines do not show. Make sure the tops are made of breathable material like linen or cotton so you can stay cool and show off your killer arms.Men may not have the option of going sleeveless in the office. Instead, you can opt to wear long sleeve button up shirts in a breathable material like chambray, a lightweight alternative to denim.
 If you are trying to dress modestly but still stay cool in the heat, you may be tempted to layer your clothing and shed each layer when you get hot. However, layering will only create more clothing for you to deal with as you go about your day and likely will not keep you cool. Instead, you should choose clothing items that do not require you to layer. This way, you do not have to worry about shedding clothing throughout the day.A good hot weather item is a maxi dress, which allows you to cover up your legs without having to worry about shedding a layer. Maxi dresses are also good for formal events when paired with heels or dress sandals, as they keep your legs covered but still feel summery and appropriate for hot weather.
You could also wear a long sleeve shirt with shorts to remain modest and still cool in the heat. Or, pair a cotton cardigan with a long cotton dress.
 Hot weather accessories can also be a great way to look fashionable while you beat the heat. Go for sunglasses that have UV protection and glare protection. Look for sunglasses in brightly colored frames, such as peach, bright blue, or pink. This can add another level of summer to your look., Brimmed hats are great for staying cool in hot weather, as they protect your face from the sun and keep your body cool in the heat. Look for hats made of cotton or woven materials. Hats with a wide brim all the way around, sun hat style, or baseball hats are ideal for staying cool in hot weather., Many people suffer from swollen, sweaty feet in hot weather. You can counteract this by wearing shoes that are comfortable and not constraining. Look for shoes with comfortable soles made of breathable materials like canvas or cotton. Avoid shoes that are made of non-breathable material like leather, rubber, or other man-made materials.You should also make sure your shoes fit your feet properly so they do not get irritated by your shoes. Feet often swell in heat so you may opt for open toe styles like sandals to ensure your feel have room to breath.
If you are wearing closed toe shoes, you should wear socks so there is no rubbing or chaffing of your feet in your shoes.
 Perhaps one of the most important accessories in hot weather is sunscreen. You should apply sunscreen to any bare skin that will be exposed to the sun before you go outside. This will protect you from harmful UV rays and ensure you are not at risk of skin cancer or other skin related issues.


For a very sweaty, hot day, you may opt for sunscreen that is waterproof and long lasting so it will stay on your skin. You may also need to reapply sunscreen periodically so your skin is always protected when you step outside.

