 A fever is thought to be the body's way of fighting infection, so unless the fever is 102°F (38.9°C) or higher (for adults), it is important to let the fever take its course instead of treating it. There are, however, ways to make yourself more comfortable if you're dealing with a high fever at bedtime.


For a very high fever over 102°F (38.9°C), try ibuprofen, acetaminophen, or aspirin. Be sure you take the proper dosage as indicated on the package, and call your doctor if the fever is 103°F (39.4°C) or higher or lasts for more than three days.For a lower grade fever, try wearing thinner pajamas, using only bed sheets instead of blankets, or even sleeping in the nude if that's more comfortable. You can also go to bed with damp hair or use a damp rag on your forehead or neck while you sleep, as long as you don't feel overly chilled.;
, Coughing fits are extremely disruptive to sleep. Try elevating your body with a few extra pillows at bedtime, and try to sleep on your side to prevent fluids from pooling in your lungs.


Try taking a spoonful of honey to coat your throat before you sleep. You can also drink tea with honey to reduce the urge to cough as you fall asleep.
If your cough is productive, meaning that you cough up phlegm, try taking a medicine to dislodge some of the mucus about an hour or so before bed. These products are labeled "expectorant" and they cause you to spit out the mucus.
You can also try using a cough suppressant or a soothing ointment like Vicks Vaporub.
 It can be very difficult to fall asleep if your body is aching, whether it is from the flu, an injury, or an infection. Calming the ache can help you fall asleep faster and stay asleep longer.


Take an over-the-counter pain medication like ibuprofen or acetaminophen 30 minutes before bedtime.
If the pain continues, try heat. Put a hot water bottle over any specific areas that feel achey. If your heating pad has a timed off-switch, it may be safe to use at bedtime.
 Falling asleep with a sore throat can be particularly difficult, since these seem to intensify at bedtime.


Before bed, drink a hot herbal tea made with lemon and honey. You can use any herbal tea like chamomile or raspberry, or create your own by simply steeping slices of lemon in hot water and adding a teaspoon or two of honey. The heat itself will help relieve your throat, so the type of tea doesn't matter as long as it is not caffeinated.
First, take a long-lasting pain reliever like ibuprofen about 30 minutes before bedtime. Then, when it is time to lay down, try using a numbing spray like Chloraseptic or Cepacol. These will temporarily numb the pain so you can fall asleep.
Have a glass of water by your bedside to keep hydrated. Ensure you drink each time you may wake during the night. Cuddle a teddy or heat pack to distract you. Use honey to coat your throat.
 Symptoms like gas, bloating, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea can keep you up all night. Take some medicine before bed, like Pepto-Bismol, and try to get comfortable.


For nausea, you can also try sipping a tea made with ginger. If you have fresh ginger and lemon available, slice them and put them in a cup of boiling water to steep for five minutes. Add a bit of honey and sip this slowly before bed. The ginger and lemon will help to settle your stomach.
Sleep with your body curled around a heating pad, if you have one. If you don't, fill a tube sock with dried corn or uncooked rice and tie the end securely. Heat this in the microwave for a minute; the grain will hold the heat and act as a heating pad.
 If your nose is runny or congested, breathing can be difficult and this can cost you precious hours of sleep. Try these strategies at bedtime:


Elevate your head with an extra pillow or two. Whether you are congested or runny, the extra elevation will help the sinuses drain as you sleep, which should make breathing easier.
Use a nasal rinse like a Neti pot or saline spray right before bed. Blow your nose thoroughly afterwards, take a cold medication specifically for runny or congested noses, and then keep a box of tissues next to the bed. You may still have to blow your nose throughout the night, but the medication should slow down the flow.
If you are congested and having trouble breathing through your nose, coat your lips with a thick coating of lip balm or petroleum jelly and try to breathe through your mouth as you sleep.

