 These types of foods include fruits, whole-grain pasta, cereals and breads, salads, legumes and beans, vegetables, rice, and very lean meats, poultry, dairy and seafood. This Life Choice Diet Program encourages no restrictions to eating these foods.;
, Dean Ornish recommends consuming no more than 10 percent of calories from fat. Calorie consumption is reduced when restricting these types of foods.
 Ornish discovered that 23 calories are burned when an extra 100 carbohydrate or protein calories are converted into body fat. The body burns 2.5 calories when an extra 100 fat calories are converted into body fat. The lower fat diet burns more calories for the same amount of calories consumed when compared to the higher fat diet.
 Ornish recommends beginning a 3-diet diary before starting the program so a baseline is reported. After 1 year and 5 years of the Life Choice Diet Program, conduct 3-day diets to see if compliance with the diet is still occurring and that the correct amount of nutrients are also being adequately being consumed.
 The body functions at its most optimal when it is properly hydrated. Water, juices, skim milk, coffee and tea are all encouraged to remove toxins and boost bodily functions.
 Ornish encourages moderate exercise like walking. More strenuous exercises like jogging and other hard-impact workouts are acceptable but not necessary. Exercise promotes the body to move, which is beneficial in triggering the body to function more effectively while also stimulating the body to remove waste.
 Ornish recommends training programs for those new to the idea of managing stress. Meditation allows the mind to remove itself from life stresses and focus on improving the brain's ability to react to stressful events.
 The Life Choice Diet Program pushes for lifestyle changes that can be drastic. The support is helpful when the changes appear to be too much to handle or when an individual needs a pat-on-the-back for staying with the program.
 The toxins cause a variety of cancers and have also been known to initiate coronary heart disease. The program is only as effective as how much a person is willing to commit to it and smoking is a big step to better health.
 You get Dean Ornish's top 10 tips for weight loss benefits when you stay with the program. Along with weight loss, the program's nutritional approach lowers blood cholesterol levels, occurrence of cancer, arthritis, body weight, heart disease and other health issues.

