 Infatuation is when you feel euphoria, happiness, excitement and a lot more that can be tough to put into words.During infatuation, you may see your relationship and your partner in an ideal way, but this feeling is temporary. Real lasting love is far more than a feeling. It is a faithful commitment that grows even when the feelings of infatuation fade away.


Feelings of infatuation can last up to two years all the while acting on your brain in a way that is not too different from drugs.;
, Accept your partner and avoid doing and saying things to bring your partner down. Critical comments, chronic sarcasm, and passive-aggressive behavior can destroy a relationship. Instead, show encouragement, kindness, and genuine concern for your partner. This will strengthen your bond.For example, if you're having trouble accepting your partner, try the 5:1 ratio. Offer five positive comments for each negative one. You'll soon discover how much you appreciate your partner., Sharing things with your partner can create emotional intimacy and make you feel closer to your partner.While this might seem scary, you'll eventually go from getting to know someone to understanding and caring for the person.


A good way to ease into emotional intimacy is to spend quality time with your partner. During this quality time, ask questions to learn more about your partner. Intimate questions can strengthen the emotional bond between two people., Think of when you were getting to know one another the first time. Remember how much you tried to impress your partner and how nervous you felt. Try to make the same effort to win your partner again., Remember what attracted you to your partner in the first place and choose to remain "madly in love." People who say they are "madly in love" have increased brain activity in the region identified with new love or infatuation.While it's important to remember the beginning, it is also important to recognize the present. It's still possible to keep that “new love” feeling toward your partner.
 Your partner may have changed since you fell in love. Regardless of what first attracted you, try to celebrate the way your partner has grown and avoid making focusing on the past. Just as you want to be loved for who you are now and today, so does your partner.Make a point of identifying and appreciating your partner’s qualities. Make your partner your standard of what you like most in a person. If your partner is tall and thin or short and curvy, let that become your ideal.
 Focus on changing your attitudes and expectations, rather than making your partner change. Your partner may not want to change the relationship or even stay in it. Don't try to control what is out of your hands. All you can do is focus on your actions and desires.You may spend some time loving the other person while your partner decides whether or not to stay in the relationship. During this time, don't force change. Let your partner make his own decision.

