 You’ll need personal and employment information to apply for assistance. Gather this information ahead of time so that you won’t need to go searching for it when you apply. Collect the following:your Social Security Number
your Alien Registration Number (if you are not a citizen)
your driver’s license or state ID number
list of all employers you’ve worked for over the past 18 months
each employer’s Federal Employer Identification Number (look on a pay stub or W-2)
the date you started and stopped working for each employer
your gross earnings (before taxes) for each employer
the reason why you left the job
Military Employee: DD-214 Member 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8
Federal Employee: SF 8 or SF 50
union name, hall number, and phone number;
, You’ll file using the CONNECT website, which is available here: https://connect.myflorida.com/Claimant/Core/Login.ASPX. You must create a personal identification number (PIN).You will use your Social Security Number as your ID.Avoid delay. You should apply for reemployment assistance as soon as you are laid off.
 Click on “File a New Claim” from the login page.You will be taken to a page that contains links to helpful information, such as an explanation of how benefits are paid.


Click on “Start the Reemployment Assistance Application” button at the bottom of the page.
Remember not to use the back button on your browser. Instead, click on the “Previous” button at the bottom of the page.
 You also need to read a page describing how filing a fraudulent claim is a felony. Check the box at the bottom acknowledging that you understand you might be arrested for fraud if you provide false information., The next screen will be a checklist of documents that you will need to complete your application. Print off this screen and double check that you have everything.After gathering your documents, read the Privacy Act Statement and click “Yes” if you agree before selecting “Next.”, On the Claimant Authentication screen, you will be asked for the following information:Social Security Number
birth date
gender
full name
any other names you’ve worked under
driver’s license number or identification card number

, The CONNECT system will try to authenticate your information. If it can’t, a message will appear telling you to call the Contact Center. Call them and provide the requested information., Your PIN is a four-digit number, which you get to choose. Select something you will remember and write it down immediately. Your PIN cannot be the same number (e.g., 3333) and it can’t be four sequential digits (e.g., 3456).


You’ll also be asked to provide answers to three security questions., The address you entered might not conform to the information the Postal Office has on record. If not, you’ll have to select your address from a list of possible matches., You’ll be asked a series of questions about whether you worked during a certain time frame and, if you did, how much you earned. You also be asked if you’ve filed unemployment in another state. Answer these questions and click “Next.”


If Disaster Unemployment assistance is available in your area, you’ll be asked questions about whether you lost your job as a result of the disaster.
 You might need to enter your mailing address if it is different than your residential address. You can do that at this time.Also select your preferred method of communication, such as email or telephone.
 You’ll be asked about your ethnicity, race, education level, disability, and citizenship status. Click “Next” after answering this information.You must also provide the title for your most recent job.
 On the next couple of screens, you’ll be asked questions about how you want to receive your unemployment benefits:Pick whether to have federal taxes withheld from your unemployment benefits. You must pay federal taxes, so it might be easier if the state withholds the amount.
Choose whether you want your benefits paid on a debit card or deposited directly into your bank account. If you choose direct deposit, provide information about your account.
 Make sure the information the state has on file is accurate. You can edit information by clicking on the “Update” button.You may need to manually enter information about your employers: location, address, and the dates you began and ended employment. Remember to include information for all employers for the past 18 months.
 You will be given a list of reasons, e.g., layoff, quitting, suspension, strike, etc. Choose the one that is most accurate.If you’re scheduled to return to work, identify the dates.
 You must answer a screen of questions about whether you are eligible to receive unemployment benefits. The questions will touch on many topics, such as whether you are enrolled in school or whether you’ve turned down a specific job since becoming unemployed., If you received severance or a pension from an employer, you should identify that now.It can impact your ability to receive reemployment assistance., Florida has many requirements you must satisfy to receive assistance. For example, you must agree that you’ll attend a seminar at your nearest One-Stop Career Center if required., You should review each section of your application to make sure you have entered information accurately. Before submitting, you must answer an identity verification question.After you submit, you will be told the date you must submit your first claim for payment. You must make a submission every two weeks that you are unemployed.
 Enrollment in the Marketplace is required before you can receive assistance. Visit http://www.employflorida.com. At the website, you will need to do the following:Give a valid email address.
Complete a background history.
Create or upload an updated resume.
 Visit your nearest One-Stop Career Center location if you have questions about eligibility or need help completing the application. You can find a list of offices and contact information here: http://www.floridajobs.org/onestop/onestopdir/OneStopDirList.asp.


You can also speak to a Reemployment Assistant agent by calling 1-800-204-2418. Hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 5:00 pm.
 Even if you’re approved for reemployment assistance, you won’t automatically receive those benefits. Instead, you must request benefits every two weeks, and you must request them within seven days of your scheduled report date.If your Social Security Number ends with an even number, you request benefits on Monday.
If your Social Security Number ends with an odd number, you request benefits on Tuesday.
Your report date might change after you receive your first payment.
 Go here: http://www.floridajobs.org/job-seekers-community-services/reemployment-assistance-center/general-information/connect-logins. Select “Request Benefit Payments” from the left-hand menu.Remember to log in using your Social Security Number and your PIN.
 You’ll be asked several yes or no questions about your availability and efforts to look for work.Answer the questions honestly. You must be willing and able to accept work in order to receive benefits.
 Every week you must contact five potential employers and provide that information when you request benefits. If you live in a small county, you may be required to provide only three names. Remember to keep detailed records about the contact, such as the following:date you contacted them
how you contacted them (such as in person, over the phone, or by fax)
business name and telephone number
the type of work sought
the results of your search

, You might have earned tips, commissions, or wages for work during the weeks you are requesting benefits. Make sure to report this income, even if you haven’t yet been paid.