 Sweat, bacteria on the skin, dead skin cells, etc. all clog pores and lead to acne. You can reduce the risk of acne by showering every day.


You should also shower after a workout or any other sweaty activity since sweat is a huge contributor to acne.;
, As with any product you use to help treat acne, find a product labeled as non-comedogenic, which means it won’t clog pores. Brands such as Neutrogena, Cetaphil, and Olay all make gentle, non-comedogenic cleansers. You can also find store-brand equivalents. Ensure you choose a cleanser that doesn’t have alcohol as well. Alcohol over dries and damages skin.You can use the same acne cleansers on your back that are marketed for facial acne. Many of these contain benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, or alpha hydroxy acids that can help control acne by chemically peeling away dead and dying skin cells.Always follow the directions on the product. Overusing a product won’t lead to better or quicker results. Instead, overuse risks making the problem area worse.Try products at low concentrations of the active ingredients first to ensure that your skin isn’t too sensitive to the chemicals. If the product doesn’t get the results you want nor does it irritate your skin, then you can try a product with a higher percentage of benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid, or alpha hydroxy acids., Many people think you should apply a cleanser with an exfoliating applicator, but this just risks irritating the area more. Apply the cleanser gently with your fingers. You can also use a back-washer with a soft cloth for harder-to-reach areas of your back., You shouldn’t scrub or scour at the skin. Instead use a gentle circular motion to lather the cleanser on your back. Scrubbing can make current acne take longer to heal, and it can lead to permanent scarring. Scrubbing can also damage the skin and cause the bacteria loosened by breaking up pimples to infect other areas. Damaged skin is more prone to acne as well., Don’t let anyone else pick at them either. This can also cause flare-ups, longer healing times, and scarring.
 Stay out of the sun and don’t use tanning beds. Sun (and tanning beds) can damage your skin, and damaged skin is at a higher risk for acne.Antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, sulfamethoxazole, and trimethoprim; antihistamines like diphenhydramine (Benedryl); drugs used to treat cancer (5-FU, vinblastine, dacarbazine); heart drugs like amiodorone, nifedipine, quinidine, and ditiazem; Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like naproxen; and acne medications isotretinoin (Accutane) and acitretin (Soriatane) all make your skin more sensitive to UV rays as well, so take special care if you have been prescribed any of these medications., Cotton allows sweat to evaporate more efficiently and, as mentioned, excessive sweating can exacerbate acne. Always wear clean clothing each day, and use cotton sheets to further reduce the risks of acne.


Make sure you change your sheets often to avoid sleeping in dried sweat that can cause acne as well.
 If you do not begin seeing results from any of the skin care methods you try within approximately four weeks, then consider seeing a dermatologist.


Additionally, if the pimples on your back are pea sized or larger and form deep under the skin, then you likely have cystic or nodule-type acne, which may require a prescription-strength treatment from a dermatologist regardless of your skin care method. Nodule and cystic acne are also the most likely to scar.