 1" to 1.5" inches from the bottom is where you want to shoot for. The blue line at the bottom of a PBR aluminum can is a good place to start if you happen to be drinking this American classic.Use your dominant thumb for best results and visualize your thumb diving down and almost curving back in towards the wall of the can.
What fingernail length should you keep for this exercise? It depends, but neither too long or too short. Too short and you will have more trouble puncturing the can; too long and your nail can bend over when trying to push down (which really hurts). Try keeping about 1/8" nails for best results.
 Again, the angle is very slight. And even if you happen to hit the air bubble, expect the disruption in pressure to send some beer sparks flying your way. It's only fair.
 Begin pressing down with your dominant hand in order to form a small divot, weakening the aluminum.
 This can take some time to master, but there are a couple things you want to be aware of:









If you can't seem to puncture a particular spot, don't be afraid to move your thumb to the left or right, or up or down, and try again! Use the same procedure. Sometimes, it's just a matter of having your thumb a little too high or too low.
Follow through when you puncture. Jerking your thumb suddenly back up may cause it to come into contact with the sharp aluminum. Not a good combination.
It may take several tries for you to be able to get it and develop the mental fortitude. While it's certainly possible to succeed on the first go, it takes many first-timers days, weeks, or even months to perform the artful thumb shotgun. Stay hungry during this time, like a lion hunting a gazelle. Your patience will pay off, young gun.
 Drink as usual.










Exercise an appropriate amount of caution while performing this trick. Although it should be safe and isn't likely to hurt someone, there's always the possibility of injury here. If you feel uncomfortable or are already inebriated, know that shotgunning with your thumb can end poorly.

