 Pit bulls are known to be stubborn, so you will have to be firm and consistent when getting them used to bathing.


Set aside enough time for the bath, since you will be less stressed if you are not pressed for time.
Maintain control of the situation and let your pit bull know that you are in charge.It is easier if you can get your pit bull used to baths when they are young.;
, If your dog runs away and hides when it is bath time, you will need to approach the situation with a calm demeanor and incorporate lots of rewards and treats.Be calm; talk with your pet in a reassuring voice. If you are low key and not agitated, your dog is more likely to remain somewhat calm as well.
Coax your pit bull into an empty tub and reward them with a treat. It is useful to do this for a few times a day in the week leading up to the bath. Let your pit bull just spend time in an empty tub.
 Do not use human shampoo for your dog, because ingredients in them (like fragrance) can irritate your pit bull’s skin.Read all instructions on the shampoo to see whether it needs to be diluted. You can also check the label to see how long the shampoo should remain on the dog before rinsing.Ask your veterinarian for recommendations on shampoos that would work well for your pit bull. , Odds are, you will get as wet as your dog during the bath. If you have on old clothes, or even a bathing suit, you will be happier after the bath.
 The whole bathing process will go more smoothly if you have everything you need and aren’t rushing around trying to find extra towels or dog shampoo.


Have extra towels nearby and lining the floor, so no one slips during or after the bath.
Place a non-skid mat in your tub so your dog doesn’t slip and get hurt during the bath.
Keep your dog’s brush and shampoo within reach, so your pet doesn’t escape the tub while you go searching for the shampoo.
Stock some treats in the bathroom to use as rewards during the bath.
 After vigorous exercise, your dog won’t have as much energy to resist a bath. Additionally, if they are hot and sweaty, they may welcome a bath., Although brushing your pit bull should be a regular part of your grooming routine, it is also important to brush your pit bull right before bath time. This pre-bath brushing will help remove any dead hair.
Matted hair will hold onto water and not dry well, resulting in irritated skin. By brushing before the bath, you can eliminate this issue.