 For instance, you might pack:a picture of your familya special rock
a small trophy you won
a stuffed animal

, Your hotel room will feel distinctly unpleasant and uncomfortable if you can’t find anything on TV to watch, or cannot find entertainment in your local language. Bring a portable DVD player, laptop, or tablet so you can watch movies and music of your choice.If you bring a portable DVD player, you should also bring some DVDs.
With a laptop, you could also play games or stream movies.
Consider bringing an HDMI cord so you can connect your laptop to the TV for a big-screen experience.
 Some people have one “must-have” object that they just can’t travel without. For some, it’s a special comb. For others, it’s their makeup. If you’re picky about your pillows, bring your own pillow or pillowcase from home. Whatever your special travel item is, don’t leave home without it. This will make your hotel experience more pleasant., For instance, if you often snack on unsalted whole-wheat crackers, you would be more comfortable in your hotel room if you have a travel pack of them with you during your hotel stay.If you have a longer hotel stay, you might opt to pack a larger package of your snack of choice.
 However, these toiletries might not suit your particular tastes, and you’d likely be more comfortable using your own. For instance, you might want to use your coconut-flavored soap and body scrub, or perhaps you’d prefer your mint-flavored toothpaste.You can easily pack your toiletries in a small toiletries case.
 After you’ve checked the room for bed bugs, unpack your things. This will help you settle in and feel more at home in your hotel room. Take advantage of the closet and the hangers. Don’t be afraid to ask for more from the front desk if you need them.Set your favored travel items where they belong. For instance, if you packed a picture of your family, set it up by your bedside.
If you brought your own toiletries, place them in the bathroom.
 If possible, take your dog along with you. Traveling can be a great adventure for your dog, and give the two of you some time to bond. You’ll feel more comfortable traveling with your dog. If you travel with your dog, be sure to place it in a crate when you’re not in the room to prevent it from marking its territory.Check with the hotel before you arrive to ensure that you can bring your pet into the room with you.
If your dog is averse to traveling, do not bring it in order to make the hotel room feel more comfortable (or for any other reason).

