 Car rental agencies like making arrangements with businesses because it guarantees repeat customers. Check with your Human Resources manager to see if the company you work for has a deal like this in place.


If you’re self-employed or own a small business, many rental agencies will offer you repeat discounts in exchange for long-term loyalty. Shop around to see which company seems most reliable and offers the best program.
 Like many products and services, using the right words might net you a discount code. It’s possible to negotiate for these, but it’s important to stay polite. If you turn what should be a nice conversation into a debate or an argument, the other party is less likely to want to help you. You can either do this by calling the company’s customer service line, or going to their local office and speaking to the clerk at the counter.


You can try saying ”I’ve been a long time customer, what kind of advantages can I have?”, Many car rental companies offer special membership programs that reward frequent use of their services. Usually you’ll accumulate points or miles that you can use towards future car rentals, but some programs reward you with discount codes that save you money.


If you’re using rental car services frequently, you should check if they allow paying for bookings weekly or monthly rather than individually. This may land you some interesting discount codes., Some car rental companies make various discount codes directly available on their website. You might find these well in view, on the homepage, whereas for others you may need to dig a bit deeper. Compare across companies to find the best discount codes., Depending on your age, you might be able to find discount codes that apply to you. The best place to check for this is on a car rental company’s website or with their agents. For instance, Hertz offers discount codes exclusively for their customers who are over 50.
 With many companies, you’ll find the price of rental cars is lower when you pay the cost of the booking in advance. This option is usually made available as you’re confirming your rental. As you checkout, you should be provided with a coupon code that you can apply to your booking immediately.


If you choose to prepay, make sure you check the company’s policy for cancellations and changes. Some may not allow you to cancel a booking without paying a fee.