 This is what most people think of when they hear about MLM companies. If you have a product that can be sampled and demonstrated, this might be a good way to sell it. Invite 50 percent more people than you think will actually attend. Offer free gifts and special pricing on products. Have contests during the party where people answer questions and win prizes. Make the party fun. Encourage guests to bring friends so you can recruit distributors while you sell your product., Get together with local distributors of your product for Friends and Family or Customer Appreciation events. Choose a festive location such as a winery, a boutique hotel or a party cruise boat. Share product stories, do product demos and have drawings and prizes. Offer special promotions to encourage purchases. Pack the room with friends, family, customers and their friends and family., Schools, churches and local networking events allow vendors to purchase booths for selling products. Have a raffle to draw traffic to your booth. Offer discounts and incentives to purchase. Engage customers in conversations. Collect everyone’s contact information. Generate product sales and collect leads for your downline., Include promotional materials in everything you mail. For example, include product information when mailing bills, personal letters and product shipments. Send flyers to advertise new products. Include a calendar of special events. Send coupons to encourage repeat business., Keep a calendar of customers’ birthdays or anniversaries. Send cards for their birthdays, holidays and other special occasions. Don’t forget to include a coupon and other promotional information. Customers like feeling remembered and appreciated. A birthday card with a coupon is likely to generate a sale., Establish yourself as an expert or authority. Educate attendees about an issue that concerns them. Don’t make selling your product the primary focus of your speech. Rather, mention your product and how it can help them. Distribute promotional materials that notify customers of upcoming events and tell them where they can purchase your product., On your channel, educate customers about the benefits of your product instead of just talking about the product itself. For example, if you are selling makeup, create videos teaching makeup techniques. Casually mention your products throughout the video, but keep the focus on the educational content. In the end, direct visitors to information about purchasing or finding out more about your product., Post product reviews on your blog. Explain what your product does, how it works and what the benefits are. Also, create educational content that demonstrates how customers can use your product. For example, if you sell home utilities, create content that educates people about how to conserve energy or reduce their monthly utility expenses. Include a sales page where customers can purchase your product., Post product reviews, ads and educational content on the page. Include links to your blog and YouTube channel. Also, link back to the sales page on your distributor website. Start groups where customers can discuss how they use your products. For example, if you sell weight loss products, have a Facebook group that allows customers to post success stories, questions and product reviews., Don’t spend all of your time recruiting. Remember that the way everyone actually makes money is from commissions on products sold. If everyone did nothing but recruit others to join the network, nobody would earn any commissions. Just as you are counting on those in your downline to sell products, the distributors above you in your network are counting on you to do the same.

