 A parent's job is to raise a successful, kind, and healthy adult person, not just to manage the day-to-day behavior of a child. Discipline should be seen as a way of teaching a child to regulate her own behaviors so that she can someday manage on her own.


Punishment is using painful or unpleasant words or experiences with the goal of stopping an unwanted behavior. It can include physical punishments like spanking, emotional or verbal punishments like telling your child she is stupid or you don't love her, or imposing penalties and/or withholding rewards. Physical and emotional punishments are cruel and teach children that you are not trustworthy and that they are not valuable. Many times, physical and emotional punishments are child abuse and are illegal.You should NEVER resort to using physical or emotional punishment on your child.
Punishing your child for breaking rules is not generally an effective way to teach actual life lessons. Instead, it just engenders bitterness toward you as the enforcer and in some cases backfires altogether by causing your child to rebel even further.
Discipline, on the other hand, helps a child learn life lessons by teaching her how to solve problems, cooperate with others, and ultimately meet her own goals by getting what she wants the right way.
 A home life that is stressful, tense, or volatile can contribute to behavior problems in children, who often mimic the behaviors they see in their siblings and parents and who often feel a lack of control when their home life is disruptive.


Homes characterized by noise, overcrowding, a lack of order, and general chaos tend to produce children who have disruptive behaviors, hyperactivity, and inattention.Similarly, children experiencing stressful life events (like moving to a new home, the birth of a new sibling, or parental separation or divorce) are more likely to experience difficulty in school performance and behavior.These children often "act out" in defiant and stubborn ways.
Dealing with the environmental factors that contribute to your child's behavior is vital if you want your disciplinary methods to be effective. After all, even if you successfully discipline your child today, if the environmental factors causing him to misbehave are still present tomorrow, the problem will persist.
 Some children are naturally more strong-willed than others, with personalities that predispose them to need more control in their daily life. Other children are compliant but might act out to get your attention or because of other frustrations in their lives. Determining the root of your child's stubbornness can help you deal with it.


Naturally stubborn children respond best to consistency and less well to long, drawn-out explanations of what they did and why it was wrong. They often act out for the reaction you provide, so stay calm and try not to give them the reaction they seek.
Extreme cases of stubbornness, anger, or sudden mood swings might signal an underlying mental condition such as Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD). Treatments for ODD include therapy and possibly medication to treat the chemical changes that cause outbursts., At any age, stubborn behavior can surface if there is something going on with the child physically or emotionally, or if she is dealing with a matter that is outside of herself. Your child may be feeling powerless, in pain, exhausted or hungry, or frustrated. If your child is being stubborn, you may simply want to ask: "What's going on?" and listen to what she says.Some things to consider:


Physical growth can be a particularly uncomfortable experience at all ages. Toddlers grow teeth, which can be painful. Older children might get growing pains in their legs, or even headaches or stomach aches.
Children are often sleep-deprived. A growing body of research indicates that our children are walking zombies, and more research indicates that emotional regulation can be affected even after only one night of poor sleep.
Physical needs, such as thirst or hunger, can make kids of any age seem difficult and stubborn, but it's really because their bodies and minds need fuel to deal with that particular situation.
Sometimes, kids can seem stubborn if their emotional needs are not being met. Moreover, they might seem stubborn if they are frustrated because they don't know how to express how they are feeling.

