 Square throw pillows and covers for them are both very easy to sew, if you have a little bit of experience. Choose a firm batting and sew it into a tightly-stitched, stain-resistant pocket made from two pieces of identical cloth. Sew three sides first, stuff, check for evenness, and then sew up the last side. Slipcovers are a great way to add zest and character to your new pillows. Choose bold, fun fabrics with an eye to the décor of the room as a whole.


More complex slipcovers (such as those with ruffles and textured covers) can be made by following patterns available online or in fabric stores. A crazy-quilt slipcover can add a rustic Americana feel to the room, and is easy to make with fabric scraps and a bit of patience.
 A wooden headboard is essentially just a big palette for your sense of style, if you want it to be. Lightly sand, prime, and repaint it however you want, or stitch together a cloth cover for it to change both its color and its reflectiveness quickly. Use stencils to add shapes in a contrasting color, such as leaves or birds.


Even more whimsical designs are possible, using fancy fabrics and crafting supplies. Try gluing seashells and a bit of craft sand to the board, and then covering the top part with ragged fishing net cloth to make a seaside look, for example.
 Dedicated light fixtures are expensive and time-consuming to install, but portable and temporary solutions can dress up a room just as well. Use stick-on lights to illuminate kitchen cabinets or closets with the touch of your hand, or staple rope lights along the ceiling seam for an elegant and fun lighting option that's perfect for watching movies, having a romantic dinner, or spending time with a loved one in the bedroom. Rope lights are also useful for softly illuminating pantries and coat closets from above the door frame.


Simple Christmas lights can be used for beautiful illuminated garlands that add a touch of class to a living room or front room. Buy small lights all in one color; white is best for its versatility, but other colors may also be acceptable. Go to your local craft store and buy decorative garlands, preferably with a wire core. Wrap the lights in a spiral around the garlands and nail or staple the finished garland to the wall around a door frame or along the ceiling seam.

Change your garland with the seasons. Use a pine bough motif with berries and pine cones for winter, red and orange maple leaves for fall, and so on. Plug it into a wall outlet for an instant, dramatic effect.
 A crochet rug is easy to make, and can combine any colors you want for a homey, personalized look. It's also a great way to recycle old T-shirts or bedsheets. Alternatively, try stenciling a pattern onto a plain area rug with durable fabric paint to make it more dramatic and interesting to look at.


Mats for the bathroom or front door can also be stenciled for a new look. Whenever you stencil a rug or mat, be sure to thin the paint first – it doesn't take much to produce a vibrant effect.

