 Use soap and water to thoroughly wash your hands for at least 15 seconds. Dry with clean paper towels when finished.


If necessary, alcohol hand sanitizer or towelettes may be used instead.
You should also wash your work surface with disinfectant spray or towelettes. Allow the surface to air dry before using.;
, Take off the plastic lid covering the bottle of saline solution and wipe the top clean with an alcohol pad.


Scrub this rubber top for at least 15 seconds. The idea is to make it as clean as possible before proceeding.
As you handle the bottle of saline solution, you should only touch the outside of the glass. Do not get your fingers on the top or inside of the bottle.
 Twist a sterile needle onto a sterile syringe, tightening it as firmly as possible.


Only use an unopened sterile catheter tip syringe. If you want to use previously opened clean syringes and needles, you must get approval from your doctor.
Keep the needle cover on when you are attaching the needle to the syringe. Only remove it after the two pieces have been joined together.
Make sure that the needle and the syringe remain sterile. Do not allow the tip of the needle, the base of the needle, or the tip of the syringe to touch your skin or any other object.
If you are using a needle and syringe that are already attached, make sure that the needle is secure by twisting it on the syringe. A secure needle should not budge.
 Hold the syringe steady with one hand while pulling the plunger back with the other. Pull the plunger back until you have filled the syringe with 10 ml of air.


Note that the black line of the rubber plunger tip should land precisely on the line next to the "10 ml" mark of the syringe.
Under most circumstances, you should draw back 10 ml of air. Your doctor may instruct you to use a different amount, however, depending on the exact circumstances.
 Insert the needle into the rubber top of the saline bottle. Push the plunger down, pushing the air inside the syringe into the bottle.


You must poke the needle straight down into the bottle and hold the syringe vertically.
 Turn the bottle upside-down, then pull back on the plunger of the syringe. Continue pulling the plunger until you have filled the syringe with 10 ml of saline.


Keep the needle inserted into the rubber top of the saline bottle the entire time. Do not remove and re-insert it.
The needle must remain below the fluid level inside the bottle as you work. Do not allow it to come into contact with the air inside the bottle.
As before, the black line of the rubber plunger tip must fall on the line next to the "10 ml" mark.
If your doctor instructs you to use more or less saline, follow your doctor's instructions.
 Tap on the syringe to loosen any air bubbles, then push any trapped air back into the bottle by carefully pushing the plunger in.


Keep the needle inserted in the saline bottle as you complete this step.
While checking for air bubbles, you must hold the syringe vertically straight with the needle pointing up. Tap on the barrel of the syringe with your knuckles to loosen any trapped air. The air should rise to the top of the syringe, near the base of needle.
Once all of the air has gathered beneath the base of the needle, you can push the plunger in. Continue pushing until all of the air has been forced back into the bottle.
If necessary, insert the tip of the needle back into the saline solution and pull the plunger back again to fill the syringe with enough saline.
 Remove the needle from the saline bottle and place the cover back over it. Set it aside until ready to use.


If no cover is available, place the needle back into its sterile packaging. The needle must not touch an non-sterile surfaces.
Work carefully and make sure that you do not accidentally poke yourself with the needle as you cover it.
 Wash your hands with soap and warm water, scrubbing well for at least 15 seconds. Dry them with a clean paper towel when finished.


You should wash your hands again even if you already did so while preparing the syringe.
 Scrub the connection site between the catheter and drainage tubing with an alcohol pad, cleaning the area for 15 to 30 seconds before continuing.


Allow the area to air dry. Do not dry it with towels, and do not attempt to speed the drying process by blowing on the area with your breath or a fan.
 Place several towels beneath the connection site joining the catheter to the tubing. Position a pan beneath the open end of the catheter connection, as well.


This basin will collect any urine and other fluid from the catheter as you irrigate it.
 Gently twist the catheter from the drainage tubing to disconnect the two pieces.


Quickly cover the end of the tubing with a sterile connection cover to keep it clean. Put it aside for now.
Position the catheter over the collection basin you just prepared. Do not let the open end of the catheter actually touch the basin, however.
 Place a sterile, empty syringe into the open end of the catheter. Pull the plunger back to check for urine.If no urine comes out of the catheter at this time, you can proceed to the next step.
If you draw urine into the syringe, you should use the syringe to remove the urine currently inside the catheter. Clean out the catheter as thoroughly as possible.
 Remove the empty syringe from the catheter and insert the saline-filled syringe.


If the needle is still on the syringe, take it off before inserting the syringe opening into the catheter.
Make sure that you do not touch the end of the syringe.
Twist the syringe onto the catheter cap until it feels secure.
 Slowly push down on the plunger, filling the catheter with the saline solution. Work carefully and stop at the first sign of resistance.It is generally best to use a "push-pause" approach. Push the plunger down to insert 2 ml of saline into the catheter, then pause for several seconds. Push another 2 ml into the catheter, then pause again. Repeat this pattern until all of the saline has been inserted into the catheter.
Do not force the saline into the catheter. If you encounter resistance, it is best to call a nurse or doctor for help. He or she may need to use a different technique to irrigate the catheter. It is also possible that the catheter will need to be changed.
 Pinch the end of the catheter while untwisting the syringe from the catheter cap.


If the catheter has a clamp, close the clamp after removing the syringe.
 Let gravity drain any remaining urine and saline into the prepared basin.


You may need to hold the open end of the catheter over the basin for a few minutes to make sure that it has drained completely.
 Clean the connection site and connect the tubing to the catheter again. Wash your hands when finished.


Use an alcohol pad to clean the area where the syringe and catheter met. Allow the area to air dry naturally.
Remove the cap from the drainage tubing and scrub the tip of the tubing with another alcohol wipe. Allow it to dry naturally by air, as well.
Insert the tubing back into the catheter. Check after 10 to 15 minutes to make sure that urine is flowing out of the catheter properly.
Discard all of the needles and syringes used during the process into a puncture-proof waste bin.
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm water. Dry them with clean paper towels when finished.
As soon as everything is clean and reconnected, the process is complete.

