 She can often be seen with "bindi" on her forehead - the Indian decoration that symbolizes the purity of one's mind. She teaches spirituality and finding your own right way in life, anti-alcohol philosophy, and much more. She's interested in out-of-body experiences, breatharianism, and spirituality in general. She's an educator at "the school in which the instructors show students how to leave their physical body and travel in their spiritual body" (her own words).


Watch some of her seminars on Youtube or go to the local library and borrow a book about New Age practices, out-of-body experiences, lucid dreaming, and things like that. You might find a new interest.
Consider meeting Gurus like Valeria and attending classes they offer. You can also meet people online and talk about spiritual experiences or learn something new from them.;
, Take time to eat your meal slowly and chew every single bite. Your food is your fuel and your medicine. Appreciate it. This will help you enjoy your food more, and it will keep you from overeating.
 Valeria maintains her incredible weight and body fat percentage with her clean diet. She has said that in order to be healthy and beautiful, you have to eat vegetables and herbs. Eat small portions 5-6 times a day. Eat any kind of fruit and vegetable - kale, cabbage, carrots, lentils, beans, apples, oranges ... The ideas and recipes are numerous.


If needed, you can add a small amount of lean meat and dairy products. Valeria prefers a vegetarian, raw food diet, but if you are not comfortable with being vegetarian, feel free to add into your diet anything that's healthy and clean.
 Make sure you eat enough proteins! If you don't eat meat, eat lentils, beans, peas, spinach, broccoli and corn. If you wish, you can eat meat substitutes like tofu and seitan. They are super healthy and contain proteins.


Eat oats, nuts, almonds and hazelnuts. They contain fatty acids and are a perfect snack.
 Drink at least 8 glasses a day. Every morning when you wake up, drink a big glass of water - your body needs it after you have slept. Continue drinking throughout the day to remain hydrated and healthy.


Water helps flush the toxins from your organism and, along with a nutritious diet, makes your skin, hair and nails pretty and healthy.
 Tell him what you're currently eating, and consider providing him with a food diary listing everything you eat in a week. He might give you some food supplements and vitamins to make sure that you are as healthy as possible.
 Not only is Valeria thin, but she is also extremely fit. Event though Valeria's exact workout plan isn't known, there are some obvious things that you can do in order to look similar to her. Try jogging for basic cardio work, do basic weight training to boost your metabolism and improve your strength, or perform high intensity interval training, which burn lots of fat and are considered the most efficient way to work out.
 She is known for her Barbie doll look. Search for some tutorials on Youtube that will help you achieve her look. Such tutorials teach you how to exaggerate your eyes, make your skin look flawless, change the shape of your lips, and much more. These are all methods that Valeria uses. There are many photos of her with and without makeup and the difference is enormous.
 These can include cute, patterned dresses, tight-fitting shirts to show off your figure, and accessories such as hair-bows and wreaths.
 Valeria indeed says some right and positive things about spirituality, but even Valeria doesn't look in real life like she looks in photos. In the interview for V Magazine, she said: "I won’t deny that I play along with people’s perceptions. I’m amused by the reactions. I don’t take it seriously."

, Valeria's proportions are one of a kind and not completely natural: she has admitted to getting breast implants. It's impossible to fit a 34DD bra and have an 18-inch waist naturally, so don't feel bad if you can't achieve this. Shoot for more realistic, healthy goals instead. Don't compare yourself to her, and don't strive for a figure as drastic as hers. As long as you are fit and healthy, you should be perfectly satisfied with your own body.


Work out and eat healthy to get your own, unique figure and stay true to yourself.

