 Yes, it gets hard, but being off eating and sleeping times is one of the top reasons why your toddler gets unhappy during vacation. Do your best to avoid off-scheduled bedtime routines and bedtimes, naptime routines and naptimes, eating times, wake up routines and times, etc. It's okay to turn down one outing during vacation for the sake of the rest of your party's ears and heads the next day.;
, Have the adults in your party babysit your child and others (if this is a vacation with more than two willing adults and your toddler won't resent staying with them.) Make sure that you leave your toddler in good hands (not with someone under 13) that has had experience with children before. A grandparent or close friend that your child is happy to stay with and knows well works out best.
 Most of the time, your toddler will miss the security of home. Try packing a few of your toddler's favorite toys in your luggage that weren't used to entertain during traveling. Your toddler will stay entertained during the week and will feel more secure. Always remember to pack your child's comfort item and perhaps borrow a couple of books or toys from your toddler's preschool, daycare, babysitter's house, or playgroup.
 Going on more than two outings each day with your toddler is asking for trouble. Planning an outing in the morning (such as a museum) and an outing in the afternoon (such as the zoo) is plenty. Spend the rest of the day in your hotel room or house, and by the pool.
 You're going to need it. If you're faced with a situation such as your child won't put on their shoes, summon up the patience and say something like: "Oh, these silly shoes just won't go on. Do you want me to get these silly shoes on or do you want to put them on yourself?"

, If you're on vacation and your toddler finally shows all of the potty training readiness signs, it's best to keep them in diapers until you return home (unless your toddler is begging to use the toilet or is furious about wearing diapers.) Avoid starting weaning from a bottle or pacifier, changing from a crib to a bed, or potty training 2 weeks before leaving for vacation. Your toddler is going to have enough change in his/her life during vacation.
 If your toddler misses their babysitter or friends back home, try making a call. Your toddler will be delighted to hear their voice and talk with them! Another idea is to Skype. Your toddler will see and hear them.
 Make sure that the car seat and stroller are ready for outings. Install a head cushion in the appropriate place on the car seat and stroller for resting and comfy ness. Attach 2-3 small toys to the sides of the car seat and stroller with Velcro, string (no longer than 6 inches), or snaps.


Pack more than you think that you will need. For example, if your toddler normally goes in their diaper 6 times a day and you think that you will need 36 diapers altogether, pack 42 instead. An extra day's worth is sufficient. Pack 2 packages of baby wipes, not 1. If your child just switched to training pants, pack diapers and training pants in case they switch their mind or want the security of similarity on vacation. The same goes for underwear, pack training pants or whatever they were in before underwear. Pack a couple extra outfits for vacation, in case of accidents, dirty days at the park, etc.
 Read age-appropriate books about where you are going, and show them pictures of your room or house where you will be staying, and any other exciting places that you will be visiting. Tell your toddler something to get them excited such as: "You are going to get to see Grandma and Grandpa on vacation!" Excite and entice them!

, Hug your child, kiss your child, praise your child, comfort your child, and spend time away from everyone else to relax and enjoy some quality time: just you the parent, and your toddler.


If you are a grandparent that brought the toddler on vacation, you will have to be the person to spend quality time, away from everyone else, for 30-60 minutes each day with the toddler.
Know when to tell the aunts and uncles, grandparents, and preteen cousins who think your toddler is just adorable, that your toddler has had enough. If your toddler has a temper tantrum, cries because of everyone around them, or become otherwise upset, retreat to a quiet room and spend quality time with your toddler for 5-30 minutes.

