 Add 2 tablespoons (28 g) of butter to a large saucepan. Place it on the stove, and turn the heat to medium-high. Heat the butter until it melts completely, which should take approximately 5 minutes.If you prefer, you can substitute olive oil for the butter.;
, Once the butter is melted, mix in 2 cloves of minced garlic, and 1 small minced onion. Let them cook until they are soft and translucent, which should take 3 to 4 minutes.If you like a stronger garlic flavor, you can add 1 to 2 more cloves.
 When the garlic and onion are soft, add 2 tablespoons (33 g) of tomato paste. Cook the mixture for 2 minutes to help the paste blend in.Stir the mixture gently as it’s cooking to ensure that it heats evenly.
 After the tomato paste has been cooked into the mixture, add the remaining 6 tablespoons (85 g) of butter, 1 28-ounce (794 g) can of tomato puree, 2 teaspoons (12 g) of kosher salt, 3 teaspoons (12 g) of sugar, freshly ground black pepper to taste, and ¼ cup (59 ml) of water. Mix well until all of the ingredients are combined.If you want the sauce to have a spicy kick, you can also mix in a pinch of crushed red pepper flakes.
 Once all of the ingredients are mixed, continue cooking the sauce on medium-high. Heat it until the sauce becomes thick, which should take approximately 5 minutes.Store-bought spaghettios usually have a fairly thin, almost soup-like sauce. If you want a thinner sauce for your homemade version, don’t cook it as long.
 Add ¾ pound (340 g) of ground beef, 2 teaspoons (12 g) of kosher salt, and freshly ground black pepper to taste to a large bowl. Mix well with clean hands to ensure that the seasoning is evenly distributed throughout the meat.You can add other seasonings to the meatballs if you like. Grated parmesan cheese, garlic powder, and Italian seasoning are all good options.
If you prefer a vegetarian version, you can omit the meatballs.
If don’t want to make your own meatballs, you can use frozen meatballs -- just make sure to use a mini size. Defrost the meatballs according to the package instructions., Once the meat is seasoned, use clean hands to roll it into small balls. Aim for meatballs that are approximately ¾-inch (1.9-cm) large.It’s important to keep the meatballs small because the pasta used in the dish is small. Use the size of the meatballs in store-bought spaghettios as a guide.
 After you’ve formed all of the meatballs, add them to the sauce. Stir the mixture well to distribute the meatballs, and reduce the heat to medium. Cook the meatballs until they are cooked through, which should take 6 to 8 minutes., Fill a large stockpot with at least 4 quarts (3.8 l) of water. Place the pot on the stove, and add a generous amount of salt to the water. Turn the heat to high, and cover the pot to bring it to a full boil.Depending on your stove, it should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes for the water to come to a boil.
 When the water is boiling, add ¾ pound (340 g) of anelletti pasta to the pot. Keep the heat on high to return the water to a boil, and cook the pasta until it is tender but still firm, which should take approximately 8 to 12 minutes.Anelletti is a small ring-shaped pasta. You can also use ditalini pasta, which is a small tube-shaped pasta.
Leave the pot uncovered while the pasta is cooking.
 When the pasta is al dente, remove the pot from the stove. Immediately pour the pasta into a colander in the sink to drain it. Shake the colander well to ensure that the excess water is removed.Don’t rinse the pasta after you’ve drained it. The starch on its surface will help the sauce stick to it.
 Once the pasta is drained, add it to the sauce and meatballs. Next, mix in ¾ cup (75 g) of freshly grated parmesan cheese. Toss the contents of the pan well to ensure that the pasta, sauce, and meatballs are well mixed.You may want to taste the pasta at this point to see if the seasoning is right. Add salt and pepper if necessary.
 When the pasta, sauce, and meatballs are fully mixed, divide the mixture between 4 bowls. You may want to sprinkle a little more grated parmesan over the bowls before serving.