 Microsoft provides a free utility that will automatically download the Windows 8.1 installation files and create the USB drive for you. You can download the utility for free here.If you already have a Windows 8.1 ISO file, follow the method in the next section.
 Make sure that you've saved any important files elsewhere, as the process will erase all of the data on the USB drive.
 Make sure this version matches your Windows 8.1 product key, as you'll need the product key to install Windows. You cannot use a previous version's product key to install Windows 8.1.


Most users with newer computers can select the 64-bit version, but you can double-check in your System Properties window. Click here for more details.
 You will be prompted to choose which flash drive you want to use if you have multiple drives connected.
 The Windows 8.1 installation files will be downloaded and copied onto the flash drive. This process will likely take a while if you have a slow internet connection. You can monitor the progress in the main window.
 After the Media Creation Tool has finished creating the flash drive, it is ready to use to install Windows 8.1 Insert it into the USB drive of the computer you are installing Windows 8.1 on.
 This process will vary depending on the manufacturer of the computer. When you restart the computer, you'll see the BIOS or BOOT key on the screen with the manufacturer's logo. Press this key as the computer is starting up to open the BIOS menu and change the boot order. The setup key is typically F2, F10, F11, or Del.


Once you're in the BIOS, open the BOOT menu and change the order so that the USB drive is the primary boot device. This will ensure that the computer tries to boot from the USB device before it boots from the hard drive.
 You'll be prompted to press a key to boot from the USB drive (it may say CD or DVD) and begin the installation.
 The language you choose here will be the installed default language in Windows.
 Windows 8.1 will prompt you for your product key before installation can begin. You must enter a valid Windows 8 or 8.1 key in order to proceed with the installation. If the key is in use by another computer, you won't be able to activate after installing.
 This will allow you to install a fresh copy of Windows 8.1. If you choose to install over a partition that contains data, all of the data on the partition will be lost. It is recommended that you select this option if you are troubleshooting Windows, are upgrading from an older version to 8.1, or are installing on a new computer.
 A list of your available partitions will be displayed. You can delete existing partitions and combine or separate your unallocated space. Deleting an existing partition will delete all of the data on it. If you're upgrading from a previous version of Windows, select the partition that Windows was installed on originally to replace it.
 After selecting the partition, Windows will begin installation. This process usually takes about 20-30 minutes to complete.
 After your computer reboots, Windows 8.1 will start and ask you to select your color scheme. You can also give your computer a name here, which is how it will appear on the network.
 Windows 8.1 will offer an express or custom option for your privacy settings. Review the first screen to see if there's anything you want to change. If there isn't, click "Use express settings". If you do want to change something, click "Customize" and follow the prompts.
 Your Microsoft Account allows you to sync your files and settings with your other Windows devices. You'll need it to access your account's OneDrive storage. If you don't have an account, you can create one from here.
 You'll be taken to your new desktop once you're finished configuring your settings. You can now start using Windows 8.1. Click here for tips on getting the most out of Windows 8.1.