 You won't get stared at if you turn up at the same time as everyone else. The latecomer always gets the stares! However, if you ever are late, have a suitable reason for it and do not hesitate to tell others. This shows them that you are confident and don't make lame excuses.;
, Don't act shy! Hold your chin up and walk confidently but not quickly. Don't cross your arms or look defiant; let your arms hang by your sides.


Smile at others. Sometimes, it seems hard, but you'll seem more confident if you smile. Are you the shy type? Give a smile to everyone and try not to look nervous. People will surely try to look out for you. Overdoing any results poorly. You don't always have to show your teeth when you smile. A tiny smile can show others that you are fresh, positive, approachable mood.
 Start a conversation or two. Don't be shy. The worst people can do is look at you strangely, but who cares about them? You have to start making friendships; they do not just happen overnight.
 Obviously, you aren't going to become the most popular girl right away. Don't act like a know-it-all. Act curious but guarded. Nevertheless, don't be so stiff that you look unapproachable or rude.
 Don't try to copy others. Dress in your style, but make sure your clothes are nice, stain-free, and properly fitting. It doesn't matter if you get critical looks from others as long as you know that your clothing is appropriate.


Wear sensible clothes. Don't wear revealing clothes, and avoid wearing anything with insulting or provocative phrases. Those things will only put people off.
 Have a spa day the night before. Take a shower, brush your hair, and maybe even wear some makeup.
 It's a great way to make friends. You might even pick up a new hobby. Make sure it is a club of your own choice. If you join a club you are talented or interested in, you'll get friends that share the same interests as you.
 It's good to know your way around school so that you don't look silly. If maps are available, print one of your school or get one from a reception. That will save you from the awkwardness of being shown around the school by a specific person. However, if you don't have a choice, ask an acquaintance to tour you around the school.


Don't be rude. First impressions count. If a someone shows you around and keeps talking about something you are not comfortable with, don't say anything rude or hurtful toward them. Say something like "I am not really comfortable with this because ____."

, Ask people for their e-mails and talk to them on social media. Try not to seem like a stalker. Keep online contact with your friends, and if you have a phone, save their contact number. Not only can you stay in contact with your friends, but you can also phone or text them!

, Smile and be friendly! It will make you more approachable.

