 Your Ocicat will appreciate a soft, comfortable bed to sleep in every night. Get a special bed for your Ocicat and place it somewhere that you have noticed him sleeping. Many Ocicats like to be up on high perches, so placing the bed on a sturdy shelf or dresser may encourage him to use his bed even more.
 Ocicats need to scratch, so make sure that you provide your Ocicat with plenty of scratching posts so that he can indulge this habit. Try placing a couple of corrugated cardboard scratching boards and rope wrapped boards throughout your house.If you ever catch your Ocicat scratching something that he should not, do not yell at him or throw things at him. Just pick him up gently and place him next to one of his scratching boards. After a while, he will understand that he is only supposed to use his scratching board when he needs to scratch.
Try rubbing a bit of catnip on your Ocicat’s scratching boards to make them more attractive.
 Your Ocicat will need to have access to clean litter boxes at all times for his bathroom needs. Keep his litter boxes clean by scooping them out daily and changing the litter at least once per week. To get your Ocicat to use his litter box, you should also:Provide enough litter boxes. You should have at least one more litter box than the total number of cats in your house. For example, if you have three cats, then you need to have at least four litter boxes.

Use a fine-grained litter. Cats prefer fine-grained litter in their boxes. Use a clumping kind to make it easier for you to clean and fill the box so that there is about two inches of litter in the box.

Place litter boxes away from food and water. Cats do not like to go to the bathroom near their food and water dishes. Placing litter boxes in these areas may cause your cat to avoid using the box or lead to poor eating and drinking habits.
 Ocicats need regular veterinary care to stay healthy. Make sure that you take your Ocicat to see a veterinarian soon after you get him and take him for regular checkups once per year. During these visits, your cat’s veterinarian will examine your cat, run tests (such as a feline leukemia test), and give your cat vaccinations (such as a rabies vaccination).


Make sure to make annual appointments for your Ocicat and take him to see the veterinarian any time you suspect that he is not feeling well., Spaying and neutering is an excellent way to control the pet population and protect your pet from certain health and behavioral issues. Talk to your cat’s veterinarian about spaying or neutering your cat as soon as possible to prevent bad behaviors, such as spraying, aggression, and roaming, from becoming ingrained in your cat.Keep in mind that spaying and neutering may protect your Ocicat from some health issues as well, such as uterine infections, enlarged prostate, and certain forms of cancer.