 Tight spaces, or other stuffy situations, can increase nausea. Therefore, if possible, get out of the room for a few minutes, or at least open a window, then take several deep breaths of fresh air., Let your body relax for a few minutes because moving around sometimes makes nausea worse. If you've eaten recently, it's better to sit instead of lying down., Similar to acupuncture, acupressure is based on traditional Chinese practices and uses the body's natural pressure points. Applying occasional pressure to the P-6 pressure point on your wrist, can help lessen nausea and vomiting.With the palm of one hand facing up, place the first three fingers of your other hand over the wrist while feeling for the two large tendons under the thumb. The point you seek is about three finger lengths below your wrist.
Apply pressure to the point using a circular motion while making sure you are pushing down on the point. This should not cause any pain or discomfort and you can continue to apply pressure for two or three minutes.
Repeat on your other wrist. Locate the pressure point on your other wrist, then apply pressure in a circular motion for a couple of minutes.
 Divert your attention from your discomfort by thinking about something calming. This method is most effective if you have practiced the technique before the need arises to relieve your nausea. There techniques which might help:Autogenic relaxation. This involves finding something to take your mind off the nausea (or whatever else you are feeling). Repeat a word or phrase to yourself, not related to your nausea. Try to think of something peaceful or relaxing. As you repeat this idea, make your deepen your breathing and relax your muscles.
Visualization. Picture a peaceful or calming setting in your mind. Think about how your various senses would experience this place, things you might feel, smell, or hear, as well as what you would see. It can help to close your eyes and sit while you do this.
Deep breathing. Find a quiet place to sit. Take a normal breath, then a deep breath. Breath in slowly through your nose, and let the air fill your lungs and abdomen. Exhale slowly, through your mouth is better, but it can be through your nose if that is more comfortable.