 In the bowl of an electric stand mixer, combine 4 teaspoons of active dry yeast with 1 cup of warm water. Let the yeast and warm water rest for approximately 10 minutes.The yeast and water should appear foamy after ten minutes; if it doesn't, the yeast is dead and you will need to start over with fresh yeast.;
, Once your yeast is proofed, add 1 egg, 2 tablespoons of softened butter, ¼ cup honey, 3 tablespoons molasses, 2 tablespoons baking cocoa, 1 teaspoon salt, ¼ cup brown sugar, and 2 cups all purpose flour to your mixer bowl. Combine these ingredients with the proofed yeast using the paddle attachment of your stand mixer. Mix for approximately 1 minute or until combined.If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can use a hand mixer and mix these ingredients for 1 minute on medium speed.
 Take a spatula and scrape down the dough from the sides of the bowl. Then remove the paddle attachment from your stand mixer. Next, attach the bread hook attachment to your stand mixer.
 Begin by adding 1 cup of whole wheat flour to the bowl. Mix on low until this first cup of whole wheat flour is completely combined. Then, gradually add the remaining cup of whole wheat flour until the dough begins leaving the sides of your mixer bowl. Continue mixing on low for 7-10 minutes.If you don’t own a stand mixer, you can use an electric hand mixer instead.
 Lightly sprinkle flour on a work surface, such as your kitchen counter. Then, gently remove the dough from the mixer bowl. Lay the dough down on the prepared work surface.
 Once you’ve placed the dough on the floured work surface, it is time to knead it. Use your hands and knead the dough 4-5 times. As you knead the dough, shape it into a ball that is tight and smooth.
 Once you’ve kneaded and shaped the dough into a tight, smooth ball, return it to the mixer bowl. Cover the mixer bowl with plastic wrap. Move the bowl to a warm place. Let the dough rise for 60-90 minutes until it has doubled., After the dough has doubled, punch it down. Then shape the dough into 16 rolls. Place the rolls in a 9x13 baking pan that has been greased with canola oil. Cover the baking pan. Allow the rolls to rise for 60 minutes in a warm place. They should be puffed up by this time., While the rolls are rising, you will need to preheat your oven. Turn your oven on to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, or 176 degrees Celsius, and allow it to preheat as the rolls rise.
 Once the rolls have risen and puffed up, it is time to bake them. Place the baking pan of rolls in the preheated oven. Bake the rolls for 22 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit, or 176 degrees Celsius. Remove from the oven, cool on a cooling rack, and enjoy!