 If the person who injured you was a stranger, you may have to do a little detective work to figure out who they are. You won't be able to sue them for your injuries unless you have a legal name and address.It's possible the person also is facing criminal charges. If that's the case, it should be fairly easy to determine their identity.
If you've hired an attorney, they can get the needed information about the person from the court.
If you're representing yourself, however, you may have to do a little more work. The person's information can be discovered easily if you've been contacted by the prosecutor – just call the prosecutor's office and ask them about it.
Criminal court records are public records, so you also should be able to track down the identity of the perpetrator by searching arrest or appearance records from around the same time as the altercation.
 If you've decided to go it alone rather than hiring an attorney, you'll need to decide which court you want to hear your lawsuit. The court must have jurisdiction over the subject matter of your case (civil assault or assault and battery) as well as the person responsible for your injuries.You'll need to choose the court that you want to hear your case. If your damages are below a certain amount, you may be able to use small claims court.
Limits for small claims courts vary among states, but typically you cannot sue for more than a few thousand dollars.
If you want to sue in state or county court, you're typically going to choose the court located in the county where the incident took place. This ensures the court has jurisdiction over the person who assaulted you.
 To initiate your lawsuit, you must create a complaint that lists your allegations against the person and provides a total amount of damages to which you believe you are entitled.If you're representing yourself, check with the court to find out if they have forms available. All small claims courts and most state courts do.
On the other hand, if you're working with an attorney, they'll draft the complaint for you. They may need more information about the altercation from you to properly formulate the allegations in the complaint.
The allegations you list in your complaint should closely follow the elements of civil assault or assault and battery in your state. Typically you must state that the person made contact with you without your consent, and that contact resulted in physical or emotional harm to you.
You must include a specific amount of damages you believe you're owed as a result of your injuries. This includes actual damages such as medical bills or lost wages as well as money for pain and suffering.
 Once you've completed your complaint and any other documents required by the court, take your originals and at least two copies to the clerk's office for the court where you want your lawsuit to be heard.You must pay a filing fee to initiate your lawsuit – typically several hundred dollars, although it may be much less if you're filing in small claims.
If your attorney is filing the complaint, they'll pay the filing fee and add that amount to your costs. Those costs will be deducted from any settlement or award you receive.
If you're representing yourself and can't afford the filing fees, ask the clerk for a fee waiver application. You must include information about your income and assets. If those fall below your state's threshold, you won't have to pay court costs for your case.
Once your complaint is filed, the clerk will stamp all your documents and assign your case a unique case number. The copies will be returned to you – one for your own records, and one for the defendant.
 The person you're suing must have legal notice of the lawsuit, and you must be able to prove to the court that they knew about it. This is done through "service of process," in which the court documents are delivered to the defendant in a verifiable way.Typically service is completed by paying a small fee to the county sheriff's department. A deputy hand-delivers the documents to the defendant.
You also may be able to complete service by mailing the documents using certified mail with return receipt requested. This may not be your best option, however, if you don't know the defendant and are unsure about their address.
Once service is complete, you typically must fill out a proof of service document and file it with the clerk of court.
 After being served with your lawsuit, the defendant has a brief period of time to file a written response. This document will be served on you (or your attorney) using a similar method to the one you used to have the defendant served.If the defendant fails to respond to your lawsuit by the court's deadline, you may be eligible to win your lawsuit by default.
However, even if you do win a default judgement, you still must take steps to enforce it. The court does not do this for you.
If you do receive a written answer, read through it carefully. The defendant likely will deny the bulk of your allegations, and may assert various defenses.
Check to see if the answer was submitted by the defendant alone or by an attorney. If you were representing yourself but the defendant has an attorney, you may want to hire an attorney of your own.

