

The Player's Handbook (PHB) is probably the most important one here. The Player's Handbook 2 and 3 (PHB2 and PHB3) extend it and might also be useful.


A single set of D&D dice, usually priced at $6-$10 USD.
Regular line paper can be used,
A writing utensil. Pencils are preferred due to the massive amount writing and erasing

,


The following races are available to play in 4th edition: Deva, Dragonborn, Drow, Dwarf, Eladrin, Elf, Genasi, Githzerai, Gnoll, Gnome, Goblin, Goliath, Half-Elf, Half-Orc, Halfling, Hamadryad, Human, Kalashtar, Shifter, Minotaur, Mul, Pixie, Revenant, Satyr, Shadar-Kai, Shade, Shardmind, Thri-Kreen, Tiefling, Vryloka, Warforged, and Wilden.

The races of Dragonborn, Dwarf, Eladrin, Elf, Half-Elf, Halfling and Human can be found in the PHB.
The races of Deva, Gnome, Goliath, Half-Orc, and Shifter can be found in the PHB2.
The races of Githzerai, Minotaur, Shardmind, and Wilden can be found in the PHB3.
The races of Drow and Genasi can be found in the Forgotten Realms Player's Guide.
The races of Warforged, Changeling and Kalashtar can be found in the Eberron Player's Guide.
The races of Mul and Thri-Kreen can be found in the Dark Sun Campaign Setting.
The races of Gnoll and Shadar-Kai can be found in issues 367 and 372 of Dragon Magazine.
The races of Shade and Vryloka can be found in the Heroes of Shadow.
The races of Satyr, Pixie and Hamadryad can be found in Heroes of The Feywild.

;
, The four roles are Controller, Defender, Leader, and Striker.


Controllers deal damage to multiple enemies and prefer offense over defense. Controller classes include Druids, Invokers, and Wizards.
Defenders are front-line combatants and have high defense. Defender classes include Fighters, Paladins, and Wardens.
Leaders have healing and aiding abilities to protect the rest of the party as their roll, and also boast high defense. Leader classes include Bards, Clerics, Shamans, and Warlords.
Strikers deal massive damage to single enemies at a time and have the highest attack and mobility of the party. Striker classes include Avengers, Barbarians, Rangers, Rogues, Sorcerers, and Warlocks.
 You should consult their descriptions in the source books in making this decision.


The PHB contains information on the classes Cleric, Fighter, Paladin, Ranger, Rogue, Warlock, Warlord, and Wizard.
The PHB2 contains information on the classes Avenger, Barbarian, Bard, Druid, Invoker, Shaman, Sorcerer, and Warden.
The PHB3 contains information on the classes Ardent, Battlemind, Monk, Psion, Runepriest, and Seeker.
 Also create a vertical column with six lines title stats. At the beginning of each line, write down the following: Strength (Str), Constitution (Con), Dexterity (Dex), Intelligence (Int), Wisdom (Wis), and Charisma (Cha). These make up the six ability scores of your character. ]]


Strength represents physical power.
Constitution represents health and stamina.
Dexterity represents agility and reflexes.
Intelligence represents reasoning.
Wisdom represents common sense.
Charisma represents personality.
 Ability scores are the base statistics for your character and can be determined with one of three methods. Note that each class depends on certain ability scores, which typically means that you should assign higher scores to these abilities.


The first method uses a standard array of scores. Assign the following numbers to each ability score any way you like: 16, 14, 13, 12, 11, and 10.
The second method is a little more complicated. Start with the following scores: 8, 10, 10, 10, 10, and 10. You have 22 "points" to spend in order to increase the ability scores. Use the following rules to spend these points and improve your ability scores, then assign the score to the specific abilities.

Improving the numbers 8-12 costs one point. As such, increasing the "8" to a "12" would cost 4 points. Improving a "10" to a "13" would cost only 3: one point each for 10-to-11, 11-to-12, and 12-to-13.
Improving the numbers 13-15 costs two points. As such, increasing the "12" from before would cost another point to become a "13", but an additional two points to improve to a "14". Similarly, improving the "13" to a "16" would cost 6 points: two each for 13-to-14, 14-to-15, and 15-to-16.
Improving a "16" to a "17" costs another three points.
Improving a "17" to an "18" costs another four points. As a result, upgrading a "10" to an "18" would cost a total of 16 points = 3*1 + 3*2 + 3 + 4.


The third method uses randomly-generated numbers and provides the most versatile and volatile scores. For each ability score, roll 4 6-sided dice (4d6). Add the three highest numbers, ignore the lowest, and assign the sum as an ability score.



Add or subtract these from the base stats. Once the base stats have been assigned after racial adjustments, assign each score an ability modifier, with either a plus or minus sign next to the base stat followed by the number. The table shows the ability modifiers:

Ad infinitum. At first level, 8 should be the lowest ability score and 18 the highest. Average scores are considered between 12-16.
 In the PHB, a list of skills to choose from can be found in chapter five. First, go to your classes' entry in the PHB in chapter four.
 These skills are the skills you are trained in, and each get a permanent +5 bonus.
 They can be found on page 178 of the PHB.
 Next to each skill ability, write down the skill points you currently have. Each skill point is equal to one-half of your level plus your ability score modifier and +5 if you are trained in that skill.


As an example, say you are playing a 1st-level human rogue with the following ability scores:

str 11 +0
con 10 +0
dex 16 +3
int 12 +1
wis 8 -1
cha 14 +2

A rogue is automatically trained in Thievery and Stealth, meaning he or she gets an automatic +5 points for both of those skills. They can also choose four of the following skills to be trained in:

Acrobatics, Athletics, Bluff, Dungeoneering, Insight, Intimidate, Perception, and Streetwise.
As an example, Acrobatics, Bluff, Perception, and Streetwise were chosen to be trained skills. This means that the rogue currently has six skills he or she is trained in and has a permanent +5 bonus to. Since Acrobatics is a dexterity-based skill, the dexterity modifier of the rogue is added to the score, which is +3 in this case. Acrobatics is now equal to 8 total skill points.
, At first level, you may choose one feat from chapter six. If you are human, you gain an additional feat. Feats provide static bonuses to characters, and bonuses of the same type do not stack together.
 If you do, you may choose the feat If you don't, you must wait until you meet the prerequisite.
 Powers are different kinds of attack your character can make and are divided into four categories: At-Will, Encounter, Daily, and Utility powers. "At-Will" powers can be used once per turn in an encounter indefinitely. "Encounter" powers can be used once per combat encounter. "Daily" powers can be used once per day.


Utility powers act like feats in that they give you static bonuses and certain advantages.
Each class in both the PHB and PHB2 list their powers in the same chapter. However, additional 4th edition d&d books are available for an extended list of available powers. The Martial Power handbook provides more

, The Arcane Power handbook provides more powers for arcane characters. The Primal Power handbook provides more powers for primal characters. The Martial Power Handbook provides more power to martial characters.


At first level, each player can choose 2 at-wills, 1 encounter, and 1 daily powers. You can choose 1 utility power at second level.
 At first level, you start with 100 gold pieces(gp) to spend on equipment. Chapter in the PHB provides you with a list of equipment to choose from. Purchase armor and weapons first, and then basic adventuring supplies. It's up to the party who carries what, unless you purchased all of your equipment on your own. Once these things are purchased, if you have any money left over you can choose to spend it on magic items, also found in chapter 7 in the PHB. The Adventurer's Vault Handbook provides an extension of supplies you can choose from as well.
 It is highly recommended you use a character sheet to record your player info, but it is not necessary. Regular paper can work as well.
,,


Lawful Good means you follow the rules and do good.
Good means you do good, but does not necessarily mean you follow rules.
Chaotic Evil is ultimate evil. You can do anything you want if it is evil.
Evil means that you do evil, but you should follow rules.
 Initiative determines who goes in what order in a combat. Your initiative bonus is equal to one-half your level plus your dexterity modifier, and any bonuses or penalties that apply from armor or feats.
 Each of these defenses are equal to 10 plus one-half of your level plus the appropriate ability modifier. For armor class, add your armor bonus if any, and if you wear light armor add either your dex or int modifier, whichever of the two is higher. Fortitude uses the Str or Con modifier, Reflex uses the Dex or Int modifier, and Will uses the Wis or Cha modifier, whichever of the two is higher. If your class or race has any bonuses to these defenses, add them.
 Speed is determined by your character's race.
, Passive perception and passive insight are the two most common passive senses. You have +10 in passive perception and passive insight at first level.
 Attack bonuses are equal to one-half your level plus your attack's ability score modifier plus any class bonuses plus any proficiencies with a weapon plus any feats plus any weapon enhancements. An attack bonus, also known as a to-hit bonus, is added onto a d20 roll whenever you make a specific attack.
 Your hit points are determined by your class. Your bloodied value is equal to half of your hit points. Your healing surges per day are determined by your class. Your healing surge value is equal to one-fourth of your total hit points.
,