 Those are meant for African American hair, which grows differently then white hair. Relaxers are meant to only relax African American hair, and will ruin white hair. If you really want your hair relaxed, you need to go to the salon. It will take longer (9 months) to get your hair 90% straight, but it will be worth it when you have the long straight hair you've wanted, as opposed to having no hair at all.;
, That will give the relaxer time to set in to your hair. They also may style while you're at the salon and they might straighten it. The wait to see what your hair looks like will be hard, but worth it.
 You'll need to use shampoo's and conditioner's made for curly hair.
 Many times after relaxing of the hair, you will get bad dandruff. Triple washing makes sure you get rid of it. The first lather will lift the dandruff until the second rinse, which will wash it all out. The third wash will make sure every grain of dandruff is gone.
 Relaxing is a very harsh cycle and it will dry your hair out a lot.
 Because your hair will be tried out so bad and you'll be shampooing a lot, use leave in conditioner and shine serums, as they will help hydrate your hair.
 After the extreme washings and hydrating, you need to switch it up, or your hair will just look awful.
 If you do, it will dry out your hair really bad.
 ONLY use it when your hair feels oily or if your dandruff has gotten bad since the last wash. When you do, double wash it to make sure you get all the oil and dandruff gone. Make sure it is made for curly hair.
 You may have followed the never shampoo, always condition (also known as No Poo) rules before you had your hair relaxed. Guess what? You need to keep doing it. ESPECIALLY if you plan on keeping your hair 30% relaxed. Shampoo's contain sulfates, whereas conditioners... well... condition. They keep hair soft and hydrated. Make sure it is made for curly hair.
 That is shine serum and gel. Shine serum will help keep hair shiny and frizz free. Gel will help keep it frizz free and keep it's curly look. You also need something that is hydrating. You can either use leave in conditioners, OR you can just not wash out your conditioner in the shower.

