 Most well run gyms have clear rules about usage of equipment, space, and etiquette. Knowing these will ensure that you do not inconvenience anyone else and it gives you the ammunition needed if someone else using the gym breaches them and inconveniences you. While there's no need to make a big deal out them, they are there for the sake of safety and an improved user experience, so be aware of their content.;
, Towards that end, carry a towel or some paper towels with you. Even if you don't think you're sweating, there are still those 'icky' cells you would be sharing. In addition, we shed skin flakes, hair and other parts of ourselves, so it is best to leave it clean.
 Do not slow down your exercising by talking with your friends during your workout. When you talk to others, there is a tendency to move slower and to dally over the equipment rather than focusing on the exercise. Talk with your friends, or exercise. At least, this should be the etiquette shown when the gym is busy or crowded.


Since gym isn't about chats, take any catch-up chats with others to the cafe. Most gyms either have one or have one nearby. If not, just find an area away from the equipment to have a chat.
 You are there to exercise - not chat or conduct business. Many people go to the gym to switch off and forget about work or chores. Keep your cell phone in the locker.


If you are expecting an urgent call, take it outside so as not to disturb others and to maintain your own privacy during the call.
 Grunting with exertion is acceptable, but yelling with every rep is unnecessary and can be quite disconcerting to others, especially if it is continuous. If you are trying to get the attention, wear some nice clothes and take it to the dance floor.
 This holds even if you found them in the wrong place to begin with. Two wrongs do not make a right. Not only is it rude, but it is dangerous.


Don't drop the weights. You are harming the machines, the floor, and the weights. If you have to drop them, then maybe their weight is too much for you just yet. This is not a 'dead weight' competition. Remember––feet and toes are not immune to being crushed.
 Keep moving. You do not need to be on any one machine for over 10 minutes, some perhaps 20-30 maximum. If you think you do, square it with the gym operators first, to ensure that you are not creating a bottleneck.


Consider the potential for damage you can do to yourself when you overdo use of the equipment. This is about your health as well as etiquette.
If it is not busy and nobody is waiting for the machine, some extra time is likely to be permissible.
In turn, be patient when waiting for others to finish. This will undo any good the workout is doing you, as well as being poor etiquette. Wait for a break in the other person's exercising first, and then ask politely if they can indicate their finish time and leave it at that. Most etiquette observing gym goers will get the message; if not, you can always ask for help from the gym's management.
Do not hog the water fountain too long either. Get your drink quickly and move along.
 Many gym exercisers are using the mirror to try to watch their form and they will not appreciate the distraction.
 If you have a problem with body odour, it will make the environment more pleasant for everyone. It does not matter what your age, physique or gender, a little deodorant goes a long way in maintaining good interpersonal relations at the gym. However, do not go to the opposite extreme and overdo the perfume or cologne, as that can be just as offensive to others' sense of smell.


A t-shirt mops up more sweat than a tank top or singlet.
Ensure that any clothes you wear are not too scanty or allow glimpses of private areas when you move.
 It is a great opportunity to make friendships with those with common interests. In turn, they can do it for you, including timing you, motivating you and helping you with suggestions.
 It is not very pleasant getting smacked with swinging arms from someone else who is exercising (incorrectly). Backing into people, sticking sweaty armpits into others' faces and treading on feet are all things you need to avoid doing. Be aware of being a considerate space user at the gym; mark out the invisible boundaries before you go ahead and exercise.
 You look much dumber doing a lift improperly than using lower weight and having correct technique. Top offenders:


Not hitting your chest on bench press
Swinging your back into a curl (it's for biceps, not your back)
Lat pull down should be to your chest, not to your spine
Going beyond parallel on forward or lateral dumbbell raises

, Be tactful and avoid asking out every person who seems like a possibility––that's offensive! Remember that most people are actually at the gym to exercise first and foremost.

