 A letter lends formality and grace to your interaction. Thank the potential employer for the opportunity. Then, tell the truth about why you accepted another offer.It may be tempting to deny the offer verbally. However, a letter or email is usually more professional.


Write an email or a typed letter. Do not send a text message or instant message. Do not give the employer a handwritten note. Be professional.;
, Personally thank the recruiter for the offer. If you've gotten far along in the interview process, then the recruiter has likely spent at least a few hours considering your application, your references, and your resume. If you want to be polite, make sure to acknowledge this effort.Say, "Thank you so much for offering me the position. I truly appreciate the time and energy that you've put into explaining the role and answering my questions."
Say, "Thank you for the interview and the offer. I appreciate that you've been so helpful and honest about the realities of this role and the inner workings of this company. I know that you've put a lot of work into guiding me through the process."

, Begin with a cordial introduction. Then, follow up by mentioning the positive aspects of the position you are declining. You might talk about the smooth process, the well-crafted interview questions, and the generous offer. This may leave the hiring manager feeling a bit better about the situation., Keep it short and sweet. In one or two sentences, explain the honest reason that you're declining the job. This applies whether you are taking a job somewhere else, or you just don't feel that this job is right for you right now. If you've put a lot of time into this interview process, consider giving a more in-depth reason.Say, "After a lot of thought, I've decided to take a job at another company," or "Your company seems like a lovely place to work, but I don't think that it will take me exactly where I want to be professionally." You can say, simply, "I don't think that this job is the right choice for my career goals at this time."
Don't get into the gritty details of why you don't want to work at this company. There's no need to explain the things that you found off-putting about the job. Don't talk about the exciting job you're taking at another company.

