 The address is Presernova 20; the entrance from Muzejka Street. It's located in Ljubljana, and it's the biggest and oldest Slovene museum, first opened in 1821. In 1888, the museum building on Museum Street was built. The museum currently contains an extensive collection of beneficial objects! Some are even ancient, dating all the way back to the Stone Age, but there are more modern ones as well.


There is also a new building on the Metelkova, Maistrova Street 1, and it consists of collections of the art traditions of Slovenia. The permanent exhibit contains a lot of applied arts from the 14th century to today.
 There are many buildings which come from the time when Slovenia was still a part of Austro-Hungary. Furthermore, there aren't many tourists and it's cheaper than many of the European capital cities.
 They are Logar Valley Landscape Park with the amazing Rinka Waterfall, the Solcava Panoramic Road (which includes beautiful vistas on Kamnik-Savinja Alps), the Cathedral of St Mohor and Fortunat in Gornji Grad, Snezna jama Cave (the highest cave for tourists in Slovenia), and the Coal Mining Museum which has three Velenje lakes.
 They are great for skiing, mountain biking, kayaking and ratting.
, There are tremendous stalactites and stalagmites in Postojna caves, and those have graffiti that show that the first tourists visited in 1213.
 There are several cities there that are very much worth seeing:


Solcava - found in the deep and constricted valley of the Savinja River. It received the award of European Union EDEN, or European Union Destination of Excellence, in 2009 in relation to tourism and protected places in Slovenia. It's one of the best places for those who are seeking relaxation in clean nature, hiking in beautiful mountains and enjoying delicious local food from eco farms.

Make sure you get a chance to see Solcava Panoramic Road with great vistas on the Kamnik-Savinja Alps, Landscape Parks (Logar, Matkov kot, and Robanov kot). There are over 100 natural wonders, too!


Gornji Grad - part of the European Climate Alliance. It's located at the bottom of Menini Plateau, and it attracts many visitors because many people like to see the Church of St. Mohor and St. Fortunatus, the biggest baroque building in Slovenia.
Luce - a subalpine valley and one of the best places to mountaineer and visit farms for tourists. The most prominent tourist attraction there is Snezna jama Cave under Mt Raduha, a one-of-a-kind "pearl" of high karst mountains. In addition, there's Najarze, which contains the Vrbovec Castle and Franciscan Monastery. It's a great place to visit!

