 This is important for your well being. If you move around a lot during a night terror, you could fall and hurt yourself. Before bed, take steps to ensure a safe environment.You should close and lock all windows before bed so you do not wander out of your room.
Make sure to block off stairways.
Move anything off the floor that you may slip on if you get up during the night.;
, This can help you unwind before bed. If you have a routine, your body will learn when it's time to sleep at night. You will fall asleep faster, and higher quality sleep can reduce night terrors. Doing something relaxing can also help you fall asleep safe and comfortable. This may also quell your night terrors.Choose something that can help you relax. Try reading a soothing book, taking a warm bath, or having a cup of tea. It may be a bad idea to use your computer, television, or phone, as screens can make it more difficult to sleep.
Avoid doing anything that could scare you before bed. Do not watch anything scary on television or read anything disturbing.
 If you're not sleeping enough at night, this may increase your risk of having a night terror. Make sure you get 7 to 9 hours of quality sleep each night.Set a bedtime for yourself that will allow you to get this much sleep. If you have to be in bed by 11 each night to get your 7 to 9 hours, make sure to go to bed by then.
If you have a child with night terrors, be strict about his or her bedtime. Children actually need slightly more sleep than adults. Preschoolers need 11 to 13 hours, while elementary aged children need 9 to 11.
 This may help you figure out what you need to avoid before bed. Keep a sleep journal and note whenever you have a night terror. Figure out if there's any external cause that should be addressed.You may notice, for example, when you're not getting enough sleep, you're prone to night terrors. Certain stressors may also trigger your terrors. You may be prone to night terrors if you have a stressful day at work.
Once you've figured out what's causing your night terrors, you can take steps to reduce them. You can, for example, try to get more sleep if they're related to a lack of sleep. You can reduce a specific stressor in your life if it seems to cause night terrors.

