 You might have noticed that the waiting rooms of dentist and doctor offices are filled with celebrity gossip and fashion magazines. Some therapists theorize that this generic choice is calculated specifically to distract fearful patients from their upcoming procedures: the genre and topic is far-removed from the current situation and fear, so it works particularly well as a distraction.For example, if you start to feel fearful when you are lying in bed at night, turn on your favorite comedy show or pull out your favorite magazine and read through it until you feel less fearful.
If you don’t like magazines, put on a funny podcast, a stand-up comedy special, or a light-hearted comedic film. You’ll be surprised how much the natural response of laughing can distract you from and even directly diminish the fear you’re experiencing.;
, Studies have shown that distraction can be an effective way to get through fear or anxiety, but some distractions are better than others. Rather than letting your mind wander to a variety of other subjects, focus on one thing in particular, such as a physical activity, a good book, cleaning your house, taking a class, or attending to a task from your work.Yoga can be a particularly good physical exercise for distraction, as it helps hone concentration skills and develop mindfulness strategies.
For example, if you start to feel fearful during finals for school, head to your local gym for a yoga class. Or avoid the fear of studying by preparing a meal at home.
 Studies have shown that talking out your fears can help to overcome them. If you don’t feel comfortable explicitly discussing your fears, though, you can distract yourself from the fear by socializing with someone. You’ll have to concentrate on the ongoing conversation, so you won’t have nearly as much mental bandwidth to dedicate to your fear.If you’re afraid at night, have a friend come over and spend the night. Even if you’re not talking through your fears directly, you’ll find the companionship redirects your attention.
If you’re alone and no one can meet you, call a family member or a fun friend on the phone. Even the mundane topics of a casual conversation will distract you from your fears and help you survive the situation.
For example, if you start to feel fearful alone in your apartment, call a friend and ask them to go to dinner with you. Or reach out to a family member and chat with them on the phone to distract you from your fears.
 You might have heard the axiom that the best way to get rid of the blues is to cheer someone else up. A similar principle is at work when you attend to someone else when you’re frightened or anxious: instead of focusing on your internal thoughts, you direct your attention outward.


For example, ask a friend if they need a babysitter, take your dog for a walk, play with your cat, or help a friend talk through a conflict. If you struggle with fear often, consider volunteering for a local charity.
Studies have shown that household pets are particularly effective at reducing anxiety and improving quality of life, even for people with high-stress lifestyles and jobs.