 If you live in a fast-paced town or city, take advantage of this by setting up a small stand or shop. Offer convenient goods that are easy to take on the go.Consider the climate. Spring and summer would be best to offer iced tea, lemonade, or cold water bottles paired with fruit, ice-pops, or granola. Where as fall and winter would be better for hot cocoa or coffee with donuts and bagels.
Use the time of day to your advantage; a lot of people forget to eat breakfast or need an after-work snack during traffic.
 Make some extra cash by selling stuff that accumulates around the house. Start with your own belongings such as books, video games, toys, and clothing. Ask your parents or siblings if they have anything they wish to get rid of, too. Then, advertise the garage sale with flyers around the neighborhood or an ad in the newspaper., Times have a changed, and you have many online websites that do a lot of the work for you when it comes to selling your things. Some websites specialize in specific items. A site such as Etsy would be best for antiques, jewelry, clothing, and hand-crafted items; where as Ebay or Craigslist would be better for collectibles, DVDs, video games, cell phones, and computers. Be sure to consult with a parent or older sibling when considering uncommon websites; some sites have ill-intentions with peoples' goods and money.
 If you have an artistic or crafty side, put it to use to earn some extra cash. Church gatherings, fairs, and other city events can serve as a great spot to set up a booth to sell home-made bracelets, bags, clothing, and art work. You can also get some help from a parent or older sibling to set up a website to sell your handmade works., Students forget lunches and supplies all the time, and you can help them out by selling the items they need. Use a little of your own money and visit a dollar store. Buy snacks and school supplies (pencils, pens, erasers, paper, highlighters, markers, etc.); sell the items at a reasonable price such as twenty-five cents a pencil. Over time, you'll balance out and make profit. 