 You drive it, maybe you own it too. In any case, it's vital that you learn as much as possible as you can about this massive piece of machinery that you trust your life with.


Review the owner's manual of any car you own. Owner's manuals will typically provide a maintenance schedule for your vehicle, location of different parts and part numbers, the meaning of different buttons, and many other things you might have had questions about.
Learn the specifications for your vehicle, like the stock tire size, recommended tire pressure (not the maximum), and loading information. You should be able to find this information on a label inside the driver's door jamb.
Learn the names of different parts on your vehicles. It's most helpful if you have someone knowledgeable who can show you the different parts and what they do, but if not, looking up repair videos for your vehicle can help you with identifying different parts.;
,


Listing any pertinent information will help your mechanic with making a more accurate assessment of the vehicle's problem. You should make note of any abnormal sounds, vibrations, movements, and other tactile feelings. If you notice any lights on the dashboard, report those as well.
 Many mechanics would be happy to show you where and what exactly the problem is and entertain questions you may have as long as it is safe for you. Be sure to ask questions like:


How important is this to fix?
Can the parts be repaired or will they have to be replaced?
Is there a warranty on new parts?
How much time would it take to fix this?

, The estimate should include the costs of parts, labor, tests, taxes, and any other services performed. Note that an estimate doesn't mean that the actual price will be exactly the same - but it should be close, unless they get your permission to perform additional services on your vehicle.,, This is for the benefit of you, your mechanic, and any future buyers of your car. This way you can tell when certain maintenance needs to be performed and prevent potential issues before they come up.

