 There are some cultures that do not value the use of wedding rings. Read up on other alternatives offered through various cultures. A simple online search using a term such as "Which cultures do not use wedding rings" will give you quite a few returns.


In some cases in India, a bride and groom will put the emphasis on having a big wedding rather than on having rings––then the whole town, and more, know that you are married. In these conditions, why do you need a ring? (That said, wealthier Indians do tend to make the ring part of the wedding commitment, as part of adopting Western wedding traditions.)
The Amish receive a clasped hand blessing as part of their ceremony but do not wear an outward symbol of their union, especially not jewelry.Some communities do use different dresses or colors, or long beards, to symbolize married couples though.
 Would you be more comfortable with a chain around the neck symbolizing your love? Chains, just like rings, are also a symbol of attachment/commitment. You and your partner don't even need to wear the same "type" of jewelry, as long as the two pieces have something in common (text, style, little sign).


For those who undertake a lot of manual or mechanical labor, wearing the ring around a necklace is often considered a preferred (and safer) option.
 What about getting a tattoo? Maybe you'll think: "I don't have tattoos, I'm not a tattoo person" but this reason makes it different. In general, you do not want tattoos because you think that your tastes will change. But don't your wish your marriage to last forever? The tattoo doesn't have to be fancy. It can be your lover's name on some discreet part of your body: around the ring finger, on your side, or why not hidden under your hair, like a secret? Be creative. Nobody has to see it. It's just for you and your lover.


The infinite symbol is a popular tattoo for married people to use.
Instead of a tattoo, consider a second piercing, either in the ear or somewhere else prominent. When people ask about it, you can proudly proclaim it's because you're married!

, Make something using your own creativity that expresses your commitment. For example, it might be a small booklet of the 10 Reasons I Love You, or a heart shaped craft item or a photo album of the two of you having good times together. Really, the sky is the limit on how to personalize this aspect and it's entirely up to you as to how to turn it into a marriage commitment token.
 Display it proudly in your home where people visiting will see it.


If the original license is not so flash, in some countries, you can upgrade to a prettier official document than the regular signed ones for a small fee; whether or not this is needed or can be done depends on where you get married.
 Rings are not the marriage. Marriage is about the effort of maintaining an intimate relationship and being there for one another through thick and thin. One way you can make a commitment statement is to promise one another to reaffirm your love for each other on each anniversary of your wedding, using words, poetry, images, or some other self-created way that requires personal effort to restate what you love about your partner. You could even make this reaffirmation public by throwing a small party at home or simply having a few friends and/or family over to witness your reaffirmation. Some couples even like to renew vows as if they're having a wedding all over again, perhaps at long intervals such as each decade or on specific long-term anniversaries.

