 Though you may be tempted to sleep for just five more minutes in the morning for some extra sleep, hitting the “snooze” button on your alarm will in fact make you more tired. When you hit snooze, your brain goes even deeper into your sleep cycle. By the time you hit “snooze” several more times, and finally wake up, you will feel groggy and even more tired than if you got up with your alarm.If possible, get an alarm without a snooze button. Or disable the snooze option on your existing alarm.;
, Rather than having your alarm close to your bed, where you can easily hit the snooze button or shut off your alarm, put your alarm clock somewhere that forces you to get out of bed. That way, you will be forced to get out of bed in the morning to shut your alarm clock off.For example, you could place your alarm clock on a dresser that is on the opposite side of your room. Or, if you think you will still be able to hear it, you might even place your alarm in an adjacent room, such as a bathroom.
 These alarm clocks grow progressively brighter as it gets closer to your wake up time. This light will help you wake up slowly and hopefully, easily, without shocking your body with a sudden alarm. Graduating-light alarm clocks are also good for the winter, when the mornings are dark and it can be hard to get out of bed.You can find graduating-light alarm clocks at your local drugstore, or online.
 Stretch and get up, open the curtains of your room and let the morning light in. Treat the morning like a positive experience and commit to looking forward to your day.You may also start a routine of getting dressed and eating breakfast within a certain time. As you get ready, plan out your schedule and your tasks or commitments for the day.
 If you stick to a consistent sleep schedule and maintaining a regular sleeping pattern, you likely will be able to get up on your own, without an alarm and without oversleeping.Going to bed at the same time every night and waking up at the same time every morning will program your body to get used to a regular sleep schedule. Over time, your body will act as its own alarm clock, and you should be able to wake up on your own at the same time, every day.

