 Is your spider moving around less than usual? Tarantulas often stop moving or don't move at all to conserve energy before a molt. If your tarantula has not been moving much lately, then this could be a sign that she is about to molt., Before a big molt, tarantulas will stop eating for extended periods of time, ranging from a few weeks to a couple of months. If you have noticed that your tarantula has not been eating or that she has been eating less than usual, then this could indicate that she is going to molt soon.
 Some tarantulas secrete tiny drops of a clear fluid between the joints on their legs, and this can indicate that your tarantula is getting ready to molt. Check to see if you can see these droplets, but keep in mind that not all tarantulas do this before a molt., Some tarantulas will lose hair on their abdomens leading up to a molt. You might notice less hair on your tarantula’s abdomen or even a bald spot on your tarantula’s abdomen.If you see this, then it is a good sign that your tarantula is getting ready to molt.


Your tarantula’s abdomen may also appear darker and shinier than usual before she molts., What position is the spider in? During a molt, a tarantula lays up-side down on her back or on her side to get out of the old skin easier.This happens when a tarantula is actively molting and the whole process takes just a few hours. If your tarantula is on her back or side, then she might be trying to molt her skin.


Spiders curl up their legs tightly underneath them when they die. If your tarantula is on her stomach and has curled her legs tightly inwards, then she may be dead or dying., Tarantulas can sustain injuries or even die if they are disturbed while they are molting. Therefore, it is important to leave your tarantula alone while she molts.Plan to leave your tarantula while she is showing signs of molting and for at least one week following a molt.


Wait at least one week after a molt to pick up and/or hold your tarantula., After your tarantula has completely shed her exoskeleton, you can remove it from her cage. Try using a pair of tweezers to pick the exoskeleton up., Your tarantula will be sensitive and prone to injury following a molt, which means that its normal prey might harm her. Therefore, do not feed your tarantula for at least a few days following a molt.While your tarantula cannot hunt following a molt, she will still need to drink water. Make sure your tarantula has plenty of fresh water at all times.