 When you think of NASA, your first thought is probably of astronauts; if going to space doesn't sound so appealing to you, you may nonetheless find a rewarding career with NASA. Just a few of the professionals that NASA employs are as follows:Medical doctors, nurses, and mental health care professionals.
Researchers, engineers, geologists, microbiologists, and physicists.
Writers, human resource specialists, and communications professionals.
Computer programmers and IT specialists.;
, If you'd like to start down the path towards working for NASA, it will help to think about what you're good at as early as possible. This will help you begin to formulate an idea of the position at NASA that would be the best fit for you. Think about the following:


What subjects do you excel in at school? For example, if everyone wants to be your lab partner in physics class, then you may want to think about a future career in applied physics with NASA.
 Even if you're really good at something—like math or chemistry, for example—a career at NASA will be intense, as will the course of study you'll have to go through in order to qualify. You want to try to select a path where you will not only excel, but which you'll be passionate about.
 Once you have a plan in mind for your ideal career at NASA, it will be a good idea to carefully outline the courses you'll take, both in high school and/or college. Meet regularly with your academic advisor to make sure you're taking the right courses, and the right number of them.


Particularly if you want to be an astronaut, an engineer, or a scientist with NASA, you should choose a STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) centered education path.You should also determine as early as possible if your eventual dream job with NASA will require graduate study. This may affect where you go to school or what courses you choose to take as an undergraduate.
 It's a bit of joke at NASA to respond to inquiries about how to work there by responding, “Study hard,” but it really is true that this is key.You're going to have to be committed to your studies, and make sure not just that you get the necessary grades, but that you truly are able to master the material.
 If you're still in high school and are reading this, then you're doing the right thing by planning your path to NASA early on. Take the time to research college and universities that have strong STEM programs, and get into the very best one that you can.
 One of the best ways to figure out how to get where you want to go is to see how others before you have done it. You can go to the NASA website to read the bios of some of the successful individuals who work there.


Pay attention to where they went for their undergraduate and graduate educations, see if they mention having completed any internships or fellowships, etc.
 Are these schools you can get be admitted to? If you're already in college, but are concerned that your academic program isn't strong enough or prestigious enough, it may be possible for you to transfer for your final year or two of college.
 While you will most likely be focused on studying STEM subjects, don't forget entirely about the humanities. For example, studying philosophy, history and/or ethics could be beneficial.


You'll learn how to read and dissect complicated texts, sharpen your problem-solving and critical thinking skills, and think deeply about important moral questions. All of this will be valuable in your future career with NASA.
 You should also make it a priority to develop yourself fully: this means that not only will you work on expanding your knowledge, but that you'll take care of your body and work to develop your people and leadership skills. It's also important that you find ways to relax and have fun.


Try to fit time into your schedule for extra-curricular activities which will help you accomplish these goals. For example, you may want to join the science club, math club, debate team, run for student government, play on the volleyball team, play in the school band, etc.

