 People sext for many different reasons. Some sexting is consensual while other times it can be used to harass, blackmail, or victimize someone. The nature of sexting can also change. For example, you may have agreed to sext with your partner, but your partner is now threatening to post some of your photos or text messages because the two of you got into a fight or ended the relationship.Before you take any kind of action, consider the source.


The way you handle a person using sexting to blackmail you will be different than telling your partner or friend that their text messages simply make you uncomfortable.
 It might be the source of the messages, such as from a friend or acquaintance rather than from a lover, and/or it just feels too intimate for your preference. Or, it might be the content being just too lurid for your liking. Your feelings are valid. You may enjoy or dislike receiving the messages, or you may be unsure about them.Do you not like receiving the messages at all? Tell the person to stop.
Are the messages too vulgar and you would like something more discreet? Let the person know you prefer sweeter or more coded language.
How the messages make you feel will also determine how you handle the situation.
 The first step to getting someone to stop sexting you is to simply request they stop contacting you this way. It is quite possible that they really do not know that it is offending or upsetting you and most reasonable people will apologize and cease immediately. Obviously, determining how to deliver the request could be a little tricky, especially if you're trying to ask someone you like, such as a friend or boyfriend/girlfriend, to stop the sexting.


Talk to someone who you can trust to help you handle the situation. This may be a friend, family member, teacher, or school counselor.
You could also write down what you plan to say or stand in front of the mirror and practice.
 Maybe your sweetheart thinks that sexting might heat things up at home, but you're a little grossed out. Maybe your new date is using sexting as a means to seduce and perhaps even impress you. They don't know you well enough yet to realize that it's actually upsetting you (and perhaps you're too polite or confused to say otherwise).


Tell the person, "Hey, I'm not really into sexting," or "Sexting makes me really uncomfortable. I would rather you not send me messages like that."
For a love interest, it can help to explain that you believe that intimacy should only be a face-to-face thing and that sexting feels sneaky, unreal and smutty to you.
You could also add that texting is no replacement for talking and that you just don't appreciate sexting as a substitute for direct talk.
 A co-worker or supervisor may start sexting you. Perhaps a friendly gesture in the lunchroom or a comment you made during the last staff meeting gave one of your co-workers or a casual acquaintance the wrong idea and now they've taken the liberty of sexting you. There are multiple ways to handle this.


You can tell the person to stop because maybe they just have the wrong idea.
You can also go the human resources department at your job and report this because this is considered sexual harassment.
 Have you received an inappropriate message or photo from an unknown number? Did a stranger send you something online? In this case, just block the unknown number or the sender.


It is best not to engage or respond to a stranger. Do not ask who it is or how the person got your contact information.
Engaging with an unknown person on any level may encourage them to continue.
Sometimes a person you dislike has your number. Just block them because they are probably sexting you to get on your nerves and bother you.
 Your friend might sext you as a joke or think it's not a big deal. Simply respond to your friend the next time it happens. Keep it light the first time you ask them to stop.


You could return the text or Facebook message by saying something like “Gross, no thank you!” or “My mom (spouse, kids, etc.) reads my messages, so you probably shouldn’t send me stuff like this.”
If that doesn't work, tell them in person or over the phone that sexting makes you uncomfortable and to stop doing it. If all else fails, you may have to block your friend until the message is clear.
 Have you done anything to encourage sexting? Perhaps you sent a photo of yourself in a scantily clad pose, or perhaps you said something sexy that seemed to open the doors to more sexting. If any of these things have occurred from your end, you'll need to explain that you didn't mean for it to become a regular occurrence or to become more serious than you originally intended. In the future, always think twice before sending sexy photos of yourself or sending provocative words.


Even if you have sexted with the person in the past, you always have the right to change your mind and stop sexting. Do not feel guilty if you no longer want to participate.
Don’t play along if you don't want to communicate with the person in this manner. Being forthright about your preferences at the outset of the start of sexting is best.

