 Your phone company should have a department that deals with abusive phone calls. They can give you some options on how to stop abusive phone calls. As soon as you receive any abusive phone calls, call your phone company immediately. You should be able to tell them exactly what was said and any other information you have from the phone call.
If your phone company doesn’t have a department for abusive phone calls, they should have a customer complaint line. This line should have some representatives that can help you prevent abusive phone calls in the future.
 If the calls are persistently abusive, or if your service provider recommends it, notify the authorities. Abusive and malicious calls are a criminal offense and will be treated as such.If you call your phone company first, they may recommend speaking to the police depending on the abuse. While not all abusive phone calls can be reported to the police, your phone company should have a good idea whether or not you should report the abusive phone call.
Depending on the abuse, you may be able to file charges against the person calling. At the very least, it's always a good idea for the police to have a record of abusive phone calls.
 If you do nothing about these types of calls, you will continue to receive them. Even if you are only documenting the phone calls, it's important to do something rather than nothing.


Abusive phone calls are not usually stopped by ignoring them. Even if people calling may only want a response, they likely will not quit if you simply ignore them.Even if you're not ignoring the abusive phone calls, that does not mean you have to engage with the calls. You can simply write down the calls and report them to the appropriate authorities.
 If you're receiving abusive phone calls or text messages, it's important to tell someone. Receiving abusive calls or texts is a big problem that you should not keep to yourself.Your teachers and principals need to know if any abusive texts are happening at school. They want everyone to feel safe and comfortable at school.
Abusive text messages can be a big problem for teens. Since the people sending the messages don't see the person they're abusing, they can often be even more vicious and mean., Your parents need to know if you are getting abusive phone calls or text messages. They will be able to talk to the phone company or your school to stop this behavior.


You should never blame yourself for abusive texts or phone calls. It's never your fault and is always wrong.
Abusive calls or texts can lead to depression and anxiety for teens. Don't let this behavior continue; tell your parents so they can do something about it.

