 The criminal defense attorney who represented you at trial, or any attorneys who represented you on appeal, may be your strongest resources as you prepare to submit a commutation petition.Attorneys who have worked with you will already have a good understanding of your case and potentially can give you strong advice on what to include in your petition.
Your trial attorney also is a good source to help you get in contact with the judge, the prosecuting attorney, and others involved in your court case.
Talk to your attorney seriously about the capacity in which they're helping you. If they agree to represent you and assist you directly with your petition, you should get a written retainer agreement that outlines specifically the assistance they're providing and what, if any, fees you will be charged.;
, Outside advocates include friends and family members who are not currently incarcerated and are able to mobilize and advocate for your commutation publicly. Choose people you trust who are passionate about your case.Start with the people closest to you, such as your spouse, parents, or siblings. These people typically are best to organize your support team.
Make sure anyone willing to serve as your outside advocate understands the amount of time and effort that will be involved.
Identify friends and family members who have particular strengths that will benefit your cause. If you play to people's strengths, they may be able to provide more value.
For example, if you know someone who is tech savvy, they may be willing to create a website that can serve as a home base for your commutation campaign.
 There are many nonprofit organizations who can assist your efforts to get a commutation. These organizations may be able to bring publicity to your case and rally their members and the general public to support your cause.You typically can find information about nonprofit organizations that provide assistance and guidance for prisoners seeking commutation by talking to counselors or case managers at your prison.
You also may be able to find information and resources in your prison's library. Don't just look for guidance specifically regarding commutation, but also information about networking, starting a business, or organizing political campaigns.
While it's true that you're not starting a business or running for elected office, many of the strategies used in those contexts can benefit your efforts to have your sentence commuted.
 Start a list of every person you can think of who potentially would support your commutation. This may include people you haven't even met, but who you believe you could convince to support your efforts.Ask everyone close to you to help you brainstorm names and contact information for people who potentially could be sympathetic.
You also want to focus on community leaders and other public officials. However, keep in mind that some of these people may decline to lend you any support.
Talk to your outside advocates about building a brief information letter that you can send to people who may not know you or be familiar with your situation.
Make sure this letter includes only accurate information, and emphasizes the strongest points in favor of the commutation of your sentence.
 Work with your outside advocates to create active social media accounts that will be used to help organize your supporters and provide news and status updates about your case.Social media accounts allow supporters to follow and stay up-to-date on any developments in your case. It also means you can be in control of the information put out about your case, and tell your story your way.
Social media also is a good way for the outside advocates who are leading your support team to communicate quickly with as many people as possible.
Additionally, you will eventually benefit from media coverage for your case. Active social media accounts provide resources and reference material to reporters who are interested in your case.
 State and federal governments have preprinted forms that you can use to draft your petition for a commutation. These forms typically come with a set of instructions on how to fill them out and submit them.You can find and print these forms online, or request one from your counselor or case manager.
You also may be able to find forms and other information about requesting a commutation in your prison's law library.
Read the instructions carefully and make sure you understand everything required. Check the eligibility requirements listed in the instructions and make sure you are eligible for a commutation.
If there's anything in the instructions that you don't understand, consult an attorney and ask them to explain it so you can understand. You don't want to inadvertently make a mistake on your petition because you misinterpreted an instruction.
 When you submit your petition, government agents will review all the facts you provided for accuracy as well as conducting a background check on you. If you falsify any information, they will find out the truth.The facts you present in your petition should be accurate with respect to your court records.
If you have doubts about something or are concerned you don't remember, consult an attorney to check the court record.
Part of being honest includes not leaving anything out. You may be tempted to avoid negative or unflattering facts, but these omissions can get you into trouble and result in a denial of your commutation before it even reaches the governor's or president's desk.
 You have already exhausted all of your appeals. Your petition for commutation is not the place to argue that a mistake was made, your constitutional rights were violated, or the law was incorrectly applied to you.Keep in mind that the government agents and attorneys who review your petition will assume that your conviction was rightful and valid. Your petition for a commutation is not an opportunity to try your case again.
This can be a difficult part of your petition to write, but it's important that you state the facts of your case in a clear, upfront manner without attempting to minimize your actions or blame other people.
Similarly, if drugs or alcohol were involved in your crime, avoid blaming them for your actions.
It may be that you would not have committed a criminal act if you weren't drunk or high, but keep in mind that you were the one who made the decision to consume drugs or alcohol.
 Showing remorse is part of accepting responsibility. Your statements of remorse should be genuine. Make it clear that you are sorry for committing the criminal act, not just for getting caught.Acknowledge that you understand the negative impact your criminal activity had on other people, or on society at large.
If you committed a violent crime against an individual, mention them and express personal remorse toward that person.
If you've made any effort to apologize or make amends with your victim, include that information in your petition.
State how committed you are to obeying the law in the future, and that you want to make efforts to improve your community and become a productive member of society.
 Ideally, you've kept out of trouble in prison and have been a model inmate. However, if you do have any disciplinary infractions on your prison record, you need to explain them in your petition.Just as with the conviction itself, express remorse for any actions in prison that resulted in disciplinary infractions.
If you had a turnaround as a result and have changed your attitude or actions, explain how you've changed and the efforts you've made to improve your conduct.
Avoid blaming others or making excuses for any bad behavior in prison. It may very well be that you were simply in the wrong place at the wrong time, but for the purposes of your petition for commutation you need to take ownership of your actions.
 Any therapy or counseling you've received in prison is relevant to show that you're committed to changing your life. Education also shows an effort toward rehabilitation.For example, if you've taken classes and earned your GED while in prison, this information should go into your petition for commutation.
Similarly, include any training or other work you've done towards eventually gaining a job in a particular field. For example, you might have taken some computer programming classes while in prison.
Particularly if your crime involved drugs or alcohol, any addiction treatment you've received is relevant to your case. Emphasize the length of time you've been drug- or alcohol-free – especially if it's been a long time.
 As you close your petition, make sure you include information about what you plan to do if you are released from prison early. Let the governor or president know how you plan to become a productive member of your community.State specifically what you're requesting. You may ask to get out with time served, or to have the remaining 10 years of your sentence reduced to five. But you need to request this specifically, and provide the reasons for your request.
The officials who review your petition will want to see that you have a plan for when you get out, and that you have a significant and dedicated support system who will keep you from slipping back into bad behavior.
Concrete details can be helpful. For example, if you've been talking to someone on the outside about working at a particular business when you get out, mention these discussions.
 It's extremely rare for commutations to be granted, so it's important that you make the best possible impression. While you can submit a handwritten petition direct from prison, this does not give your petition the best chance of success.You also may want to have an attorney review your petition. They can easily compare the facts in your petition to your court records and correct any inaccuracies.
An attorney also will have a good idea of how you should say the things you want to say, but be careful not to introduce a lot of legalese or make it seem like your petition was written by someone else.
While an attorney (or even a close friend or family member) can clean up your grammar, type your petition up neatly, and proofread for typos and other errors, the document should be clearly written by you.
Keep in mind that a couple of typos won't necessarily make the difference between acceptance and denial of your petition, but they won't help your case.
A clean, well-edited petition will stand out from the others in a good way.
 Along with your petition, you want to submit written letters from family, friends, and community leaders who support your commutation. These letters should be written by people who have a full understanding of the reason you're incarcerated.There's no minimum number of support letters that are required – you want as many as you can get.
These letters should be clear, brief, and to the point. Have your supporters type their letters, and keep them to one or two pages at the longest.
The letter itself should be three or four paragraphs. The first paragraph should introduce your case and ask for your commutation. The closing paragraph echoes the information provided in the introductory paragraph.
The body of these letters describes the person's relationship to you and why they are writing to support your petition for commutation.
They also can include information about why they believe your sentence is too long, why you're needed at home, or what your plans are when you get out.
It's important that these letters be in the supporter's own words, not scripted by you or one of your outside advocates for your benefit. Three individual, personal letters will do you more good than a dozen scripted letters that all say basically the same thing.
 The judge who presided over your trial, as well as the prosecutor who argued for your conviction, can be important allies. If you can convince them that you are successfully rehabilitated, they may be willing to advocate for your release.Talk to your attorney and find out if you can have an opportunity to talk to these people in person. If that's not possible, write a letter to be delivered to each of them.
Explain your situation and that you'd appreciate their support. You should include a copy of your petition.
Invite them to contact you if they want to ask questions or need more information about your case. You also may want to give them contact information for a couple of your outside advocates or the attorney who has been helping you.
 An elected official will have the ultimate decision of whether to grant your commutation, so getting other elected officials on board with your case can help improve your chances.Just as you sent a letter to the judge and prosecuting attorney, you can send a letter to your state legislators or members of congress.
Introduce yourself in your letter and explain your case. Then discuss the efforts you've made towards rehabilitation and the reasons you believe you should be granted a commutation of your sentence.
You might also include information about the plans you have to support and improve your community once you get out.
Invite the elected officials to contact you if they have any questions, or to talk to your outside advocates or your attorney.
 Along with your petition and letters of support, you may be required to submit various court or government documents such as your prison record or your sentencing report.These documents may include specific court documents, your pre sentencing report, and any documents that support facts you set forth in your petition.
The instructions that accompanied your petition typically will include a list of any documents you're required to include with your petition.
Contact your attorney or one of your outside advocates if you need help getting copies of these documents.
 Once you have all the necessary documents together, make at least one copy of everything for your own records and give it to one of your outside advocates for safekeeping.The address to which your documents must be sent will be included on the form and in the instructions for completing the form.
After submitting your documents, be prepared to wait. Keep in mind it can take between two and seven years to get a final decision on your petition if you are in federal prison.
States may provide decisions more quickly, but you still shouldn't expect to receive a decision for at least a year.

