 Rinse the cauliflower under cool, running water to remove traces of dirt and pesticides. Rubbing the vegetable with your fingers while rinsing makes the process much more effective.;
, Use a sharp knife to remove leaves and thick portions of the main stalk. Cut the florets into pieces about 1 inch (2.5 cm) across so they blanch at a consistent rate.
 Fill a pot 2/3 full of fresh water, allowing at least 1 gallon of water per pound of cut cauliflower (4 liters per 0.5 kg).Set it on the stove at high heat. While waiting for it to boil, move on to the next step.


Using less water than the recommended amount may result in mushy, overcooked cauliflower since the water will take longer to return to a boil once the vegetables are added.
 Fill a large bowl or a second pot with cold water and ice. This will be used to rapidly cool the cauliflower, and will work best if kept at 60ºF (16ºC) or below.Leave enough space in the bowl to avoid overflowing once the cauliflower is added.


If you do not have ice, try cooling tap water in the freezer while the water on the stovetop boils.
 Once the water has reached a rolling boil, add the cauliflower pieces. Cover the lid to keep the water hot, so it returns to a boil as quickly as possible.


If you have a wire basket that fits into the pot, this can make the cauliflower easier to remove. If the cauliflower is loose in the water, locate a slotted spoon so you can remove the cauliflower once boiled.
 Optionally, you may add salt to the water at this stage, using 4 teaspoons per gallon of water (5 mL per liter).This may enhance the flavor, but is not recommended if you plan to freeze the cauliflower as salt can break down the cell walls and make the vegetables soft and less flavorful., As soon as the water has returned to a boil, set a timer for three minutes, or note the time on a clock. Once three minutes have elapsed, remove the cauliflower with a slotted spoon.


The cauliflower should emerge partially cooked, but still firm. If it has become soft or mushy, it may not retain its flavor or nutrients for long.
Alternatively, you may drain the cauliflower over a colander or sieve to remove it from the water. However, this prevents you from using the water for an additional purpose, such as blanching the next batch or cooking pasta.
 Place the hot cauliflower florets into the ice bath. This rapid cooling seals in the flavor and nutrients of the vegetable, as well as the color if you are preparing colored cauliflower.
 Once the cauliflower is cold to the touch, remove it from the ice bath and pat dry with a paper towel. Excess water on the surface may break down the cauliflower once it freezes into ice crystals, making this step especially important if you plan to store the cauliflower long term., Once blanched, the cauliflower can typically maintain its high quality for at least 12 months in the freezer. Freeze the pieces on a flat tray first so they do not stick together, then keep them in airtight containers in the freezer.


There is no need to leave additional space in the containers, as cauliflower does not expand in the freezer.
 Though some people enjoy eating blanched cauliflower plain or lightly flavored with salt, the crunchy texture of blanched cauliflower may make it especially suitable as a salad ingredient. If you wish to make the cauliflower softer, boil it for a few minutes longer or add it to a recipe during cooking.


Thaw the cauliflower before thawing or cooking unless you are adding the pieces to a stir fry.

