 Most images that you download online are already compressed. The file formats .jpg, .gif, and .png are all forms of compression, and further compression will lead to a sharp decrease in quality. Compression for images is most useful if you are working with images directly from a digital camera or .bmp files.


It is not possible to uncompress a compressed image. You should always save the compressed version as a separate file so that you don't lose the original.
 There are essentially two types of compression for images: "lossless" and "lossy". Lossless compression is for cases where you need an exact replication of the original, and is typically used for drawings, diagrams, and medical imaging. Lossy compression is for cases where a drop in quality won't be noticed as much, and is most commonly used for photographs.


.gif, .tiff, and .png are all lossless formats.
.jpg is the most common lossy format for images.
 Nearly all image editors support compression by allowing you to save the image as a different file format. When you choose a compressed format, you'll be given options to determine how much compression to use.


Photoshop, GIMP, and even Paint allow you to save image files as compressed formats. Virtually any image editing program will work, though some will give you more quality options than others.
 This will allow you to save a copy of the original image using a new format.


If you're using Paint or another basic image editor, you will need to use the "Save As" option instead.
 The format you choose has a lot to do with the nature of the image.If you're compressing a photograph, select .jpg as your format.
If you're compressing an image with less than 256 colors, select .gif as your format.
If you're compressing a screenshot, a drawing or comic, or any other non-natural image, select .png.
If you're compressing an image with layers that you want to preserve, select the .tiff format (note that .tiff format isn't necessarily considered compression)., Image editors like Photoshop and GIMP will ask you to select your quality and compression settings after clicking the Export button. You can typically use a slider to adjust the compression or quality.


Increasing compression (decreasing quality) will result in a much smaller file size, but will add a lot of artifacts and change the color of the image. You may need to play with the options to find a good tradeoff between quality and size.

