 When choosing a profile picture (if you have an online dating profile), it's important to choose carefully, as this will create your first impression. You should certainly choose a photograph that you feel showcases your attractive qualities, but equally important is to choose a photograph that conveys personality. Consider your dating profile picture as the way you would want a woman to see you at a bar or singles event, and choose a picture that showcases your best qualities and characteristics.


Studies show that a genuine smile (aka a Duchenne smile) in a dating profile can communicate a sense of humor and an easy-going, pleasant personality.Slightly tilting or angling your head to the side can convey a sense of mystery or playfulness.If your dating profile allows you to post multiple photographs, include one that shows you with a group of friends smiling and having fun. It's even better if you're more or less in the middle of your group of friends, as this conveys a sense of importance and creates a desirability to be around you., You may not think much of your username, but there's a good chance that a woman looking at your profile might. Studies suggest that a username that conveys intelligence or a career drive are often more attractive to women online. You may also want to choose a username with a lower alphabetical letter at the start of your name, because many dating sites return profile searches in alphabetical order.Intelligence and creativity are typically desirable traits in a partner because they convey that the person will most likely pass on those desirable traits to a hypothetical child. Though most people aren't consciously thinking of what kind of parent their partner will be one day, those factors do drive some aspects of our subconscious attractions to others., Your name and picture may be the things that draw a woman to your profile, but it's a compelling "about me" section that will make a woman decide if you'll be a match or not. It's important to be honest and describe yourself and your interests sincerely, but you should also devote a little space to what you're looking for in a partner. Some experts recommend a 70 percent/30 percent split between yourself and what you're looking for to avoid coming across as shallow or self-absorbed.Some studies suggest that women tend to find self-descriptions depicting confidence, bravery, courage, and risk-taking more attractive in a potential partner's online profile.Some of the most desirable hobbies worth mentioning (if you engage in these hobbies) include playing sports, playing/writing/recording music, taking artistic photographs, and taking spontaneous trips or outings., Once you and a woman have expressed an interest in one another online, the next step is contacting the other person. If you're sending a message to a woman (or responding to a woman's message), you want to write a message that will convey the right things to that woman. The message should be personalized, engaging, and should highlight your best qualities.Incorporate the qualities you believe make you most desirable, such as a sense of humor or a sincerely kind personality.Read the woman's profile, and personalize the message you write to include some mutual interests and hobbies. This will show that you've taken the time to read her profile, and have things in common with her.Express an interest in the woman's job or educational background.Proofread. Many experts agree that spelling and grammar errors are a quick turn-off for some women, and if nothing else may cause you to appear less educated or informed than you actually are.