 Comb out your hair, starting from the ends and working your way up to the roots.If your hair is very frizzy, consider applying a bit of hair oil or smoothing cream.;
, You will have a right section, a middle section, and a left section. Hold the left section in your left hand and the right section in your right hand. If you want two braids, one on each side of your head, then part your hair down the middle. Choose one side to start braiding first. Part the hair on that side into three sections. Try to position the braid just behind your ear for a sleek, chic look.
 The right section is now in the middle. What used to be the middle section is now on the right.
 The left section is now the middle section. What used to be the middle section is now on the left.
 Always bring the outer section over to the middle. Alternate the right and left sides until you have a few inches of hair left.









Pull the sections tight to keep the braid secure. If the braid is too loose, it will fall out. You can always loosen the braid once you tie it off by massaging it between your palms.
Try to smooth your hair down with your fingers as you are braiding. This will keep the braid neat.
 You can make your braid as long or as short as you want. Most people leave the last 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) of their hair unbraided; you can leave more if that's what you like. Hold the end of your braid secure with one hand, and use the other hand to wrap a hair tie around the end of your braid. Make sure that the hair tie is snug; if it is too loose, you may need to wrap it a few more times.


Try to use a hair tie that matches your hair color: black, brown, or beige/blond.
If you have dark red hair, go for a brown hair tie. If you have lighter red hair, use a beige hair tie.
If you are doing two braids, then repeat the whole process on the other side of your head.
 You can tie a thick ribbon around the end of your braid into a bow. You can also tuck in a silk flower, or add a pretty hairclip. This is a great way to dress up an otherwise ordinary braid. Here are some ideas to get you started:


If it is summer, consider tucking a silk hibiscus or orchid into your braid for a tropical look.
In the fall, consider using a clip made from bronze, leather, or wood.
If it is winter, consider using a delicate silver clip with clear rhinestones. You can also go festive with a red and green ribbon for Christmas, or a blue and white ribbon for Hanukkah.
If it is spring, stick with ribbons, delicate flowers, pastel colors, or bright colors.

