 Before you begin defining the strategy within the IT department, you must first fully understand the organizations business objectives. This will make sure that your departments strategy will reinforce, rather than combat the corporate strategy. Be sure to address the following areas:


Company History
Company Description
Company Vision
Company Mission
Core Values
Company Goals
Financial Outlook
Strategic Business Objectives;
, Once you have a better understanding of how the company identifies itself; where it is and where it would like to be, take a moment to determine how IT fits into this model. Determine the:


IT Vision
IT Mission
IT Strategic Objectives
IT Core Values

, It is now time to take a critical look at what you are currently doing within IT in order to best make plans for the future. Break down your IT department into the following three sections and perform an assessment on each:


Organizational Infrastructure
Hardware and Software Infrastructure
Current IT Projects

, If your current state of IT is not very flattering, where would you like to see the department in the future? It is now time to be forward-thinking and proactive by analyzing internal and external factors in hopes of leveraging strengths and opportunities while mitigating weaknesses and threats. Be sure to perform the following tasks:


Understand the IT Environment (SWOT and PEST analysis)
Consider Emerging Technology Opportunities
Map Your Future- Where will you be Tomorrow if you: Do Nothing, Do XYZ
Document Your Ideal IT Situation

, Chances are your current and ideal IT situations will not completely align. Determine what requirements are needed on an operational level in order to transition from your current state of IT to your ideal. It may help to:


Determine Future IT Requirements
Identify and Summarize the Gaps

, In order to keep your team on track and manage their progress in implementing the IT Strategic Plan create a roadmap, clearly outlining all tasks that must be performed on a detailed timeline. Be sure to record:


Employee Responsibilities
Task Dependencies
Start Dates
Completion Dates

, All of your hard work will be in vain if you do not take the time to communicate the IT Strategic Plan that you have just created. Take pride in your work and share the new plan throughout the organization. IT is imperative that you revisit your IT Strategic Plan quarterly at minimum and make adjustments where applicable. Include the following in all communication:


Senior Management
The IT Department
Key Stakeholders in Other Departments

