 If you're going to have a serious conversation, it's always best to pick a time when everyone is calm and not distracted by something else. Ask your family when a good time to talk would be, if you can't seem to find a time.However, don't let finding a good time deter you. You have to tell your family, and if you wait until everything is perfect, you may have waited too long. It will be harder if you keep pushing it aside., If you think telling your parents will be especially hard, it's fine to tell someone else you trust, especially if that person is in the family. Plus, that person can offer support when you do decide to tell your parents., If you're a teenager telling your parents about your pregnancy, it's going to be a little bit harder for you. Guessing how your parents will react can give you a chance to prepare your mind and help steer the conversation when you do have it.Think about how your parents view you having sex. If they have been adamant about you not having sex, they may react more negatively to your announcement than if they've been a bit more supportive., That is, you don't have to elaborate at first. Just get the main news out. If you're not sure if you're pregnant yet, you could say when your last period was. If you've taken a test, you could say that you've done that, and it came back positive.You could say something like, "Well, what I wanted to tell you is I think I'm pregnant. I've missed two of my periods, so I took a pregnancy test. It came back positive."

, Your parents may get angry or yell. If they do, you have to try to calm your emotions. If you yell back, it's only going to make the situation worse, not better.Don't try to talk them out of their feelings. Just like you're allowed to feel how you want, so are your parents. They're just human, and they need time to process what you've said., Whether or not your parents get mad, you have a right to express how you're feeling, too. Maybe you're angry at yourself or maybe you're scared but a little excited. Your parents are supposed to be there for you, even when you do something that may upset you.For instance, you could say, "I know you all are upset right now. However, I want you to know that even though I'm scared, I'm also happy."

, If your parents start talking about what you are going to do, such as having an abortion or giving the baby up for adoption, you can ask to wait to have that part of the discussion. You should already have an idea of what you want to do, but you should give your parents a few days to calm down before you continue the discussion., Your parents are there to guide you when it comes to your choices about your body. When it comes down to it, it's your body. What you do with your baby is ultimately up to you.However, some states restrict your right to have an abortion without your parents' consent under a certain age (usually 16). Some states require that your parents be notified, while others require you to have your parents' consent. If you want to have an abortion but your parents are against it, you need to check your state's laws to figure out if you can have one.