 Check to see how many openings there are and how far apart they are. You may have to look underneath to be sure. For bathroom faucets, in particular, the two handles may be joined with the spout to become a single unit or they may be spread apart from it. You will need this information to choose the correct replacement.;
, You'll probably be using this faucet for a long time, so it's worth investing in a good-quality faucet.


It's possible to spend anywhere from about $20 to $500 and above on a faucet. Read reviews and decide for yourself how much of what you are paying is for quality and how much is for designer names/styling and fancy features.
 They can range from detailed and helpful to minimal and frustrating. When in doubt, defer to the manufacturer's instructions rather than those you find elsewhere.
 It's a tool designed to reach way up behind your sink and remove the two big nuts on each side of the faucet that hold the faucet tight against the sink. If you can't loosen the nuts by hand or with the tools you have on hand, a basin wrench will make the job easier.
, Arrange any portable lamp or use a drop light if you have one.
 Under the sink, you will see two supply lines coming out of the wall and going up to your faucet. There should be a valve on each one, one for hot and one for cold. Turn both of these valves off by twisting them clockwise as though they were faucets.
 Water will come out of each tube now as they drain back from the faucet so you'll need a towel to soak up this water.


It's a good idea to replace the supply lines when you replace the faucet, if they are old, especially if they were the flexible sort. If you have solid tubing, it isn't generally necessary unless it doesn't reach the new faucet. If you're not replacing the supply lines, you may only have to disconnect them at the top. A braided, stainless steel reinforced supply line will virtually eliminate the possibility of flooding from the line bursting.
 This is where you'll want to use a basin wrench if you have one. You may have one, two, or even three nuts. Your sink may look different because they may be hard plastic, brass, or silver-colored metal. This may be the hardest part of the job, since the threads are often quite long and they may be corroded so that the nuts are difficult to turn. Hang in there! It gets easier from here.
, If they are damaged in any way, take one with you to the store where you bought the wrench and buy two, new, gray plastic tubes the same length. They come with new nuts and end fittings.
 You may have to scrape and scour to remove hard water deposits, although depending on the new faucet, some of the area may be covered. Try vinegar or an acid cleaner to help dissolve hard water deposits.
 You need something like this to seal around the base to keep water from getting under it. If not, buy some plumbers' putty. It's gray in color and is something like chewing gum. Stick a bead of it around the base before you mount the new faucet. When you tighten down those two big nuts, it will squeeze a little of this putty out but it's easy to clean up with rubbing alcohol.
, Sometimes there is a separate flange or plate that slips over the bottom. If you want this flange installed, or if there are any additional hoses to assemble, do so now.
,,,, Wait for ten minutes and check for leaks again. If everything seems fine, you're done; if not, tighten the fittings a little more and check for leaks again.

