 If you are a mover and a shaker in your neighborhood, you might need a larger venue than the corner coffee shop. Be sure it will fit your needs. And importantly, actually go to the venue to check it out. Inviting people to a place you've never been to before, only to discover it's dingy or unsavory, will disappoint your guests. Some things you will want to take into consideration are:


The type of people that will be attending: Students? Professionals? Artists with their tools?
The formality of the event: suit and tie or jeans and t-shirt? If you're suggesting a cocktail party, the guests will need evening attire, while a chat about artwork around the coffee table only needs jeans.
The kind of money that they might be able to spend. Don't choose an expensive restaurant if you're inviting people who are stretched for money. Always consider what would be fair to expect of people to spend––for a first meeting, probably enough to spend on a cup of coffee and a cookie is all you should expect.
Parking and seating. Make sure there is enough. It can help to tweet parking or transport advice to guide your guests.
 This can be a bit tricky because not everyone who says they'll turn up will turn up, so bear in mind that your numbers are likely to be fairly fluid and booking a hall for an expected 100 people when only five turn up can be an expensive waste of time. For your first Tweetup, keeping it simple is the best approach––choose somewhere that doesn't need to be booked and have a back-up plan if more people turn up than your chosen venue can handle.


If more people show up than expected (this event is being broadcast across Twitter after all), such as people you weren't sure about coming turning up after all and bringing a friend who brings their friend, then be sure to have an alternative ready. Perhaps move from the little coffee shop to the big one down the street or go to the park if it's good weather. Again, keep it simple and consider the suggestions of others.
 If it's a large venue, make sure you aren't on the wrong side of town. If it's a small one, consider something like a library or a coffee shop––a public setting will help people meeting you for the first time feel more at ease.


Make sure the location matches your group's style. If your fellow tweeters are all beer-drinking bikers, a library might not be the best place.
 Twitter users will expect that they can tweet, so it makes sense to check this out in advance. Of course, there will be exceptions, such as if you've organized a back country hike or a tour of the cellars where no signal gets through, but within reason, have wi fi available.

