 While the presentation might be drawing to a close, your audience may still want additional information. Provide students with suggestions about how they can continue the conversation or pursue independent research.For example, are there articles, books, or websites you would recommend on a specific topic? Are there other presentations or lectures you could encourage them to attend?

, Although your time might be limited, be sure to set aside time at the end of your presentation to answer questions. Giving the floor to students will make them feel empowered and engaged, and your presentation will be a more interactive and impressive one.If you run out of time, you can always ask students to write down their questions and hand them to you or email them.
 When the presentation is over, ask students to take one minute and write down what they believe to be the main point of the presentation. Also, ask them to identify a question they still have about the presentation or material.Students will probably be more comfortable and honest if this is anonymous.
This exercise will give you invaluable information about what your audience understands or doesn’t understand about the material you presented. Then, you can make changes to improve and refine your next presentation.
If you will see the same group again in the near future, you can discuss these comments and questions next time.
 Although you might be finishing up your presentation, you can still provide students with an opportunity to interact by asking them to provide anonymous feedback on the presentation or material. This demonstrates that you are committed to making the presentation even better, and the students feel like their input matters.Distribute notecards or a survey that students can complete. You could also provide a link to an online survey.
 Although you might be completing one presentation, you will probably have to do another in the near future. It’s important to compliment your audience so they feel appreciated and will be more willing to participate and interact in future presentations.For example, thank the group for being a great audience and raising excellent questions.

