 Sometimes, the cloudy "film" is actually many tiny scratches. This damage is permanent. There is no great way to hide this damage, either, so don't expect to restore it to full shine. Keep reading to give it your best shot, and prevent this happening to your other glasses.


Do not continue until you have tried wiping off the haze with vinegar. These solutions can make hard water films worse.
 If you notice a rainbow sheen to your glass, this is a related problem, called "silica film." Typically, the sheen is interrupted with white or solid-colored lines. Those lines are sites of irreversible damage, but you can scratch away the rainbow film.Add water to a bit of baking soda or toothpaste until it forms a paste. Rub gently onto the glass, then rinse.


You can scrape it away with a knife or pin as well, but take care not to chip or scratch the glass.
You can use commercial glass polish instead.
Different brands of toothpaste have different levels of abrasiveness. Look up your brand's "radioactive dentin abrasiveness" (RDA) rating online.Ideally, find an RDA between 200 and 250.
 You can still save your undamaged glasses. Etching is typically caused by very soft water, or very hot water. Make one or more of these changes:Let your sink run until its hottest point, then put a thermometer in a cup of water. If it's hotter than 140ºF (60ºC), lower your water heater settings.
Use a no-heat dry cycle, if possible on your model.
Do not pre-rinse dishes, unless necessary for your dishwasher.
Use very little detergent, especially if pre-rinsing. (As little as ¼ full if your water is below three "grains" of hardness.)
Switch to a detergent designed for soft water.
Hand-dry valuable glassware.
 If your dish scrubbing brush is so worn that the plastic or metal head butts against the glass, throw it away. This could be causing the scratches.Etching is uncommon on hand-washed dishes if you are not physically scratching it. If you still have this problem with a new brush, try reducing water temperature and the amount of soap you use.

