 While you must have messages which appeal to your base, those messages are broader and less specific. Messages directed at persuadable voters need to be narrower and more specific. You need to identify a problem, a solution, and how the voter can contribute to the solution.For example, in the 2016 election, one of Trump’s messages to the general electorate is that illegal immigration is a danger to society, it can be solved by building a wall along the Mexican border, and the individual can help by voting for Trump.
To relate this back to narrative, Trump’s narrative is making America great again. His broad message to his base is that America is no longer great because traditional American culture is dying. His narrow message to the general electorate is that illegal immigration is a danger to the US.
 When you’re analyzing the potential new voters you can persuade to come to your side, identify groups that turn out at lower levels than the general population but are favorably disposed to your message nonetheless. These are soft spots in the universe of swing voters—the low hanging fruit you reach out to first.A great example of an electoral soft spot are Hispanics in the Democratic Party. Hispanics tend to favor Democrats, but they turn out far less than other demographic groups. Increasing turnout among this population is a good way to get more votes for a Democratic candidate.
 Microtargeting is the use of data to target very narrow demographic groups. Once a candidate has reached out to the soft spots in the electorate, they can use microtargeting to find small, specific demographics within large demographic groups which may be more favorably disposed to them.For example, a candidate might know that white Evangelical Christians usually vote against him or her, while college educated urban whites vote for him or her. A candidate can use microtargeting among white urban congregations to see which denominations have the highest proportions of college educated voters, thereby identifying a narrow demographic to pull voters from.

