 Getting baby gates will allow you to stop your new dog from going into certain areas of your house. When you buy the baby gates, make sure they have bars that are far enough apart that your new dog will not be able to get its’ head stuck between them., An exercise pen can be very helpful if you want to contain your dog for a period of time but do not want to lock them in their crate. The exercise pen is an enclosed play area that you can set up in a living room or other space in your house., You will need a few extra rags, stain removers and other supplies to clean up after your new dog. Find non-toxic cleaning supplies such as vinegar or green cleaners that do not have chemicals such as phenols, formaldehyde, isopropyl alcohol, phthalates, bleach or perchloroethylene.Some good products for keeping your house clean with a new dog include:


Green multi-surface cleaning products. Look for products that are EPA-registered.Green odor removers. Look for products that have biodegradable ingredients., Find a stylish leash and a collar. You will want a leash that is four to six feet in length, depending on the size of your dog and how much extra leash you want to hold while walking. You can get leather, cotton or nylon collars and leashes. They come in a variety of colors and sometimes include special features such as reflectors that help people see you and your dog while walking at night.If you live in a rainy climate, you might want to avoid a leather leash. It will get soaked and will take a long time to dry.
Extendable leashes are fun to use but can be hard to use during training., You should purchase grooming supplies that are appropriate for the breed of your dog and the kind of life that it will lead. Depending on the breed and lifestyle of your new dog, you may need the following supplies:Brush.
Comb.
Nail trimmer.
Dog shampoo.
Dog conditioner.
Coat clippers and scissors.
Dog toothbrush and toothpaste.
 Get some nice toys for your new dog. You may want to find toys that are rugged and durable so that you don’t have to replace them as frequently. In addition, you should avoid toys that have a lot of parts that your new dog is likely to rip off. Find toys that are made from durable materials such as rubber.When purchasing dog toys, consider the following elements:Exercise. Think about how much exercise your new dog will get with a particular toy.
Stimulation. Think about how much cognitive stimulation the toy will give your new dog.
Bonding. Consider how much bonding the new toy will enable.
Dental health. Think about whether the toy will be good or bad for your new dog’s teeth.

