 They come with metal button covers and metal button shanks. They also come with two cap-shaped tools: a large rubbery one, and a smaller plastic one.
 Some kits include a plastic disk inside the package. Other kits have a disk printed on the back of the packaging. If your kit is the latter of the two, cut the disk out.

Some templates have a hole in the middle. This is for printed fabrics to ensure that the design is centered.Some kits have a semi-circle printed on the back. You will need to trace this on a piece of folded fabric, with the flat part along the folded edge.If you lost the template, cut a square out of cardstock or thin cardboard that is twice the size of the button cover, then round the corners., Choose a lightweight fabric, such as cotton. Spread it out on a flat surface, wrong side up. Place the template on top of the fabric. Trace around the template using a pen or chalk. It would be best to use a washable tailor's chalk or pen for this.

If your fabric is very thin, use two layers of fabric. You can also iron some interfacing to the wrong side of the fabric instead., If you need to make more covered buttons, trace and cut more circles. Depending on how thin your fabric is, you may be able to cut several circles out at once by folding the fabric a few times., Find the rubbery, cup-shaped piece in your button cover kit. Set it down on a flat surface with the cupped part facing up. Place the fabric circle on top of it, right-side-down., Find one of the dome-shaped metal pieces in your kit. Place it rounded-side-down into the rubber cup until it hits the bottom. The hollow part of the button cover should be facing up. The fabric will wrinkle around the button cover as you sink it into the rubber cup.

The fabric circle may get dislodged during the step. You want an even amount of fabric sticking out all around the button. If it gets dislodged, gently tug on the edges to adjust it.
 Hold it in place with your finger. You can also sew around the edges of the fabric circle, then pull on the threads to gather the fabric. This is not really necessary, however., Find one of the pieces in your kit that looks like a flat, metal disk with a looped wire sticking out of it. Place it into the rubber cup, on top of the fabric and button cover. Make sure that the fabric is tucked inside the button cover. Hold the backing in place with your finger.

Some kits include two different types of backings: a shanked type and a flat type. The shanked type are if you want to sew the button onto a garment. The flat type are if you want to glue the button onto something (such as an earring post)., Find the other part of your kit: the one that looks like a plastic cup. Place it cupped/hollow side down over the shank. The smooth side should be sticking up. Make sure that everything is even and tucked in., You will feel a slight click as the metal backing sinks into the button cover. You may even hear a light click. If you are having trouble pushing the cap down, you can tap it gently with a hammer or mallet.Be very careful, however; too much pressure may crack the plastic cap., Pull the plastic cap away. Gently turn the rubber cup upside down. If the button doesn't fall out, gently pull on the sides or press on the back, then pry the button out. Avoid pulling it by the shank, as it could come apart.