 You will need a long sleeved black shirt, black pants, a long piece of black felt for the wings, and hot glue or sewing supplies. To find out how much felt you need, measure yourself from wrist to wrist with your arms stretched out. Next, measure the distance from the top of your back to your waist. Use these measurements to choose a rectangular piece of felt.


If you want to make a more feminine bat costume, use a long-sleeve dress instead of a shirt and pants.Felt can be found at most craft supply stores. If you use another kind of fabric you will have to use a sewing kit to attach the wings.;
, First, fold the felt in half lengthwise. Next, cut the bottom edge of the mask into a jagged bat wing. The jagged edge should be longer near the center fold and shorter near the edges. When unfolded, the fabric will resemble a long triangle.


If you want to go for a cute look cut the edges into a scalloped pattern instead of a jagged lightning pattern., Lay the shirt or dress out flat on your work surface. Stretch the sleeves out, making a straight line from wrist to wrist. Lay the wing fabric on the shirt with the long side of the triangle resting on the shoulders and arms. Center the fabric so that the tips of the wings reach each wrist.


Use straight pins to secure the fabric if you’re worried about the wings shifting. Straight pins can be found in most sewing supply kits.
 Apply a small circle of glue between the shoulder blades of the shirt or dress. Press the wing fabric onto the glue. Next, apply a circle of glue to each wrist and press the wingtips into them. Once the glue cools the costume is ready to wear.If you aren’t using felt for your wing fabric you must sew on the wings. Add a few stitches where you would normally use glue., Carefully put on the winged shirt, pants, and black shoes. If you used a dress, put on the dress and pair it with cute black shoes. If you made a paper mache mask, tie the mask tightly around your head.


You don’t have to wear a mask if you don’t want to. Instead, purchase black cat ears that resemble bat ears or wear face paint.

