 This will form the main body of your stocking. Lay out your 2.5 inch squares on a flat surface to form rows that build a rectangular shape.You should assemble rows comprised of four squares. Make eight such rows, lining them up to form a rectangle.
Make sure no two pieces of the same color or pattern touch each other when forming your rectangle. This helps form a unique patchwork appearance.;
, To start assembling your stocking, you will want to sew together each row of four first. To do so, fold the rightmost square over the square next to it. You are left with two squares stacked on top of each other. Sew a line running down the rightmost side of these two squares. Then, fold the leftmost square over the square next to it. Sew a line running down the leftmost side of the two squares.When you're done, sew together the two squares that meet in the middle of your row. You should be left with one row, fully sewn together. Repeat this process for the other eight rows.
It's important you sew in a straight line when using your machine. One trick to help is to look at the line as it forms instead of your needle. Looking at your needle can result in you losing control of the stitching., You should now have eight rows sewn together. Starting at the top of your rectangle, fold one row over the other. Sew together the two rows by sewing a line running across the longer side of the row, sewing the side that faces upward. Then, fold the two attached rows over the next row down. Again, sew a line running along the longer side of the row that faces upwards. Repeat until all the rows are sewn together.Remember to back stitch when you finishing sewing a line together. To do so, press the back stitch button on your sewing machine. Stitch backwards for about an inch to secure your stitching., When you're done, you should be left with a rectangle made up of eight rows of four squares. Before proceeding, you should iron your rectangle so it lays as flat as possible. Place it on an iron safe surface and gently slide your iron across the rectangle until it lays flat.Adjust your iron's settings by fabric type. It's best to use a lower setting unless you're using natural fibers or polyesters for your stocking., To form the boot, you will again assemble several rows using your squares. These rows should come off of the bottom right corner of your triangle.You will use six patches here. Create three rows of two patches each.
Again, make sure no two patches of the same color or pattern touch one another. Remember where your toe will attach to the main body of the stocking as well when choosing your colors and patterns.
 Sew together each row by stitching the two squares of fabric together. Then, sew the top two rows together. When you're done, sew the bottom row to the top two rows. You should be left with a small rectangular shape made up of six squares., You want the two to line up with the bottom right corner of your stocking. Three squares on one side of your toe should line up with three squares on the bottom right corner of the stocking's body. Line up the toe and then fold the toe over the main stocking.Once the toe is folded over, sew the toe and body of the stocking together. Then, fold the toe back to its original place.
You should now begin to see your stocking take place. You will be left with a boot-like rectangular shape of fabric. Later, you will round out the edges to complete your stocking shape.
 From here, you want to sew together the full front of your stocking. To start, you will need to lay down the stocking you just made, the backing fabric, and the batting.Take your backing piece, which will be the lining of the stocking, and lay it down on a flat surface with the right side facing down. The right side means the smooth, soft part of the fabric.
Lay a piece of batting fabric over the backing fabric.
Place the patchwork stocking you just made, with the right side facing up, on the top of the pile.
Pin the pieces together. Always make sure to have the needle ends of the pins pointing inward to avoid pricking your fingers while you sew., You do not need to trim exactly for now, as you'll be trimming excess later. However, cut around the backing and batting fabric so you have the rough shape of your stocking. Make the outline about an inch or two wider than your stocking on all sides., You will want to sew along the seams made by each row and column of your patchwork pattern. Start by sewing six lines on either side of each vertical seam.There should be six vertical seams running down your stocking.
You should stitch two lines, approximately half a centimeter away from the seam on either side, sandwiching each seam.
This will sew the backing, batting, and your stocking together.
 You will want to sandwich your horizontal seams in the same fashion. You should have six horizontal seams on your stocking, each of which needs to be sandwiched between two sewing lines.Again, use your sewing machine to stitch two lines, about half a centimeter away from the seam on either side, to sandwich each seam.
This will further secure the backing, batting, and stocking together.
 There should be a little excess batting and backing surrounding the stocking. Cut around the outline of your stocking to remove all excess batting and backing. You should now have one uniform piece of backing, batting, and stocking forming the rectangular outline of your stocking., You should now round out the shape of the toe and heel so the front of your stocking looks more like a traditional stocking. You can cut around a round object, like a can, or simply use your own judgment. Cut the toe of your stocking into a round shape. Then, round out the heel.You should be left with a piece of patchwork fabric in the shape of a traditional Christmas stocking.
 You will now use your backing fabric to complete your stocking. Place the backing fabric on a flat surface, with the right side facing upward. Then, place your stocking on the fabric with the right side facing downward.Pin the two sides together. Remember to have pin needles pointing inward to avoid pricking your fingers.It's very important that the right sides of the stocking and the backing fabric touch each other. Make sure this is the case before proceeding.
 Sew along the outline of the stocking to secure it to the backing fabric. Sew around the boot and heel, but do not sew the top part of the stocking on the opposite end of the toe and heel. This will be the opening of the stocking, so it should not be sewn., Once you've sewn the backing and stocking together, trim around the outline of the stocking to remove any excess backing fabric. You should be left with a full stocking, turned inside out., Gently turn your stocking right side out. You should now have a beautiful patchwork stocking. You can use this as a decoration. You can also stuff the stocking and give it to a friend as a gift.