 Determine the unique number of calories you need and quantity of foods you should have based on your age, sex, size, and activity level. Tailor your meals to fit the USDA recommendations based on these factors.Consider that your “ideal” number of calories or portion sizes can change considerably, or be altered by a need or desire to lose or gain weight, get more of a key nutrient you’re deficient in, or other specific health factors.
Every meal should remain balanced with proportional amounts of food from different food groups. Don’t substitute large amounts of protein just to get more calories, for example, or completely cut out a food group if you’re trying for less calories.
 Go to the doctor regularly, and discuss any acute or chronic health conditions you may have. Ask questions about the foods you should be eating or avoiding due to the condition, which may alter the portions of your typical balanced meal.


For example, diabetics may be advised to opt for whole grains over refined grains and restrict their dietary intake of fruits and fruit juices. Those with high cholesterol and heart disease may make animal products and fatty foods a smaller amount of their daily intake. Those needing to lose weight may put a heavier emphasis on vegetables and reduce the use of butter, oil, shortening, sugar, or salt when cooking.
Never assume an alteration to your diet based on general knowledge of a health condition is right for you until you consult a health professional about it.
 Take allergens into consideration if you have a bad reaction to any types of food. You may also need to eliminate or substitute foods based on other health conditions.


If you are lactose intolerant, include lactose-free or lactose-reduced dairy products, or substitute cow’s milk for non-dairy milks such as those made with almond, soy, coconut, rice, etc. Look for calcium-fortified foods and beverages, or foods naturally high in calcium like sardines, tofu, tempeh, kale, collard greens, and other leafy greens.If you are a vegetarian or have other restrictions on animal products, eat more plant proteins like beans and peas, nuts and seeds, and soy products to account for your daily protein intake.
Keep meals balanced as best as you can given any other elimination or restriction of allergens. Consult with a doctor or dietician to get recommendations on how to meet nutrition requirements with your specific limitations.

