 Make the invitations in such a way that it reflects your personality.


You can use Microsoft Word to make them, or write them by hand. It doesn't really matter, as long as the guests know all the information.
On the invitations, include who the party is for, what day it is, what time it starts and ends, where your house is, and your phone number (RSVP). Write the RSVP deadline date, and tell the guests what to bring (sleeping bag, clothes, pillow, etc.). Put the invitations in envelopes and mail them (or hand them out at school).;
, At most sleepovers, the host makes gift bags for the guests.


Get a bag for each guest, and write their name on it (decorate if desired). Inside the gift bags, put in candy, mini notebooks, gel pens, nail polish, and/or anything else you think your friends would like.
Lay all the bags out on a table before the party (but don't give the bags to them until it is over.) Or, you can hide the gift bags at the end of the party and turn it into a scavenger hunt.
 Hang balloons and streamers if you have them, and also put up happy birthday signs.If you don't have any just make some of your own.


Add glitter for some sparkle.
Make room for all the sleeping bags.
 It's best if this is in the usual eating areas; crumbs in the bedroom aren't much fun and risk staining your floor, clothes and the sleeping bags. However, candies in a bowl are usually fairly safe to have in your room.

Use a tablecloth or decorate one with some roll of paper you can get at your local craft store.
 Soon they will arrive. When they do, take their things and put them in your room (or wherever you will sleep). Put their presents on a table or the floor.
 It doesn't have to be a huge game, you can just have fun tossing the balloons around at the beginning of the party. You can watch TV while waiting for your guests, or just have snacks and talk. You could go with karaoke, a fashion show, or a dance party. Stick with activities everyone likes and can get excited about!


Some more party games are limbo and freeze dance. For limbo, any long pole or stick will do.
 Usually it will be pizza, but it can be something else. If you are ordering pizza, get some plain, some pepperoni, and whatever your friends like. Have drinks ready, like water, juice and soda. (Don't get too full for dessert!).
 Remember to add candles to the cake and sing "Happy Birthday."

, It's good to have someone write down what you get, so you can write thank-you cards later. Say thanks anyway to who got you the gift, even if you don't love it, it's still nice. Read cards, if any. Sometimes, people write personal cards, so ask before you read it out loud.
 This is a classic sleepover game that almost everybody loves. Just make sure the dares aren't too crazy, and the truths nothing too personal (but asking about secrets is the fun of the game).
 You can also paint each other's nails. Get a lot of colors, and take turns doing your friend's nails. You can also do this with other makeup if you want.
 To make sure that all guests are okay with the movie you watch, have three or four ready and take a vote on what they want to watch (you vote too.) If it's a tie, just pick one. And besides, who said you can only watch one movie?

, You don't have to go to sleep just yet, but it's great to be comfy. Also let your friends change into their PJ's (if someone forgot PJ's, have extras ready). You can keep watching the movie if you want.
 Ask about their crushes and things (if you didn't already in Truth or Dare). Just remember, if they ask you about a secret, you don't have to tell them if it's that personal. Or, change the subject. Luckily, there's many of them. Talk about sports, vacations, school, boys, etc.
 As much as you want to, it's not healthy to stay up the whole night. You should probably go to sleep at midnight or one o'clock, because if you wake up at nine, you'll get a great amount of sleep. If someone falls asleep early, don't wake them up! If you wake up early, don't wake your parents unless absolutely necessary. Let them rest.
 A parent can make waffles, bagels, pancakes, or whatever you want to eat. Or, you can make your own waffles or pancakes or eat out (you could do this for dinner, too).
 You can play outside, too, if it's nice out. Play tag or something outside.
, Thank them for coming, and don't forget the gift bags!

, This is optional, but it's polite to do it.

