 Find out what part you're auditioning for, when the time period is, and what you need to portray in order to get the part. Also double check the rehearsal times to make sure it does not interfere with your schedule, because the last thing you want is to get the lead and then have to quit because it interferes. This will only give you a bad reputation.;
, Most companies will have a form for you to fill out but already having a pre-made resume will help you look prepared! When you go to the audition, they will need to know your past experience as well as any special skills you have. They also need to how to contact you. Write your name, email address, home phone, and address at the top and then any experience you've had in past productions, music, dance and acting. If you already have a resume, bring it!

, If it is a musical you are auditioning for, you will need to sing a piece from a Broadway musical. Choosing a proper song is crucial. First of all, rule out any music from Wicked, Rent, Les Miserable or Cats. These musicals are so huge and so overdone. You want a piece that hasn't been used very much. Your song should represent your vocal capabilities and show your strengths.
 This could mean either they love you and already know exactly what part you're going to get, or they can tell what your voice type is from the first few verses and don't need to hear any more.
 It is very important to bring sheet music. In some theatres, they won't even take you into consideration if you don't have sheet music. It makes you sound better and keeps you on key! A capella is not allowed unless they specify it!

, At the theatre, they may have you learn a small piece from the play (only a couple of steps) just so the choreographer can get a feel on who has rhythm and who has two left feet. If you aren't a very good dancer, practice a bit before. The moves are usually very basic and you may not even be asked to do it. Just make sure you dress in clothes that are easy to move in and bring dance shoes if you have them.
 You can almost be guaranteed that they will ask you to recite a monologue. You can find them all over the internet. Make sure that the monologue you choose is age appropriate and if you are auditioning for a role, make sure it fits that sort of character. Your monologue should be about 2 minutes long and memorized. Also, bring with you an extra copy of the words as a reference just in case you freeze.
 Make sure what you wear is comfortable and easy to move in while still looking presentable. You want to show them you are prepared and ready. Break a leg!

