 Rinse the frozen fish in cold water to remove ice crystals from the surface. Avoid warm water, since this can promote bacterial growth and waterlog your fish.Always wash your hands in warm, soapy water before handling raw fish.
If the fish has not been gutted, use the thawing method below instead, then remove the inedible portions.;
, Pat the fish dry with a paper towel. This will remove additional ice crystals, as well as the moisture clinging to the fish scales.
 Thick slabs of frozen fish will take a long time to cook, but you can reduce this by wrapping them in foil or parchment pouches. The ice crystals in the fish will turn to steam, remain trapped in the packet, and help cook the fish more quickly. Increasing the cooking speed is especially important for high-heat cooking methods, as described below:


Grill fish in tightly closed foil packets, to prevent the outside charring while the inside cooks.
If pan-searing the fish, do not wrap the fish. Instead, cover the pan once the fish begins releasing juices, to trap steam that helps cook the fish evenly.
 Cooking the fish for a couple minutes will melt some of the ice on the exterior. This makes it easier to rub oil, butter, or marinade into the fish, and to get spices to stick.If you are breading the fish, you can place them fully frozen in a pan and cover with a thick layer of bread crumbs and spices., You can cook frozen fish however you would normally cook fish, or look in the recipes section for ideas. Frozen fish can take twice as long to cook as fresh fish, but you're still saving time by skipping the thawing stage. This is only a general time estimate, and the actual amount of time required varies base on the thickness of the fish. Check on the fish every couple minutes, using the following tips to tell when its done:


Cut a slit with a sharp knife. When done, the fish will be completely opaque near the surface, and just starting to become opaque in the center.If you have a food thermometer, cook the fish to an internal temperature of 145ºF (62.8ºC).