 Popular songs are a great place to start if you want to train your knowledge of keys. Popular standards (like classical pieces or songs by The Beatles) are great because their keys are easier to decipher than complex or obscure music. Notation for these songs are also easy to find online, and the key signatures are easy to look up when you want to see the answers.


Sites like Key Finder are specifically around for people to research the key signatures of famous songs., If you want to perfect your key identification, you should be working with songs in both the main key categories. Major and minor-keyed songs operate in different ways, and you'll have to key your ear out for different patterns between the two.


For major-keyed songs, The Beatles' Yesterday and the Village Peoples' YMCA are great exercises. Yesterday in particular is a good exercise because of how deceptively tricky it is.
For minor-keyed songs, try Nirvana's Smells like Teen Spirit and Michael Jackson's Beat It. Both of these songs have been researched extensively already, and it won't be difficult to find info on these pieces if you need it.
 Listen to each of the listed songs and try to hum out a note that works throughout the piece. Even if you know the key of the song beforehand, try humming a few different notes and be mindful of which ones sound better than others.


Song bridges make something of an exception. It's a common pop songwriting convention to bring a section of a song into a different key. This convention is used to refresh the song towards the end.
 Notation will give you a visual equivalent to the music. Even simple pop songs can be notated with theory. Some music notation will list the key for you at the top of the page as well. Even if the answer is spoiled for you, it's helpful to know the proper key and look for evidence in the notation that proves that answer.


Modern pop and rock songs don't tend to have sophisticated notation. You may only find chord progressions and basic melodic notation for pop songs. Even so, this information should give you enough information to deduce the proper key., For examples of the difference between a Major and Minor key, listen to some reworked versions of popular songs. Songs like The Village People's YMCA are completely different when brought into a Minor key.