 Listen to the radio, watch TV, or get them from a friend, native speaker, etc.;
, aloud. This is probably the most important first step, because it gets you used to the sound of the language.
 of the language. (And recite them to yourself.) By memorizing sentences, paragraphs, passages, etc., you will automatically be learning words in the process, and will be getting the context that gives them easy, intuitive meaning. As well as sentence structure, the sound of the words, etc. And you can choose from these words when creating your own sentences.


To make memorizing paragraphs and understanding easier, it helps to use a translation of a book that you already know. The bible or other religious book (even if you're not religious) is a great way to study and learn a language, because it's so easy to find translations of it in just about any language, the meaning is always the same, etc.
For help in memorizing paragraphs or sentences, it helps to say them quickly. It can almost become 'automatic' when you do that.
 Look these up when you get home, and write them on the card. Practice using them a few times in large, coherent sentences.
 This is a great way to stretch your knowledge and 'expression' within the language. It's OK to look up some words (or phrases) while doing this. The point is to learn new ways of expressing yourself, new words, to become more precise in your expression, etc. And translating the words of a well-spoken writer is a great way to do that.
 I.e. one that fits on 5-6 pages. It's much easier to learn one rule, with its exceptions, and apply it to everything, than it is to learn 2,000 different words independently. A good grammar summary will make those rules evident in a few words.
 Most native speakers regard it as a high compliment when you go through the effort of learning their language appropriately. And it's always fun to see if they will think you are a native speaker or not. Having a good accent will make it much easier for them to understand you. And to have a good accent, listen to good speakers a lot (i.e. on the radio,) and say sentences over and over again, with a relaxed mouth and tongue. When a language (accent) is spoken correctly, it's easy, the mouth is relaxed, and it is not forced.
 A language isn't learned by memorizing word lists and testing yourself on them. It is learned by speaking the language, becoming fluent with it, as you would a piano, or other instrument.

