 Hold the flame of a lighter to the starting end of the paracord for several seconds, melting the rope and preventing it from fraying or unraveling.

High quality paracord should not be flammable, but some lower quality versions may contain a flammable paper core. To prevent this core from catching on fire, push back the the nylon to reveal the core and cut at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of the paper. Slide the nylon cord back up to return it to its original shape.
Note that you should not trim or melt the finishing end of the paracord yet. Work with the full length of cord to ensure that you'll have enough to complete your belt.;
, Insert the melted paracord end beneath the bar of your first belt buckle half. Wrap the paracord around this bar in an overhand direction, pulling it back up from beneath the bar again to create a full loop.When using a standard belt buckle, make a total of four loops around the bar of the buckle in this manner. Note that wider buckles will need more loops while thinner buckles will need fewer loops.
All loops should flow in the same direction and should be slightly loose so that you'll be able to manipulate them later on.
Leave at least 2 or 3 inches (5 or 7.5 cm) of excess paracord hanging out from the belt buckle bar when you finish wrapping these starting loops.
 Tie a tight, overhand knot from the excess paracord hanging from beneath the buckle bar. This knot must be tight to prevent the cord from unraveling.

Adjust the wrapped loops as needed, pulling the working end of the cord back out, so that the knot lies snug against the buckle bar. Note that the loops should still be somewhat loose.
 Grab a portion of the paracord from the working end (i.e. the loose or non-knotted end). Form an open loop from this portion of cord.

Position this new loop directly next to portion of cord wrapped around the buckle bar.
This new loop should be two to three times as long as the width of the buckle or length of the buckle bar.
 Push the newly formed loose loop beneath all four loops previously wrapped around the buckle bar. When finished, this "through loop" should stick out from beneath the wrapped portion and run parallel to the buckle bar.If you cannot easily push the loop through the wrapped portion of the cord, use your fingers or a thin, sturdy tool (skewer, crochet hook, nail, etc.) to loosen the wrapped loops, creating enough space for the loose loop to pass through.
 Carefully spread the loops wrapped around the buckle bar using your pointed tool. You should be able to see a layer of paracord running beneath the wrapped loops.

The paracord running beneath the wrapped loops is connected to the through loop and working end of the cord.
 Using a sturdy skewer or other pointed tool, grab and lift the under layer of paracord through the first two wrapped loops along the bar, creating a new loop large enough for your finger to fit through.

If you started with four wrapped loops, you should pull up a total of three "finger" loops in this manner, and each of these loops should lie between two of the original wrapped loops along the buckle bar. Otherwise, the number of finger loops should be one fewer than the number of wrapped loops you started with.
Start at the edge closest to the through loop, then gradually progress to the edge nearest the loose working end of paracord.
When finished, you should have a total of four equally sized loops: one sideways "through" loop and three upright "finger" loops.
 Slide the index finger of your non-dominant hand into the sideways through loop, then continue slipping it through all three finger loops in consecutive order.

The finger loops should twist clockwise as you thread your finger through them so that the side lying closest to the working cord faces in your direction.
 Create a new loose loop from the excess working cord, then pull it through the loops threaded along your finger.

When you first create it, this loop should be directly next to the buckle and at least three times as long as the width of the buckle.
Essentially, you're starting a second row that will be identical to the first. The finger currently threaded through your four previous loops serves the same purpose as the buckle bar in your first row.
 Remove your finger from the loops. Pull on the paracord as needed to tighten the original finger loops over the new through loop.

Tighten the loops starting from the outside and gradually working toward the inside.

To tighten the outermost loop, gently tug on the back side of the loop lying directly next to it. The same principle applies to the second and third outermost loops, as well.
To tighten the innermost loop, tug on the working side of the cord sticking out from the bundle.
 As before, ease away the newly wrapped loops to reveal the working portion of paracord. Use a sharp tool to lift paracord up from beneath and between the wrapped loops, creating the appropriate number (usually three) of new finger-sized loops.These loops form the base of your next pattern row, and the number of finger loops created here should match the number created for your previous row. They should stand upright while the previously created through loop lies perpendicular and sideways.
 Repeat the previously described pattern steps to create additional rows in the same manner. Continue making rows until the belt reaches your desired length.

Note that the final length should roughly match the circumference of your waist, minus the length of the buckle belt. For example, if your waist is 38 inches (96.5 cm) around and the buckle belt is 2 inches (5 cm) long when snapped together, then the length of the paracord portion should be about 36 inches (91.4 cm).
For each row, pull a new loop from the working side of the paracord through the four base loops, which should be threaded on your finger. Tighten the base loops over the new through loop, then pull up three more finger loops from beneath the row. The one through loop and three finger loops will be the base for the next row.
 Following the same pattern, create the appropriate number of finger loops (typically three).

Note that you should still have a through loop from your final row; you do not need to create a new one.
Pull up the appropriate number of finger loops from beneath and between the base loops of your previous row.
 Gather the through loop and finger loops together, then push them through the bar of the other buckle half.

The number of loops pushed beneath this buckle bar should match the number of loops wrapped around the bar of the first buckle half.
The connected ends of these loops will stay to the outside of the bar, but the rounded loop ends must pass through completely.
 Create a loop from the working end of the paracord, making it roughly the same size as your previous through loops. Insert this loop through the loop ends sticking up from beneath the buckle bar., As you did for the body of the pattern, tighten the base loops around the through loop.

Work from the outside in, tugging down on the back side of each loop to tighten the one before it. Repeat until all of the loops are snug.
 Cut the paracord, leaving about 4 inches (10 cm) of excess. Pull that excess cord through the final loop to create a snug, secure knot.

If you do not like the amount of paracord remaining after you knot the end, you can trim it down further. Leave at least 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) between the knot and the end, though.
 Hold the flame of a lighter over the raw, cut end of the paracord for several seconds. Pull it away once the cord end has melted down.

As before, you'll need to push back the core of the paracord if it's made of flammable material.
An adequately melted end should prevent the paracord from fraying.
 At this point, the paracord belt should be finished and ready to wear.

You can wrap the belt around your waist as you would wrap any other belt. If properly measured, it should be snug enough to serve the same purpose as any belt when the buckle is snapped together.
 Paracord belts can be unraveled in the event of an emergency, allowing you to quickly access a large length of sturdy, reliable cord.Untie the knots. If you are unable to untie them, you could slice off the knots using a pocket knife.
Unwind the paracord from the both sides of the buckle.
Working from one end of the belt, simply pull the loose end in your direction. As you pull, the belt should easily begin to unravel.
With practice, it should only take about 20 to 30 seconds to unravel the entire belt.

