 SmartShare is a program on your LG Smart TV that allows you to stream media files directly from your computer to your LG TV over your home network. This lets you watch movies or listen to music stored on your computer without having to transfer it using a USB drive or burn it to a DVD.


SmartShare works best when both the computer and TV are connected to your network via Ethernet cable. You can use it when one or both devices are connected wirelessly, but you may experience hitches or low-quality playback.;
, In order to stream your computer's media files to your LG Smart TV, you'll need to connect both the TV and the computer to the same home network.


For best streaming performance, both the TV and the computer should be connected to the router via Ethernet.
 This is a media program that comes installed with every copy of Windows. You can use Windows Media Player to share your media content with the LG TV. Updating Windows Media Player will ensure that you get the most stable experience.


You can find Windows Media Player in your Start menu, or by pressing ⊞ Win and typing "windows media player".
Click the Help menu in Windows Media Player and select "Check for updates". If you don't see the Help menu, press Alt.
 If you aren't already using Windows Media Player to play media files on your computer, you'll need to add the files that you want to share with the TV to your Windows Media Player library.


Click the "Organize" button at the top of the Media Player window.
Select "Manage libraries" and then select the type of content you want to add (Music, Videos, etc.).
Click Add... and select a folder that contains the media files you want to add. Repeat this for any other media folders.
 You'll need the TV turned on in order to allow it as a trusted device in Windows Media Player.
 Now that your library is full of the content you want to stream, you'll need to allow Windows Media Player to share it using a process called DLNA (Digital Living Network Alliance). A DLNA server "serves" the files to your LG Smart TV over the network.Click the "Stream" button at the top of the Windows Media Player window.
Select "Turn on media streaming" and click the Turn on media streaming button.
Check the "Allowed" box next to your LG Smart TV in list of connected network devices.
Click OK to save your changes and start the DLNA server.
 Now that the DLNA server is running, you can use the TV to browse and play the files that are being shared.


Press the "Home" button on your TV remote.
Select the SmartShare from the menu.
Select your computer from the list of connected devices.
 After selecting your computer, you'll see a list of all the folders and media files in your Windows Media Player library. Select one to begin playing it.The computer running the DLNA server will need to be turned on and logged in in order to stream the files.
 This is most likely caused by an incompatible format. Windows Media Player works for streaming most files, but it can have difficulty with files like .mkv.


In order to play formats incompatible with Windows Media Player, you'll need to use an alternative media server such as PS3 Media Server. Despite its name, PS3 Media Server will stream to anything that supports DLNA, and can play virtually all file formats.
 This is likely caused by a problem with your network connection. If you're connecting your TV to your router wirelessly, you'll want to use a 5 GHz N connection. Ideally, everything should be connected using Ethernet.
 This may be caused by an overloaded CPU on your computer. When streaming media, try to ensure that there are no other programs running at the same time. Optimizing your computer's performance will help improve your streaming, especially for older computers.

