 By using bleach, you can take away color from an already-colored shirt. This is known as reverse tie-dye and takes less than traditional tie-dyeing because you do not have to prepare the dyes or let the dyes cure. Adult supervision is recommended for this method.
 You can also dip the shirt in some water and twist it tightly to wring all of the excess water out. You want the shirt to be damp, not soaking-wet.
 Unlike with traditional tie-dying, you will be taking away color instead of adding it. For this, you will need a colored shirt. The bleached out areas will be lighter in color, except in the case of a black shirt—the bleached out areas will usually turn copper.


The brighter color the shirt is, the more effective the bleach will be.
 You can create different patterns depending on how you wrap the rubber bands around your shirt. Here are some popular designs:


To create some simple stripes, fold your shirt up like a fan or accordion. You are creating a sort of rope. You can fold width-wise, length-wise, or even diagonally. Tie off one end of your rope with a rubber band. Wrap another rubber band two to three inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) down from the first one. Keep doing this until you reach the end of the rope.
To create a sunburst, pinch the middle of your shirt and pull it towards you. Wrap a rubber band around the end. Go a little further down the shirt and wrap another rubber band around it. Keep doing this until you have a sort of "rope."
To make a spiral design, place your shirt down on a flat surface and pinch the middle. Give the shirt a small twist. Keep twisting until you have created something like looks like a cinnamon roll. Wrap a rubber band around the "bun." Then wrap another rubber band, but this time in the other direction, creating a cross. You can wrap more rubber bands around your bun, sectioning it like a pizza or cake.
 Because you will be working with bleach, you will need to protect both yourself and your clothes. Wear some gloves to protect your skin, and an apron or artist's smock to protect your clothes. You can also wear some old clothes that you do not mind potentially getting ruined or stained.
 You will need one part bleach and one part water. Pour both into a spray bottle. , Working over a sink or a deep aluminum tray, start squirting the bleach solution onto the shirt. Cover the entire shirt and get it as wet with the solution as possible.
 Place the shirt some place where it will not be disturbed, and let it sit for about 30 minutes.You can also use undiluted bleach instead, and apply it to the shirt at five minute intervals. The shirt will be bleached in about 10 to 15 minutes.
 Once the shirt has bleached to your preference, remove the rubber bands and rinse the shirt under cool water. You may see some of the dye come out. Keep rinsing until the water starts to run clear.If you cannot take them off, because you wrapped them too tightly, you can cut them off using a pair of scissors. Be careful not to accidentally cut your shirt!

, You can now either hang the shirt up to dry, or you can toss the shirt into the drier.

