 It’s the purple icon with a white game pad. You’ll usually find it on your home screen.


If you haven’t yet signed in to Discord, enter your login information to do so now.;
, It’s at the screen’s top-left corner.
 Servers appear as icons along the left side of the screen. A list of channels on the server will appear.


If you don’t see the server you want to view, start typing its name into the search bar at the top of the screen, then select it from the search results.
 It’s at the top of the screen. A menu will appear.
, It’s under “User Management.”

, It’s at the top next to the plus symbol. This allows you to create a new role to assign to users, such as one that has moderator permissions.
 You can call it whatever you want (e.g. Moderator, Captain, Queen).
 When you assign someone to this role, they’ll automatically be granted the permissions you select. Slide the switch next to each permission option to the “On” position to enable that role, and “Off” to disable it.


If you’re creating a Mod role, you’ll likely want to enable “Kick Members” and “Ban Members” at the very least.
When you’re done, tap Save at the top-right corner of the screen to return to the previous screen.
 Again, slide the switch next to each permission option to the “On” position to enable that role, and “Off” to disable it.


When you’re done, tap Save at the top-right corner of the screen to return to the previous screen.
 As with the other options, enable or disable each option as necessary.


When you’re done, tap Save at the top-right corner of the screen to return to the previous screen.
 If you’re still there, you can skip this step. Otherwise, select a server from the left column in Discord, tap the server’s name at the top of the screen, then tap Server Settings.
 It’s under “User Management.”

,,, When a green circle with a check mark appears next to the role’s name, you’ll know it’s selected.
 It’s at the top-right corner of the screen. The selected member is now assigned the moderator role you’ve created.

