 Many people hoping to improve their physical stamina have one specific goal in mind - longer, better sex. Improving your sexual stamina is partly a matter of improving your physical fitness, so the exercise tips in this section are all of use if your lovemaking sessions are often cut short because you find yourself exhausted or out of breath during sex. Chronically short lovemaking can also have a variety of hormonal or medical causes, though these can be rare - if you're already physically fit and you have poor sexual stamina, you may want to see a doctor just in case. However, sex is much more than a purely physical activity. Just as important as your physical health is your emotional well-being. An inability to have satisfying sex is often the result of emotional issues or interpersonal problems within a relationship. Below are just a few of the causes of unsatisfying sex, along with notes about possible cures:Erectile Dysfunction. Men who have difficulty maintaining an erection may, when they do get one, rush to orgasm. Luckily, a variety of medications are available to treat ED. Make an appointment with your doctor - most ED medications are available only via prescription.

Biological Causes. Hormone disorders, brain chemical imbalances, thyroid problems, and, rarely, nerve damage, can all make it difficult to have satisfying sex. In this case, because the root causes vary and are not immediately obvious, it's best to receive evaluation from a doctor before proceeding with a treatment.

Medicinal Causes. Certain medications can interfere with your libido, making long, satisfying sex difficult. In this case, you may want to discuss alternate treatment options with your doctor.

Anxiety issues. Sex, particularly if you're inexperienced, can be intimidating. Stress and nervousness can make it difficult to "get in the mood" or cause you to finish early. If this is the case, do what you can to calm yourself and remain stress-free before sex - realize that, for all the importance we place on it, sex doesn't need to be nerve-wrecking. If you can't seem to calm you jitters, make an appointment with a counsellor or therapist.

Relationship issues. Sometimes, unsatisfying sex can be the result of emotional problems or tensions between the two partners. In this case, it's best to talk frankly and openly with your partner, though, if you think you need it, it's also appropriate to contact a couples counsellor.

