 Find out often and thoroughly your teacher checks homework, you should always get it done but it doesn't hurt to have a deadline. One of my teachers has no deadlines so homework just flew out the window and started to pile up. When marking time came I had do them all in a few nights assuming that he was still accepting them. Always do your homework, not half, not a quarter, all of it. when you have that test coming up you'll find that doing that work was half the battle.;
, When you don't understand a question or a whole concept ask a teacher, tutor, parent, sibling, classmate, anyone really as long as they can and will help you. If your school has a program such as peer-tutors, extra help, or programs for a specific subject take advantage of it. Don't worry about looking foolish who really cares that you need extra help?

, So many times have I left it to the last minute and did poorly. Tests may not always count for a lot of marks but they're a good indicator as to how well you understand all that you've learnt. If you don't do well on a test or one part of it review it until you do, when exams come round and you didn't brush up on that unit you set yourself up for failure. Always ask your teachers what is going to be on the test if they haven't given you a review sheet making studying simple.
 As previously mentioned ask your teachers about the content of the test so you know what to study. When your astronomy test comes and you studied when Galileo was born instead of difference between Geocentric and Heliocentric systems it'll be no help to you. Summarize the text into jot notes single-spaced on a lined sheet of paper. The single space will prevent the text from all blurring together and discouraging work. Redo those worksheets or questions for extra practice and feel free to reread that textbook or those notes.
 Start immediately, when your french teacher tells you you have a month and you think no sweat guess what? It's suddenly a week to due date and you haven't opened the package yet. I find that when this happens stress is at its best and relentless, it's hard to work on a project when your telling yourself that you cannot finish it. Start early and again ask your teacher what they're looking for (look through your old assignments to see what they liked.)

, When every unit or section is done gather all the work and note which pages from the textbook you used and put it in a folder so at the end of the year you know what to study. Again ask your teacher what to study or for a review package and don't overdue it. The only thing worse than a understudying is over studying. Don't become the mess crying in a corner the day before the exam cramming useless information into your brain at three Am. You can't take it in tired, sleep.
 Sure your buddy said "yeah, we did nothing" so you just watched each other grow? Ask the teacher but also ask friends the night of so if there's any work you can do-do it not point doing double the next day. If you missed a lesson get extra help but above all don't miss school unless necessary. Good luck!

