 If your friends raise the topic of the ocean, show off all you know. But if they bring up mermaids, change the subject right away!;
, Start with ancient mermaid myths and legends, from the first time mermaid or siren stories appeared (ancient Greece) to more recent times.
 This will help to make your story more convincing. Decide which type of mermaid will suit your personality. When choosing your type, consider factors like appearance, habitat, diet, etc. Some mermaid types include deep sea, open ocean, land dweller, arctic, tropical, warm waters, lake, fresh water, coral reef, Mediterranean, etc.
 Mermaids are known to have long, wavy hair, so grow your hair out long and let it get a little messy and wavy. It is also alright if you style it to be curly. Make sure your hair always looks natural. Wear ocean-themed accessories in your hair, such as sea creature clips, coral, shells, ocean-colored ribbons etc. This will make your hair look different and unique.
 Make sure your clothes match your mermaid personality. For example:


If your mermaid personality is arctic, wear whites and shades of blue (mainly dark).
If you are tropical, wear bright colors and patterns. If you are a fresh water mermaid, wear a lot of green.
If you are a land dweller, wear somewhat "human" clothes with a noticeable mermaid twist.
 You can buy hair clips and glue-on seashells, sand or little fake animals. If you go to the beach, you could collect sand and seashells for no cost.
 Mermaids live in the ocean and do not wear make up, so stick to a very subtle and natural look. Use waterproof makeup. Wear shades of blue for eye shadow, silver, black or clear mascara, and a light pink lip color.
 You could pick anything to wear but it is best to wear a necklace, preferably with a shell on it. If someone asks you where you got it, say "home" and change the subject. Never be caught without your symbol.
 Always have a bottle of water with a straw, some fake mermaid products, mirror and brush in a sea-themed bag. If you don't have a sea-themed bag, a floral or tropical bag would do.
 When you swim, put the tail on. Paint your nails the color of your tail.
 Be vague and mysterious about your life.
 Mermaids transform to their true selves at the touch of water, growing a tail. If someone is drinking water, back up. If you're at a pool area protect yourself.


If someone is holding a glass of water stare at it worryingly.
If your friends ask you to come swimming say "I can't..." If they ask why, say that you just can't. Soon they will pick up on your strange behavior and link it to your appearance.
 If you are a good singer, then display your singing skills and stare off in the distance. If you can't sing, then hum a tune. Sing or hum sailor songs.
 Mention random facts about the sea often, things that no one would usually know about; for example, the name of a deserted island. Then act embarrassed and flustered to have brought it up.
 Make this journal convincing. Choose a book that doesn't have a lock and cover it in pictures of the ocean and mermaid quotes, drawings, etc. Be caught writing in it often.

Put all of your secrets about your mermaid life in it and leave it around one day. Wait until someone reads it. Make sure it says things such as "I'm craving the ocean", "Today my scales itched a lot", "The water felt so good against my tail", "Today I found a pod of dolphins to swim with! They were so cute!", and so on. This will "explain" everything to the person who reads it.






Take good care of your journal.






If you keep a real journal, make sure they don't get mixed up.
 Never reveal the truth directly. Legend has it that if a mermaid tells a human they're a mermaid, they turn into bubbles!

, Say no, stutter and change the subject.


Eventually, though, you'll need to have a good chuckle when your friends keep asking if you're a mermaid. Let them know you wish you could be one and you're doing your best. Have them keep the secret for you.

