 Count how many letters are in the word. It sounds silly but it helps a lot. Once you've been playing a while you will begin to remember words used in the game based on their length. For example, if there is a word that has three letters, it is either 'pig', 'fat' or 'boy' because these are (currently) the only three-lettered words in the game. Having an idea of the words that are used in the game is vital to be really good.;
, Go through the words that have the right amount of letters that you know the game uses and if the drawing could possibly be it, try the word. Of course, you could just spam the words with the right amount of letters that you know the game uses but this isn't very efficient. It takes up most of your concentration to do this while you could be making more thought out choices instead and actually guess the word quicker.
 For example, purple is often used for words like 'magic' or 'wizard', and blue is often used for things like 'cold' or 'snowflake'. Make up little rules for yourself. One of mine is that if the word is seven letters long and they start to draw in green, try guessing 'creeper' straight away. Another one is if the word is five letters long and they draw a brown vertical line, try guessing 'torch'.


Try using 'bowl words'. If the drawer draws what looks like a bowl, I instantly think of words like 'bowl', 'soup', 'cereal', 'salad' and even 'spoon'. This all sounds odd but it really works. Try making some up of your own.
 (You know, 'camp fire', 'door knob' etc) There aren't that many, and you can use step one and count how many letters are in each word to eliminate certain ones and make it easier to get. Here's a tip, if the word has three letters in the first word and three letters in the second (like this: --- ---), the answer is always 'top hat'. Remember this and be the first to guess it when it comes up! (This could change if they add more words to the game)

, For example, if the word begins with x, try guessing 'Xbox'. It's the only word in the game that begins with x. Letters like 'J' and 'U' are uncommon in the game (for starting words with, that is) so perhaps try to learn which words in the game start with them.

