 A burlap sack, used to protect trees, or carry potatoes and coffee beans, is perfect for making a scarecrow head. To make a burlap head:


Stuff one plastic grocery bag full of other plastic bags until you have the right size for a head.
Place the bag in the center of a piece of burlap then cut a wide circle around it. There is no need to measure it or cut a perfect circle.
Gather the burlap around the plastic bag, and place on top of the vertical pole (the scarecrow's neck) before tying tightly with twine or wire.
 Use a jack o' lantern to make a seasonal scarecrow head. First, choose a nice, round pumpkin. Cut a large, round hole on the top of the pumpkin (around the stem) and scoop out the insides. Use a sharp knife to cut out the facial features of your scarecrow. Skewer the bottom of the pumpkin onto the scarecrows neck and secure with glue or tape if necessary.


Do not place a candle inside the pumpkin as you normally do with jack o' lanterns. The rest of the material used to make your scarecrow is flammable.
Other vegetables, such as gourds and turnips, could also be used for this purpose.
Be aware that pumpkins and other vegetables will eventually rot, so if you want your scarecrow head to last longer, consider using an alternative method.
 A pillowcase is another option for making a scarecrow head and is something which you are likely to have around the house. To make your scarecrow head with a pillowcase:


Half fill the pillowcase with straw or the stuffing material of your choice.
Pin the pillowcase with safety pins to prevent the stuffing from falling out the bottom, but don't close the bottom up entirely.
Insert your scarecrow head onto the vertical pole (neck of the scarecrow).
Push until the top of the pole is at the top of the pillowcase, right through the straw.
Secure the pillowcase to the pole using twine or wire, then cut off the excess material and remove the safety pins.
 The are any number of possibilities when it comes to making your scarecrow's head. If you're trying to keep the cost of building your scarecrow down to a minimum, just use whatever items you have lying around. Here are some ideas:



Pantyhose. Select a natural skin tone pair of pantyhose. Cut the upper part of the leg off on one side, tie a knot in it, and fill it with stuffing, letting it taper to a "neck" before tying the other (lower) end onto the vertical pole.

Bucket. Impale a bucket filled with dirt right-side-up on the scarecrow's neck, for an unconventional yet functional head.Milk jugs. One-gallon plastic milk jugs are another great choice for scarecrow heads. Their smooth surface is perfect for drawing facial features on and is waterproof. You're also sure to have one or two lying around the house. Again, just impale on the vertical pole, and secure with glue or tape if necessary. 