 If you have pine trees nearby, gather four or five dozen round pinecones. Long pinecones can be used, but they don’t fit the wreath shape as well. Look for ones that are not broken and are not totally covered in sap.

For a quicker solution, go to the hobby store and buy some pine cones which are used for crafts.
For pinecones from outdoors, baking them in the oven at 200℉ (93℃) for about 20 minutes kills any bugs they may house and crystallizes the pine tar for a shiny look.
 Buy a circular foam wreath form from the craft store or your local big-box store. Use brown or copper metallic craft paint or spray paint to cover the entire surface of the foam. This keeps the white of the foam from showing through.If you don’t mind seeing the foam, or you want to spray paint the entire wreath after assembly, you don’t have to paint it now.
Be sure to lay down newspaper and spray paint outside to avoid getting paint on anything in your house.
 Sort through the pinecones and look for any that still have small stems attached to the bottom. Break or cut the stems off of the pinecones so that the bottom of the pinecone is mostly flat. This makes it easier to glue them to the wreath form., Plug in your hot glue gun and insert a stick of glue. Give the gun a few minutes to warm up. Be sure to set the gun on a covered surface so you don’t get drops of glue on anything.The exact shape of the bottom of each cone will determine how much glue you need to use. If the bottom is dipped in, place a ring of glue around the dip rather than filling the dip.
If the bottom of the pinecone is slightly pointy, you may need to cut it a bit so that it becomes flat.
 Lay the form flat on the table and glue a ring of pinecones onto it. Then glue some more pinecones more toward the inside of the wreath form, and another ring toward the outside of the form. Place them tightly together and fill any bare spots with extra pinecones.As you go, make sure that each pinecone stays attached. You may need to add more glue or hold the pinecone in place for 5-10 seconds to make sure it sticks.
 If you finish three rows of pinecones but the wreath still seems a little sparse, start gluing more pinecones on top of the first layer. Do this sparingly, only filling in the spots that seem to need more pinecones., Use whatever extras you want to make the wreath all your own. Spray it with white or silver spray paint to give it a shiny, festive look. Add bunches of fake cranberries, sprigs of holly, or pieces of evergreen. Wrap a ribbon in a spiral around the wreath or tie a big bow and glue it to the top.

Use some white paint to put little dots all over the tips of the pinecones to imitate snowfall.
Gather a small assortment of fake flowers and sprinkle them around the wreath. The bright colors of the flowers will provide contrast with the brown of the pinecones.

