";
,, You will need to sit down with your family, and discuss this aspect before you decide which college you will be attending. My suggestion is that if you have to pay for college yourself, try taking your general credits at a community college, then go on to a university or technical school to finish your degree. The more money you save, the less stressed you will be about your loans, and the more you can concentrate on the material.
 Try going to a school counselor to decide what your major will be in. If you already know, take classes based on your degree.
 Write down all due-dates for assignments, phone numbers and emails of your teachers and students you may know, and any information that may help you be more organized.
 I know sometimes the stress may be overwhelming because of picking your classes to go along with your work schedule, the traffic to get to school after work, the time consuming homework, the long lines at the bookstore, the difficult tests, the burden of being away from your family and much much more. My suggestion is to limit your stress in any way you can. Breathe.
 Take a warm bath to gather your thoughts and try to think about the positive aspects of college and don't dwell on the negative aspects with a negative attitude. Look at life and college as a positive experience.
,, This causes you to be more connected to your school life. Have study groups to help with tests and homework.
 Even if you have to do a little each day, it's a whole lot better than doing nothing. It's a great feeling of accomplishment when you write an A paper or get an A for an Econ test.
 This experience is an individual experience. You are doing this for yourself and by yourself. This is your personal race to become better. Take your time if you have to.
 Take the time to learn the material. In the long run, you will expand your knowledge. Never stop learning, even after college ends.
 Life happens, accidents happen, if you find yourself in a difficult predicament and have to take time off of college, take that time, but always go back and finish what you start! It's a strong feeling of accomplishment once you finish and you will be exceptionally proud of yourself for doing so.

