 Your dog may have a hard time being comfortable in their bed with joints that are stiff and painful because of arthritis. Putting some extra padding in the bed will make life a little better for your dog.For extra padding, add some extra thick blankets on top of or below the bed. You could also purchase foam pads at your local pet store.
Memory foam beds are great for dogs with arthritis.The foam will conform to your dog each time they lie down, preventing painful pressure points.;
, Dogs with arthritis may not be able to get up quickly enough when they need to go to the bathroom. If you notice your dog is soiling their bed, clean the bedding frequently with hot water. Also, clean your dog’s backside with dog-safe waterless shampoo so the fur doesn’t stay soiled.A clean and dry bed will make your dog's life better.
 Heat can make stiff and achy joints feel a little better. Keep your dog’s environment at room temperature, or even a little warmer.Also, make sure your dog’s bed is away from drafty doors or windows. In the winter, these drafts can make your dog feel cold and increase their discomfort.


Place a heating pad under your dog’s bed.Position the heating pad so your dog can move away if they get too warm.
Look for dog bed heating pads at your local pet store. You could also ask your vet for heating pad recommendations.
Look for heating pads that have an automatic cut off.
 Dogs with arthritis may struggle to get to their water bowls, increasing the risk of dehydration. To prevent dehydration, place your dog’s water bowl closer to their bed. Place the food bowl closer to the bed as well.Consider getting a raised platform for the food and water bowl.The platform would keep your dog from having to stoop down to eat and drink.
 Life may not be much fun for your dog if they slip and slide on your floors. For the non-carpeted areas of your home, make it easier for your dog to walk around. Here are some items that will give your dog more traction:Area rugs and carpet runners
Non-slip strips for your stairs
Non-slip booties or socks (available online or at a pet store)
Toe grips on your dog’s nails (available online or at a pet store)

, Did your dog like to cuddle with you on the couch or go for car rides? With arthritis, your dog won’t be able to jump onto the couch or into the car like they used to. Ramps will help your dog get to where they want to go more easily.Look for ramps at your pet store.


Being able to continue cuddling with you on the couch and going for car rides will greatly improve your dog’s life.

