 Determine if the distance between your two tick marks is too long to match up to the bar scale. In this case, you can either take several measurements with the bar scale to get the total, or use a ruler or tape measure instead.


To use the bar scale for a longer measurement, place your right tick mark on the farthest number on the primary scale. Make another mark on your paper where the extension scale ends on the left, and note this distance. Use your new mark as your right tick mark and measure using the bar scale as normal. Add this to your previous number to get the total distance.If you are measuring the distance between your tick marks or two points on a map using a ruler that is not long enough, try a tape measure for more length.
 Determine if the route you want to measure has multiple points or takes the shape of a curve rather than a straight line. In this case, take multiple straight line measurements and add them together.


Use a straight-edged piece of paper as usual to mark the distance on the map. Instead of marking straight from point A to point B, measure several straight lines along the curved routes and add them together. Or, keep pivoting the piece of paper from the previous tick mark to make a series of straight line tick marks, then measure from the first and last one on the bar scale.For the greatest accuracy, measure a greater number of smaller straight lines along a curved route., Determine if your map indicates the distance from the edge of the map to another popular destination not shown—like a town, highway or junction. Add this distance to a straight line measurement from your other point to the edge of the map.


First measure the distance between your point A to the edge of the map, using a straight edge piece of paper or a ruler as normal. Then add the distance the marginal information of the map gives to the desired town or highway to get the total distance.
Be sure that your units of measurement are the same before you add the two distances.