 Smaller notes are easier to hide. Make small pieces of paper (about 3 by 5 inches/7.5cm x 12.5cm) to pass in-between you and your friend. Perhaps make the little note papers outside of class and keep them ready stashed in your pencil case, to avoid having the teacher ask you to stop tearing paper during class.;
, If the teacher looks at you, don't immediately scramble to hide the note; that'll look too suspicious. Just casually cover it with a textbook or a pencil case. Whatever you do, don't write any names on the note because if the teacher finds it, they'll know who wrote it and attempted to pass it.
 If you have normal paper, as in notebook paper, fold it in half four times, be quiet though! If you have a note card or the 3x5 pieces of paper, fold it once.
 If somebody you want to pass to is behind you, don't turn around and put it on their desk. Instead, hold the note, put your hand behind your back, and raise it up to your neck. Then drop it on their desk. Make sure they notice it.
 Don't do the 'I'll-just-drop-it-on-the-floor-maneuver.' Put the note in a book, somewhere they can find it (in the front cover, etc). Then pass the book to them. Try to do it when the teacher isn't looking though, because the teacher will get suspicious about you passing books back and forth.
 Put the note on their shoulder the first time. After that, drop it in their seat or behind their neck.
 Once you hear the other person folding the paper, act as if you're scratching your back, then retrieve the note.
 Just continue to pass the book.
 Quite simple, the sender should do all of the work.
 If you have an information book, and the person you need to send your note to asks to borrow it, get their note and secretly slip it in an obvious page. Remember to add something that makes them know they are the one to read your message.


You can say what page number the note is on. For example: "Here's your 201 book back." The 201 represents the page number.
 Beforehand, tell a friend about this method, and try to find a signal for starting the pass, such as tapping your feet in a certain way. Roll your note and get out a pen. Take the ink cartridge out of the pen. This leaves an empty pen shaft, perfect for notes. Place your note inside the pen shaft, then tap your foot or start the signal. Your friend will ask to borrow a pen. Give them the pen with the note. The person you are passing the note to can be returned either when the teacher is not looking or when class is over.
 Pretend to go to the bathroom. While passing the person who you want to give it to, drop the note on their desk. Make sure they notice it and make sure the teacher doesn't see you do it.
 Someone tosses a note on the floor for you. You drop your pencil in the same spot and lean over to pick it up, picking up the note at the same time.
 Go to the back or the front of the classroom, depending on where the person is, and casually drop it on their desk while passing by. You might want to have an excuse, such as trying to read something on the board, looking for a wall chart or retrieving an item from a different part of the classroom, etc.

