 While you may sometimes think that you are innocently expressing your opinion, understand that other people might take it as forceful or judgmental advice. It can be helpful to know the difference between expressing an opinion and being too opinionated so that you can avoid these situations.


An opinion is merely a belief or idea that is based on preference instead of hard fact. An example of an opinion is "I'm not a fan of that television show. I don't think it is very funny."
An opinionated person is very rigid about their opinions. Instead of expressing their preferences, they state their personal opinions as facts. They often do not allow others to express dissimilar opinions or ideas. They might become critical or judgmental. For example, an opinionated person might say, "That TV show is so stupid. I can't imagine why anyone would want to watch it. The humor is so dumb. It must only appeal to a caveman.";
, Think about whether you want to help the person you have a desire to offer unsolicited advice. Although your motivation may be well intentioned, you should know that even advice coming from an altruistic place usually backfires. If you offer unsolicited advice for altruistic reasons, people may become defensive in order to maintain their personal freedom and life choices.For example, you may be worried about the health of a friend who smokes cigarettes. If you start offering them unsolicited advice about how to stop smoking, they may get defensive of their lifestyle. It won’t help that your advice is coming from a good place, since you are failing to respect their lifestyle and personal choices.
 If you are really excited about a new life hack or solution to something in your life, you may have a desire to share it with others. However, you should keep in mind that your friends, colleagues and family members may need to come up with their own solutions to life problems. It is probably better to keep your advice to yourself, unless they ask for it explicitly., It can be annoying to hear about the same problem from a friend or a colleague for years while having some resolutions in your mind.Although empathy and listening attentively is a lot of work, it is better to continue listening to the same old problems than to start offering unsolicited advice. You don’t know what situations may hinder your friend from taking the solution or advice you want to offer., If you have a desire to pontificate about particular subjects, try to remember this tendency and take note of its effects on others. You may notice that it doesn’t always have a great reception, in which case you may want to stop offering unwanted advice to people.