 There is no right or wrong way to prepare a broth, so feel free to get creative and customize your own. Examples of broths include: plain pork bone, pork bone with coconut milk, spicy mala (with varying degrees of spiciness), tomato, curry, and miso. You can also consider purchasing pre-made broth from some Chinese restaurants or pre-packaged ingredients of popular hot pot restaurants in Asian grocery stores.


A simple broth can be made by boiling water with the addition of meat bones or fish heads and a combination of herbs (ginger, goji berries, red dates, bay leaf, cloves, star anise, whole dried red chilies, cinnamon bark, fennel), seasonings (white pepper, sichuan peppercorn), and vegetables (scallions, garlic, napa cabbage, mushrooms). You will want to boil the ingredients until the water has been reduced and becomes infused with the flavor of the ingredients; then, strain the broth.
Traditional combinations include:

1) Plain: Chicken and/or pork bone, ginger, goji berries, red dates, white pepper, scallions, and optional napa cabbage and/or mushrooms;
2) Spicy Mala: Beef bone, ginger, garlic, chili oil, whole dried red chilies, bay leaf, star anise, cinnamon stick, cloves, and fried tofu puffs.
In both recipes you can substitute the meat broth with vegetable broth for vegetarians or vegans.

;
, Slicing thinly will ensure that the ingredients will cook quickly and fully.


Choose any proteins (meat, variety of fish, or tofu) that you enjoy. Some common choices for Chinese hot pot include thinly sliced beef, pork, lamb (which you can marinate in red wine), chicken, thin fish fillets, squid, shrimp, scallops, mussels, clams, fish cake, fish balls (sometimes stuffed with meat or fish eggs), shrimp balls, cuttlefish balls, shrimp or fish paste, beef balls, plain tofu, fried tofu, ice tofu, tofu sheets, tofu puffs, and quail eggs. You can make your hot pot using the more traditional method of using the meats and seafood that are local to you.



Wash and prepare some leafy greens. Popular options include: watercress, bok choy, tong ho, spinach, napa cabbage, cabbage, lettuce, snow pea leaves, daikon, taro, lotus root, winter melon, kabocha squash, tomato, and quarter cobs of corn. Mushrooms of all varieties are also common to Chinese hot pot preparations: king oyster mushroom, shiitake, enoki, and shimeji.
 The noodles will be infused with the flavors of all of the ingredients that everyone has cooked in it.


You can use any type of noodle, and there are many options: knife-cut, rice noodles, egg noodles, ramen, udon, and glass noodles. Feel free to offer a variety, but note that several people will be full before you even get to the noodles at the end or want to skip them altogether.
You can also provide rice to complement the meal, though not everyone may want it.
 For more variety, consider incorporating dumplings, rice cakes, and tangyuan (sweet dumplings - with various fillings such as taro, sweet or salty egg, red bean, or no filling).
 Typical condiments to prepare a sauce include satay sauce, chive flower sauce, sesame paste, hot mustard, soy sauce, black vinegar, hoisin sauce, sesame oil, chili oil, and sweet chili sauce. You can also include chopped garlic, scallions, and raw egg. Give each guest a separate small dish to mix their sauce.


A common sacha sauce recipe includes: Chinese BBQ sauce, soy sauce, black vinegar, chopped garlic, chopped scallions, and a raw egg on top. Some people will even separate the yolk from the egg white, adding only the yolk to the sauce and simply spreading the extra egg white across some raw meat to be cooked together.
 Place an electric heating plate on the table where you will be eating and place the broth on top of it to keep it hot.


You can also use a gas cooktop as an additional option.
 Eating a Chinese hot pot is a very communal experience. People gather around the pot, dipping their food, waiting for it to cook, mixing their own sauces and enjoying each other's company. Chinese hot pot meals commonly last a couple of hours because you are cooking and eating in small portions at the same time.


Multiple hot pots can also be used, or individual hot pots. At home, a single hot pot would work well up to 4-8 people depending on the size of the pot.
Oftentimes there are communal chopsticks, strainers, and ladles to be shared for moving items into your own bowl. As a courtesy to others, be sure to acknowledge and use these utensils.
