 A lot of anxiety comes from dwelling on the future or the past. Mindfulness keeps you focused on the present. This technique helps you relax by helping you let go of your worries. During mindfulness, you don’t ignore or try to push away your anxieties. Instead, you identify them so you can be released from them.Get into a comfortable position in a quiet room. Close your eyes. Start by identifying your anxieties. Don’t try to judge them, fight them, or even react to them. Instead, just think about them. Pretend you an outsider just looking at your anxieties.
Let the thoughts pass in and out of your head. Often, when you don’t try to fight the thoughts, control them, or actively ignore them, they start to get stuck in your mind. By just looking at them and not engaging with them, you can just let them float out of your head.
Focus on your body in this moment. Think about how your breath feels going in and out of your nose and mouth. Focus on your five senses. What do you feel, smell, or hear?
Mindfulness takes practice. Don’t be discouraged if your mind is all over the place the first few times you try it.
 Deep breathing is a great technique that helps you relax, reduce stress, and lessen anxiety. When you feel anxious at night, you can try performing breathing exercises to calm your mind and your body.Lie on your back in a comfortable position. Place your hands right below your rib cage. Take a long, slow deep breath through your nose by expanding your belly. Your fingers should separate as your breath, and your hands should lift as your belly expands. Exhale through your mouth. Repeat five to 10 times. You can do it longer if you need.
 Progressive muscle relaxation is another relaxation technique you can use at night to help you overcome anxiety. In progressive muscle relaxation, you work on relaxing your whole body, and therefore your mind. You can do this in bed if you wish.Start by tightening your toes. Curl them under your feet and hold for five to 10 seconds. Then slowly relax.
Next, tighten all the muscles in the feet. Hold for five to 10 seconds. Slowly relax.
Continue tightening muscles as you move up the body. Do your legs, thighs, abdomen, arms, neck, and face. Tighten and relax the muscles in each area. Make sure to relax slowly.
 Meditation is a great stress and anxiety relieving technique. Through meditation, you can release your anxiety and get to a state of relaxation. You can even perform guided meditations that help prepare your mind and body for sleep. Guided meditations vary in length, from five minutes to over an hour, where someone walks you through the meditation process so you can achieve a deep state of relaxation.You can find multiple guided meditations online. There are audio files through meditation institutes and sites. You can also find guided meditations on YouTube.

