 Sometimes the lyrics just start flowing, but more often than not writer's block sets in. Power through it by sketching out the ideas, thoughts, or essential images you want in the songs. If you think of a line or rhyme, jot it down even if you don't know how to use it yet. Once you have your key images and words, you can start building lines around them.


Even one good line can be the basis of a song, used as a chorus or a refrain to hold the song together.
Don't think of writing the whole song in one linear sitting. Just start writing parts and fragments, and slowly you'll start to see those that fit well together., Pop songs, no matter the genre, need to hook the listener and get stuck in the brain. It should be easily remembered, a short, simply phrase with a hummable melody. Think of this as the 1-2 sentences that sum up your entire song theme.


Once you've written the lyrics, try humming or whistling out tunes to find a good melody. When it is catchy even without words, you've got a killer chorus to use.
Green Day, Rancid, Operation Ivy, and Blink-182 are great bands who shot to popularity because they can write killer hooks, not just driving lyrics., More likely than not you'll write in couplets -- where each set of two lines rhymes with each other ("I can see into your soul / because you're just a victim of mind control").You can also rhyme every line with each other, or rhyme ever-other line together ("hey" / "me" / "day" / "we") for a more melodic, sing-song feel. If you're stuck fleshing out the lyrics:


Tell a tale or story ("Timebomb")
String together related moments or images on the same theme ("Story of my Life.").
Approach the topic from new places or perspectives each verse ("Longview")

, The sing-alongs, which are usually "lalalas" "oooohhhs" and "ahhhhhhs," are a staple of pop-punk because it gets the audience involved. Frequently, the best place for a sing-along is the chorus or the outro, but you can place them everywhere. You don't need one in every song as it can get old. However, even a "lyric" as simple as "nananana nanananana" in "All the Small Things" can be the difference between a dud and a hit.
 When people commonly talk about how the Beatles or Bob Dylan were the best songwriters of their generation, they usually point to their years playing 100's of different rock or folk cover songs. You can do the same thing with pop punk. Covering songs helps you feel out things that work, learning from the very best as you subconsciously internalize song structure, lyric tricks, and catchy melody lines.


Cover the songs you like to play more like the bands you admire.
Reading lyrics without the music is a good way to see how lyrics are written, and a good way to compare you own.

