;
, Try to be humble for each minute of every day. God resists the proud.
, A good analogy is that it is like driving a car: be courteous, use your turn signals, and let others merge in front of you, rather than speeding up to block their progress. You might be astonished at the potentially far-reaching ramifications of the decisions we make every day.
 We are supposed to do His good works so they are only expected. Don't concern yourself with pride (or proof) of your accomplishments; God knows the evidence and sum total of your good work. Strive to do good and get better each minute of every day by loving and serving the needy, expecting nothing in return; be charitable.
 So help each other and agree together in the faith, instead of judging. You do not even judge yourself. There is one judge.
,,, You know Him "by grace, through faith, not of yourself, not of works; it is the gift of God; so then you will do good work that He has prepared for you to do". (Ephesians 2:8-10)

, We tell ourselves that we (humans) understand the physical laws of nature, but are skeptical of God when miracles can be explained. Why cannot God operate within and beyond these confines? That is even more awesome, as it continues to preserve the paradigm of faith.
 This is necessary, as faith is the test we are all trying to pass. But in its inability to be proven on the physical level lies the logical proof of His existence on the spiritual one.


Where two or three are gathered in my name: there I am in their midst.
 Be prepared when you meet God; don't leave behind effects that would shame you in life, as they will shame your family in death. Keep your moral and fiscal debts paid and your family needs covered as much as possible.
 "sins") cause static, interference and dropouts from this already tenuous signal (wavering faith). Adjust the dial as often as necessary, Increase Christian Faith, but how nice it is when you can sit back and enjoy the music!

, "Hide God's word in your heart (your core being) that you might not sin against God," ie: to avoid failing Him.



No, your faith need not be great: Jesus Christ said: "Oh, you of little faith... with just a little faith you can say to a mountain (of hate, despair, sickness, disbelief)... 'Be moved'..." and it can be taken out of your way and nothing shall be impossible unto you.(Matthew 17:20)

