 It's much easier to run a business with two people than with one. Choose someone who can also craft and who has a strong work ethic. Having more than one extra person, however, can make the work load hard to navigate and may make it easier to disagree on things.;
, A good business has a wide variety of products to offer. You should start with no less than three different items. When choosing what you want to sell, it is important that you know how to make the items, and how to make them well. How do you know if you're making an item well? If you make a product well, you can produce several identical products in a row without making a mistake. Even though you may be selling three different items, you should start by picking just one to "specialize" in.
 Take some time to travel to different craft fairs and exhibitions to see what all the other business owners are selling. The less amount of people selling, the more business you'll get! Let's say you were considering the demand for a memory board. You would ask yourself these questions: Would I buy a memory board from someone else?, Would my friends buy a memory board?, Have memory boards been selling in stores lately?, and Have I seen many people buying memory boards lately?. If the answer to three or more of these questions is yes, the item is in high demand. When considering the difficulty of an item, it is important that the item is somewhat difficult to make. This way, you can be sure that not many other people will be able to master your craft and potentially sell it. However, if the item is too difficult for you to be able to produce quickly, you may not be able to support the demand for the product.
 If you don't have everything you need at home, it's time to go on a shopping spree with your partner. In addition to any supplies that you normally need for your craft, there are a few other necessities needed to start seriously crafting. (See "Things You'll Need")You and your partner should split the cost of the supplies. Each penny you spend should be documented and kept safe. This will make certain that you and your partner are equally recompensed for your spending. It will also make it possible for you to determine your profit.
 You need to start locally with a few fairs and events. Don't sign up for more than three events at a time, and never schedule two sales that will occur within a week of a each other.
 If your business is truly destined for success, there will be some customers that are addicted to your crafts! By starting an outreach program, you'll make it possible for them to buy customized crafts. Simply type and print fifty or so papers with blanks for your customers' names, addresses, the style of the product they want, etc. Leave the papers on your stand next to a few pens and a box for turn-ins.
 If you have a business that sells crocheted potholders, ask a yarn store if they'd be willing to take out some advertisements for money. If they agree, print out around twenty fliers advertising their business and encourage customers to take one when they purchase items. This is a quick and easy way to make some additional money, and help out a local business.
 You will need a table of two to display your items on, tablecloths, a calculator, a cash box, and some sort of awning to cover you.
,