 Ways of monetizing fashion content are numerous, and you should do this carefully. Depending on your audience, some programs may benefit your blog better than others. Know your audience to make sure you are making the most of your blog:


Active devoted followers can generate more money by clicking and purchasing, in this case you should opt for commissions-based programs (either paid per click, or per purchase).
If your audience is numerous, but rather inactive, you might benefit from programs that pay per views.
 Fashion bloggers may find affiliate programs the best tool to monetize their blogs. The reason is that such programs allow authors to unobtrusively earn money by creating low-pressure “advertising” that is similar to native content. Moreover, such content can bring value to users, if delivered properly. All in all, wise application of affiliate programs features not only monetizes your content, but also improves your readers’ experiences and visually enhances the blog. The most profitable programs designed for fashion bloggers include:


picVpic: Pay per purchase (a blogger earns when his/her readers click links and make purchases); commissions rate: 4-20%; open to everyone; profit threshold (minimum amount of money a blogger needs to generate before cashing it): $25.
RS (R-Style, RewardStyle): Pay per purchase (a blogger earns when his/her readers click links and make purchases); commissions rate 4-20%; by invitation only; profit threshold: $100.
ShopSense: Pay per click; price of clicks varies depending on content; open to everyone; profit threshold: $100.
Blog Connect (Lyst): Pay per purchase; commissions rate: 4-20%; open to everyone; profit threshold: $50.;
, Text ads are simply paid advertising where another website pays you to put a link to their website on a specific word or phrase.
 It's less sophisticated, can be somewhat irritating to users, but can be quite effective in generating income.
 It is the most popular platform so far. It connects your blog with millions of advertisers who wish to expose their products. It does not matter if your blog is small and not very popular yet, AdSense is open to everyone. You can also directly connect with certain companies you wish to represent. This way you take control of what promoted content appears on the blog. Make sure you have included an email address for business inquiries in Contact section. Connecting with you should be easy and hassle-free. There are three factors influencing the amount of money you generate:


Niche (in this case, fashion)
Traffic (number of visitors)
CTR (click-through rate or how “clickable” your content is).
 You are an opinion maker, meaning your opinion does matter. Some companies would like you review their products and give feedback. Free samples are nice reimbursements for your efforts. While some companies prefer sending out their products and risk receiving fair criticism, others opt for paid options. You are paid to make a positive shout-out. In the long run, such promoted reviews harm reputation, and should rather be avoided. Be honest with your followers, most of all.

