 Go to Skype's website or open your Skype application and click "Create an account" and register if you haven't already. Enter the required information on the "Register" page. Skype requires you to register an account in order to use Skype.


When you're registering, you will have the option to add credit or a monthly subscription to your Skype account. Skype is an alternative way to dial locally or internationally. Rates will differ depending on where you're from and which region you are choosing to call. Skype Credit is a pay-as-you-go phone service while monthly subscriptions offer you packages based on who you want to call., In order to make calls, you will have to install Skype as an application on your computer or smartphone. Go to Skype's website and click "Downloads". Select your computer's operating system, mobile device, or other device that you wish to use for Skype.


Alternatively, your computer or smartphone should have a Skype application you can download directly from your operating system's app store such as the App Store for Apple products or from the Google Store for Androids.
 Once you have installed Skype, you can sign in using the username and password that you registered.


If you have forgotten your password or username, click "Can't access your account?" to reset or recover your account information.
 You can choose to have a video or audio-only call with a contact or several contacts at the same time for free. To make a Skype call with a contact:


Add your contact or contacts. If you have the Skype username of a friend that you want to call, click on the "+" icon near the right-hand side of your window that is next to the "Search" bar.
Click "Add Contact...".
Enter the username and click "Find."
Add the contact once you have found them by clicking the green "+" button on the right side. You can send a message to your friend or contact to let them know who it is.
Wait for your friend to accept your contact request.
Click your "Contacts" icon on the left side of your Skype window.
Choose how you want to Skype your contact. For each of your contacts, you will see three buttons to the right of their name. The left-most blue button initiates a text chat, the middle green button initiates a video call, and the right-most green button initiates a phone call.
 This is different from Skype calling a contact which you can do fore free. Instead of calling someone's Skype, you are actually calling someone's phone number which may be connected to a landline or cell phone. A connection fee may also apply depending on the region that you are calling to. In order oo make a phone call on Skype:


Make sure you have enough credits or that you have purchased a phone plan from Skype. If you do not have enough Skype credits, add credit to your account by clicking the button below your display name in the top left. Or purchase a subscription plan on the website.
Click on the phone icon in the top right portion of the window. This will bring up a phone number pad on your screen.
Dial the number. You may have to add a country code, which can be easily done by clicking the downward-facing arrow on the number pad.
Press the green "Call" button to begin your call.
 Whether you called a contact or another phone number, you will see a red "Hang Up" button. Click on this to end your call.

