 Whether you’re purchasing new or used equipment, proper fit is among the most important considerations. Improper or ill-fitting equipment is one of the most common causes of sports-related injury. Always make safety a priority when choosing gear and avoid purchasing a cheaper item that fits poorly just to cut cost.If you’re buying equipment for your young athlete, make sure they know how to correctly wear their gear in addition to making sure it fits well. Do your best to instill in them the importance of safety, and remind them that they must put on their protective gear before playing their sport.;
, Making sure your gear is specifically designed for your activity and position will reduce your risk of injury and improve your performance. Whether purchasing new or used equipment, familiarize yourself with your sport’s recommended protective gear and know what distinguishes it from examples of similar gear.For example, know the difference between a helmet designed for American football and one meant for baseball. If you’re playing baseball, know the difference between a helmet and mask designed for a catcher and one meant for batting.
Don’t make any big investments if you’re not sure you or your child will be playing a specific position. For example, if it’s not set in stone that your teen will be the goalie on an ice hockey team, don’t spend hundreds of dollars on goalie pads and a stick., When in doubt about proper fit and design, always consult a coach or trainer for a tutorial on how to wear gear and what a proper fit is. For kids and adults alike, it’s also wise to get a checkup before signing up for any sports.A doctor will tell you how safe a particular sport is, whether you’re a growing child or an adult with potential medical problems.
You can also ask your doctor or coach for opinions on where to safely cut costs by buying used gear for your specific sport.
 Sometimes buying new gear is an obvious matter of safety and hygiene. It’s best to buy items like mouth guards, protective cups, and jockstraps new. While not necessarily a hygiene or safety concern, buying used leotards, skin-tight thermal gear, and other form-fitting attire is a matter of personal comfort.Always wash used attire before wearing. Be sure to inspect garments for stains and rips that could compromise function or aesthetics.
 You don’t have to invest in expensive new equipment if your activity’s experience level doesn’t require it. If you’re playing flag football with friends on the weekends, don’t go all out and purchase tackle football gear. If your child is playing in an instructional volleyball league, they won’t need high quality knee pads designed for professionals.On the other hand, if you or your child is competing at a high level, it might be worth investing in quality gear to improve performance and reduce the risk of injury.
 Buying new gear can cost thousands of dollars, especially if your sport of choice is costly or if you play a different sport each season. You or your parent can cut your budget in half by purchasing used items, particularly those that will need to be replaced regularly due to wear or fit.Try to cut your budget by buying used items that don’t make any difference when it comes to safety. For example, a new baseball or softball glove can run $200, but you can find a suitable used one for a fraction of that price., Some items must be purchased new because any wear at all will create significant hazards. For example, if you’re a climber, it’s fine to buy used climbing shoes, but you’d never want to buy used ropes or slings. If you’re suspended from a sheer cliff face, you wouldn’t want an old nylon rope to be the only thing between you and a nasty fall.Finding a good seller will help you avoid purchasing items that shouldn’t be sold used. A reputable consignment or second-hand shop won’t accept items that are unsafe to resell.
 Doing a bit of research before buying used gear will guarantee that you’re getting a deal without sacrificing function or safety. Ask your coach or trainer if they know of a good secondhand seller. If you’re the parent of a young athlete, talk to their coach or other parents about the best local options to buy used items.
 While buying new gear in-season gives you a greater selection, shopping at the end of a retail season can land great deals. When shopping around consignment and secondhand shops, however, remember that most locations will only accept and sell season-specific gear. If you’re shopping for winter sports gear in August, you’re less likely to find used items at a good consignment shop., Check zippers and seams for obvious signs of wear and tear, especially if they need to be waterproof or warm in order to function properly. If an item smells bad, don’t buy it. Check carefully for small cracks, abrasions, or other easy to miss flaws that might develop into a more significant issue given a little time. Look for obvious discoloration to gauge how old an item might be., Online marketplaces and Craigslist can offer great deals, but avoid purchasing anything without a bit of research. If you make arrangements online to purchase from a local seller, make sure to inspect items before finalizing the deal. If you’re shopping on an online marketplace, check the seller’s credentials and feedback.Look for items online that are well-photographed. Avoid buying gear from sellers who offer no images.
Steer clear from sellers if they have any negative reviews from past customers. Be wary of sellers who have no feedback available.

