 Keep the rinds on the fruit, as they will help flavor the drink later on. When choosing the amount of citrus, lean towards the oranges and use the lemon and limes lightly. Most people love to eat the fruit in the drink, but few people can handle a straight lemon or lime!The amount and variety of fruit you choose is up to you -- sangria is endlessly customizable.;
, Again, remove any seeds so that people can munch on the fruit without worrying about breaking a molar. Furthermore, seeds are usually bitter, and can impact the final flavor.
 Muddling is simply beating the fruit up a bit with a wooden spoon. This releases sugars and flavors that will work their way into the sangria.
 Like all the other ingredients, you can adjust the brandy to match your taste, and you can add a few other liquids here if you'd like to try something new:



Orange Liquor: Gives a nice, sweet little kick to the drink without water down the alcohol content.

Orange Juice: Sweetens up the drink while adding a little more citrus. Also stretches out the drink a bit more and cuts some of the alcohol., You want a light, refreshing white wine for the best sangria. Traditionally, sangria is made with a Spanish Roja, but most people substitute a nice Merlot without missing anything.
 You can serve the Sangria as is if you add ice, or let it blend in the refrigerator for a few hours. The choice is yours. Either way, serve the drink on ice for a refreshing, wonderful burst of flavor. If you want, you can even leave the drink to blend overnight for the best flavor.


Many recipes claim you must let it sit for 4 hours. While this will taste better, it is not strictly necessary., Everything is a bit more refreshing when it has some fizz to it, and Sangria is no different. Furthermore, this is just one more chance to customize your perfect version of the classic cocktail.



Club Soda: Perfect if you like a little refreshing fizz in your drink. Add as much as you added brandy.

Seltzer Water: Has a bit more pucker to it, making it a great choice to balance out too-sweet sangrias, in particular. You can even try flavored seltzers, like Lemon-Lime.

Champagne or Prosecco: This is sangria, so go nuts! A bubbly, light, and crisp wine or prosecco will keep the drink strong and add a refreshing punch of bubbles.