 You should be able to find any supplies you lack at local general retailers or craft stores. If you're making a costume on a budget, you may want to see if you can purchase some of these supplies from a secondhand store or thrift shop. All things considered, you'll need:


Decorations (like fake jewels, rhinestones, glitter, etc.; optional)
Empty toilet paper roll (for ponytail holder; optional)
Gold dot stickers (optional)
Gold sequin fabric
Hot glue gun (and glue)
Leggings (billowy ones recommended)
Scissors
Sheer fabric (any color)
T-shirt (plain recommended, any color)
Tank top
White tulle fabric (or sheer white fabric);
, You'll be hot gluing parts of your costume together. To prevent hot glue from making a mess, you may want to lay some newspaper or an old table cloth on your work surface. Take your hot glue and insert a stick of glue into it. Then plug in the gun to warm the glue.


A silicone mat works great as a cover for your work surface, but cardboard, parchment paper, or even tin foil are cost efficient substitutes.
If this is your first time using your hot glue gun, its tip may start smoking slightly. This is normal.
If your gun continues to smoke, or smokes excessively, unplug it immediately and keep it from flammable surfaces until it is cool.
Your hot glue gun's model and make will influence how long it takes for the gun to warm. Generally, you can expect this to take two to five minutes., Take your glue gun and apply glue to one of the straps of the tank top. Then, attach your tulle fabric to the tank top strap with the glue to form billowy sleeves for the top of your genie costume. Do this for the other sleeve as well. Be careful when doing so. Hot glue can burn you if it gets on your skin.


You can adjust your tulle fabric by cutting it with scissors to form different shaped sleeves.
You can make simple sleeves by attaching the tulle to the tank top in such a way that the tulle forms a cylinder shape through which an arm can fit.
Be sure you work quickly when attaching parts of your costume with hot glue. Hot glue hardens quickly., A vest isn't necessary for this costume, but many depictions of genies have vests. To make a vest, use your scissors to cut the sleeves off your plain t-shirt and a slit up the middle of the front of the shirt., This can give your vest a little extra glamour. Add your golden circle stickers to the fabric, placing them at regular intervals around the hem of your vest, up and down its middle cut, and around the arms.


At this point, you can also decorate the top of your costume with other accents, like rhinestones, beads, or fake gems. Use hot glue to attach each accent where you want.