 One of the most powerful means of supporting an individual who hoards is to simply listen without judgment. Listening can help her articulate and process difficult feelings and thoughts. Instead of attempting to offer a quick solution, ask clarifying questions that help the individual to organize thoughts in a manner that motivates the solicitation of help with the problem.


Inquire about the reason for saving items. Individuals who hoard often save items due to beliefs in sentimental value, instrumentality (they think they can use it somehow or someday), and intrinsic value (they think it’s pretty or interesting in some way).Ask questions about the reason why the individual obtains or holds on to certain items.;
, While it may be difficult at times to understand why your loved one cannot part with a particular object that may seem like junk to you, hold your tongue and realize that she may not be ready to part with that item just yet.


Be cognizant that if your loved one does have a Hoarding Disorder (HD), the process of recovery could take time.
 If your loved one mentions that she wants professional help, ask if she would like help in locating and selecting a therapist. If she is torn between the desire to seek help and the fear of talking to a stranger about such a personal matter, offer to go along for a session or two as moral support.


The best form of help for a Hoarding Disorder (HD) would be therapy with a psychologist, Marriage and Family Therapist (MFT), or a psychiatrist.
Remember that the person who hoards may not want to get treatment. Do not force this idea on her.
 The most common form of therapy for hoarding is Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT). CBT for hoarding is focused on changing the thinking that maintains the hoarding in order to reduce negative feelings and hoarding behaviors. Individuals who hoard tend to respond well to Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT).There are also group therapy options that are beginning to emerge.Online help and support groups have been suggested as helpful for recovery from hoarding.Explore medication options. Several medications have been indicated in the treatment of hoarding including Paxil.Consult a psychiatrist for additional information or to discuss psychotropic options.

