 When addressing an envelope to an entire family, in addition to using the family name to stand for all of the family's members, you can also name some or all of them individually. This method is useful for letters such as wedding invitations in which it's important to convey who specifically the letter is for. To begin, on the first line of your address, write the parents' names. In most cases, you will want to use their appropriate titles (Mr. and Mrs. are always safe, while titles like "Dr.", "Judge", and so on are usually optional outside of formal or professional contexts).


For example, If we're inviting the Jones family to a housewarming party, we would start by writing the parents' names on the first line: Mr. and Mrs. Jones.
It's also acceptable to use the traditional form of describing married couples in which the husband's full name serves for both partners: Mr. and Mrs. Tim Jones. However, this method isn't necessary.
Finally, you can also write each partner's full name, sans titles: Tim and Janet Jones. This is usually done in familiar, informal contexts, as using someone's first name rather than his or her title can be seen as rude if you don't know him or her well.
 On the next line, list the names of children who are under 18 and live as dependents of the parents. You can provide the family name once at the end of the list of children's names (e.g., David, Chelsea, and Gabriela Richardson), or you can leave it out entirely (e.g., David, Chelsea, and Gabriela). If you know the ages of the children, list them from oldest to youngest.


For example, in our example party invitation scenario, we would write the names of the children in the family below the parent's names like so: Emma and Peter. This means that the first two lines of our address would look something like this:





Mr. and Mrs. Jones
Emma and Peter







, In situations where you don't know the names of any or all children in the family, it's acceptable to refer to children collectively. In this case, on the second line where you would normally name the children, write "and Family". You may also use "and Children" to make your intent more specific.


In our example, we could replace Emma and Peter's names with the phrase "and Family" or "and Children" if we had forgotten their names. In this case, the first two lines of our address would look like this:





Mr. and Mrs. Jones
and Children







, The above examples assume that the letter is intended for both the parents and the children in the family. If this is not the case, name the relevant recipients in the first line, then proceed immediately to the street address without using the second line to list additional family members.


If, for instance, we wanted only to invite the parents in the Jones family to our party, we would use the standard Mr. and Mrs. Jones without naming any of their children.
 If the family contains any children over 18 (or the traditional age of adulthood in the recipient's community), send these children their own, separate letter in addition to the one you send to their parents. Receiving your own mail is a sign of adulthood. Though it's relatively minor, it can be perceived as somewhat insulting to, for instance, be invited to a party via a letter addressed to one's parents.

