 As you stipple the ceiling paint will drip and land on whatever is beneath it. To preserve the look of your furniture, make sure to move it out of the room. If you have oriental rugs or carpets, you can roll those up and put them out of the room as well. Dried paint is easier to clean off hard flooring than carpet or upholstery., If you have pieces of furniture that are too big to be moved, you can lay drop cloths or tarps over them. Cover up the floor to prevent dripping paint from getting on it.
 Fixtures will cover up portions of your ceiling and make it impossible to stipple it consistently throughout. Find your circuit breaker box and turn off the power for the fuse that you're working on. Unscrew ceiling lights, fans, and chandeliers from your ceiling with a Phillips-head screwdriver or screwdriver that fits the screws in your lighting fixtures.

Double-check that the flow of electricity to your light is off by flipping the light switch on and off.
If you're uncertain how to disconnect electrical fixtures properly, hire an electrician.
For fixtures that you can't remove, apply painters tape around the edge of them so that they don't get paint on them.
 To prevent your paint from dripping onto your walls, you'll need to apply painter's tape to the edges of where your walls meet your ceiling. Roll out long pieces of tape and apply it to the top of your walls and around the perimeter of the ceiling you intend on painting. Applying 5-8 inches (12.7-20.32 cm) of painters tape will ensure that the ceiling paint will not drip onto your walls.

If you paint outside of the lines, your paint will end up on the painter's tape and not the walls.
 Purchase a white or off-white oil based or water based primer at a hardware store or online before using texture on your ceiling. Use a brush and dip it in the primer before applying it to your ceiling. Allow the primer to dry overnight before continuing with the rest of your project. Applying primer will allow the heavy textured paint to adhere to your ceiling.When using an oil-based primer, make sure to open the windows and to have proper air ventilation.

