 Puppies are ripe for training and most thrive under a kind and productive training system. Even puppies that are less than a few months old can learn commands successfully., It is easier to let a dog know it can't go somewhere before it ever does, versus teaching it after it has enjoyed the area already.


While training your dog to stay in designated areas, it's a good idea not to leave it alone with the temptation and ability to break the rules. This is basically just setting your pooch up for failure.
 Make sure the area is inviting and fun for the dog. Have some toys and enough space to play, so that the pup doesn't need to look for other areas to explore.


You can also designate an area where your dog can dig, if that is what they are doing in your flower beds. Make your dog's digging area appealing to them. Encourage them to play there, letting them tear up the area as much as they like.
Prevent your dog from digging in the soil by placing chicken wire, large rocks, or a plastic membrane over the earth.
 Scolding the dog could teach them to go into the flower bed for attention. The owner needs to be more subtle, such as distracting the dog and then rewarding the dog for the good behavior.
 When the dog isn't there, you can either spray it around the bed. Don't spray directly at the dog. It may not be clear to the dog why it is being sprayed and what behavior you would like it to stop in response to the spraying. Spraying repellant when the dog is there is going to teach the dog to avoid you, rather than the flower bed.
 You need to be consistent with your disapproval, never letting the dog wander into the flower beds without facing negative consequences. Also be consistent with your praise when a dog follows your command. Give it positive reinforcement with treats if need be. This will give your dog a good reason to do as you ask.
 Keeping your dogs out of your flower beds will require persistence. No dog will get the message that you don't want him or her in your flowers right away. Just try to make it as clear and consistent as possible. Above all, keep playing with your dogs and let them know you love them, even if they do dig up your prized petunias once in a while.

