 Drugstores have tons of different options for home tanning, and most of them won't break the bank. Select a type of home tanning spray of lotion that works for your skin tone and texture. You probably only need one bottle for your body, but if you want to ensure full coverage, you may want to buy a backup.









Choose a tanning color just a few shades darker than your normal skin tone. If you go from snow white to burnt orange in a day, the transition won't necessarily be positive. The goal is to look a few shades darker, as though you just spent a week in a warm, beachy locale.
Consider whether to get a spray can or lotion dispenser. If your skin is on the dry side, you might want to choose a lotion for the added moisture. Some people find it easier to evenly distribute the tanning solution through a spray nozzle - it's totally up to your personal preference.;
, You don't want to apply the tanning solution to dry, flaky skin; you'll end up looking splotchy next time you exfoliate. Exfoliating thoroughly before you apply the solution is key.








Start by dry brushing your body to remove all the dead skin flakes and help your circulation a bit. Both the brush and your body should be dry. Brush your arms and legs in short strokes toward your heart. Don't forget your torso, back, and any other areas you plan on tanning.
Take a lukewarm shower and use an exfoliating body cleanser. Scrub areas like your knees and elbows, and any other spots that tend to get dry or scaly, especially well.
 The next step is to prevent your body from getting dry all over again by applying a good moisturizer. Use baby oil, lotion, or your preferred moisturizing method to seal in moisture from your neck to your toes after your shower. Wait a few minutes for your skin to absorb the moisturizer before you proceed with tanning.
 If you bought a home tanning kit, it might have come with a pair of latex or plastic gloves to protect your hands from getting tanning solution all over them when you apply it. If you didn't get a kit, it's important to find a pair of gloves to protect your hands - otherwise, they'll turn bright brownish orange after several coats of tanning solution.
 Stand in your bathroom and either spray your body with tanning solution or use your hands to smooth on some tanning lotion. Work methodically so you make sure you don't miss any spots. You might want to stand over an old towel so you don't end up tanning your bathroom floor.








Start with one leg and apply the tanning solution from the toes up to the thighs, then do the other leg. Follow the directions on your bottle of solution, making sure to hold the spray bottle the correct distance from your skin. If you're applying lotion, spread it on smoothly instead of rubbing it in too deeply in one spot.
Next do your torso, back and neck. You can have a friend work on hard-to-reach spots, or use a "back spatula" (available at drugstores) to apply the solution to your back. It's shaped like a body brush, but with a smooth buffer instead of a brush on the end.
Apply it to your arms. Finish your hands by removing the gloves and applying the solution carefully with a cotton ball.
Take special care with your face. You can use a little vaseline around the edges of your hairline to make sure the solution doesn't build up there., Once you're completely covered, go back over your body with a soft cloth and buff it in circular motions. This ensures your entire body will get an even coating of tanning solution.
 You'll need to give the solution time to soak into your skin. Take a few hours to stay around the house in long, loose, dark clothing that won't get stained by the tanning solution. After a few hours, it's fine to take a shower, put on light clothes or leave the house.








