 If your neighborhood has any sort of crime issue, you should consider starting a crime stoppers group. A crime stoppers group will unite your neighbors together to watch out for criminal activity in the area. With a little cooperation with local law enforcement, you’ll be able to reduce crime in your neighborhood and make it a better place to live.


Print out a flyer that calls for volunteers to join a crime prevention organization in your neighborhood.
Talk to your immediate neighbors and anyone else in the neighborhood you may be familiar with.
Hold weekly or monthly meetings in order to plan ways to prevent crime in your neighborhood.
Contact the local police department and ask for them to send an officer to speak at your meetings., Looking out for your neighbors will help build a better neighborhood. Not only will looking out for your neighbors give create a sense of community, but it will also help prevent crime and protect property in your neighborhood. Watching out for your neighbors may include:


Taking care of your neighbor’s pets or plants when they are on vacation.
Calling the police if any suspicious people are trespassing on your neighbor’s property. Remember, though, don't be too intrusive or it may seem like you are spying on your neighbors.
Watching over your neighbor’s children or pets to make sure they are safe., Another great way to better your neighborhood is volunteer for various activities. Volunteering in your neighborhood will not only help you better your community, but it will bring you closer to your neighbors.


Volunteer as a mentor for troubled neighborhood kids.
Pick up litter.
Join your homeowner's association., One great way to better your neighborhood is to mediate neighborhood disputes when they occur. This is especially important if your neighborhood is a place where people are out and about a lot, and frequently talk and socialize. Consider:


Suggesting ways to resolve conflict between neighbors who have problems.
Inviting conflicting parties to your home for coffee and a conversation. Let them know beforehand, and let them know you'll act as a mediator between the two.
That you should always be careful when putting yourself in between conflicting parties. You might be causing problems for yourself, too.

