 Better quality foods deliver better nutrients, which is very important as your dog’s body changes. There are many senior formula dog foods available that cater specifically to an aging dog’s dietary needs. When it comes time to reconsider your pet’s diet, meet with a veterinarian for its recommendations.  There are also special dental specific formulas to accommodate dogs that have lost many teeth or have other mouth or gum problems.


Don't economize: Feed your dog high quality food formulated for older dogs. Pay attention to the ingredients, avoiding by-products and opting for premium proteins.
Choose food that your dog can easily chew if it has problems with dentition.;
, Weight can be a good indicator of underlying problems and can be a cause of them. Obesity will put unnecessary stress on your dog’s body or could be a symptom of another issue. Dieting and gentle exercise can easily improve a dog’s weight. Your veterinarian may want to run blood work to consider other treatments as well. On the other hand, senior dogs can become too thin as they age. Your vet may recommend special formula food or dietary supplements to be certain that your pet is getting the proper calories and nutrition it needs. Discuss with your veterinarian what an ideal weight range might be for your pet and weigh it regularly.


Keep your dog lean. Look for signs of obesity, using the dog's ribs as a yardstick, making sure that you can feel them through his coat.
Keep the percentage of fat in your dog's diet low, and choose lean, healthy snacks to help control its hunger: zucchini, cucumber, fresh green beans and seedless apple slices are excellent examples., While various breeds and individual dogs age differently, a general rule of thumb considers most dogs to be senior at seven years old.By this age. you should start to bring your dog to the vet for biannual checkups. The dog's body changes faster from this age, and by increasing the frequency of visitations, your veterinarian will be better able to recognize changes in health and diagnose late-in-life illnesses while still potentially treatable.


Twice annual trips to the vet are recommended for older dogs. Ask for a geriatric blood panel, urinalysis and have your dog's teeth cleaned. Ask your vet to evaluate your older dog for symptoms of arthritis and dementia and to suggest a course of treatment if necessary.
 Make small adjustments to your household to accommodate your dog’s limited mobility. Relocate your dog’s bed, toys, or food and water dishes to make movement through your home easier on its body. Speak with your veterinarian about medication, supplements, and joint formula dog foods. It may be time to invest in orthopedic dog beds, portable staircases, or pet ramps. There are also physical therapy and holistic treatments that may be of benefit to an arthritic dog. Research hydrotherapy or canine acupuncture facilities in your area.


If your dog is arthritic, consult your vet about pain medications. Consider dietary supplements to reduce inflammation. Provide your dog with an orthopedic dog bed and other products to help keep it stable and comfortably mobile. Don't ask the dog to navigate stairs if it cannot do so.
 As your dog ages, you may need to adjust exercise and play to suit its changing abilities, but continue to find ways to keep your dog appropriately active. As your dog’s hearing, vision and coordination dulls, organize exercise activities in safe, contained environments. That may mean moving furniture, finding areas with non-slip flooring, or limiting activity to fenced, familiar areas rather than venturing to public spaces.


Include a daily regimen of gentle exercise. Adjust the intensity to match the dog's physical tolerance. Use food puzzle toys to stimulate him mentally and help control his weight. Be aware of potential hearing and vision loss and always keep the dog leashed when outdoors.
 As a dog ages, its bladder control will not be what it might have once been. Use puppy pads or old blankets to line the bedding or crates of senior dogs that begin to show signs of incontinence. Find a waterproof dog bed liner so that accidents do not absorb into the padding. Keep a second cover on hand so that you can easily swap them out for washing. Take your dog on frequent bathroom breaks to allow it to relieve itself before a full bladder causes problems.


Give your dog many opportunities to go outside during the day. Schedule a sitter to take the dog outside if you cannot, as the dog can't hold it. If the dog leaks during naps or overnight, be prepared with clean dog bedding. Be kind if the dog leaves a mess; it's as emotionally distressing for him as it is bothersome for you.

