 Different items have different requirements and require different approaches to hang properly. The most basic type of wall hanging, the poster, will only require thumbtacks, but other decorations such as large framed portraits and photographs may require more secure fastening methods. Generally speaking, the most reliable way to hang a picture on a wall is from an anchor screw attached to a wall stud, which is what this guide explains how to do. If you are unsure of how you should hang your picture, this method is a good safe bet.;
, A stud is a reinforced part of the wall underneath the plaster and drywall finish that is designed to bear a heavier load than the rest of the wall. Studs are essential for all but the lightest pictures and frames, as hanging heavier objects from plain drywall can cause tears over time. Electronic stud finders are available in any home supply or hardware store. Most are used by pressing them to the wall and running them along it until a stud is found, whereupon the stud finder will beep and/or light up.


Read the instructions for your electronic stud finder carefully. Many stud finders have two sets of indicators: one for studs, and one for live electric wiring. Be sure you know which indicator is which before driving your fastener into the wall.
If you don't want to purchase an electronic stud finder, you can use your hand to estimate where studs are. Rap the wall with your knuckles and listen carefully until you get a very shallow and dull sound from it. That spot is where a stud is hiding. To double-check that you have found a stud and not something else, knock around for other studs. They are normally spaced between 15 and 24 inches from each other. If you are able to discern a regular pattern, it is likely that you have indeed found a stud.
 Assuming you will be using a stud to hang a picture, you will need a type of round headed screw called a drywall anchor. The humble finish nail, which is 1½ to 2 inches (5.1 cm) long and bears up to a few pounds even without a stud, is fine for lighter pictures, but a drywall anchor is the safest choice. There are a variety of other options for smaller pictures available at any hardware store, including various hooks, load-bearing adhesive tape, and more complicated devices like tremor hangers.
 If your picture does not already have a bracket, suspension wire, or other means of hanging from an anchor, you will need to install one. Solid brackets are a good choice, as they will hold a picture more steadily than wire or string if bumped. Attach your bracket well above the center of the frame on the back side, so that gravity will do most of the work of keeping the picture steady.

