 There will be certain areas of the tutorial that you will want to speed up or slow down. For example, if you are blending out your eyeshadow, you may want to speed that portion of the video up, so that viewers aren’t watching you blend for more than ten seconds. This can be quite boring and repetitive for the viewer. Any clips that could be boring could be edited out or sped up, and any clips that show a great amount of detail or precise movements could be slowed down to benefit viewers.
 There are times when you don’t need to add in transitions between clips, such as when you are talking to the camera for a length of time and want to edit out small bits and pieces. For something like this, adding transitions would be overkill. If you are transitioning from one part of the video to another, such as the introduction to the makeup tutorial, you may want to add in a transition, which will help the viewer understand that you are moving into a different part of the video.


Most video editing softwares come with preset transitions. These can be fun to experiment with.
Transitions can be as creative or as simple as you would like them to be. Use them to have fun and create exciting effects in your videos or use a simple one to indicate that you are moving on to the next step with little fanfare. For example, you can use a transition that makes the current screen spin away, making way for the next scene. Or you can simply have current screen move to the left or right until it disappears from the screen before the next scene pops up.
 Many makeup artists and vloggers enjoy using effects in their videos, such as bright flashes or sparkles. This can be a fun and whimsical way to show off the finished product. Some vloggers also add in text, which can be done with the editing software. The text can be helpful tips or something that was missed.
 There are plenty of video streaming services available, such as Vimeo, but YouTube is a massively popular platform that will allow you to get plenty of views on your video. Log into your YouTube account to upload your video. Once you are logged in, you should be able click on “Upload” in the upper righthand corner. Follow the prompts and select your video. It may take a few minutes to finish uploading.

