 It is a tutorial that can be accessed on the games main menu. In practice, you will be walked through all the basic gameplay and mechanics needed to play. You don't have to go to Practice, especially if you played Mario Superstar Baseball (2005) and are already familiar with how the game works. But if you do choose to go to Practice you will have a much easier time. What's a few extra minutes learning? Here are some controls:


A Button: While fielding, press A to jump/dive. In pitching press A (while using a throwing motion with the remote) to throw a changeup. (2x) Buddy jump.
B Button: Attack, buddy toss.
A+B Button: Star Swing/Pitch.
+ Button: Pause/Resume.
Shake Wii remote: While fielding, throw. While running, dash.
Swinging Motion: Swing bat. Hold back longer to "charge".
Throwing motion (while pitching): Pitch ball. Hold back longer to charge.;
, You're allowed to choose any players you wish. Start with the CPU level low (levels 1-2) and work your way up to difficulty levels 3 and 4 when you begin to improve.
 The storyline of challenge mode is that Bowser Jr. and his bumbling minions have taken over Baseball Island, and that it's up to you, Mario, to gather other captains and players to battle Bowser Jr. in a game of Baseball. As you play, you will unlock many new characters.
 A star pitch is harder for the batter to hit and each has its own twist to it. Same goes for the Star Swings. Try them out, they could help you greatly. Keep in mind that regular characters have no Star Hits/Pitches. Each one has a basic Ability that can still be very effective, but no unique twist to it. Star Hits will usual force infielders to misplay the ball (they will rarely catch it, if ever), and if a Star Pitch is hit it will most likely be either a pop fly or weak grounder. Star Abilities cost Stars, which can be earned by making Nice Plays.
 Nice Plays refill your Star Meter.
 To make a buddy catch (to save a home run) get two of your outfielders with good chemistry to the part of the outfield wall the ball will pass over. When the ball is directly over you AND YOUR DAD, press A twice and watch your as one of your fielders boost the other up in the air to attempt the catch. These can require a lot of precision and timing, so they won't always work. Players with good chemistry should be in the outfield. A Buddy Throw can be done when the player you're controlling is near the ball. Press B to "attack" the ball and flip it to a nearby player. Then throw. Only use this ultra-fast throw when you need it (such as for long-distance throws or emergencies) because you could end up just wasting time. You may also miss frequently.

