 Especially in dry surroundings, simply drinking some water can help reduce a nagging cough.Water will help soothe the throat irritation causing the cough. Water will also keep you generally hydrated, which can thin any mucus in your throat that are responsible for the cough.


Healthcare professionals recommend that men drink around thirteen cups of water each day and that women drink around nine.;
, Breathing in moist air is another way to lubricate your throat and reduce a cough. If you’re having a coughing fit before bed that’s keeping you awake, take a hot, steamy shower and take deep breaths of the moist air.This can also help thin any secretions in your throat or simply soothe throat irritation.
 If your throat dries out during the night, and you wake up coughing, then you can also try sleeping with a humidifier or a vaporizer running to increase the moisture in the air while you sleep.Eucalyptus oil is an expectorant, meaning that it loosens phlegm, which is often the cause of coughing.You can try adding some eucalyptus oil to your vaporizer to help keep your throat clear at night as well.
Make sure you thoroughly clean the unit on a regular basis. Using a humidifier without cleaning it can result in the growth of mold and other bacteria in the unit that then gets spread around when it’s running., Salt water is another method to help thin and loosen any mucus in your throat that’s causing you to cough. The salt water will also have a soothing effect on your throat if it’s sore due to coughing. Tilt your head back and gargle with the solution for one minute.This is also a good way to help reduce coughing caused by postnasal drip, which is the sensation of mucus at the back of your throat.Be sure to spit the salt water out. Don’t swallow it.
 Another way to help reduce a dry cough is to elevate your head more while you sleep.Place an extra pillow or two behind yourself to keep your head up during the night.
 Exposure to smoke, dust, fumes, and other pollutants can also cause coughing as the pollutants irritate your throat and lungs.Keep the air filters in your home up to date, dust often (especially on top of ceiling fans), and avoid areas outside your home where you’re likely to breathe more pollutants.


Keeping houseplants is another great way to reduce indoor pollutants in your home.
 Though not a direct method for reducing a cough, getting plenty of rest can help shorten the duration of your cough. Most cases of acute cough are due to cold and flu viruses, which your immune system will fight off on its own. You can help boost your immune system by getting plenty of rest if a cold or flu is responsible for your cough., Most smokers begin to develop a chronic cough that is even referred to as a “smoker’s cough.”The cough is because the cigarette smoke irritates the throat and lungs. By quitting smoking, you can help get rid of a smoking-related cough.
 If your cough doesn’t subside after several weeks of home treatment and natural remedies, then you should see your doctor.It may mean that the underlying condition of your cough simply requires actual medical treatment. You should see your doctor even sooner if your cough also includes:A fever above 100°F (38°C)
If you cough up blood; pink-tinged phlegm; or thick, greenish-yellow phlegm
If you begin wheezing or experiencing shortness of breath
If you have a violent cough that leads to a “whooping” sound due to gasping for air.