 Look for a course at your local community college. You could also get a personal tutor or take an online course. The goal is to learn, at least partially, independently. You do not want to turn your relationship into a full student-teacher scenario.With that in mind, be careful when correcting your partner. Try to be calm when they correct you as well.;
, Be prepared to jump between languages pretty regularly in conversation with your partner. You may find that a certain language takes over when you are discussing particular topics, such as finances. Or, you may notice that you both go back to your native language when emotions are high.After you’ve become more comfortable with your partner’s language, you may switch back and forth between languages without making a conscious choice to do so. For example, you may start to speak in German when hanging out with your American friends. This is perfectly normal.
 You can download a dictionary app onto your phone. You can also buy a small paper one to keep in your pocket. Then, when you are unfamiliar with a certain word, take a moment to look it up.After you’ve found the word, you might try using it in another sentence to make sure you understand. Ask your partner if what you are saying sounds correct.
 You can communicate a great deal by simply watching how someone holds and uses their body. Observe their hands and how they are gesturing. Watch their eyes to see where you should be looking. See if their arms are crossed in a more standoffish way, or open and excited.Facial expressions are obviously a huge clue as to how someone is feeling. Are they smiling? Frowning? Do they look as if they are concentrating? About to laugh? Use your observations to guide how you respond to your partner.
 If you aren’t sure what your partner is saying, take a moment and ask them. Silence is a real danger in cross-cultural relationships as you may want to nod and agree to everything to keep things simple. However, you are not fully communicating when you do this. Watch for cues when you can jump into conversation.For example, if your partner looks at you with their eyebrows raised and palms in the air, they are probably waiting for a question or response. Go ahead and jump in.
 If you want additional communication tools, it may be a good idea to schedule an appointment with a relationship counselor. You can even find one that specializes in working with cross-cultural partners. They can also help you work through any deeper differences that may act as roadblocks to your relationship.You can find a counselor by entering your location and “therapist” into a search engine. Narrow your search by looking for a person with high positive reviews online. Call each therapist’s office and ask about their areas of specialty.

