 Keep in mind that a plinth block is there to offset the rest of the trim around the door, so it needs to be slightly larger overall. Measure (and re-confirm) the trim dimensions and add ½” to 1” (1.25 to 2.5cm) to each. Use a table saw to cut the wood, making sure the edges are clean and precise.Materials like 5/4 trim or MDF paneling are typically recommended for molding projects.
It may be necessary to glue two or more pieces of wood together to achieve the desired thickness.
 If you have access to a handheld or table-mounted router, you can use it to etch shallow grooves or other embellishments into the upper section of the plinth blocks. Otherwise, a planer or bevel will be useful for creating sleek, angled edges. Feel free to get as elaborate or as minimal with your plinth blocks as you like.Hold the blocks firmly in place with a vice or table clamp to avoid making any sloppy mistakes.Routing and other decorative elements don’t offer any enhanced function—they’re simply there to improve the look of the molding.
 Clean up the edges of the freshly cut panels. It will be helpful to perform a quick mockup with the loose blocks to gauge whether the dimensions are correct in relation to the door jambs. If necessary, saw the blocks down another ⅛” to ¼” (.3 to .6cm) until they match the width of the trim without looking too bulky.

Smooth out rough spots and imperfections using a sheet of low-grit sandpaper.When adjusting the height, always make follow up cuts to the bottom of the block so you don’t interfere with the routing or beveling.
 Notch the blocks with a pencil to indicate the reveal (the small lip that protrudes from the casing), the top and bottom and which side of the doorway they should go on. This will make it easier to keep the separate components organized and assemble everything efficiently when the time comes.In most cases, plinth blocks should be wider and deeper than the casing by at least ⅛” (.3cm).Don’t worry about marking up the blocks too much—you’ll be painting over them before the project is finished. Make whatever notes will help you install the blocks with precision.

