 Set boundaries with your parent and determine how much you want to be involved in and connected to their life. Different people and different situations demand different boundaries, so the only person who can tell you what’s best for you is yourself (perhaps with the input of your partner, close friend, or therapist).You may decide that you are only comfortable seeing your parent occasionally, perhaps only at family events where their presence is diffused.
You may only feel comfortable communicating via phone or email with your parent, and not be comfortable seeing them in person.
If you have children, you may wish to limit your parent’s contact with them. You may decide to agree to letting your parent see them only while you are present, and say no to offers of babysitting and overnights, for example.
 Let your parent know what they can expect from you and what, in turn, you expect from them. Indicate what the consequences will be if they do not adhere to your expectations.You could say, “I have decided to come home for Christmas. If you are verbally abusive to me during our visit, I will call you out on it, and then I will leave.”
Do not be afraid to let your parent to know your limits. Going into a situation with clear expectations can help avoid hurt feelings and confusion. You could say, “I know that we have had our problems in the past. When I visit next week, I want to be clear with you about what I will tolerate.”, Refuse to get more involved with your parent than you are comfortable. If you are uncomfortable setting limits, remember how you may become angry and resentful otherwise.Find ways to say no. Figure out how you are comfortable saying no, but make sure it is firm and leaves no room for misunderstanding. You could say, “I’m sorry, Mom, but that’s not going to work,” or “No, unfortunately I can’t make that event.”
If you are not comfortable saying no directly, you could offer something in exchange that you are willing to do. For example, “Mom, I can’t help you move on Saturday, but I can come over the following week and help you unpack for a few hours,” or “No, taking the kids out for pizza won’t work, but you are welcome to come over for dinner next week.”

, Prior to an encounter, decide how you can keep yourself emotionally “safe” from your parent’s harm. These will be different for every person and depend on the situation. If you are in therapy, you may wish to discuss strategies with your therapist.If your parent lives nearby and you are visiting them for the day, you may wish to set a time limit for your visit. You could tell your parent, “We need to leave by two o’clock.”
If you are visiting your parent from out of town, you could insist on getting a hotel while you are visiting, in order to get some physical distance and recovery time from the toxic environment.
You may decide to leave right away if your parent is being verbally abusive or is engaging in substance abuse, giving them no second chances.
 If they have “disowned” you or you are estranged from them for some reason, respect their boundaries and give them the space they want. It may be extremely painful, even though you have consistently been treated poorly by your parent throughout your life. If this is the case, consider finding a therapist to help you work through conflicting emotions.Put it in perspective. Even though it is painful to be estranged from your family, think of how the space will allow you to get some freedom and grow into your own, stronger person.
Give it time. Your parent may wish to communicate with you at some point down the road. Stay hopeful, but let the ball remain in their court. Let your parent initiate contact if they initiated the disconnect.

