 You will achieve the most success with your advertising ideas if you have already established your ability to think strategically and execute creative ideas. When clients or agencies are judging ideas, they are also gauging you.;
, Find someone senior to you who is willing to hear your pitch and give you some credit. In the process of establishing a track record, many people must pay their dues by being on an advertising team, instead of the head of an advertising campaign.
 An ad pitch is not an off-the-cuff discussion, it is a visual and auditory presentation that appeals to both the bottom line and emotions of the client. The following are ways that advertising professionals develop a presentation.


Distill your entire idea into a single sentence. This is similar to the elevator pitch. Remember that each word should be specially chosen, as if you were asked to write it on Twitter. It should grab the client's attention so that you can continue your presentation about the idea's execution.
Create a storyboard for your idea. Most advertising is highly visual, so sketch out the elements of your idea. Ask a graphic designer or artist to help you in the case of print advertising. If you are working online, you may be able to do some drafts online and use screen grabs or a projection screen as your storyboard.
Choose 3 points to make. This "rule of three" limits your presentation to the few points that your audience can remember and take with them. An idea that is too complicated to explain in a few simple points may need to be thought out more before it is presented.
Create an emotional attachment. Presenting is like storytelling. You can present it in a way that says how the product or service will help someone to achieve their goals and dreams. Some stories are successful when there is a hero (your product) and a villain.
Give the benefits and the figures. Most businesses will not care if an ad is beautiful or well thought out if it does not add to their bottom line, increase in traffic or another of their goals. An advertising idea is often chosen for the relevance to the client's current goals. Explain the data in simple terms.
 Make a final draft of your original storyboard. Also, ask a colleague or a family member to listen and critique your presentation in order to find any weak points.
 Present your idea as if it's "the next big thing." Most clients are looking for advertising ideas and agencies who are innovative and have powerful ideas, so try to prove this with a confident pitch.
 Find out ahead of time who you will be meeting with. If the CFO is there, focus a little more on numbers, and if the head of marketing is there, present more on the entire marketing campaign instead of just the idea.
 Your ability to foresee problems with your idea will determine how strong it is. Try to brainstorm any objections, then think of ways to strengthen the idea or overcome the objection based on facts.
 There is nothing more uncomfortable than a silent room after a presentation, so try to get your audience involved. If they don't automatically ask something, you can ask them if they have questions they'd like to consider before moving forward.
 If your presentation meets with success and it is approved during the meeting, you should be ready to go to the next step. Talk about executing the idea and what the time frame will be to show that you are confident and prepared to make the client a priority.

