 For women, there is a decrease in fertility as they advance in age. While you and your partner are the ones who should decide the best time, if any, to have children, you are more likely to conceive in your twenties and early thirties. An older woman’s eggs are not fertilized as easily as a younger woman’s eggs, and may not develop normally even after fertilization occurs. As well, men are most fertile in their early twenties.Fertility in men declines gradually at around 40 years old. However, most men can father children into their 50s and beyond.
Women are more likely to have fertility issues when they are over 35. Women over 35 are also less likely to get pregnant as a result of fertility treatments, and are more like to have a miscarriage if they do become pregnant., If you are trying to conceive or are considering pregnancy in the near future, you should try to maintain a healthy weight for your age and height. Being underweight or overweight can lower your fertility.


This is especially important for women, as being overweight or obese can increase your risk of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), which can cause infertility.
To determine if you are at the ideal weight for your age and height, use a Body Mass Index calculator.If you are overweight, you should work on losing weight in a healthy and sustainable way.
 There are many health risks related to smoking, one of which is negative affects on your fertility. Women who smoke are more likely to get menopause earlier than women who do not smoke, and are more likely to experience ovarian failure.As well, men who smoke risk affecting their virility by damaging their sperm, decreasing their sperm’s motility, and decreasing their sperm production., If you are trying to get pregnant, avoid drinking any alcohol to prevent harming a developing baby. If you are planning on getting pregnant in the near future, avoid drinking excessively and drink no more than one or two units of alcohol once or twice a week.Men should also be wary of drinking excessively. You may damage your sperm if you exceed three to four units of alcohol (or two standard drinks) a day.
 If you are in a profession that exposes you to high levels of potentially harmful toxins or chemicals, you may be at risk of developing fertility issues. Dental assistants, industrial workers, agricultural workers, and hair stylists are all at risk of reduced fertility due to the chemicals involved in their day to day work.You should also avoid exposure to radiation and glycol ester, a chemical found in some paints. These substances can both negatively affect your fertility., Men can protect their fertility by avoiding drugs such as steroids or marijuana. These can lead to negative impacts on your virility and lessen your chances of producing viable sperm., A man’s testicles should always be one to two degrees cooler than the rest of his body to prevent slow sperm production. Avoid prolonged exposure to direct heat, such as sitting in a hot tub or a hot bath. If your occupation requires long hours of sitting, or you wear clothing that retain heat, including tight underwear, this can raise the temperature of your testicles and affect your sperm count.Opt for short soaks in a hot bath or a hot tub, try to go for walks throughout the day if your job requires a lot of sitting down, and wear loose underwear.

