 While you can try home remedies or over-the-counter treatments, if you don't see any improvement in your acne scars within 6 to 8 weeks, you should see a dermatologist. Acne can be painful and the scars probably won't go away on their own so getting medical attention is important.Your primary care physician may need to refer you to a dermatologist in order for your insurance to cover the exam. Or, your doctor may simply recommend dermatologists who specialize in cystic acne.
 Dermabrasion removes the top layers of skin and is used for small scars. It is the most common treatment for acne scars. The dermatologist will apply a local anesthetic and will use tools that carefully sand away the top layer of skin. If your cystic acne covers a large area of skin, your dermatologist may give you a sedative or recommend general anesthesia.Your skin will be red and swollen after the treatment. The swelling should go down within 2 or 3 weeks.
 If you have more severe acne scars, the dermatologist may want to remove the topmost layer of skin. You'll probably get general anesthesia so you'll be asleep during the procedure. The dermatologist will apply the chemical peel to small patches of your skin and remove it along with your top layer of skin which will remove the cystic acne scars.If you had a deep peel, the dermatologist will show you how to change your surgical bandages after the procedure. If you had a moderate peel, you'll probably need to apply cool compresses and lotion.
 If you have ice pick (punched-out) scars, you may be able to remove them by getting a dermal filler injection. During this procedure, collagen (a protein approved by the FDA) is injected under your skin to fill in the pits caused by acne.Your dermatologist may also use steroid injections for scars that are hyper-pigmented or darker than surrounding skin.
 Pulsed dye lasers or intense pulsed light can be used to treat raised acne scars. These high energy light beams burn away damaged skin and scars. Once the scars have been burned away, your skin is more likely to heal normally and without any scarring.Less intensive lasers and lights can be used to leave your skin intact while stimulating the collagen underneath your skin., Small skin grafts (also known as punch grafts) are usually used to treat deep cystic acne scars, especially if they don't respond well to other treatments. During the graft, the dermatologist will punch a hole to remove the scar. The scar is replaced with your own skin (which usually comes from behind your ear).Be aware that many insurance policies may not cover scar removal because it is considered to be cosmetic surgery unless the scar is a physical impairment. Check with your insurance carrier to find out what your policy covers.

