 These are some of the best plant sources to make sure your baby gets enough protein. Since most women get their protein from animal sources, it's imperative you find a replacement in these foods. Here are some ideas:


Seeds such as chia, hemp, sunflower, sesame seeds and flaxseeds
Nuts such as almonds, walnuts, pine nuts and Brazil nuts
Beans such as lentils, cannellini or white beans, black eye peas, kidney beans, mung beans, lima beans, and black beans.

Seeds and nuts not only provide the essential proteins but also provide fats that include omega-3.

;
, Whole grains such as millet, amaranth, oats, brown rice, and barley, and vegetables such as corn, artichokes, green peas, mushrooms, avocados, and potatoes are some good plant proteins. Nuts and beans can become monotonous, so mix it up with some healthier grains.


You can combine grains with legumes to obtain all the 9 essential amino acids in one meal. Good examples are corn and beans or any beans with rice.
You can also have 364 grams (12.8 oz) of pinto nuts and 12 grams of Brazil nuts to get all the 9 amino acids in one meal.
 Soy products are also a good source of protein; this includes soybeans, tofu, soy milk, and soy chips amongst other soy products. What's more, soy is a tasty alternative to meat that not only offers protein but makes your diet feel richer and more fulfilling. Meals that you thought were off-limits can easily be included in your diet with soy products.


1-1/2 cups of tofu (or lentils) and 3-1/2 cups of soy milk can directly add 25 grams (0.88 oz) of protein to your diet. Try a glass of soy milk in the morning and at night to get closer to this goal.
 Proteins are necessary for your baby's muscle building and weight gain. You need to have a total of 70 grams (2.5 oz) of protein daily. A woman who isn't pregnant needs 45 grams (1.6 oz); you require 25 extra grams of protein in addition to your daily protein intake.This is especially important in the second and third trimester of pregnancy.Protein is important in building the immunity of the baby. Pregnant vegan mothers are encouraged to watch out for symptoms of decreased protein levels by paying attention to general weakness, muscle cramping, and swelling of the hands and feet.
Although animal sources such as poultry, meat, seafood, and eggs contain all the nine amino acids and are complete proteins, you, as a vegan, can increase your portions of plants (aka incomplete proteins) to compensate for the absence of complete proteins.
 The green leafy kind – like spinach, kale, collard greens, chard, and lettuce – are best. Broccoli, asparagus, turnip greens, lentils, and kidney beans can fulfill your folate requirements to some extent, too.


Beans and pumpkin seeds are good sources of iron as well. Try to mix up your sources so you get a variety of other nutrients, too. Having a wide variety of vegetables, nuts, and beans in your diet will ensure that you're on the right track.
 Whole meal bread and dried fruit, like apricots and raisins, are also good for iron. Fenugreek, oatmeal, dates, and fruits such as bananas, apples, and pomegranates are rich in non heme iron and folates, too.


Make sure you have cereals, fruit juices, pastas, and breads fortified with iron, folic acid, and folates. Many products now come fortified with iron, often for this purpose.
 The pregnant vegan may need to take supplements to help meet the daily requirements of iron in the body. Supplements are usually taken after the first twenty weeks of pregnancy. However, you should be advised by your obstetrician or a nutritionist before taking any supplements.


Dietary iron comes in two varieties: heme and non heme. Heme is easier to absorb but it is found only in animal sources. However, you can increase your intake of non heme iron through plant sources and/or through a supplement to compensate for a lack of heme iron.
 Folates play a crucial role in fetal development; in fact folate deficiency can lead to neural tube defect and incomplete development of the fetal spine. Folates are present in some of the foods listed above, but a supplement may also be wise.


A daily folate supplement containing 400 micrograms of folate is recommended as soon as you start planning your pregnancy and should be continued through the 1st trimester.
Your doctor will likely suggest a multi-vitamin and multi-mineral supplement containing 18 mg of iron, along with vitamin B12 and folates in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters. Ferrous, ferrous sulfate, ferrous citrate, ferric gluconate, and ferric sulfate are the types of iron frequently used in these supplements.
 You require 45 mg of iron daily to compensate for increased blood volume and the baby’s requirements. Ideally, your hemoglobin should be above 11grams/dl.


The need of iron in the body is higher in pregnancy than normal because of the blood formation that is taking place in the baby and the increase in blood volume for the mother. Blood helps in the transport of the important nutrients that are needed by the body and therefore more of the blood is required to transport the nutrients while one is pregnant.
A vegan pregnant woman should watch out for signs of reduced blood in the body. This includes pale eyes, hands, having shortness of breath and getting tired easily. This is because iron helps in transformation of oxygen to the vital organs and therefore when it is reduced, the mother will have problems breathing.
 The sources of calcium for a pregnant vegan include white and brown bread, rice, oat drinks, dried fruit like apricots and figs, and nuts. As for your vegetables, add more collard greens, kale, butternut squash, broccoli, navy beans, and soya beans to your diet.


Fortified juices like orange juice can offer an equal amount of calcium like dairy products. However, stick to fresh, unsweetened juices to avoid spiking your blood sugar too high.
 Your healthcare provider may also prescribe an oral calcium supplement for you to take. The recommended calcium supplementation for women whose diets lack milk and milk products during pregnancy is 500-1000 mg through oral calcium tablets., Go out for a walk or just sit and enjoy the sunlight during the early morning or late evening to gain enough Vitamin D.


Otherwise, you'll need a supplement. Vegans should read the label carefully to ensure that the supplement does not contain any animal products. The recommended dose of vitamin D that should be taken is 15 micrograms of supplemental or dietary vitamin D.However, it is advisable to talk to your dietician, obstetrician or a midwife before taking supplements while one is pregnant because some of them can cause harm to the baby.
 Calcium and vitamin D are necessary to facilitate development of your baby’s teeth and bones. You require at least 1000 mg of calcium during pregnancy.Although some animal sources such as milk and milk products are important sources of calcium, and most doctors insist on having them during pregnancy, you could gain similar amounts of calcium by having at least 8 portions of calcium rich foods daily.
Animal sources of protein are more likely to cause calcium loss from the bones. Thus, being a vegan you have a lower chance of losing calcium due to animal protein intake.A vegan pregnant mother is encouraged to watch out for the symptoms of reduced vitamin D in the body that include muscle pains, general fatigue and back pains.
 A pregnant woman should have 2.6 micrograms of vitamin B12 per day.The downside of vitamin B12 is that it is present only in animal foods. As a result, most vegetarians are deficient in this important nutrient. You can still get enough of it through supplements and fortified foods.


Possible sources of this vitamin include soya drinks and fortified cereals that are used for breakfast like cornflakes.
Vitamin B12 is important in the body because it works together with folic acid in helping with the fetal development and helping in the formation of red blood cells because there is increased requirement of blood for the baby and the mother.
The mother is encouraged to watch out for signs of decreased vitamin B12 such as pale skin, bleeding gums and weakness.
 DHA is essential for normal development of your baby’s brain and vision. These hormones are extremely important for fetal growth. Although the chief sources of DHA (and iodine) is seafood you can use supplements to add them to your vegan diet.


DHA is present in plant foods such as flaxseeds, walnuts, almonds, canola oil, and soya beans.
Vegan DHA supplements prepared from microalgae are also available in health food stores.
Additionally, most folate supplements come enriched with DHA these days. You can opt for such supplements to make sure you get enough DHA.
 Iodine is necessary for the production of thyroid hormones. Iodine deficiency can lead to hypothyroidism in you and the baby. This can also lead to fetal abnormalities or disabilities. Again, the chief source is seafood, but you can get it through seasonings and supplements, too.


Make sure you have iodized salt for seasonings and cooking to avoid iodine deficiency. However, the recommended salt intake is 2300 mg – which is only one teaspoon! Too much and it could increase your blood pressure. Don't go overboard.
 Pregnant vegans are advised to avoid drinking coffee and tea with meals. This is because these drinks contain polyphenols and tannins that reduce the ability of the body to absorb irons from the vegetables that are eaten.


And, quite obviously, avoid alcohol. When you're pregnant (and even when you're not!), water, soy milk, and unsweetened juices are best.
 Make sure you have enough vitamin C enriched foods in your diet such as citrus foods, lemons, and tomatoes. Vitamin C facilitates the absorption of iron in your bowels, making your baby healthier and you happier.


Juiced vegetables like broccoli and juiced fruits like orange are great, too. Since you're not drinking coffee or tea in the mornings, try juicing some citrus fruits or vegetables to start off your day right.
 On average, you need to gain around 25 to 30 pounds during pregnancy so that your baby weighs and grows adequately. Here's a sample menu of how to ensure that you and your baby are as healthy as possible:



Breakfast:
One slice of whole bread spread with margarine and a whole fruit.
Half a cup of oatmeal mixed with maple syrup
I cup of soymilk and half a cup of vitamin D and calcium fortified orange juice

Lunch:
Vegetable burger with ¾ tsp of mustard and ketchup
One cup of steamed collard greens mixed with one cup of soymilk

Dinner:
¾ cup of fried tofu with 1 cup of vegetables
1 cup of brown rice
Half an orange
A banana, 1/2 cup of blueberries, 1 cup of soymilk, half a glass of apple juice, or whole grain crackers with 2 tablespoon (29.6 ml) of peanut butter may be had as a snack between meals.

