 The filter will attach to the pipes beneath the sink, so clear enough space to accommodate the filter system.;
, Before you choose a filter, you will need to know what kind of impurities are present in your natural water supply.


Buy a do-it-yourself water testing kit to determine what you want to filter out of your water.
Ask the water company for details on your water composition. If you use city or public water, they are required to disclose the makeup of the water you are drinking.
 Each under-the-sink system will specialize in certain contaminants.


Review different models and talk to sales associates about what will work best for your water.
 Under-the-sink filters should be able to make your water appealing to drink as well as safe.
 Under-the-sink water filters use one of these methods to remove pollutants in your water.


Choose an activated carbon system if you want to use a replaceable cartridge. This type of system will capture chemicals, pesticides and other chemicals by using carbon in the filter.
 This system will remove larger particles from your water and flush them as waste. The water pressure will be higher, and excess water is stored in a tank under the sink.
 Many under-the-sink models include an attachment for the faucet which will allow you to get purified water for drinking, which uses the filter, and then regular tap water when you are cleaning or washing dishes.
 You can pay between $100 and $300 for an under-the-sink water filter.
 Major chains such as Lowe's and Home Improvement carry them, and you can also check with your local hardware store.
 Specific brands sell them on their websites, and you can also find them on sites such as eBay, Amazon, Overstock and other online retailers.
 Installation of your under-the-sink water filter can be timely. Some companies will install the filter for you.


Use a professional if you are planning to utilize a warranty. Many warranties will require you to have your filter professionally installed.
 Most under-the-sink filters are easily maintained. You will want to find out how often to change the filter and what to do if it breaks or malfunctions.

