 Start with about 5 cuts of each color and cut more as needed.
 Make sure that every cone has the shiny side of the ribbon facing outward. Staple the ribbon on it's fold to hold the cone shape.
 Position the cones so that the points are pointing away from the backer and staple base of the cone. For the first layer, use the same color cones and leave about a quarter to a half inch of space between each cone.


Continue to staple the cones until the entire edge of the backer is filled with cones. It should look like a drawing of a sun or a flower.
 Remember to staple the base of the cone on the backside of the backer.
 The flower can be either real or fake, but most used are generally fake to prevent from wilting.
 Set the mum aside and allow the glue to dry for several minutes.


If you want to make a double mum, simply use a double backer with two holes instead of one and attach two flowers using a glue gun.
 Again, start with about 5 strips of each and then cut as many as needed to create a full-looking mum.
, Staple them together, making sure to alternate the colors and ribbon width/style as desired.
 Some ideas includes the writing of words out in glitter glue, fastening beads, rhinestones, or small plush figurines, and even putting photographs on the ribbons. Be sure to use a hot glue gun to fasten charms and other heavier objects to the ribbons., To make a military braid, begin by stapling the ends of two different colored ribbons together at a right angle.


Next, fold a colored ribbon towards you, forming a loop as long as the ribbon is wide and staple the ribbons together where they intersect.
Take a loop of your second ribbon and bring it through the original loop of the first ribbon.
Continue to bring a loop of the first ribbon through the second ribbon and pull the second ribbon tight around the first ribbon. Remember to alternate ribbon colors as you continue to do this until you reach the end of the ribbons.
 You will use your middle backer with the streamers for this step.


Cut several pieces of curling ribbon each 36 inches (91.4 cm) long and tie a small bell to the end of each piece.
Attach to the middle backer using hot glue.
 Staple the loop to the top center of the third, unused backer. This will serve as the base for your safety pin.
,, Allow the glue to dry., Then simply attach the pin to your clothing.
