 What’s more, we feel nothing worth boring.;
, Psychologists suggest that use camera to take a picture of some people and things around everyday, such as the trees outside the window, the roadside flowers, the kids in the neighborhood and the friend’s wedding. Record these fragments which are easily forgotten at any time, when you take out these photos, you will find that all the details are good memories and nothing deserves complaining. Therefore, through this progress people can easily become happy.
 While being alone is also one of the ways to adjust the mood, do not save your own time to rest, just share some to the collective activity. Mountain climbing, outing, flying a remote-controlled plane, picnic, party, song fans... Encourage yourself to take an active part in activities, you will find the power of being strong and calm in the common play.
 Then say to yourself: "Well it's just a movie which is not a real life", so that your mood will be improved. This is a method of reverse thinking, which is often used in psychology to help people think about questions in perspective.
 Many capable housewives will get up early in the morning on Saturday, and non-stop to do household chores, such as cleaning, cleaning toilets, etc. Such habits often can let a person feel tired on Saturday night, which will affect the sleep quality on Sunday. Might as well temporarily put aside those trivial housework, on the weekend morning to make a beautiful daydream. Don’t blame yourself, instead you should encourage yourselves: “I work so hard, and deserves squandering time to rest, right.”

, People who have a habit of keeping a diary, just doodle on the paper or simply write a few words, which can reflect the subconscious psychology, so can the email. And sending regular emails with friends, not only can help you let go of things, can also help you make up the indifference of friendship by talking about the recent life.
 A big meal’s beauty lies in the fact that it can not only enjoy delicious food, but also can make you feel like that you have a special treatment. When one enjoys a different care from other people, his mood will become well unknowingly. In childhood we may all have such experience: when parents bought a beautiful bowl which is specially for you, you will happily eat more food than usual, and even if the food that you don’t love will also became “cute”.
 Pick a famous cafe, bring a novel that recently most interests you, choose one by the window, sit down and order a cup of coffee and read over coffee... Yes, this is the “Petit bourgeois” that often appears in the movie. But what it matters, just allow yourself to experience some romantic scenes in the movie, and you will also be affected by atmosphere and get the true relaxation and enjoyment.
 Swimming is one of the most energetic movement, but this kind of exhausting activity can let a person get rid of the troubles and stretch the mind and body. Choosing a person to go swimming is good also. Surrounded by water, again the bad mood can also be softened.
 Even though someone once say this is the A Q’s method of victory, you should also prefer to do this, after all, it is more meaningful than live a gloomy life.

