 In order to get through any of the games, you will need to catch Pokémon in order to build a team. You can catch Pokémon that you find in encounters out in the world. Weaken them through battles and then catch them with a Pokéball! Some Pokéballs work better than others.


Get in the tall grass. In all Pokémon games, if you travel into tall grass, random wild Pokémon jump out at you quite often. Often, the tall grass will contain common and low leveled Pokémon, which can be useful to train newly-caught Pokémon. Some tall grass however contain exotic Pokémon as well. Late in the game, you may even find a rare legendary Pokémon in the tall grass as well.;
, You will also need to make your Pokémon stronger, if you want to beat the game. Level up your Pokémon by giving them experience in battles (gain enough levels and they will evolve into something more powerful!) and consider EV training if you want to make them really strong.


Find out what moves are the best for your Pokémon type, and what moves it is weak to.
You might also want to learn new moves using Technical Machines or Hidden Machines, which are items you can find in the game that will teach compatible Pokémon new moves.
 Breeding Pokémon is a huge section on its own. It is usually used to teach a Pokémon moves it would not otherwise learn and manipulate its IVs to give it optimal stats. Breeding it with a specific Pokémon that has a certain move will sometimes result in the baby learning said move, even if it could not otherwise. Breeding should only be done after you have some experience playing Pokémon games.
 Many of the Pokémon games will let you trade Pokémon with your friends, by connecting your games together. Trading is important because you will only have access to certain Pokémon depending on what version of your game you bought and what you've been able to catch. Trade with people who have different versions of the game. This is the only legit way to catch 'em all!


For example, if you have Black and they have White, trade to get the Pokémon you won’t be able to find in your game.
 There are lots of items in the game that can help your Pokémon. There are items that make them level faster, items that heal them, items that make them happy, and items that make them easier to catch! Get money in the game and find items to help you win.


Always have extra money on you. You never know what might happen. Your Pokémon could get badly injured, and it's nice to see some cool new stuff! Spend some money if you want!

, Almost all Pokémon games revolve around a common theme: you will need to challenge and beat each of the gym leaders to progress through the game. If you want to beat them, you’ll need a strong team and well-trained Pokémon with type advantages against the gym leader. Each trainer will have a certain type of Pokémon that they focus on. Make sure you know what their focus is so that you come prepared.
 When you beat the gym leaders, you’ll collect the badge for that gym. There are eight gym leaders to beat and eight badges to collect. When you've got them all, you can progress to the final section of the game! Beating gym leaders also nets you a TM (Technical Machine) which may contain rare and strong moves!

, The Elite Four are the final bosses of the game. These are the best of the best Pokémon trainers and you will need to have powerful Pokémon, a balanced team, and great skills as a trainer to beat them! After you do, you will fight the champion.
 The beginning of the game may be boring, but pay close attention to what any of the characters have to say. It could be important toward your adventure! Usually the first few hours of the game aren't very action packed or loaded with addicting mysteries to solve. You have to put time and effort into progressing further into your Pokémon journey. This is what makes it fun!

Once you start to progress in the story, don't give up because you get stuck. Look around because there is always a way to beat your Pokémon game.
If you can't beat a gym, grind against wild Pokémon and buy potions.
Take a break. If you can't beat an area or level, just go and calm yourself by exploring new dungeons, having friendly battles with friends, etc. Because when you're frustrated because you spent three and a half hours on this one impossible level, the answer won't show itself. But when you look at the problem again, it will be more likely to reveal itself.

