 You can heat water using a kettle, saucepan, microwave, or electric hot pot.









A tea kettle is the recommended method, followed closely by a standard saucepan. In either case, fill the cookware with enough water for the coffee amount you want to make and place it on the stove. Boil using medium to high heat.
Microwaving water can be dangerous if not done carefully.Place the water in an open microwave-safe cup and stick a non-metallic object, like a wooden chopstick, into the water. Heat the water slowly in 1 to 2 minute intervals until it reaches your desired temperature.
An electric hot pot is easy to use. Pour enough water into the hot pot for your coffee and plug the device in. Turn the knob somewhere between medium and full heat, and let heat for a few minutes until the water begins to bubble or boil.;
, Add enough pre-ground coffee to your largest liquid measuring cup to make as many servings of coffee as you need.









You should use roughly 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 mL) of coffee grounds per 1 cup (250 mL) of water.
Use your largest liquid measuring cup, especially if you plan to make more than one mug of coffee.
If you do not own a large measuring cup, you could also use a large heat-proof bowl or pitcher.
 Pour the hot water directly over the grounds in the measuring cup.









For this method, no filters are needed. The coffee grounds and water can blend.
 Allow the coffee to steep for 3 minutes. Stir well, and steep for an additional 3 minutes.


The amount of time can vary depending on what type of coffee you use and how strong you like it. This amount of time produces an average cup using standard quality coffee grounds.
 Position a tea strainer over a mug, thermos, or other cup. Pour the liquid through the strainer. Repeat to fill any remaining mugs.









The strainer should catch the coffee grounds, preventing them from getting into your mug of coffee.
At the conclusion of this step, your coffee should be ready to drink. Add cream and sugar as desired, and enjoy.

