 The opposite of complimenting a person is nagging them. When you find small details about a person and use them to vent your own frustrations or insecurities, it undermines the relationship. If you need to talk to him about something he is (or isn’t) doing, you should have a clear, calm conversation about it. Tell him what you expect him to do, and let him do it.For example, instead of nagging him for not doing the dishes, you could just say something like “I could really use some help with the dishes when you have time.”

, Even if you love someone, you should realize that you will not always agree with everything they do. If something he does bothers you, you can talk to him about it, but avoid turning it into a general label on his personality. By withholding judgment, you see him as a whole person and not just the sum of his mistakes.For example, if he forgets to do the dishes (even though you reminded him), keep in mind that he has a lot going on, too. While it is fair to expect help, you should not judge him as lazy or inconsiderate when he doesn’t get everything done.
 Telling him you love him is important. Telling yourself that you love him is just as important. It is easy to get frustrated with someone and analyze all of their faults. Instead, you should remind yourself constantly that you love him and that your frustration with him doesn’t define him.For example, if he forgot your birthday, you are probably going to be pretty frustrated. Instead of focusing on how badly that hurt, remind yourself that you love him the way he is and that you can still celebrate your birthday with him even if you had to remind him.
 The man you love is not perfect. That is because nobody is perfect. Though it might be easy for you to imagine a fairytale romance, be aware that such relationships rarely (if ever) happen in real life. In fact, a happy relationship takes work from both sides and requires realistic expectations.


The idea of a “Mr. Right” just waiting around the corner for you will likely destroy your relationship over time.
 Relationships are all about compromise and flexibility. Though you shouldn’t settle for being with someone that you don’t love, you should realize that you will have to give up some of the things on your checklist if you want to love someone. The man you love isn’t likely to be able to satisfy your every fantasy or whim, but he can love you and satisfy some of those things. The rest, you will have to accept as qualities that he does not possess.


For example, the man you love might not be able to dance and sing you love songs with perfect pitch. In this case, you might have to settle for him willing dance with you and belt out some karaoke (even if it’s bad karaoke).

