 Learn from her inner circle. You may ask them directly what she likes or you may subtly try and find clues to what she may find impressive. For example, you may ask if she is in any clubs or has a favourite movie. Then you can learn more about the topic and impress her with your knowledge.


Do not lie about who you are or why you want to know about her. You may come off creepy or ruin your friendship if she learns you lied.
 Don’t try to read her mind. Open communication is the best way to find out what might impress her. You may come off too needy and overwhelm her. Ask her directly if she sees a romantic future with you and you can impress her with a romantic gesture. If you just want to impress her as a friend, ask her directly what interests her., Be attentive and listen to what interests her. Don’t get distracted and focus on her. You will be able to pick up clues as to what might impress her. For example, she may talk about how she went to a play over the weekend so you may join the school play to impress her.Communicate on a deeper level. Don’t just ask her about her hobbies, ask why she enjoys them. "That's so cool, that you play the drums! What made you choose it?"

, Try to read her body language and don’t get distracted by your surroundings. If she has her arms crossed and is looking around, she is probably bored and not interested in what you’re saying. Keep her interested and read her body language to see if she is impressed with you.If she is touching your arm or asking questions, you have her attention and she is impressed.
 Check her social media profiles and find out about what may impress her. You can see what she Likes on Instagram or what she posts on Facebook. You can easily see what music, tv, and movies she may be into. You can also post on her timelines with links to things that may impress her.If you don’t have access to her social media page, make sure you look over your own social media profile before asking for a Friend request. You don’t want her to judge weird photos or posts on your timeline.
 Does she play sports? Is she part of any clubs? Simply ask “what are you up to this weekend” or “How’s your week so far?” You can impress her with your own busy social calendar or take up a shared interest for a chance at impressing her later in the school year.