 The room lighting, the size of the wall, the distance to the couches – all will matter when choosing a new TV. To get the best bang for your buck, you will want to know where the TV is going before purchasing. That way you can optimize the picture quality and size with regard to your current decor and furnishings instead of shuffling things later. You should know:


How far most people will be from the screen.
How and when sunlight in the room will hit the screen.
How big the wall for the TV is.;
, Think about how far away people will be from the TV. As a rule of thumb, you should be sitting 1½ - 2½ times the screen size away from the TV. So, if you want a 70” TV, you should allow for at least 9–15ft between the TV and your couch. When buying a TV, the size of the TV is the single most important factor to consider.


As a baseline, think of a 30" minimum for a bedroom TV and 50-70" for a living room TV.
TV sizes are measured diagonally, from the top left corner of the screen to the bottom right corner of the screen., One of the biggest considerations when buying a TV is the type of lighting in the room around it. When properly matched, the right lighting will lower the strain on your eyes as you watch TV and make your picture quality even better. OLED (organic light-emitting diode) TVs, while the most expensive, have the best picture quality in every scenario. That said, you have some options:



Dark or Dim Rooms: Plasma and OLED screens are best for dark rooms.

Bright, highly lit rooms: LED or LCD screens show off the clearest picture in bright light.

Normal lighting: LED or OLED generally work best in a variety of situations., TV is furniture, and is often the centerpiece of the room. So you need to make sure it will fit seamlessly into your living room without overcrowding or becoming unwieldy. Of course, thin TVs are easier to work with, but there are several other features that can make the difference:


Will you be buying a new TV stand, or using an old one? Ensure that the base of your TV fits securely on the stand and does not just out or balance precariously.

Can you mount the TV to a wall? This often saves the most space and eliminates the need for a bulky stand. You may, however, need an installation team if you are uncomfortable with carpentry.
 Resolution is how precise your image looks.The more pixels, the higher the resolution. This is why 2160p, also known as “4K Ultra HD,” is more expensive than 1080p, “Full HD,” or 720p. The "p" stands for how many pixels run up and down the screen in one row. More pixels give the picture better clarity and color.


As of 2016, 4K (4,000 pixels) is the current resolution champion, and prices are rapidly falling. By 2020, these TVs will be standard, and will thus last the longest. That said, 90% of consumers cannot tell the difference between 4K and 1080p -- the pixels are just too small for your eyes.
Don't buy a TV less than 1080p, since 720p is already dated and is not getting any younger.
Some systems are labeled with an “i.” such as 1080i. Just know that the picture quality is roughly the same as 1080p. 1080p has simply “won” the war over consumers., Luckily, this has only gotten easier, since almost everything uses HDMI cables these days. However, there are some devices, like a Nintendo Wii or the old VCR you can't part with, that will need older inputs. If this is a necessity for you, make sure you have a list of all your essential ports and inputs while shopping.


In general, 3-4 HDMI ports will cover all of your entertainment needs.
If you're confused about inputs and names, simply take a picture of the inputs and bring it with you to the store. Someone there will be able to give you specific advice.