 Guinea pig hutches are meant to be used outdoors and should be sturdy. Planning the layout is the first step. How big should the hutch be? Generally speaking, the bigger the better. Guinea pigs need at least 8 square feet of cage space or, for two, at least 10 square feet. For a hutch, aim to have a length of approximately four to five times that of your animal and a maximum length of about 36 inches (91 cm).It can also be designed to have two stories, one atop the other, to make more space. The hutch should be off the ground, otherwise it will be too cold for the animal and the wood may start to rot. You will therefore need it to be elevated, either on a table at about waist height or on its own legs.An old cupboard or small cabinet can often be converted into an effective hutch. This will save you from having to buy all new materials and construct the frame yourself.
Try drawing up a blueprint with your planned dimensions.;
, The best hutches are made from good solid wood, which will better protect your guinea pig from the elements as well as give it insulation. A well-designed hutch will also ward off potential predators. Avoid cheap and flimsy plywood. You will additionally need wire mesh, wood staples, screws or nails, galvanized latches, and tools like an electric drill, hammer, screwdriver, tape measure, wire-cutters, and saw, and work space for the assembly job.Readers who are less comfortable with do-it-yourself projects can buy guinea pig hutches at pet stores or online, pre-made or with easy to assemble parts, for between $100-$300. In the latter case, instructions will walk you through the construction process.
 Start by doing your measurements and cutting. Depending on how big you want the hutch, you will need to have three separate lengths for the wooden pieces: one for length, one for height, and one for width. Your dimensions, for example, might be something like 45 x 32 x 20 inches (50.8 cm). You will need at least four pieces of each size, and more if you want to construct individual frames for each of the hutch's six sides and an opening door. Measure the wood and double-check your measurements before you cut. With the electric drill, drill the attachment holes with a slightly smaller bit than your screw size and then insert the screw with the drill. Assemble the pieces together.Assembly and construction can be challenging on your own. If you don't have experience with tools and design, pre-made frames can be purchased at pet stores or online.
 The hutch must have a solid floor and roof, made from either wood or plastic. While some people recommend using mesh for the floor, this can be dangerous for the animal and can easily lead to a broken leg. The roof should meanwhile slope backward at a slight angle, so that water drains away, and should be covered with 2 to 3 layers of roofing felt to make it waterproof. Make the walls from wire mesh like chicken wire, cutting pieces to fit the frame and then affixing them with wood staples.Wooden floors unfortunately soak up urine. You will need to provide the animal with a deep floor cover and change it regularly.Timothy hay works great. Some guinea pigs may also gnaw at the floor, requiring repairs., To protect the hutch from the elements, rot, and your animal's urine and droppings, weatherproof it with a wood sealant. You will need to choose carefully, so as not to make the animal sick accidentally. Find a sealant that is safe for animals. If you will keep the hutch in a semi-enclosed space, weatherproofing is not as important but can still extend the life of the structure.