 For example: You are going to the Lake for 2 weeks, you will be staying in a cabin, you get your own room, the climate is very warm, it isn't too far from home, and they have lots of recreation halls and a teen club that is open every day.
 Check for items that may no longer be good. Also things you needed last time. Write down things you still need, this way you got three months to collect or save for anything else.
 You could bring several bathing suits, summer clothing such as Capri's, shorts, t-shirts, tank tops. Wear your heaviest or bulkiest item the day of travelling to make more space in your suitcase.
 If you are using a little car and carpooling with about 2 or more other people, don't take up the whole trunk or car for that matter. Take at absolute most 2 suitcases, and 3 bags e.g. hiking bags, back packs. Maybe try packing items such as socks in your shoes.
 (See Things You'll Need for a list of suggestions) Make sure you take enough things but don't overdo it as you may bring too much and not find anything.
 Make sure you didn't forget anything.
 Packing smart, Weather gear, and Travel gear.;
, An example would be putting soft stuff by your back so it's not poking you the whole hike. You need to be prepared but you can't have everything. Another idea is to put stuff in gallon baggies to pack easier.
 If you are facing really cold weather (winter) you need to have this gear:


coat (wind layer)
overalls, hat, balaclava, wicking layer (Under Armor) that would cover from your toes to your neck, warmth layer (in between the wicking layer and wind layer), two pair of socks wicking layer and warmth layer, boots, and (day you are outside) times extra boot liner same with gloves. For summer camping you need to have waterproof shoes, bug spray, sunscreen, and a poncho.
 There are three backpack sizes. The first is a day pack, this is a small pack for short hikes. The second kind is a three day pack, this is a pack that is medium size. The largest pack is a pack that is for more than three days. There are two kinds of packs. The first is an internal frame, and the second is an external frame (day packs are usually frameless).
 This way, the first things you need to unpack once you arrive should be the last things you pack before leaving for your trip.

