 Most states have specific regulations on tinted windows, as dark-tinted front windows make it difficult for law enforcement to identify hit-and-run drivers, or to establish eye contact with suspects during traffic stops. To find out about car tinting regulations in your state, contact a local car tint installer or do an online search.





;
, There are all kinds of window film available nowadays - whether you want a specific shade or you're looking for a certain effect, such as metallic, reflective or maybe even mirrored.
 Before you decide to go ahead and apply a film tint yourself, consider the pros and cons of all your options. For example:











OEM tinted glass: OEM tinted glass is tinted within the glass, as part of the actual glass making process. It lasts throughout the entire life of the glass. OEM tinted glass usually has only a mild tint that is legal even in areas with the most stringent rules regarding tinting. Keep in mind that OEM tinted glass may be more expensive to replace in a collision. Coating tint: The coating tint method applies a special tinted solution to the existing glass, usually as a spray. This type of tint lasts much longer than film tinting, though there aren't many shops who do it for automotive glass because it requires removal of the window glass, if done correctly.Film tint: Film tinting is a very popular method for tinting car windows after they've been purchased. With this method, the window glass first needs to be specially treated, before a thin polymer film is carefully attached to the glass. This is probably the least expensive form of window tinting, and some installers believe that the film can even limit the possibility of the windows shattering upon collision. However, film tinting is not permanent and it will need to be replaced every five years or so to prevent cracking, peeling, and bubbling.Consider having your film tint applied by a professional installer if you have never applied film tint before. This way, you can avoid the appearance of bubbles or damage to the film.



