 LA is divided into four main quadrants - East Side, South Side, West Side and the Valley. Each quadrant holds many different neighborhoods and each has its own distinct feel. Figure out which quadrant you want to live in, then research neighborhoods in that area.The Valley has a more residential, suburban feel and is at least 10 degrees hotter than the rest of LA. It includes neighborhoods like Reseda, Studio City, Burbank and Woodland Hills.
The East Side is more affordable and diverse and includes neighborhoods like Downtown, Echo Park, Los Feliz and Atwater Village.
The West Side is expensive and much closer to the ocean. It includes neighborhoods like West Hollywood, Beverly Hills, Bel Air and Santa Monica.
The South Side is the most dangerous and the least convenient. It includes neighborhoods like Inglewood, Long Beach, El Segundo and South LA.;
, The first step to finding a place in LA is narrowing down the neighborhoods you’re considering. As LA traffic is notably terrible, it’s a good idea to live close to work or other places you’ll be frequenting regularly.Culver City averages $1,950 for a one bedroom and is great for singles.
Atwater Village averages $1,399 for a one bedroom, $2,400 for a two bedroom and is great for people with kids.
Koreatown averages $1,450 for a one bedroom and is great if you like a city feel.
Santa Monica averages $2,800 for a one bedroom and is great if you want to live near a beach and are comfortable having a roommate.
Downtown averages $2,650 for a one bedroom and is great if you hate driving.
Echo Park averages $1,160 for a one bedroom and is great if you like being outside.
Silver Lake averages $1,880 for a one bedroom and is great if you consider yourself a hipster.
 Even if you don’t currently live in LA, you can check out available listings through one of the many sites that offer them. Pay $60.00 to sign up for West Side Rentals to receive instant e-mails regarding availabilities. Utilize sites like Craigslist and Rent.com every day.Padmapper.com allows you to search listings by zip code and city.
Zillow.com lets you see prices by neighborhood, but is a better resource for those looking to buy property.
 There are many benefits to having a roommate: you split the costs of living, you have someone to hang out with and with two people looking, you double your chances of finding a great place to live.If you’re choosing to live with a roommate, make sure it’s someone you can get along with and who has a similar lifestyle to you.
If you’re looking remotely, see if you have any friends in LA who are looking for a roommate. If not, chances are that someone you know who lives there knows someone who is looking. Ask around, post on social media, do whatever it takes to get the word out.
 Once you’ve narrowed your search down significantly, it’s time to see the places in person. Ideally, you would do this by planning a trip to see them yourself, but sometimes that’s not feasible. If this is the case for you, send a friend who already lives in LA to scope out the places on your behalf.Have your scout take notes and photos and send them to you for you to peruse. Have your scout give you insights, but know that the decision is still ultimately your own.
If you don’t know anyone in LA, you will have to take a trip yourself. Try to pack as many neighborhoods and apartment tours into your trip as possible, in order to make the most informed decision.
 Once you have selected a new place to live, it’s time to make it official. If you can, sign the lease in person while visiting the city. If you can’t, have your future landlord or realty company e-mail you a copy of the lease. Sign it electronically and send it back.Read everything before signing. If you’re not sure what you’re reading, give it to a lawyer or friend to look over as well.
Keep copies of everything. Print out and save a copy of your lease and any other important documents. Also save e-mails between you and the landlord, in case you should need to reference them later.

