 The up-and-down jolting impact associated with running stretches certain ligaments around the diaphragm (also referred to as gut tugs). This stretching is one possible cause of side stitches.Eating shortly before a run adds more weight and matter to tug at and stretch those ligaments, which can cause cramping.Avoid full meals at least two hours (and up to four hours depending on your experience with the cramping) before a run.Also, avoid even small food items starting one hour before you run.;
, Though staying hydrated is essential to avoiding muscle cramping while running, drinking too much can have the opposite effect. Fluids sloshing around can lead to tugging on ligaments the same way that food can. Studies have shown that drinking large amounts of any drink—from water to sports drinks to soda—before a run can lead to side cramping.However, the intensity of the cramping increases with heavier, sugary drinks, including soda and fruit juices., This is a long-term step toward alleviating side stitches, but strengthening your abdominal and lower back muscles will tighten up your core in a way that may decrease the ligament stretching responsible for the cramping.Planks and pushups are great exercises for tightening core muscles.For information on strengthening your core muscles, visit How to Strengthen Your Core.
 The way you breathe during a run has an effect on your diaphragm and the ligaments that can lead to cramping. A warmup that allows you to increase your running speed gradually helps you control your breathing in a way that may minimize the risk of cramping.Start with a brisk walk before your run and then work up to a jog, and then begin running. For more info on proper warm-up exercises before running, take a look at How to Warm up for Running.
Unless you’ve done a warmup before running in cold conditions, you’re more likely to breathe erratically during the initial portion of your run., Short, shallow breathing keeps the diaphragm in a higher position and that puts more stress on the connective ligaments.By taking deeper breaths, you lower your diaphragm in a way that can decrease the risk of cramping.Try to remain mindful of your breathing during your run.
 As your momentum increases down a steep hill, you make harder impacts with each step, which increases the gut tugging responsible for diaphragm spasms. Try jogging down especially steep hills rather than going full force.