 Use a pasta with lots of nooks and crannies, such as: bow ties, corkscrews, penne, wagon wheels, macaroni, or small shells.
 You will need the extra space so that you can add your ingredients and toss it.
 This will be enough to give your salad some extra flavor, color, and texture.
 If you do not want to add any meat, then double the amount of other extra ingredients you will be using. Here are some ideas of what you can add into your salad:Cooked, chopped chicken breast, steak, or shrimp
Cubed ham, roast beef, or salami
Drained and flaked canned tuna
Chopped hard-boiled eggs
Chopped baked tofu

, Choose two different types of vegetable or bean. You will need 1 cup (150 grams) of each. Any vegetables you add should be chopped, slices, or diced. Here are some types of vegetables or beans you can add:Blanched vegetables, such as: broccoli florets, peas, corn kernels, green beans, or asparagus.
Raw vegetables, sliced or diced, such as: celery, cucumber, red onion, red or green bell pepper, carrots, or cherry tomatoes.
Drained, canned beans, such as: chickpeas, black beans, or white beans.
 Certain items, such as cheese, will need to be added at the very end, just before you serve the salad. Here are some ideas to get you started:Chopped sun-dried tomatoes
Chopped roasted red peppers
Pitted and chopped olives
Shredded or crumbled cheese, such as: mozzarella, cheddar, Swiss, Monterey Jack, feta, Parmesan, or goat
Toasted and chopped nuts such as: pine nuts, cashews, or peanuts
Toasted seeds such as: sesame (use less than 1/3 cup/50 grams) or sunflower
Cooked/fried and crumbled bacon

, The best way to prepare salad dressing is in a jar. Simply put all of the ingredients into a jar, close the jar tightly, and shake it. Some of the creamier dressings, however, are best prepared in a cup and beaten with a fork. Here are some dressings you can make:To make a simple vinaigrette: combine 1/3 cup (80 milliliters) of olive oil, 2 tablespoons of white wine vinegar, 1 minced shallot, ½ teaspoon of salt, and a dash of pepper.
To make a creamy dressing: combine 1/3 cup (85 grams) of mayonnaise, 3 tablespoons of sour cream, 1½ tablespoons of lemon juice, add ½ cup (15 grams) of chopped, mixed herbs. Add a dash of salt and pepper.
To male a creamy parmesan dressing: combine ¼ cup (65 grams) of mayonnaise, ¼ cup (65 grams) of sour cream, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice, ¼ teaspoon of finely grated garlic, and ¾ cup (75 grams) of grated parmesan. Add a dash of salt and pepper.
 If you are going to add cheese, set it aside for now. It is better to add cheese just before serving the salad, or it will become soggy.
 Cover the bowl with a sheet of plastic cling wrap and place it into the fridge.
 Give the salad a final toss to mix everything in.

