 Find or buy a pegboard from a home improvement store like Home Depot or Lowes. You can get it cut to whatever size you need and it should only require a few wood screws and drywall anchors to set it up. Paint the pegboard whichever way you like.


Try bright colors like red or orange or a design with stars and stripes. Once painted, attach hooks and hang things like baskets, toys, and clothes to get things up off the ground and add space to the room.This is an easily customizable item and can be changed regularly as you need.;
, Buy a cloth or plastic see-through over-the-door shoe organizer for toys like Barbies, stuffed animals, or cars. Simply follow the instructions to hang it over a door and then fill every cubby as needed. You can even divide the shoe organizer in half with different children’s toys. For example, barbies and their clothes can go in the top half and action figures like G.I. Joes can go in the bottom.Using a see-through organizer makes it easy for kids to see what’s in each pocket, which helps make clean-up easier.
 Measure out a few strips of magnetic tape to add to a playroom wall. The amount you use will depend on the number of toys you plan to attach. For example, if your child has a large collection of race cars, then you may want 3-5 strips of tape. However, if you have the wall space, you can also just do one long line of magnetic tape. Once you’ve attached it to the wall, simply place the cars or other metal toys along the stripe.Make sure this strip is low enough for children to access easily.
You can find magnetic tape at most craft stores or online on Amazon for around $20. It should have one side with a typical tape adhesive covered in thin white paper. Simply peel this off and stick the tape to the wall.
The tape should peel off easily. However, if you are having issues, try using a mixture or warm water and dishwasher soap to remove the tape., A hideaway table or desk is a great way to free-up space in a playroom. You can find wall-mounted desks on Amazon or from Ikea for under $50. Everything you need for the set-up is included, outside of a screwdriver. Just make sure to test the durability of the desk before you buy it, as children can be rough in their usage of household furniture.Most fold-away desks only require screws and hinges. You first need to decide where on the wall you want the desk, then use a level and pencil to mark a straight and even line. Once you've done this, you should only have to screw the hinges into the desk, and then screw the other half of the hinges into the wall.

