 All major scales are formed using the same interval formula. Once you've memorized this formula, you can not only figure out how to play the C Major scale, you can learn any other major scale by applying the formula.








Intervals are specified by whole and half steps. On your guitar, a whole step is two frets, while a half step is one fret.
For all major scales, there is a whole step between the first and second notes, a whole step between the second and third notes, and a half step between the third and fourth notes. Then you have whole steps between the rest of the notes up until the seventh note. There is a half step between the seventh and eighth notes. This interval formula can be abbreviated W-W-H-W-W-H.
 The root note of any scale is the note that names the scale. So for the C Major scale, the root note is C. In first position, you'll find this note on the third fret of the fifth string., On your guitar neck, one whole step equates to two frets. So if you started on the third fret of the fifth string, the second note in the C major scale would be on the fifth fret of the fifth string., Using the interval formula, you can accurately play the C Major scale on any given string, starting from the root note. A whole step up from C is D, another whole step up is E, a half step to F, and so on.








Sing the names of the notes along with your playing to connect the notes to the intervals.
 Every major scale can be played on each individual string. When learning the scale by interval, this is one of the easiest ways to understand the relation between the notes and prepare you to move up and down the neck with a scale.








While normally you will play a scale across several strings, moving up and down a single string can help you understand the logic of how notes are arranged in scales and octaves. Try this if you are a beginning guitarist – the understanding will help you pick up more complex melodies later.
When you're playing the entire scale on one string, you also can simply move one finger up and down the fret board, rather than worrying about changing fingers. This will help you become more familiar with moving around on the neck of your guitar.

