 When starting the school year, be nice to everyone, even people who you don't particularly like. Chances are you'll make lots of friends, and that's the key to surviving. Try to make sure that you have more than just one or two friends.
 Learn how to study properly and listen to what the teacher says during lessons. Try to get on the teacher's good side by asking questions and looking interested.


Do not ask the teacher silly questions that don't relate to the lesson. It may get a laugh out of your classmates, but this tends to annoy teachers since it takes away valuable time that you could be learning.
 Getting in trouble may interfere with your learning if you have to miss class. You do not want bad things going on your record since it can affect you later on, and even if it doesn't get on your record, you may be labelled as a "problem student" by the teacher.


Things that will be on your record will be things like detentions, suspensions, and getting expelled from a school. If you simply yell something out during a lesson, it most likely won't go on your record, but it won't make the teacher like you very much.
 Your teacher will not be too happy, and your attendance record will be affected.


If you have to be late for whatever reason, make an effort to ask the teacher what you missed. For example, if you had a doctor's appointment that caused you to miss the first hour or two of class, make sure you talk to the teacher so that you know what you need to get done.
 Do your homework the day you get it and make sure you have everything you need the night before. Try to keep everything organised - having loose papers in your bag won't be beneficial when the teacher is waiting for you to hand in an assignment and you can't find it.


Keeping things organised can be by using small folders or binders in which you can keep assignments. It's also a good idea to have a pencil case so you know where your writing supplies are.
 Don't let other people push you into being someone you are not, even if they are your friend.
 If it was raining yesterday, don't jump in mud, or you'll have to go to the office and go home.


Depending on the school, if you get dirty, you may end up getting "loaner" clothes, which are clothes that the school lets you borrow until the next day. These clothes are usually disliked by most of the students, so try not to have a reason to need them!

, Make sure that you write your name on all of it before you start school. Every pen, pencil, crayon, etc. needs to have your name on it. This will aid in its recovery if it is ever stolen and prevents your classmates from pulling the "Hey, that's mine!" thing when you drop something on the floor.;
, You should shower daily and start wearing deodorant. Try to be ready for the school bus five minutes before you leave your house so that you can remember anything that you might forget.
 Whereas in the primary grades, homework was simply to read for fifteen minutes and get your parents or legal guardians to sign some notices, you will now be getting real homework. Most of that work will be independent study instead of group work, so you will probably need to start a daily routine for your homework. For example: come home, have a snack, then start your homework. If your homework is more than 30 minutes, it's is a good idea to take a break every 10 minutes.
 You will most likely get a lot of long-term projects in the 4th grade to start preparing you for fifth grade and middle school. When doing projects, always add some part of your project to your homework. That way you reduce to chance of having to pull a dreaded "all nighter".
 Fourth grade is really the time when you decide what clothes you wear. When you go back-to-school shopping, speak up and say to whoever you are going shopping with if you don't like whatever they picked out. You are a young adult now!


Depending on your parents, they may not allow you to wear certain types of clothing. If they do, don't protest or make a fuss - they have their reasons for it.
 You should have a lot of friends to make it through.

