 Some lucky charms may just jump out to you, so don’t just choose a lucky charm because it’s something you’ve heard is lucky. A lucky charm should be something that you feel connected to and feels good to you.


Lucky charms are supposed to give you luck through your attachment to them. If you choose a lucky charm because someone says it is good, you won’t have a clear attachment to the charm.
You may already have a lucky charm around your home. There may be an object that you’ve kept around you for years that you already feel is good luck for you.;
, Lucky charms should be something that you feel close to. This should be an object that has personal significance and connection to your own history.


Family heirlooms can be lucky charms. Maybe your parents or grandparents have left you a coin or small object you can carry in your pocket for good luck.
You may also find objects from your past to be a meaningful lucky charm. A souvenir from a childhood trip or toy from when you were younger can be a lucky charm.
 Some lucky charms may come when you least expect it. If you’re out in nature, you may find some naturally-occurring lucky charms that may be perfect for you.


If you’re at the beach, seashells are plentiful. They come in all shapes and sizes, so see if one is appealing to you as a new lucky charm.
You can also find good lucky charms in the woods. Some plants, such as the four-leaf clover, are known to be lucky charms; however, you may also just find some pieces of wood or plants that are appealing to you as a totem.
 While some lucky charms may have been passed down to you or you may have discovered, you may also want to make your own lucky charm. You can make a lucky charm that represents a popular lucky charm or you may even want to make one out of materials meaningful to you.


Some popular lucky charms that you can make include dream catchers, charms, and painted four leaf clovers. You can carve these out of wood, plastic, or paint pre-made lucky charms.
It may also be fun to make a lucky charm out of materials that are meaningful to you. You can use old clothing from family members or old toys from when you were younger to make a brand new charm.
 For many people, their lucky charm may come from having good luck while possessing it. You may have a lucky hat or shirt that you wore when something good happened.


Some lucky charms may be clothing. If you have any specific good memories attached to a piece of clothing, this may be a good candidate for a lucky charm.
Lucky charms can also be objects you possessed when you had good luck. Even something like a coffee mug or pen can be a lucky charm.

