 This can be done by either going to the site by inputting fanpop.com or doing an internet search for Fanpop. By internet searching you can find some of the top tabs in Fanpop, which is a good idea if you are a beginner and are starting the learning process.


Click on Sign in – this will be in your Left Hand corner if you went directly to the site.
Click on "Sign In or Register" if you searched for the site through an internet search engine.;
, This can be either New or Returning. You are likely New, because this article assumes that you have never had a account before.


Just click on the box you think that is most accurate.
 You just need a valid e-mail, username and password. Usernames can be based on the Fandom you enjoy.


For example a Teen Wolf fan's username could be "DerekWolf97", or for a Star Trek fan, "Kirkisthebestcaptain09". But it is your decision.
E-mails should be current and working. The site will send you information on your account and you can use the account for password or username recovery.
 The site will make you fill out a CAPTCHA test to prove you aren't a bot that is filling out the information to spam or else. This is simple, it is just filling in the letters you see before you.


Follow all capital letter rules when writing out the word they give you. The word is different every time.
This article might help if you are having trouble: Make a Captcha Image Appear when It's Not Showing Up.
 After pressing sign in, the site may tell you to go to your e-mail address that you provided and will ask you to validate that you opened a account.
 The site will usually open to the main page so that you can begin surfing the content. Enjoy and try out all site features, such as following people, writing posts, using the forums, making and answering polls, and answering loads of questions that are based on the work you like the best.


If you missed a step, then you may have trouble logging in, so go back and finish if that is the case. If you exit before logging in or signing in, the information will have to be filled out again.

