 Germinating and growing seeds in soil is beneficial in that it reduces the risk of damaging the plant after it has sprouted or transplanting as a seedling.You can purchase a propagation kit or create your own. You will need:


Feminized cannabis seeds.
Small peat cups.
Waterproof tray to hold peat cups.
40 watt fluorescent grow light.
Thermometer.
pH test strips.
pH balanced water (pH 5.5 to 6.5) in a spray bottle.
Saran wrap.
 Purchase a soil mix that is entirely organic, such as Sunshine Mix or Pro mix, as many commercial blends contain too much nitrogen or phosphorous.If you purchase a soil mix, check the bag to make sure the pH is between 5.5 to 7. Cannabis does not like alkaline (high pH) soil.Choose a soil mix that drains well. Mixes that drain well often contain a one-to-ten ratio of sand, sponge rock, or pearlite. You can also purchase pearlite separately and mix it in, or add porous materials such as rice hulls or pumice.You can also purchase a mycorrhizae mixture to add to store-bought soil. This is a fungus that is beneficial to plant root growth.
If you create your own soil mix rather than buying commercial potting mix, it needs to be sterilized to kill fungus and parasites. Preheat your oven to 180 degrees Fahrenheit. Fill a non-plastic oven safe container with unsterilized soil, making sure it is no more than 4 inches deep. Cover it with aluminum foil and bake for 30 minutes. Remove from over and set aside to cool. Do not remove aluminum foil until ready to use., Once you prepare you soil mix, and sterilize it if necessary, use it to fill peat cups. Use your finger to make a small 1/4 inch (0.75 cm) deep hole in the center of the cup. Drop a single cannabis seed in the hole and loosely cover with soil.Place peat cups in waterproof tray. Using a spray bottle filled with pH-balanced water (between 5.5 to 6.5), moisten but do not drench the soil. Stop watering if you notice water seeping out of the cups into the tray.


Use saran wrap to create a dome over the tray. You can place a cup in the center of the tray or use toothpicks to support the plastic dome.
Once the seeds have been planted, place the covered tray with cups under a 40 watt fluorescent light positioned 3 inches above the tray. Leave on 24 hours until plants begin to sprout.
Check soil 2 to 3 times a day to make sure it is moist. If needed, spray with pH-balanced water.
 Cannabis germination and growth can be affected by environmental factors such as moisture, temperature, insects, bacteria and fungi, and ultraviolet radiation.Set a thermometer next to the peat cups under the saran wrap dome. The ideal temperature for germination of cannabis seeds in soil is 90 degrees Fahrenheit.Once they sprout and produce leaves, you can decrease the temperature to 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit.If you notice insects, remove them manually with your hands as soon as possible to prevent an infestation.

