 Once you choose a paper size as described below, you'll see a set of dotted lines.


In Excel 2003, select Page Setup from the File menu. Then select a paper size from the Paper Size dropdown list in the Page section of the Page Setup window.
In Excel 2007 and 2010, click the Page Layout tab, then click Size and select a paper size.
 Your heading should include the following information:


Your company name. This should be in the same font and point size as on your other company materials.
The word "Invoice" or a descriptor of the type of invoice it is, such as "Price Quote" if you're quoting a price for your services to a client instead of billing for them.
The invoice date.
The invoice number. You can either use a global numbering system for all your clients or individual numbering for each client. If you choose to number for each client, you can include the client name or a form of it in the invoice number, such as "Westwood1."

, This information should appear near the top of the invoice, with your information above the client's.


Your contact information should include your or your accounts receivable person's name, your company's address, phone, fax, and email.
Your client's information should include the company name, the name of the accounts payable person, and the client address. You can also include the client's phone, fax, and email.
You can set the client information up in a separate Excel worksheet and use Excel's VLOOKUP function in your invoice spreadsheet to look up the correct client information.
 You can devote a column to a short description of the product or service, a column to quantity, a column to unit price or rate, and a calculated column for the total price for the quantity purchased of that item.


If you have a fixed selection of products or services, you can set that list up in a separate spreadsheet and use the VLOOKUP function to look that information up to avoid typing it repeatedly.
 This should appear below the calculated column of individual charges and can be generated with Excel's SUM function.


If you're charging sales tax or other fees, you should display a subtotal of the itemized charges and the amounts of the taxes and fees beneath it, then the total bill beneath those. In the case of percentage-based taxes, you should include the percentage rate for the customer's information.
 This can appear either above or below the billing information. Common payment terms are "Due on receipt," "Due within 14 days," "Due within 30 days," or "Due within 60 days."


You may also want to include a memo at the bottom of the invoice covering accepted methods of payment, general information, or including a thank-you to your customer for shopping with you.
 You should save your invoice with a meaningful name. It should include your company name and the type of invoice and may also include the invoice number and the client's name.

