 To achieve big natural, loose waves without a curling iron, twist and secure your hair into one bun.









Pull your wet or dry hair up into a high ponytail.
Raise the ponytail straight above your head. Twist the ponytail tightly from top to bottom. A tighter twist will produce more pronounced waves.
Bring your twist forward over your head. Coil the twist around itself to form a bun. Secure the bun with a hair tie.
Leave your hair in the bun for at least one hour. You may sleep with it in the bun overnight.
Remove the ponytail holder and untwist the coil. Run your fingers through you hair to separate the waves and spray your hair with hair spray., To create bouncy waves throughout the lower half of your locks, put your hair into two twisted side buns.









Spray your dry hair with sea salt spray.
Part your hair down the center from the top of your forehead to the nape of your neck.
Grab the left section near the top of your left ear. From the point, begin tightly twisting your hair until you reach the end.
Coil the twist around itself to form a bun near the top of your left ear. Secure the bun in place with a scrunchie.
Repeat this process on the right section of hair.
Leave your hair in these two side buns for at least an hour.
Remove the scrunchie and uncoil the bun. Run your fingers through your hair and scrunch your locks in your fists.
Complete the look with a quick mist of hairspray., When you want a perfectly tousled head of messy waves, set down the small curling iron and twist and pull your hair up into several mini buns instead.









Use a rattail comb to section your damp hair into two inch square sections. Instead of using straight lines, part your hair in a zigzag pattern for a more intentionally imperfect look. Secure the individual sections with small duck clips.
Undo one clip and apply a small amount of mousse to the section. Twist the section tightly from root to tip. Coil the twist into a bun and secure it with a bobby pin. Repeat this process on every section.Individually apply heat to each bun with a blow dryer. Once the bun is dry and the bobby pin is hot to the touch, move on to the next bun.
Once the bobby pins are cool, undo each bun.
Use a blow dryer to fix sections that are too curly and a curly iron to fix pieces that are too straight.
Spray with hairspray.