 He'll introduce himself as Big Nate. The island is named after him! He asks you if you knew about the time capsule.;
, Talk to him and he will tell you he has some pieces of a comic he wants to read and he will give you a reward if you find them.
 Go to the highest floor and under the couch is your first comic piece.
 Talk to the man, who says he has scuba gear for trading, and then go to the light to the right of the entrance and you will find the comic piece.
 The look at the lost poster of the dog. It says the dog likes peanut butter crackers. Keep that in mind.
 Then go to the second floor and into the Science Lab.
,,,, Grab both the comic piece and the black and white photo. Ask the man to look through his telescope. Go to the right and you'll see a piece of paper under two rocks.
 Arrange them and you will find writing on the the comic. It should say 9305.
 He is happy and lets you keep it and gives you some bubble gum.
, Add a tiny bit of red chemical and turn the heat on to 4. You get a stink bomb!

, It will knock you over. Go to the pile of stuff on the floor and you get a school blueprint. Examine it and you find out there is a secret door in the Detention Room. Go next to the sign that says NO GUM CHEWING and chew your gum. The Detention Lady comes out and you go into detention.
 Then go down the secret door. It is in the filing cabinet. Turn on the light, talk to Artur and grab the bell clapper.
 He has a lobster trap under the water. Put on your scuba gear and dive. Get the lobster trap and get up. Give it back to Captain Salty and he gives you the lobster and keys to his jet ski.. Go to the floor on top of the telescope man and use your lobster to turn the light. You see the bird leave the bell. Go to the playground and talk to the girls who ignore you.
 Nate races you. Jump your jet ski every 3 seconds so you can avoid obstacles.
 Then go back. Examine your paper and it is the map for the time capsule. It is where the girls are standing.
 The girls go inside.
 It is pretty much Hangman but with Poptropica characters. Once you win, Nate gives you expired peanut butter crackers.
 Use these where the girls were standing. You will find the time capsule! Click and drag it out. You find a pearl and you save the school! You get a newspaper and of course, it has to be under Nate's name. Make sure it's under the name.
 Congrats! You get 100 credits for the store too! Yay! Fun Fact: Click on the frog on the ground and it hops away from you.

