 The hook for your book is different from a synopsis or a plot summary in that it should not reveal the entire plot of the book or provide too much detail about your book. Instead, the hook should capture what your book is about in one to two sentences total.Your hook should grab your reader’s attention in 30 seconds and act like the elevator pitch for your book. Having a strong hook in your book proposal or in the marketing material for your book can make it seem more attractive to an editor or a literary agent.
Your hook should also explain how your book is different from the other books that are currently available. If you are writing in a specific genre, the hook should also tell your reader how and why your book is different from the other books published in that genre.
 You should always use the active voice in your hook as well as active verbs so your hook feels immediate and engaging. Avoid the passive voice and passive verbs as this can make your hook seem dull, stale, and not all that memorable to readers.Most hooks for a book are written in the present tense, rather than the past tense, to make the hook feel more active to the reader. You should try to always use the present tense to describe the action in the book.
 Your hook should also include the main plot or the issue at stake in the story. Try to address the main conflict or crisis in a few words, using bold and descriptive sentences. Do not try to explain the crisis. Instead, simply describe it.You should use engaging nouns in your hook to describe the main plot. Avoid too many adjectives or adverbs. You want the hook to be descriptive, but not long-winded or too full of descriptors. When in doubt, simple is better for the hook.
Make sure you do not reveal the ending of the book in the hook, only the main plot. The ending of the book should be included in your synopsis of the book, not in the hook.
 It may be tempting to simply describe the main themes of the book. But this can end up sounding too generic and familiar. Avoid describing themes and instead focus on your characters and the action of the book.You can try the following formula to create your hook, using character and action: “When happens to , they must to .”
For example, the hook for J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone could be: “When a Dark Lord murders a boy wizard’s parents, he must train for the battle for his life to save his friends and the wizarding world.”

, It may help to read the hook out loud once you have created it to hear how it sounds. Notice if there are any awkward phrases or vague nouns that you can replace with more interesting, active nouns. Make sure the hook is in the present tense and does not reveal the ending of the book.


You can then revise the hook so it is more concise and to the point. Your hook should be no longer than one to two sentences and should leave the reader wanting to read your book in full.

