 The websites below list hundreds of Minecraft servers for you to browse. Since the lists are sorted by popularity, this is the best way to find active servers. Be aware that some servers just pay to be seen higher on the list. These should be labeled "sponsored" or have a star next to them.


http://minecraftservers.org/
http://topg.org/Minecraft
http://minecraft-server-list.com/
http://www.minecraft-servers-list.org/
http://minecraftservers.net/;
, The server descriptions or tags should describe what the server is all about. You're probably familiar with most of these if you've played on popular servers before. If not, see the descriptions below.
 Most of these lists display how many players are currently logged in next to the name of each server. If you're looking for a place to play minigames or be part of massive projects, choose a server with at least 100 people logged in. If you're looking for a more intimate community, you might prefer one with 50 or fewer people online.


The maximum server population is also listed. If it's full (for example, "240/240") you'll have to wait for someone to leave before you can log in.
Some server lists also list online-time percentage," telling you how often the server is accessible.
 Survival servers usually mention this in the description if they have it, but not always.
 You can sometimes find this info in the description of the server, or by looking at the tags that some server lists use to organize their servers. If the info is not there, visit the server's website or log in to the server and ask in chart:


Minecraft version: The most active servers usually update to the latest version promptly. If the version number is lower than yours, you can change the version you use with the "Edit Profile" button, visible as soon as you open Minecraft.
Mods: If you have a favorite mod you can't stand to play without, try to find a server that allows its use. Some servers require you to install a mod before joining.
Online-time percentage: This shows how often a server is online (ideally 90%+). Only a few websites list this.
Lag / ping time: How fast or slow the server is. This is usually difficult to find out without logging in. If the server forum has a lot of recent posts complaining about lag, stay away.
 Is the server's forum post or website page nice to look at? Does it include information about the server rules, features, staff, and community? The best servers tend to invest time into their online presence, making it user friendly and informative.
 After all that, you'll need to try out the server to find out more. A good server should almost always have mods or admins online to answer your questions and tell you about the rules and server features. More importantly, join some games and conversations and see whether you enjoy the community., These servers feel the closest to playing in single-player Survival mode. Besides the chance to build and fight monsters with friends, many servers offer extra perks, like teleports between towns or shops where you can buy special items.


Towny and Economy servers are especially focused on trading items and making money.
 Player versus Player servers allow you to fight other players and destroy their bases. Some of the most popular are Faction or Raid servers, where teams of players wage war against each other.


KitPvP is a popular variation that allows players to choose classes or "kits" with different weapons and abilities.
 Some servers are dedicated exclusively to minigames, but almost all of the largest servers have at least a few you can play. Most server list websites use a tag system to list the available games. Parkour servers should have a large collection of fast minigames, such as Capture the Flag. If you want a more in-depth experience, try these popular options:


On Skyblock maps, you spawn on a floating island with monsters and limited resources, and must complete building challenges without dying.
Prison maps, usually on PvP servers, place you in a guarded compound with very limited resources. If you can survive in a world with powerful NPCs and other players, you can advance in rank and gradually become more powerful.
On Infected/Zombie maps, "human" players try to survive and kill the "zombie" players before the infection can spread.
 Infinite items, the ability to fly, and no combat — if you care more about making things than mining or fighting, this mode is for you. Unfortunately, many big servers that advertise Creative mode only allow tiny building areas, or charge real money for it. If this is the main way you enjoy playing, your best chance is to find a small but active server, and talk to the admins in chat. If they get to know you and trust you, they can grant you the ability to enter Creative mode.
 If you enjoy acting in-character and telling a story with other players, find a Roleplay server. Even more than on other servers, it's important that you get along with the other players. Explore the server website thoroughly to see if it's the kind of world you'd like to live in.

