 Before you decide to share your life and time with a prairie dog, it is a good idea to research about them on the internet. Or, visit a pet store and talk with the employees. Make an appointment with an exotic pets vet and come with some questions to ask. You will find that prairie dogs can make great pets, but have particular requirements regarding their care.For example, you might ask the store employee, “How often are the prairie dogs purchased here returned for ill health or other problems?”

, In 2003 the CDC and FDA banned the sale and importation of prairie dogs due to concerns about the spread of Monkey Pox. This ban was lifted in 2008, but some sate and local restrictions remain. Contact the FDA and CDC for clarification regarding which exotic animal laws could impact your ownership., Your prairie dogs will require a sizeable cage (at least 2'x2'x4') as well as nesting materials. They will need you to supply a regular diet of vegetation and grain supplements. It is also best if you set-up a lamp to provide vitamin D. All of this takes effort in the immediate sense so you want to be prepared for the added responsibility., Prairie dogs typically live between 5-10 years. Therefore, your purchase should be seen as a lengthy commitment of care. Ask yourself if you can envision feeding and watching out for your dog years down the line., Prairie dogs are typically well-natured, if feisty, little creatures. However, they can cause a fair amount of pain and physical damage with their bite. Their front teeth are extraordinary sharp and can cut through even a thick pair of gloves. You’ll want to decide if you are comfortable working with these occasionally outbursts.Think about what you will do when bitten. Your immediate response may be to fling your hand, but you can kill your prairie dog in the process. It is better to carefully pry the dog’s jaws open.
Sexual maturity often triggers violent impulses in prairie dogs. Plan to spay or neuter your dog by 9 months to avoid these issues., Prairie dogs are very social animals and they yearn for the interaction provided by living in a group. You might want to buy two dogs at once to keep them in good spirits and create a more pleasant ownership experience. This is especially the case if you will not be able to provide consistent interaction throughout the day with your dog., As with any animal, the costs associated with care can quickly add up. The purchase itself will be around $150 and spaying or neutering can run between $50-200. Then you need to budget for the cage and materials purchase, food, vet treatment, possible medicines, treats, and toys. Make sure that you have the funds to sustain care into the long term as well.