 Writing a clear goal for each lesson and activity will help focus the learning of your students and your teaching.


For example, if you're planning a history unit on the Great Depression, you may want students to understand 1) the root causes of the Great Depression; 2) the efforts taken by Herbert Hoover to address the Depression; 3) the accomplishments of Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal; 4) challenges to the emerging New Deal order; and 5) the influence of World War II in ending the Depression.
Use these five goals to plan lessons and activities that will meet these goals.
 Normally, these begin with objectives, but also include standards addressed, materials, lessons, assessments, resources, and accommodations for all learners in the classroom.


The templates provided at the end of this article may be useful for course planning.
 Take some time to review what resources are already available to you. Often, there are good resources already in use and taking the time to use a previous lesson or learning methodology will save a lot of time in the long run. Consult experienced fellow teachers; many times they will be willing to share plans and ideas.
 Forty-two states and the District of Columbia use the Common Core State Standards, with Alaska, Indiana, Minnesota, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia retaining different systems.You will be held accountable for meeting these standards; clearly understanding how your unit addresses state standards will make it easier for you and your school to report on outcomes.
 This exercise will help you understand how much material you can realistically fit into a unit and how you should allocate your time. Remember to leave room for adjustment. You may find that in practice, a given concept takes more or less time to convey than anticipated.


If, for example, you have four weeks to address the five Great Depression unit goals outlined above, you may opt to begin with three lessons on the Depression's root causes and end with two focused upon the influence of World War II in ending the Depression. In between, you might allocate roughly a week to each of the other three goals, but leave a "float" day or two built into the schedule.
Plan supplemental assignments for "float" days that, while enriching, are not required material for meeting state standards. You'll be well-prepared if you do need the lessons, but you'll retain the capacity to sacrifice this material in favor of spending an extra day on a key learning goal.
 After reviewing what resources you can pull from, creating a diversity of assessment tools to evaluate learning is next. Both formative and summative measures should be in place to ensure a broad evaluation of the objectives is met by all students.


Formative assessments monitor student learning to provide ongoing feedback. These tools help you understand how well students are grasping course material so you can make adjustments as you go. Formative assessments typically have little or no point value -- they are meant as a check for the instructor and not as an assessment of student performance.A formative assessment tool for our Great Depression example might be a request that students submit two key points gleaned from a lecture on the First Hundred Days of the New Deal.
Summative assessments evaluate student learning and are typically given at the end of an instructional unit. These tools typically have high point value as they do gauge student performance.A summative assessment tool for our Great Depression example might be a research paper on a topic of the student's choosing.
 Given the time and the needs of your students, select what fits their learning styles and approaches that will garner their curiosity and interest. Variety will ensure that diverse needs are met.


Our unit on the Great Depression, for example, might mix periodic lectures with examination of primary source documents, conversations about images of the Dust Bowl, audio recordings of some of Franklin Roosevelt's "Fireside Chats," and viewing of the film The Grapes of Wrath.
 Once the unit has begun, have benchmarks to maneuver through the unit. This will help keep you on track for time and ensure that learning objectives are being met.


Formative assessments can provide useful benchmarks.
Plan points at which you will commit to move onto new material even if student understanding remains incomplete. Spending too much time on one segment of your unit sacrifices the others.

