 Some good options within the park include:


Boating on Jenny Lake. You can take the Park Service boat that crosses scenic Jenny Lake every few minutes or if you want to plan your own adventure you can rent a boat.
Wading in String Lake. String Lake is great for young kids because it is accessible by car and slightly warmer than other nearby lakes due to it's shallowness.
Day hikes. The Tetons offer some of most stunning day hikes in the lower 48 US States. Some recommended options in increasing order of difficulty include:

Leigh Lake from String Lake, 1.8 miles (2.9 km) round trip, flat.
Lake Creek- Woodland Trail Loop in the Rockefeller Preserve. 3.1 miles (5.0 km). 350 feet (106.7 m) of vertical gain.
Taggart Lake, 3 miles (4.8 km) round trip, under 500 feet (152.4 m) of vertical gain. Fun lake for kids to explore.
Inspiration Point, 2 miles (3.2 km) round trip via Jenny Lake boat shuttle or 6 miles (9.7 km) car to car from parking lot. 800 feet (243.8 m) vertical. The name adequately describes the view.
Amphitheater Lake, 10 miles (16 km), 3,150 feet (960.1 m) of climbing. A jewel of an alpine Lake nestled under Disappointment Peak.
Paintbrush Canyon / Cascade Canyon Loop, 19 miles (31 km), 4,900 feet (1,493.5 m) of climbing. Ice axes required until late season.


Float trips - Several tour companies offer float trips down the Snake River. Chances of seeing a Moose in summer are high.
Biking - An 8 mile (13 km) bike path from Moose to Jenny Lake opened in 2009.;
, Details in the article How to Visit Yellowstone National Park.
 Kids 4 and up will enjoy Enclosures Climbing Gym south of town or the small climbing wall in Teton Village. Teens may enjoy an outdoor climbing lesson or even a climb up the Grand Teton which can be booked with a local licensed climbing guide.
, Snow King road also has a pleasant city park with a playground.
, This pool features has a large slides sized for kids 6 and up.
, Jackson Hole boasts at least 5 places where you can eat ribs, beans and rice outdoors while pretending you are a cowboy.
,, In addition a buffalo herd can be reliably sighted in the vicinity of the homesteads.
 When the adults run out of energy and ideas, the kids can be deposited at a day care camp in Teton Village. Summer camp is available for older kids at the Teton Sciences School or Game Creek Ranch.

