 Start with damp hair, then apply a moisturizing conditioner to it. Use a brush or comb to help distribute the product and to remove any knots or tangles.This method will work the best on natural or kinky hair, but other hair types can also attempt it.
 This is not absolutely necessary, but it will help make your hair more manageable. You can apply the rollers randomly, or your can apply them in rows. If you will be applying the rollers in neat rows, then gather all of your hair, except for the bottom-most layer, into a bun., Gather the section from the bottom layer of your hair, close to your face. It should be 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) wide., Apply a small amount of holding gel to the strand. Run a comb through the strand while pulling it taut., Wrap the end of your hair around the bottom of the curler a few times to secure it. Next, wind your hair around the curler in a spiral (like a candy cane) all the way to your scalp.Use a hair roller specifically designed for corkscrew curls. If you can't find any, use one with the narrowest diameter possible--about the thickness of a pencil.
 Most hair rollers come with a clip or clasp of some sort. Simply close the clasp over the roller and lock it in place. If yours didn't come with any, you could try securing it with a bobby pin., Work in thin, even sections, one row at a time. Start from the bottom and work your way to the top., Your hair must be completely dry before you move onto the next step, otherwise the curls will come out.If you are in a hurry, you could sit under a hooded dryer for about 20 minutes., Pull off the clasp first, then carefully unwind the roller in the opposite direction you wrapped your hair in. Remove all of the rollers on the bottom layer first, then work your way towards the top of your head., You don't have to do this, but you can if you want to. Twisting the curl in the opposite direction will help fluff it up without creating frizz or distorting its shape. Do not brush or come through the curls, however, or you will get frizz., You do not really need hairspray to set the style, but you can apply a little hair oil to help add moisture and shine. You can make the curls last longer by wrapping a silk scarf around your head when going to sleep.