 Though alcohol can help you fall asleep, it can also make you restless later at night, meaning you won't wake up as refreshed.Stop drinking at least 2 hours before bedtime.Alcohol diminishes your ability to go into REM sleep, so you get less good quality sleep. Also, if you drink too much, it can affect your breathing, making your sleep not as sound., Your pets most likely do not sleep through the night like you do. They move around, make noise, and get up. These activities can wake you up, leaving you less rested. Try locking your pets out of your room for a night to see if you sleep better., Light tells your brain to wake up, so whether it's light from streetlights, the hallway, or even your bedside clock, it can keep you up. Blue light emitted by electronics like your TV, computer, and smartphone can also raise your cortisol levels and cause major sleep disturbances.Use dark curtains on the window, especially if you have a good amount of early morning light, and place towels under doors if you need to do so. Cover up your clock so it's not shining so brightly., In the same vein, your room should be cool enough for sleeping, as you'll toss and turn if you're too warm. Generally, you should aim for 65 to 72 degrees Fahrenheit.Studies show that people sleep better and for longer periods of time in colder rooms. In fact, studies have shown that a cool room can even help people who suffer from sleep apnea sleep better. Your body follows circadian rhythms when it comes temperature, cooling down as you get closer to nighttime. However, if your body runs a bit hotter overall, you may have trouble falling asleep if you're not in a cool room, as your body can't cool down for sleep.Be aware that temperature above 75 degrees or below 54 degrees can make it harder for you to sleep., That is, you should definitely turn off noises such as the television and radio, but you should also take out anything smaller that makes noise, such as a ticking clock. Even small sounds can keep you awake or wake you up.If you can't stop certain noises, try earplugs or a white noise app to drown them out., Just because you've slept on your back your whole life doesn't mean that's the best position for you. Try sleeping on your side, or if you must stay on your back, maybe you need to support your knees and back with pillows to help keep you comfortable throughout the night.