 Locate the Play Store on your device, and tap to launch it.;
, Type in SugarSync on the search field at the top of the screen, and tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search.
 Locate the app from the results list and tap the “Install” button. Tap “Accept” on the Permissions screen that appears, and the app will begin downloading.


As it downloads, you will see the progress through the progress bar on the page.
The app is free.
 Locate the SugarSync app either on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the app with a green hummingbird. Tap on it to launch it.
 Tap the “Log In” button found at the bottom of the screen, and you will be brought to the Login screen. Enter your SugarSync account and password, then tap the “Log In” button to proceed., Upon launch, you will see all your connected computers and devices and folders that contain your SugarSync files. Your current mobile device will also be here.
 The folder and file directory of the synced files from this location will be displayed.
 Navigate through the folders until you see the file you want to view. Tap on it to open it. You should have an app in your mobile device that supports the viewing of the selected file type., Upon launch, you will see all your connected computers and devices and folders that contain your SugarSync files. Your current mobile device will also be here.
 The folder and file directory of the synced files from this location will be displayed.
 You can navigate folders by tapping on them.
 Tap on the icon next to the selected file to bring out the menu. Select the option to “Sync to Device.” The selected file will immediately be downloaded and saved to your mobile device.


You can now access this file even when you’re offline.
 Upon launch, you will see all your connected computers and devices and folders that contain your SugarSync files. Your current mobile device will also be here.
 The folder and file directory of the synced files from this location will be displayed.
 Navigate through the folders until you find the files or folders you want to share. Tap on the “Select” button on the bottom toolbar, and then tap on the checkboxes on the files or folders to select them.
 Tap on the “Share” button at the bottom of the screen. The public links for the selected files or folders will be displayed.
 You can copy and paste the public links anywhere you want. You can paste it as a post on Facebook or Twitter, or send it over though email or message. Anyone who has access to these links can now access and download your files.
 If you want to share a folder privately to select SugarSync users, tap on the triangle on the lower right corner of the shared folder. Select “Share” from the context menu that will appear, and you ou will be brought to the Share screen, from which you should tap on the Private Sharing tab.


Enter the email addresses of the recipients and assign them access rights. Once done, tap the “Send” button to send out your invitations.
Only the SugarSync users you’ve invited can access your shared folder.
 From SugarSync’s main screen, locate the menu button. Click or tap on this to open the Main Menu.
 Select “Actions” from the menu, then select “Settings.”

, Look for the AutoSync Photos item and tap on this option to enable it. All the future photos taken from your Android mobile device will automatically be uploaded and backed up to the SugarSync cloud.
 All your photos will be placed under the Mobile Photos folder under the Pictures folder of your SugarSync account. You can access it from its web app, your computer, or from your other mobile devices.