 Generally you must file a custody petition in the court where the child has lived for the past six months.


If a court has already established paternity of the child or awarded you child support through another order, typically you would file your petition for custody with the same court., Many jurisdictions have fill-in-the-blank forms that are pre-approved by the courts to use to petition for custody.


You typically can find forms on the court's website or in the clerk's office of the court where you plan to file the petition. Legal aid offices and family law clinics also may have court-approved forms available.
If you find forms approved for use within the entire state, read the instructions carefully and make sure you can use them in your county. The instructions also will tell you if there are any additional forms you need in the specific court where you plan to file., You can review your forms to figure out what documentation you'll need to complete your petition.


You typically need evidence that paternity has been established, in the form of an affidavit acknowledging paternity, a declaration of paternity filed by the father, or a prior court order identifying the legal father of the child.You also must include the child's birth certificate and copies of any other court orders such as a child support order that pertain to that child.If paternity of the child has not yet been legally established, you typically can have the judge decide custody within the same order that establishes paternity., Enter your information completely and accurately, either by typing your answers using a computer or by printing legibly using black ink.


These forms typically are designed so that you can fill them out yourself without an attorney's assistance. However, if you find any aspect of the forms confusing, you may want to consult an attorney or get them to look over your forms once you've completed them to ensure you've answered everything correctly.
If you aren't receiving court-ordered child support, you may be required to fill out child support calculation forms and parental responsibilities worksheets along with your petition for custody.Packets of forms downloaded from the court's website typically will include all required forms along with instructions on when and how to fill out and file each document included in the packet.Some jurisdictions require you to fill out and file a notice of appearance if you are representing yourself. If you hired an attorney to represent you in court, this form would be filed by him or her.Check instructions before you sign your forms. Some jurisdictions require you to sign them in front of a notary, or to wait until you're in the clerk's office and sign them in front of the clerk., You must file your forms with the clerk of the court that has jurisdiction over the custody case to petition for custody.


You'll need at least two copies of all your signed documents – one for your own records and one to deliver to the other parent. The clerk will keep the originals for the court's files..Expect to pay a fee of between $100 and $300 to file your petition for custody. You may want to call the clerk's office ahead of time to find out exactly how much filing fees are and what methods of payment the clerk will accept.
You typically can apply for a fee waiver if you are unable to pay the fees. The application requires details about your income and assets, which must be below a certain threshold for you to qualify for a fee waiver., Once your petition has been filed, the other parent must have legal notice that you've petitioned for custody of your child.


Typically the clerk will issue a summons for the other parent to appear in court. You can have the summons and petition hand-delivered by a sheriff's deputy or court officer. You also may be able to use certified mail with returned receipt requested.Once the other parent has been served, you typically must file a document establishing proof of service with the court. If you used certified mail, you can fill this out yourself after you get the returned receipt. If you used the sheriff's department or a private process serving company, the person who completed the service typically will fill out the forms and file them for you., After the other parent is served, you can prepare for the court's hearing on your petition for custody.


Typically the other parent has between 20 and 30 days after he or she is served to file a written answer to your petition. If this deadline passes and the other parent does not respond, you may be entitled to a default judgment.Some jurisdictions require to to successfully complete parenting classes that deal with aspects of legal custody and the "best interests of the child" standard used in custody proceedings. Your court clerk will have information on these classes if they're required.Many courts also require parents in custody proceedings to attempt to reach agreement through mediation before a full court hearing will be scheduled.