 Press ⊞ Win+R on your keyboard

., Type cmd into the Run dialog and click OK.


This will open Command Prompt with low-level privileges, unless a message saying This task will be created with administrative privileges was displayed in the dialog.
, Click New in the context menu to open another menu and then click Shortcut., Type C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe underneath Type the location of the item., Click Next ., Underneath Type a name for this shortcut, type what you would like to name the shortcut., Click Finish .,

Double-click the shortcut to open Command Prompt with low-level privileges.
Right click the shortcut and click Run as administrator to open Command Prompt with administrative privileges.
 Press Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Esc on your keyboard.
 If Task Manager looks like either of these depictions...


Windows XP, Vista, and 7: Double click the place indicated in the picture of the window on the left.
Windows 8 and 8.1: Click More details.
, Click Run new task in Windows 8 and 8.1 or New Task (Run) in Windows XP, Vista, and 7.
 Type cmd into the Create New Task dialog and click OK.


This will open Command Prompt with low-level privileges, unless a message saying This task will be created with administrative privileges was displayed in the dialog.
To open Command Prompt with administrative privileges in Windows 8 and 8.1 if you do not have the message, check the Create this task with administrative privileges box in the Create New Task dialog before clicking OK.
 Press ⊞ Win+R on your keyboard.
 Type notepad into the Run dialog and click OK.
, Press Ctrl+S on your keyboard.
,,, Click Save.
 Click the Close button.



Double-click the file to open Command Prompt with low-level privileges.
Right click the file and click Run as administrator to open Command Prompt with administrative privileges.
 Newer versions of Windows allow you to start the command prompt from any open folder in Windows Explorer. This will allow you to quickly start the Command Prompt from any location.


Windows XP users can access this function by installing the PowerToy extension from here.
 Make sure you don't right-click an icon.
 This will start the Command Prompt at the location of the folder.
 Press ⊞ Win+R on your keyboard.
 Type iexplore.exe into the Run dialog and click OK.
, Click Run on the pop-up that appears.


This launches Command Prompt with low-level privileges.

