 Swearing a lot or talking really loudly in an accent people can hardly make out is most definitely unattractive, and not very lady like. Speaking well is quite an art. Find a good tone so that people can hear you without straining their eardrums or covering their ears. A medium tone is best. Speak very clearly and enunciate your words.;
, It may be hard to cut out, but swearing is one of the worst things you could do if you're trying to be ladylike. Try making a deal with your friends about not swearing for a day. Just think about proving to everyone you have the will power and self control to actually control and think about what comes out of your mouth. If you're a person who swears loads, this is not a ladylike thing. Definitely say things like "shoot" and "idiot". Try not to use bad words like "crap" They're not okay. Try to make very calm and civil comebacks, not the regular old stuff. It'll take practice, but it's a huge step towards being ladylike.
 You don't have to wear pink dresses or skirts with ruffles to be lady like, you may be surprised to learn. Just make sure all of your clothes are clean, suit you, and still fit. Really smart, well fitted pants or jeans, clean, fresh looking shirts, that kind of thing. Don't wear pants that show your underwear-if you need to, wear a belt. And don't wear tops that show to much of your stomach or are low cut. Just be stylish but safe.
 Nice outfits-jeans and shirts that suit you, skirts and tank tops, that kind of thing, leggings are nice too. Pair things up with a pair of shoes that fit and go with the outfit, and maybe a simple, plain chain and bracelet. Earrings can be a little long if you want-but nothing that is too violent.
 Sounds complicated but it's not. You could also try wearing a really light and clean top over a long sleeved white top. If the top you're wearing over it is very pretty and gives off the "baby doll" theme, you'll get the perfect, ladylike look. Experiment and play around.
, Try not to curl or straighten your hair unless it's a special occasion. Your hair can be any length, it doesn't have to be very long.
 As for hairstyles, you can do anything. Side ponytails, braids, buns, anything. Just make sure the style won't come out during PE or anything, and that you won't have to keep adjusting it. Add a white, pink, or gold ribbon for a nice effect, and matching hair clips. The headbands with little bows on the side are very lady like too, and sweet.
 This is a difficult step, but also a crucial one. Being graceful doesn't mean you have to hate sports and walk on tiptoe. Just make sure you walk with your head up, shoulders rolled back and your back straight. Don't swagger, or swing your hips. It looks exaggerated and weird. Don't swing your arms either - keep them by your side.
, Don't take huge bites either - just normal ones. Avoid eating anything that could get messy and sticky. Don't slouch when you're sitting in a chair-press your back against it and press your feet against the floor. Avoid folding your arms too-it gives off a "Get lost" vibe, and can make you look unsure about who you are and where you stand. Try not to put your hands in your pockets too much either. Just practice keeping them by your sides. It feels awkward, but actually looks completely normal.
 Label your things and look after them to make sure they don't get lost or damaged. Buy some nice pencils and pens-a nice, fancy pen or a cute colored pencil. Make sure you always have enough of everything-constantly asking to borrow things isn't very lady like.
 Having a selfish and nasty attitude towards others will drag you very far away from being lady like. Always have a smile on your face, and be willing to let people borrow things from you. Be nice to everyone, even people who you think are losers, because nobody is a loser and everyone is a human being. Everyone deserves a chance, so make sure you give it to them. Don't exclude people from games, gifts, or secrets, keep your promises and don't gossip. When someone gossips about someone else, politely tell them you find gossiping rather mean and would prefer not to. Don't be mean or hot headed-always keep your cool.
 It's important to be looked on as intelligent and keen at school. Try hard in every single, solitary subject and class you take, and always hand in homework. Don't talk during class-you have loads of time for that later. Don't pass notes either-it gets very embarrassing if you're caught. Ask questions and participate in class discussions. Try to get involved with the school and its' activities, too. Reading up on background information about a topic you're studying is good too, and can actually be interesting. Help others if they're struggling, and don't suck up to your teachers. Just try hard, be punctual in everything and share your knowledge.

