 Breathing should always be the first thing you do to warm up. To start warming up, practice breath relaxation by taking a few normal breaths. As you breathe, be conscious of your body and adjust it as necessary to get into the right position to sing.Take note of your shoulders and chest. Make sure they're relaxed and low.
Make sure you channel your breaths to your lower abdomen rather than your chest. It can help to put a hand on your lower abdomen and make sure your hand rises and falls as you breathe.
Hold an "S" sound as you exhale to get your vocal cords going.
Repeat as many breaths as you need to feel like you're breathing slow, deep, and steady.
 Place the heels of your hand just below the cheekbone. Massage your jaw using the heels of your hand. Your mouth should gently open as you massage your jaw. Repeat this motion a few times., Lip and tongue trills prepare your lips and tongues for singing. Do some scales while doing lip and tongue trills to warm up.For a lip trill, push your lips together and make a raspberry sound by releasing the air. Try an "h" sound, then a "b" sound, and then try to use the "b" sound to do a scale. Do as much of the scale as you comfortably can doing lip trills.
For a tongue trill, put your tongue just behind your upper teeth. Exhale using an "r" sound. Try to vary the pitch while you trill. Vary the pitch as much as is comfortable for you.
 Start at a lower pitch and work your way up a basic scale. If you've never done scales before, you listen to scales online and use them as a guide. A vocal instructor can also help you master scales.Use a "me" sound to work your way up the scale. Go as high as you comfortably can.
Use an "e" sound and then work your way back down the scale.
 Humming gets your lips, teeth, and facial bones prepped to sing. Press your lips together and release your jaw and then hum. Use a nasal sound, humming using the same types of breaths you use to sigh. Then, glide from a high to low pitch., After you finish a warm up, do a few more minutes of gentle humming. Do not attempt to vary your pitch too much and focus on the lips as you hum. Use the "m" sound as you hum and try to get your nose and lips vibrating slightly.