 Proper treatment is important to managing your asthma.Make sure you get a proper asthma diagnosis from your doctor and work with them to identify specific triggers. Keep your doctor informed of anything that makes your asthma better and worse, especially at work.Make sure to talk to your doctor about any concerns you may have with managing your asthma at work.;
, There are more than 250 substances that may make your asthma symptoms worse at work. Recognizing what they are can help you avoid them. It may also help your employer take positive steps to accommodate your needs in the workplace.Common triggers for asthma in the workplace include:

Chemicals used in manufacturing
Paint
Cleaning products
Dusts from products such as wood, grain, or flour
Latex products
Mold and mildew
Animals and/or insects
Cigarette smoke

, Each individual case of asthma is different. Some people may have several triggers while others only have one. Identifying your specific triggers both at and outside work can help you more effectively avoid them and manage your asthma while you’re on the job.Keep a diary or log of symptoms you experience at work. Watch for patterns such as times of day, specific locations, or stressful situations that happen and result in worse symptoms or asthma attacks.
Notice if being away from work helps relieve your symptoms.
 Your diary or log may point you to specific triggers for asthma at work. You may also be aware of developments or deliveries of products in your office that can cause asthma attacks. Avoiding triggers or specific settings at work may help you more effectively manage your asthma at work.Ask your employer or colleagues of any upcoming construction, deliveries, or new products that may make your symptoms worse. You may be able to work from home these days or get a workspace far away from the trigger. For example, you may be able to go outside through a side door instead of having to walk through a cloud of cigarette smoke near the front entrance.
 Prevention is the best way to manage symptoms. Letting your colleagues know about your asthma and what makes it worse at work can get them to help you manage your symptoms. They may inform you of areas of the office to avoid or anything else that may trigger your asthma.Inform your colleagues kindly verbally or by email. For example, you could say, “Janice, I really enjoy our chats and want to continue them. What would you say if we stepped outside while we talk? I know you love that jazzy perfume and I am unfortunately allergic to scents. This way, we can continue our chats, get some fresh air, and both stay healthy.”
Write your colleagues polite emails. For example, “Dear Colleagues, I wanted to let you know that I have been having a really difficult time with my asthma. If I stay out of your offices, I’m not trying to be rude, but simply avoid an attack. I’m very allergic to scents, mold, and mildew. If you know of anything that may make my asthma worse, could you please let me know? I’m happy to talk to you about it any time.”

, In addition to your colleagues, make sure your employer knows about your asthma. Your employer is required to provide you a safe working environment. This includes informing you of general and specific hazards of your job. Letting your employer know about your asthma can not only help you manage it at work, but may also help them address specific problems triggering your symptoms.Give your employer as much detailed information as you can or with which you are comfortable. If you like, offer to have your doctor write a note or call your employer with specific information.
 You may need specific accommodations at your job to avoid triggers and attacks. If this is the case, ask your employer to accommodate you as much as possible. Some things that may help you manage your asthma at work include:Having occasional work at home days
Eliminating sources of unhealthy air
Using safer cleaning products
Using safer chemicals and machinery
Using respiratory or protective gear to avoid exposure to triggers
Implementing smoking restrictions, If you experience any asthma symptoms at work, report them immediately to your supervisor. This can not only help you manage your symptoms, but also ensure your employer or building management takes care of the problem promptly.Call or email your supervisor as soon as you notice symptoms and remove yourself from the situation. You can say, “Hi Bill, my asthma started to get worse a few minutes ago. I’m going to step out for a few minutes to see if that helps. Would you be able to have someone check my air filters? Do you know of anything that’s come in today that may make my asthma worse?”

, If you notice stale or heavy air in your office, let your boss or the building management know. Telling either that the ventilation may be broken can help them address them problem quickly and may prevent you from worsening symptoms or an attack.Collaborate with management to investigate ventilation problems. Recognize that it may take time to identify the exact problem because of underlying issues.
 In some cases, you may feel like your employer or building management isn’t taking your health or concerns seriously. If this happens, you can request a Health Hazard Evaluation, which will identify possible health hazards in your workplace. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Occupational Safety and Help can provide assistance and information by phone or in writing. In some cases, they may even visit your workplace to assess employee health.Find information on requesting a Health Hazard Evaluation at https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/hhe/request.html. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health can also provide you information on getting evaluations and surveillance of your workplace by state officials., See your doctor regularly if you suffer from asthma, especially if it is triggered by your workplace. This can help your doctor manage symptoms, review your treatment, and monitor your progress. Let your doctor know if you’re having difficulty managing your symptoms or they get worse because of your work situation.Tell the doctor how you feel, what makes your asthma better or worse, and how you have managed your symptoms.
 Just as it’s important for your employer to look at for your health, you also need to take care of your asthma.A healthy diet can help prevent symptoms of asthma. Keep up with it during the work day with healthy meals and snacks.

Eat healthy foods from the five food groups. Have extra fruits and vegetables, which may help control lung swelling and irritation.Avoid foods that trigger asthma attacks or symptoms such as wine, dried fruits, pickles, and shrimp.
 You probably control environmental factors, such as dust, in your home. Doing this in your office or workspace can also manage your asthma and prevent attacks while you’re on the job.Run an air conditioner if possible, which can reduce pollen in the air. Consider keeping a small air purifier or office-sized air filtration system near you to reduce the risk of an attack or worsening symptoms.Using a humidifier or dehumidifier can keep your office at optimal humidity, which may help you better manage your asthma.Keep a small vacuum cleaner or duster in your office. This can reduce dust and dust mites in your workspace.
Ask to have your office cleaned at least weekly to minimize dust, pollen, dander and other triggers., If your office is a particularly stressful environment, take time to do deep breathing exercises every day. This can help manage your asthma.Deep breathing can calm and relax you, which may decrease psychological stress that exacerbates asthma.

Inhale and exhale through your nose. Breathe in to a count of 4, hold it for a count of 2, and then breathe out for a count of 4. Adjust the count numbers as you like.Sit upright with relaxed shoulders to optimize your breathing exercises.
 It is important to take any medicines prescribed by your doctor exactly as you were instructed to. Also, make sure to keep your asthma medicine with you at all times. Most asthma management treatments include medication. Prescription medications such as anti-inflammatories or bronchodilators can help you manage your asthma and prevent attacks. Your doctor may prescribe one or two types of oral and inhaled asthma medication to help you manage your symptoms at work. Some individuals take both medications at the same time. You may need:Anti-inflammatories to reduce swelling and decrease on mucus in your airways. Anti-inflammatories ease breathing.
Bronchodilators that relax the muscles around your airways. These increase your breathing rate and the amount of oxygen in your lungs., If you don’t take prescription medication for your asthma, you can manage some symptoms with allergy medications. These are especially helpful if your asthma is a result of allergies. Ask your doctor if taking allergy meds while you’re at work can help you manage your asthma.Use oral and nasal antihistamines such as diphenhydramine and fluticasone. They may ease or relieve your asthma symptoms. Your doctor can suggest an appropriate an over-the-counter antihistamine for you.
Keep a supply of anti-histamines at your desk in case of worsening symptoms or an attack.

