 No matter what type of stone you have, kidney stones smaller than 5 millimeters will usually pass on their own, without the need for medical intervention. If you can feel your kidney stone but it isn't painful enough to require treatment, your doctor will probably advise drinking 2 to 3 quarts of water daily until the stone passes.Staying extremely well hydrated will help flush the kidney stone from your system.


Aim to drink enough water to produce mostly clear urine. Clear urine is an indication that your body is extremely well hydrated.
Non-caffeinated, sugar and alcohol free beverages like ginger ale, fruit juice, cranberry juice, or green tea could also help you stay hydrated. Avoid beverages with caffeine, artificial sweeteners, sugar, or alcohol while you're trying to pass a kidney stone.
 Since kidney stones are caused by the buildup of certain minerals, eating fewer foods containing these minerals can help to shrink the stones. This is especially effective if you have either calcium or uric acid stones.



If you have calcium stones, cut back on the following foods that make the problem worse: salty foods, dairy products, oysters, tofu, and fatty foods.If you have calcium oxalate stones, you should avoid foods high in oxalate, like rhubarb, grapes, spinach, sweet potatoes, coffee, and chocolate.

If you have uric acid stones, cut back on the following foods containing uric acid: organ meat like liver and kidney, anchovies, sardines, beans, mushrooms, spinach, cauliflower, yeast, and alcohol.
 Whether you drink real lemonade, lemon juice, lemon-lime drinks or just water with a few lemon slices, the acidic nature of citrus helps so that kidney stones do not form., While no herbal remedy has been scientifically proven to remove kidney stones, many have found that consuming certain herbs, especially in the form of tea, can help to shrink the stones so they pass more easily. Try the following herbs in order to treat a mild kidney stone:


Birch leaf tea, which is said to help remove waste products from the urinary system.Black tea, which increases urine flow since it is a diuretic.Nettle leaf, which is also a diuretic and can help flush the kidney stones from your system.
Dandelion root, which is said is to be an effective kidney tonic.
Apple cider vinegar, which is said to help dissolve stones. You can consume 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of apple cider vinegar each day, or mix it with water.

Avoid using sorrel, which can cause calcium oxalate kidney stones to worsen.
Banana stem juice is a well-known treatment for kidney stones in India.

