 Even though you're young and not going through the best of times it is important to stay positive. Positivity will help you change your mind set about the situation, which can help to reduce your stress levels.


Sometimes spending too much time on social media (Facebook, Instagram, SnapChat, Vine, Twitter, etc) can lead to comparing ourselves to others and feelings of jealously or low self-esteem. If you feel negative emotions when you are online or on social media, try taking a 15 minute break (or more if you can do it) and focus on doing something positive (such as drawing, talking with a friend in person, or riding your bike).
Use positive self-talk, such as, “I have been successful with my efforts in the past. If I put my mind to passing this test, I can do well.”Have a positive attitude by changing your bad thoughts.Some examples of bad thoughts are, “I am going to fail. I can’t do this.”Try to think different thoughts like, “I am going to try by best, and I know I can get through this.” See the difference? Say the happy thoughts to yourself when you are feeling stressed.
Focus on what you do well instead of what you do wrong.You could draw a flower, and on the petals write positive things about yourself or what you do, like: I am loving, I tried my best, and I am nice to animals.Avoid saying bad things out loud. Stop using words like “won’t,” “can’t,” “always,” and “never.” Try instead to use the words “will,” “can,” “most of the time,” and, “not very often.”

, Mindfulness meditation can help lower stress over time.Mindfulness is about focusing on what you are doing or feeling right now.Stop and notice what is happening in this moment.


First, notice the feeling you are experiencing. What does it feel like in your body? Does it feel tense, is your heart beating fast, do you have butterflies in your stomach? Next, name the emotion. Are you stressed, overwhelmed, anxious? Then, accept the emotion as natural and normal.The more you accept your emotion the less power it will have over you.You can say to your emotion, “I accept you, stress. Even though I don’t like how you feel, I know that you may happen sometimes and I will learn to deal with you.”
Try using bubbles to practice deep breathing. This can help to calm you down. Try to slowly blow one big bubble; this helps you learn how to use your deep breathing in a fun way!

, Writing down your feelings and thoughts can help you work through your problems and get your emotions out instead of keeping them inside of you.Find a clean paged notebook or diary to write in and write down what you are feeling.
Write a letter to the thing that is bothering you such as a math test. Tell the math test how you are thinking and feeling as if the test were a person. You could write something like, “Math test- you make me so stressed out, but I really want to get a good score.”
If you don’t like to write you could draw a picture that shows how you are feeling.

