 Generally vices related to movement (weaving, box walking, kicking) are caused by a lack of space. Watch the horse. Where does he/she perform the behaviour? In the field, in the stable (stall)? When does he/she perform it and what happens at, before, or after that time? Is it when other horses are taken away or brought in?;
, A healthy herd consists of males and females of varying ages, and has at least 7 members. However, simply having two or three herd mates to interact with is infinitely better than none.








Turn the horse out as much as possible with other horses. You can use pasture, a school (arena), a large barn or even a fenced yard if it’s safe.






Give ad-lib forage in small-mesh hay nets and put it in more than one place to imitate foraging. The small mesh requires the horse work harder to get the hay out, which increases the amount of time they spend eating without increasing the amount of food, which is good for the gut and for horses that finish hay quickly and then get bored. (It also cuts down on hay waste and stall cleaning time because the horse doesn't have the opportunity to spread it around and step on it while eating). Give different types of forage for variation and hide or hang fruits and vegetables in the stable.






If the horse must be stabled, make sure the horse has sight of other horses and preferably have a grill so the horse can touch noses with their neighbours. If you know the horses get on well you can stable them together in a suitable, safe barn.
 If you think this has happened, try creating a more pleasant environment for the horse. Pay attention to the things he/she likes, and what he/she does not like. Add interesting things to their space if they must be kept separate for any length of time, such as brushes to rub against on the wall, interactive toys to play with, and/or classical music playing in the background.








Try an edible distraction. Putting water, hay, a salt block or anything else the horse would like to eat at the place he normally performs the vice may or may not help.






Avoid use of anti-weave grills. These can be fitted to stables to force the horse to stop weaving; however this creates an even smaller, more claustrophobic space for the horse, which will only add to their stress, so this is highly discouraged!

, If the horse is not able to move freely or be with its herd, and the horse isn't permitted perform the vice, he/she will become even more stressed.


Try a very gradual approach to increasing outdoor activity and herd-time for about 6 weeks to give the horse time to adjust to the new situation.
 At some point, you may realize that the horse has other reasons to be stressed, which is why the behaviour has not gone away completely.


If a horse has been performing the abnormal behaviour for a long time, it may be because of trauma suffered at a young age (such as being weaned too early, or in an insensitive way). A horse that learned a behaviour early in life due to traumatic events may carry that behaviour until he/she learns that the behaviour is no longer necessary.
This is especially true with wall-kicking during feeding time, in which case you may need to try many different ways of feeding your horse to figure out the least stressful method. This could involve a floor pan instead of a bucket hung on the wall, or a different corner, or a nose bag instead of a bucket, or feeding within a wider window of time instead of exactly at the same time every day. Be creative and don't be afraid to try something if no one can give you a really good reason why you shouldn't.
 Do they pay more attention to the horse when he/she kicks, weaves or stall walks? Do they give the horse more hay if he/she kicks the wall? Do they yell, strike, throw water or objects or otherwise try to actively/physically discourage or stop the horse from the behaviour? Anything other than completely ignoring the behaviour when it happens may be reinforcing the behaviour.


If it turns out the people around the horse do try any of these tactics, ask them to change their responses. They should completely ignore the horse until the behaviour stops, and then as soon as it stops, they should put the horse out or let him/her have some quality herd-time. This may take many months of pretending to not hear the horse kicking or seeing them weave or stall-walk, but if everyone is consistent and the horse is receiving increasing outdoor and herd-time, the behaviours should subside. Be patient and diligent - horses are not machines, and sometimes it takes time for them to adjust to a healthier way of behaving.
In the meantime, protect walls and doors with wooden or rubber kick boards.
, Remember that as your horse becomes more happy and stress free, the abnormal behaviour will fade into an occasional annoyance, and may possibly disappear altogether.

