 Add a baby bird formula or Pronutro to the water before mixing it into the food. Canned puppy or cat food has a higher protein content and are closer to the natural diet than adult dog food. Mash the food into a shallow bowl.


If the bird is not old enough to feed itself, break off small pieces, about half the size of your little fingernail, and tweezer feed it by hand.
 Sparrow natural diet includes dry foods such as buds and seeds, and live food such as spiders, snails, aphids, caterpillars, and other small invertebrates. Young birds tend to take live food better than dry food.


Please note, do not give earthworms to captive baby sparrows. There is something toxic about earthworms that makes captive birds die.Instead, trying offering the smallest sized crickets (available from reptile supply shops).
Another option is to offer clean white maggots, as sold by angling shops. Again, the maggot should only be fed when it's gut is empty. The black line in a maggot his food in his gut, so wait until this black line disappears before feeding to the baby bird.
You could also consider feeding dried insects, as sold for reptiles such as bearded dragons. Check your local pet store for supplies.
 You can use supplements such as Nutrobal (sold for reptiles) or Cricket Diet Calcium Paste (IZUG), which are sold at pet stores. This helps ensure balanced nutrition if the live food are deficient.
 Depending on the sparrow's age, either offer the food on tweezers directly into the gaping beak, or if the bird is old enough to feed himself, put the feed in a shallow container. Be aware it takes around 2 weeks for a baby bird to develop enough to feed himself.If the bird is very young and does not have many feathers, feed every half hour. If older feed every hour or two. The bird will start chirping and gaping when hungry and will stop eating when full.
 Young birds are not great at drinking from a shallow container. This is liable to cause accidental drowning., As the baby grows older, continue to feed soaked dog or cat food but add a variety of different foods for the bird to choose from as well. A good quality wild bird seed is ideal as the bird matures enough to take grain of its own accord. Place the seed in a shallow bowl to allow the bird to start feeding when they are able.


Keep the food clean of fecal soil, so clean the bowl at least once a day.

