 Remove the die pivot pin. Insert the die into the die slot and insert the pin into the die to secure it.
 Place the block near the die with sufficient space for the tube. Then take the follower block pin and insert it into the main bender arm and the follower block., Using a pen or marker, make a random mark at the point where you want to start the bend., Hold the pipe in between the follower block and the die. Vertically align the block to the pipe, and then insert the pipe into the machine. The die will rotate outwards as you insert the pipe. Once the pipe is in place, rotate the die back into the correct position., It consists of a pin that corresponds to the size of the pipe and the follower block. Remove the strap pin. Slip the strap over the pipe and reinsert the pin., Take the pin and drop it into the gap between the arms and the die., You can accomplish this by looking through one of the drive pin holes until the mark is visible., Place a little tension on the pivot arms by pulling on them., The pointer consists of a thumbscrew. Use it to anchor the pointer to the lug. Ensure that the pointer is resting on the degree ring and is aligned to zero degrees. At this point, you need to tighten the tensioner bolt, which is located next to the die.,, The die will rotate and bend the pipe. At the same time, the pointer will begin to indicate the curvature measurement. As you bend the pipe, engage the subsequent teeth of the drive rack and work your way down to the last notch., Complete the last half turn of the handle and hold it in the closed position. Keep a little pressure on the handle and detach the release lever of the anti spring back kit. Then release the drive pin, allowing the pivot arm to become loose. Put a little pressure on the release lever and reset the pivot arms. Place the drive pin in the next drive hole while keeping the arms in their reset position. Then you can continue the bending process., Keep a little tension on the handle and detach the spring back kit. Swing the drive rack and the handle out of your way. Remove the drive pin and close the pivot arms. Loosen the tensioner bolt, remove the U-strap pin, and take out the pipe from the machine.