 Carrot cookies are a fairly easy recipe that many rabbits enjoy. To make carrot cookies, you will need dry oatmeal, wheat flour, ground carrots, and water.


Add half a cup of oatmeal, half a cup of flour, half a cup of ground carrot, and half a cup of water in a bowl. Then, mix until smooth.
Roll the dough into small balls, about the size of quarter, and place them on a greased or no-stick cooking sheet. Bake at 350 °F (177 °C) for 15 minutes.
Carrot cookies should cool for about an hour before you feed them to your rabbit. You should refrigerate any extra cookies.;
, Bunny biscuits are another fairly simple rabbit treat to bake. For bunny biscuits, you will need one pureed carrot, half a mashed banana, a teaspoon of honey, 1/4 cup of rabbit pellets, and 1/4 cup of oatmeal.


Using a coffee grinder or blender, grind the rabbit pellets and oatmeal into a fine powder.
Add all the ingredients to a bowl and mix. Then, knead the dough with your hands for about one to two minutes.
Roll the dough into 1/4 inch layers between plastic wrap. Then, use cookie cutters to cut them into cookies or simply cut the dough into squares. Choose somewhat smaller cookie cutters, as bigger cookies might be too much for a rabbit.
Bake at 325 °F (163 °C) for 30 minutes. Then turn off the heat and allow the cookies to sit in the warm oven for about an hour. Refrigerate extras., Rabbit or guinea pig treats are great for your rabbit. They can also be fed to guinea pigs. To make rabbit or guinea pig treats, you will need a cup of oatmeal, a cup of rabbit pellets, 2/3 cup of vegetable broth, 6 tablespoons of olive oil, and 2 tablespoons of honey.


Mix all ingredients in a bowl. Then, roll them out and cut into shapes.
Bake at 350 °F (177 °C) for 20 minutes. Turn off the oven and then let the treats cool in the oven for an hour before giving them to your rabbit., Bunny cookies are another great baking recipe for your rabbit. You will need 1 cup crushed rabbit pellets, 1 cup flour, 3/4 cup milk, 1/2 cup oatmeal, 1/4 cup molasses, 1/2 cup raisins, 1/2 cup Cheerios, and one mashed banana.


Preheat the oven to 350 °F (177 °C). Put the rabbit pellets through a food processor until they're ground into a fine pulp. Then sift the rabbit pellets and flour together.
Add the rest of the ingredients to the pellets and flour. Mix well.
Roll into balls and place on a cookie sheet. Bake for 15 to 18 minutes.