 If you find a crack in a glass beaker or other container, dispose of the glass in the proper location. If you find a leak in a hose, get a replacement. Broken equipment is hazardous to work with and should always be replaced before starting an experiment.Tell your teach if notice that some of your equipment is damaged before the lab begins.
 This rule is particularly important when heating the test tube. If the tube cracks or breaks the solution inside will not be splashed on you because you held the tube away from you. This is also helpful to avoid inhaling fumes that may be coming from the solution in the tube.You should always know exactly what chemical you are working with and the hazards associated with it.
 When diluting acids, never add the water to the acid. When water and acid combine the reaction releases a lot heat and can rapidly boil causing an explosion. This rapid boil explosion can splash concentrated acid onto you or those around you. As long as you always add acid to the water, you can avoid this.A teacher should always be around to supervise when you dilute acids or bases.
 When using a suction pipette, always use the bulb of the pipette to take up the liquid. Pipetting by mouth can lead to accidental ingestion of the solution. This is particularly dangerous if the solution you are pipetting is hazardous.Always use the suction bulb or pump.
 If you are using a Bunsen burner or a hot plate for an experiment, make sure that it gets turned off immediately after you are done using it. A hot plate looks the same hot as it does cold so be careful around this equipment. Before leaving the lab, check around and make sure everything is turned off.Never place your hand directly on a hot plate. Hold it slightly above the plate to test the temperature.
 At the end of every experiment, clean all of the equipment you used and wipe down the lab bench. Dispose of all chemicals properly and remove your proper protective equipment.Leave the lab space as clean as or cleaner than you found it for the next student.

