 A software program could be included with your cutter as part of a package or sold separately.
 Create your sign using the program., 2 basic kinds of vinyl, calendared and cast, can be used for signs. Both types last well indoors.

Calendared vinyl is best for surfaces that are flat or a little curved. It can last 3 to 6 years if used outdoors.
Cast vinyl can be used on surfaces that are flat, curved, have corners or are otherwise uneven. It will usually last 7 to 9 years if left outside.
 Vinyl for making signs is sold in rolls of different lengths and widths. It should have adhesive on 1 side covered with a paper backing.,, The paper backing should still be on the vinyl when you put it in.

Adjust your cutter's feed rollers to line up with your vinyl piece's edges. Use any guide markings on the cutter to also help you feed in your vinyl.
Set the rollers down on the vinyl to keep it in place for cutting.
 Use your designing software program to send the command to the cutter.,, Pull it back to peel it off the paper backing., This process is known as "weeding." Use a pair of pointed weeding tweezers to pull out small, difficult-to-reach vinyl pieces, such as spaces in the centers of letters.,

Roll out enough transfer or application tape to cover your vinyl sign design. Cut off the length of tape with scissors.
Run a squeegee applicator over the tape to smooth it over your vinyl sign. Carefully pull the tape and its attached vinyl away from the vinyl's paper backing. The adhesive side of the vinyl will now be exposed.
Spray an application fluid on the background surface for your sign's vinyl if you think you may need to readjust the vinyl. The fluid will prevent the vinyl's adhesive from sticking to the surface for 20 to 30 seconds.
Place the vinyl adhesive-side down on the intended surface for the sign. Reposition it if necessary.
Press out any air bubbles between the vinyl and its surface by running the squeegee applicator over the transfer tape.
Pull off the transfer tape gently to reveal your sign. Start pulling from 1 of the tape's corners.

