 You can reduce the amount of fat and sodium in this classic comfort dish by adjusting of few of its main ingredients. Namely, use 1% milk instead of cream or whole milk, reduce the amount of butter you usually include, and replace some of the cheese with corn starch. Further, use a sharp cheddar cheese, as this will contain less fat.Opt for whole grain noodles, and make the dish especially flavorful by adding your favorites herbs and spices. Basil and turmeric are especially good seasoning options.
For another great alternative to classic mac and cheese, add two tablespoons of parmesan cheese to a cup of tomato sauce and mix this with the macaroni noodles. This dish will contain much less fat.;
, Chili and stews, for example, are other popular comfort foods. To make this type of meat dish healthier, use more vegetables and beans than meat, and opt for poultry instead of beef. If you’re hooked on red meat, select especially lean options, such as bison chuck or grass-fed beef.A great alternative to a classic sloppy joe recipe calls for ground turkey, a tomato-based sauce made with plenty of veggies, and a whole wheat bread option instead of ground beef on white.Grass-fed beef has the same amount of fat as skinless chicken, and grass-fed meats have omega-3s., Casseroles are another comfort dish that usually include lots of fat. When baking a casserole, use low-calorie ingredients such as fat-free sour cream and low-fat cheese. Harder cheeses, such as sharp, aged cheddar will generally be lower in fat and can add flavor to many dishes. When you’re craving casserole, consider baking vegetables such as potatoes and collard greens instead. A dish like this will provide the warmth and sustenance you’re looking for, with much greater nutritional value.
 Toss thinly sliced chicken tenderloins in hot sauce and lemon juice and bake them to make healthy hot wings. Dip them in low-cal blue cheese dressing for the complete experience.You can even make faux “fried” chicken by covering the tenderloins in almond flour mixed with coconut oil. Sauté to seal the coating, and bake until the chicken is fully cooked., Some soups contain surprisingly high amounts of fat and sodium. If a recipe calls for a creamy soup, go with a low-sodium, reduced-fat option. Alternatively, use 60 – 70% of what the recipe calls for, and substitute low-fat milk for the lost liquid.When craving soup, go for a tomato or broth-based option. Minestrone and vegetable soups are good choices. Always get the low- or reduced-sodium option, when available. Include a salad or whole grain bread with soup to balance your meal and fill you up with healthy fiber.If you want a meat soup, go for a chicken soup that contains lots of peas, carrots, onions, and/or other vegetables.
Soups are easy to make. Make a large pot at home with low fat-ingredients. Freeze the leftovers and heat them quickly in the microwave for a quick, hearty dish.

