 To help infuse the oil with the garlic flavor, heat them together in a saucepan on low heat for about 15 minutes.Don’t let the oil get too hot, as you just want to heat the garlic and oil, not cook them.


Alternatively, you can also puree the garlic with the oil in a blender or food processor. In this case, you can even add spices like rosemary to the mix to give the oil an even more powerful flavor.For additional flavor, you can also add minced onion or chives to the oil.
If you plan to deep fry your chips as the method of cooking, skip this step.;
, To make small, round bagel chips, slice your bagels into disks that are between one-eighth and one-quarter inch (31mm to 64 mm) thick.You can use any type of bagel you like to make your bagel chips, including: plain, sesame or poppy seed, everything, cheese or pretzel, or even dessert bagels, such as chocolate chip, blueberry or cinnamon raisin.


Bagel chips are most often cut by slicing small disks out of the loop of the bagel, but you can also make large chips by cutting lengthwise disks instead.
If you are going to use dessert bagels for your chips, consider omitting the garlic and savory flavors from the oil.
 Lay the chips out on a flat surface, such as a tabletop, counter, or baking sheet. Use a pastry brushor the back of a spoonto coat both sides of each disk with a thin layer of oil.


This step is unnecessary if you plan to deep fry or pan fry your bagel chips. Instead, skip this step, and go directly to frying. Season the chips once they are fried.
To pan fry your bagel chips, fry them in your seasoned garlic oil instead of spreading the oil over the chips, and season them after they are cooked.
 Even if you added spices to the oil, you can still add more flavor to your bagel chips by sprinkling them with herbs and spices. For most spices, start with ½ to 1 teaspoon (2.5 to 5 g) and add more if needed. Popular choices for bagel chip seasoning include:


Salt and pepper, to taste
Onion or garlic powderItalian seasoningPaprika or cayenne pepperThyme, oregano, or rosemary¼ cup (25 g) Parmesan cheese
¼ cup (56 g) cinnamon sugar (for dessert bagels like blueberry)

, Bagel chips are most often baked, but they can also be slow baked, deep fried, pan fried, or dehydrated. See part two for more information about cooking methods.
 Once the bagel chips are cooked, they can be served with guacamole, salsa, sour cream, chip dip, hummus, or any other of your favorite dips.
 If there are any bagel chips left, transfer them to a re-sealable plastic bag, an old jar, or an airtight container for up to two weeks., Preheat your oven to 350 F (177 C).Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, and spread the bagel chips out in a single layer.Bake them for eight to 10 minutes, flipping halfway through.Cook them until they are crispy and golden brown. Remove the chips from the oven and allow them to cool on the baking sheet.


The parchment paper in this method is strictly optional.
You can also bake the chips in a baking dish instead of on a baking sheet.
Since you are cooking in single layers, you may need to bake these in several batches, or use multiple baking sheets at a time.
 Preheat your oven to 250 F (121 C). Spread the chips out on a baking dish or sheet (lined with parchment if you wish), and cook for 45 minutes, until crispy but not hard. Flip the chips every 15 minutes while they are baking.While this method takes a little more time and effort, the advantage of the slow, low bake is that it gives the flavors of the oil and spices more time to infuse into the bagel chips.
 Heat your fryer on medium, between 350 and 360 F (177 to 185 C). When the fryer is ready, drop in a batch of chips and cook for one to two minutes.If necessary, flip the chips after the first minute. When they are golden brown, remove the chips from the oil and place them in a bowl lined with a clean towel or paper towel to remove some of the excess oil. Remove the towel and season the chips to taste, shaking them around gently in the bowl to evenly distribute the spices.
 Heat your seasoned oil in a frying pan over medium–high heat. When the oil is hot, lay down a single layer of bagel chips. Flip them every one to two minutes, and cook for about five minutes, until crispy and golden. Remove the chips from the pan with tongs or a spatula and place them in a towel-line bowl. When the excess oil has been absorbed, remove the towel and season the chips to taste.
 This can be done in a proper dehydrator, or in an oven. Set your dehydrator or oven to 115 F (46 C), or set your oven to its lowest temperature.Line the dehydrator trays with single layers of bagel chips, or lay the chips out in a single layer on a baking sheet. Dehydrate them for three to four hours, or until crispy.,