 Before you ever agree to go on a first date with someone, you should know basic information about them. Not only should you have some idea of whether or not your personalities are similar or if you share overlapping hobbies, you will want to know things like what their name is, what school they go to / what they do for a living, and their age. Preferably you should have an idea of what they look like as well and contact information.


If your date does not want to give out their telephone number before asking for your own, that is considered sketchy.
Do not be lulled into a false sense of security just because you know someone; 8 out of 10 rape victims know their assailant.Have a healthy amount of skepticism: just because someone tells you something doesn't mean they couldn't be lying, particularly if it sounds too good to be true.;
, What a person tells you they're like and what they may actually be like can be two different things. A Google search of their name may bring back results on Facebook, LinkedIn, and other social media websites that may give you a better feel for what your potential date is like when they're not trying to present their best side to you., Pick a reliable friend, roommate, or family member and tell them that you're going on a date.Tell them where you're going, what time the date is supposed to start, and when it is expected to end. Tell them your date's full name, and if you have it their telephone number, give them that as well. Make sure they also have your telephone number.
 After you've given them your cell phone number for your date, ask them to please check in on you once or twice during the date with a phone call or text. Tell them that if you do not respond within two hours of a text or phone call that they should call the police.
 Never invite a stranger to your home, agree to meet them at theirs, or agree to meet at any other private place for a first meeting.The ideal first-date location should be a place that is public and where there will be many people, like a restaurant, movie theater, or a club. It is important that you not go somewhere with someone you do not know well where you could be easily isolated.


If you have another friend who is also dating who would be willing, you could try making it a double-date so that you're sure to not be alone.
 Police recommend that you never tell a date where you live early on in the dating stages.You do not want an unsuccessful date to turn into a stalking situation. Having transportation of your own means you are not dependent on them if things go south.


If you take a bus or have someone coming to pick you up from your date, that gives you an extra excuse to leave if you need it.
 Dressing conservatively does not guarantee your safety. Women get mistreated wearing sweatshirts as well as cocktail dresses, and it is not OK either way. Do not think that dressing a certain way will either protect you, or encourage untoward behavior.


People have traditionally blamed women for "asking for it", when sexually assaulted when wearing sexy clothing, but this is no excuse or reason.
Dress for mobility. If you have to leave a situation, or walk a block to get to the bus stop, be sure you can do so without getting blisters, tottering on too-high heels, getting frostbite, or otherwise unable to simply go if you need to.
 Make sure that you never leave for a first date without your cell phone and a wallet with cash. If you end up splitting the bill for dinner, avoiding using a credit or debit card means that you won't leave behind a paper trail that could link you to your workplace or home address.You will need your cell phone to send and receive texts and phone calls, and it may be handy in case of an emergency.


Although some people may feel they are unnecessary, bringing mace and/or a rape whistle on the off chance your date turns violent could prevent you from becoming a victim, and should be very seriously considered.

