 The Vanilla Unicorn strip club is located between Downtown and South Los Santos, near the highway. It is marked on the map with a high-heel icon.


Warning: scenes in the strip club may contain nudity.;
, Go up to one of the girls walking around the strip club floor. When you get near, you will hear them ask if you want a dance. Press Right on the controller's directional pad to accept the private dance invitation.


Private dances will cost $40.
 Touch and flirt with the girl to fill up the Like bar (lower-right corner of the screen) during the dance. You might have to go for more than one dance if you fail the first time. You will get thrown out of the club if the bouncer catches you touching the stripper during the dance, so make sure that you stop before he comes back.


Touching will provide a continual increase to the Like bar, while each time you flirt will add a small increase.
Just before the Like bar fills, the girl will say that she'd like you to come over to her house.
 When the dance finishes with the Like bar filled, you'll get an extra option on the menu when she asks you what you want to do next. Select “Go home with ” from the menu., You can exit at the front and bring your car around to the back of the club. Park in front of the girl and wait for her to get in the car.
 Follow the GPS route on your minimap to her house. Most girls live within a few minute's drive of the strip club. Park on the yellow marker outside of the house.
 Once you get to the house, follow her inside. When your character gets inside, the camera view will remain outside the house and a time lapse will occur.


After the time lapse, your character will step out of the house. A prompt will appear telling you that the girl's number has been added to your contacts. Congratulations, you now have a girlfriend in GTA 5.
 You can call your stripper friend at any time after you've taken her home once. If you call at night, you'll be able to pick her up from work and take her home again. If you call during the day, she will be busy.


Unlike previous GTA versions, you can't take your girlfriend on actual dates.
You can date multiple girls at once, but most girls will only date one of your characters.

