 Read guidebooks, maps, websites, message boards and even novels set in the countries you plan to visit. Europe is a continent with many countries, all rich in culture and attractions. Many tourists plan trips to one country at a time, or to major attractions and cities over a period of 1-4 weeks or more.;
, There are many accommodation options in Europe, including budget hostels in major cities, house boats in Holland, camping in the Alps or a night in a castle. There are chain hotels, bed and breakfasts and rental houses. Research online and check message boards for information about places to stay. If you aren't sure where your travels may take you in Europe, many guidebooks have listings for hotels, and you can book as you go. In the summertime, it may be hard to get a hotel room. Be prepared to pay higher prices during peak season.
 Decide whether you want to see Europe by car, train, plane or bike. There are many options for getting to and around the European continent. Most people fly from their home country, then use a local form of transportation while in Europe. If you rent a car, you may need an International Driving Permit, so check with car rental agencies for requirements in each country you intend to drive. Another option is a European rail pass. There are discounts for multi-day passes, so check with the railway company you are originating your trip with. Places like the Netherlands offer cross-country biking tours.
 Contact the office of consular affairs in your country prior to a European trip. It is uncommon for European Union countries to have a travel warning, but it is best to check. Residents of countries in the Visa Waiver Program can get a visa upon arrival to your port of entry. Those from other countries may have to pre-arrange a tourist visa before travel.
 Many, but not all EU countries use the Euro. The UK, Sweden and Denmark still use their own currency as well as Euros. Other countries, like Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Ireland, Greece and Belgium use Euros. Euros can easily be exchanged in any country on the European continent.
 The electric outlets in the United Kingdom differ from those of continental Europe. Search the Internet for "electrical standards in Europe" for a list of receptacles. Europe is on a 220-240 volts/50 hertz standard. Be sure any electronics you bring are compatible.
 Call your bank and let them know your dates of travel. Be sure you have enough money in your debit account or available credit to cover your expenses. Check out a trip-advising website for ATM locations in the cities and places you will travel for when you need to withdraw cash.


Make sure your passport is valid for a minimum of 6 months past your return date.
Make two photocopies of all your credit cards, your driver's license and passport. Take copies with you and carry them separately from the originals. Keep copies at home and let someone know where to find them.
Print out copies of your reservations, confirmations, and itineraries.
Write down your embassy's address and phone number in each country you will visit. Each country has an embassy or consulate in its capital city. To find a list of embassies worldwide, go to your country's "embassies" website -- for example search "Australian Embassies." You will see the official home page listed indicated with a URL containing ".gov." Search for "Lost passport" from the embassy website to get specific instructions on how to get a new passport while abroad.
Print out information from your country on what to do if your passport is lost or stolen.
Check with airlines for security and luggage regulations.
Write down contact information, such as hotels where you will stay or tour operators you will be using. Leave the information with someone back home.

