 Iron is an important element in hemoglobin production. If you’re suffering from low hemoglobin count, increase your consumption of iron-rich foods such as:Liver
Meat
Shrimp
Beef
Tofu
Spinach
Pineapple
Nuts like almonds. These should be eaten with precaution to avoid having an allergic reaction.;
, It can be acquired by consuming these fruits and vegetables:


Oranges
Mangoes
Tangerines
Strawberries
Cabbage
Broccoli
Peppers
Spinach.
 Folic acids are vital in red blood cell production. Foods that are rich in folic acids include:


Seeds
Peanuts
Wheat germ
Sprouts
Broccoli
Nuts

If your diet also includes lots of vitamin C, it is advised to eat a little more folic acid since Vitamin C makes the body excrete folic acid.
 Cereals, pastas and breads made from whole grains are enriched with iron. As we discussed, iron is a main component in the production of hemoglobin (the blood needs it to form the proteins). Eating these foods can up your iron levels, in turn upping your hemoglobin level.


Stay away from white breads, cereals, and pastas. These have had their nutrients processed out of them, also resulting in them losing their color. They offer little nutritional benefit and are often full of simple carbohydrates, or sugars.
 Avoid iron blockers – these are food items that can block the body’s ability to absorb iron. Examples of iron-blocking foods and substances are:


Parsley
Coffee
Milk
Tea
Colas
Over the counter antacids
Fiber and calcium-rich foods

, Gluten is a form of protein that can be obtained from grains. For some individuals with gluten-sensitive enteropathy, the intake of foods containing gluten can damage the lining of the small intestine, which in turn can cause impairment in nutrient absorption including calcium, fat, folate and iron.


Nowadays, having a gluten-free diet doesn't have to be inconvenient. Many restaurants easily accommodate those that need to eat gluten-free and gluten is also labeled on many products in grocery stores.
 Studies show that usage of this herb may cause a substantial increase in hemoglobin levels, especially in children. It is used in ayurvedic medicine to treat iron deficiency anemia.In the aforementioned study of those using withania, red blood cell counts improved and hemoglobin levels increased. Talk to your doctor about this supplement and how much is appropriate for you.
 Nettle leaf is an herb that can be a rich source of iron and is customarily used to treat arthritis. Iron plays an important role in producing and absorbing hemoglobin. The more iron you take, the more hemoglobin will be produced.


Nettle leaf is available in many vitamin and supplement stores and online. It is available as an oil, in capsule form, and even as a tea.
 Experimental studies reveal that the consumption of dong quai can restore hemoglobin levels to a nearly normal range.It is traditionally utilized to treat premenstrual syndrome (PMS), menstrual symptoms, menstrual cramps, constipation and anemia. The cobalt in dong quai is thought to increase the hemoglobin content of your blood.


Dong quai is mostly available in capsule form, though it can also be used as an oil you can mix into your drinks. It is available at supplement stores, some pharmacies, and online.
 Studies demonstrate that patients with kidney failure that were given 45 mg of chitosan showed relatively reduced cholesterol levels and increased hemoglobin levels.Talk to your doctor about this natural remedy and if it's right for you.


Chitosan is available online and in special vitamin supplement stores. For the record, it's pronounced KITE-uh-san.
 Some patients are advised to take prescribed or over the counter medications or supplements to augment their levels of hemoglobin. Supplements may include:20-25mg of iron per day. This stimulates the production of hematin.
400mcg of folic acid per day. This is taken to increase the production of red blood cells which transport hemoglobin.
50-100mcg per day of vitamin B6. This functions also to increase red blood cell production.
500-1000mg per day of vitamin B12. It is prescribed to enhance red blood cell count.
1000mg per day of vitamin C. It is administered for red blood cell production as well.
 Erythropoietin is a hormone manufactured by the kidneys to promote the development of red blood cells by the bone marrow. Once the kidney cells sense that the oxygen level in the blood is too low it produces and releases erythropoietin to stimulate the bone marrow to generate more red blood cells. The increase in red blood cell count can also enhance the capacity of blood to carry oxygen.


In general, erythropoietin functions mainly to encourage the production of red blood cells and instigate the synthesis of hemoglobin (a component of the red blood cells that are in charge in transporting oxygen) .
Erythropoietin is administered either through the veins or via subcutaneous (external, fatty portion of the legs and thighs) injection.
 Blood transfusions are sometimes recommended by health care providers to improve hemoglobin count.


Prior to transfusion, safety precautions are taken to ensure the quality and compatibility of blood. It is tested for signs of contamination which can cause adverse reactions to patients. Donated blood can contain infectious components for HIV/AIDS and hepatitis so proper screening is very important.
After a thorough examination, the blood transfusion is given. It is administered through a central venous catheter or intravenous line in the arm over several hours.
The patient is then watched carefully for any untoward signs of blood transfusion such as difficulty of breathing, itchiness or rashes and an increase in body temperature.

