 It’s invasiveness is what makes it ideal for filling out beds or growing as lawn. However, you should be prepared to contain it if need be.;
, It will look great overhanging retaining walls and stones.


The Silver Falls variety is light green to gray, while other Dichondra plants are a Kelly green color.
 Flea beetles attach this plant in some areas, making it a poor choice.As is, it can be a difficult to maintain, yet, drought resistant type of lawn.
 If your ground freezes, it is a good idea to choose bedding plants. Seeds should only be started outdoors when the temperature is at least 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius).
 It will need steady temperatures over 70 degrees.
 Wait the amount of time indicated on the package before you seed your lawn.
 Feed lawn with an all-purpose lawn food.
 Make sure that all areas are level, so that they drain well.
 (0.5kg) per 500 to 1000 square feet (46 to 93 square meters). The heavier you seed, the faster it is likely to take root.
 Cover it in a shallow layer of peat moss to hold moisture in and keep weeds out.
 It should be moist, but never have standing water. Make sure you use a fine mist setting.
 After 10 days, let the surface dry out more before watering. Gradually reduce the frequency with which you water.


Start to water deeply, but infrequently to develop the root system. The roots should receive at least one inch (2.5cm) of water each time.
Dichondra is sensitive to over-watering and it can cause disease.
Don’t allow the soil to become completely dry between watering.
 Use a pre-emergent for weed control.


Don’t use broad-leaf herbicides on the lawn, since it will kill the plant. You may need to apply insecticides if heavy rain causes disease or bug problems., Set your mower height to 1.5 to 2 inches (4 to 5cm). You can cut it closer in the winter, but you should avoid cutting too much at once if the plant grows long.
 Apply a weed killer if the area is overrun by weeds. Wait several weeks to plant the Dichondra.


You can also plant Dichondra in hanging baskets or use it in cut flower arrangements.
 You can also buy bedding plants if you want them to fill out even faster.
 Rake the area to loosen the soil.
 Fill in the area with dirt. Press them lightly to ensure they are firmly implanted.
 Then, wait until the soil is drier, but not completely dry to water again.
 Try to avoid getting the fertilizer on the leaves of the plant or it may burn them.
 This plant should be watered deeply but infrequently. It will grow from season to season and fill out the beds. They can trail up to six feet (1.8m).