 The act of writing information by hand corresponds to greater retention and memory recall. Copy the first line and write it out ten times. After several times of rewriting the line, you will begin to remember the full line. For the tenth time, try to write the line without looking at your previous writing., As you get comfortable with the first line, restart the process with the second line by writing it out ten times. Repeat this each day to add additional lines to the material that you have memorized.


Connect new material to the lines that you have already learned. Review familiar lines that precede new lines to reinforce the larger structure and order of the poem in your mind.
 Periodically take a break from writing new lines to read the full poem. Reading the poem aloud will help you see memorized portions in the proper context of the full poem.
 You will forget portions of the poem if you do not review frequently. Recite the growing portions of the poem that you have memorized either to yourself or to an audience of friends.


Review the lines that you are working on learning while you are commuting, exercising, or running errands. This can reinforce your efforts to truly know the poem by transferring your knowledge between visual and verbal formats regularly. Additionally, this can keep your mind occupied while you perform monotonous tasks.
The more you memorize, the longer review will take. Spend more time on learning new lines, but review memorized portions daily as well. Read the portions that you have memorized aloud before you work on new lines. Occasionally, write them out again to reinforce earlier efforts.
 Once you have completed the full poem in this way, recite it from memory. Put the text of the poem away, so that you cannot see it, and record yourself as you recite it aloud from memory. You may not get the whole poem exactly, but do not look at the poem until you are finished.


Read the poem while listening to this second recording. Note any mistakes and use them to determine which sections of the poem require the most review.
Compare your original and final recordings. Note any different choices in emphasis or rhythm. These changes will help you identify how your understanding of the poem has developed.
 A mnemonic device can be simple to memorize and serve as a guide to help jog your memory without looking at the original poem. By creating a series of associations between parts of the poem, you will make it easier to remember the individual parts of the poem and how they fit together. Memorize the first letters of each stanza so that you can give yourself a hint about a line that you are having difficulty recalling.
 Walking around and performing actions that correspond to the poem can help you memorize the poem, especially once you are working on long sections. The body and mind are linked, so using gestures and movement will lead to improved results as you work on memorization.