 Open a new tab on your web browser and go to the Google Docs wbesite.;
, Provide your Gmail email and registered password in the two text boxes, and click the blue “Sign in” button below to continue.
 At the top of the Google Docs page is a blue banner. At the far right of this banner is an icon for File Picker. It is represented by a white file box. Click on that file box to open File Picker.
 At the top of the File Picker page is a title named “Select an item.” Below this title are two tabs: “My Drive” and “Upload.” My Drive directs you to documents in Google Drive. The Upload tab allows you to upload a file from your computer to Google Docs. Click the Upload tab.
 Clicking this will open a file explorer for you to use to locate the video file you want to upload.
 Go to the folder location where your video resides. Select it by clicking on it, and then click “Open” at the bottom right of the file explorer to upload the video to Google Docs. This will direct you to the Google Docs processing page.
 The video you upload to Google Docs will not be immediately available to you for viewing. It has to be processed by Google servers. Wait for a few minutes as the video is being processed. If it takes some time to process the video, so you can close the window and come back later. Once the video is processed, you will be redirected to the Google Docs page.
 The menu icon is represented by three short lines. It’s found on the top left of the page. When you click on the menu icon, a list of options comes up.


If you closed the processing page, you will need to visit the Google Docs website again to access the Docs menu.
 This will take you to a page where all the files you have uploaded are listed.
 Your video file is in the middle area of the page.Take your mouse and double-click on it. The video file will play right on your web browser. Google Docs supports major file formats which include FLV, WMV, MPEG4, WEBM, AVI, MPEGPS, MOV, and 3GPP. Be sure your video file will play even if you took it with your phone.
 Select the file by clicking on it once. Go to the top of your page and click the sharing icon, represented by a person icon with a plus (+) on the head.


Enter the email addresses of the people you want to share the video file with. The email addresses are typed in the pop up text box that appears after clicking the sharing icon above. If you want to share the file with more than one person, separate their email addresses with a comma.

