 It provides valuable information regarding rules, cabins, and what you do at camp. If there are any free camp brochures, those are useful too. If you know anyone who goes to (or has gone to) the same camp, ask them questions. Get your parents' help in calling or emailing the camp director with any questions that you haven't been able to find the answers to.;
, Look at the packing list provided for your camp and bring what it lists, perhaps maybe even more. It is actually not a bad idea to "overpack". At camp, because you will be living in a cabin with several other people, things get lost and swapped around quite frequently. Don't be shy about putting in the things you will want to have with you, in addition to what is required. Pack all of your heavy gear in a suitcase or duffel bag, and bring smaller personal items in a backpack. Often you will need the help of another person or two to carry it to and from vehicles.
 Traveling to camp comes in many forms. Many kids take the camp bus, which picks up kids at a designated meeting spot. The camp bus is much more fun than you may think. It's an excellent way to meet people ahead of time, and many of the kids who ride the bus are long-time campers who can answer your questions or tell stories. Some traditional camps provide long train rides to get there; still other people who live far away from their camp choose to take an airplane. If you are simply riding in the car with your parents, the drive is a good time to relax and pull yourself together.
, Your bed will be your personal "home base" for the summer, so choose what you feel most comfortable with. The top is very good if you like space, but the bottom is warmer. Both are excellent for decorating and fun gatherings. Consider whether you will want a bed close to the entrance, bathroom, or some other important landmark. Sometimes there are beds already assigned for you by counselors. If you are not arriving for the first session, many good beds will already be claimed. Above all, when it comes to beds remember that you will often have to settle for something that isn't your first choice.
 Follow the staff's instructions on what to do next.
 Some camps may have an orientation where they lead all the new campers around for a tour and introductions. Others have staff come to meet you when you get off the bus and then lead you straight to your cabin. Whatever the process is, pay attention to what you are told, so you can start getting used to your surroundings.
 This is the simplest thing to remember but also the most important. You will be living with them for the next two or more weeks, and there are bound to be people who you click with and maybe some you don't. People who are in your cabin at camp can be your lifelong friends if you give them a chance. Strong, long-term camp friendships start with the people in your cabin, who you spend the most time with.
 You never know how nice people can be unless you try! There will be chances to meet kids outside of your cabin and you can make dozens of long-time pals this way. It is good to know a variety of people at camp and remember as many names and faces as you can. If your camp is co-ed, don't be afraid of befriending people of the opposite gender. Friends in other cabins can share insights with you that you never experience in your own cabin.
 There will be plenty of new experiences at camp, and you are definitely going to like at least a few of them! Everybody has activities that they like and dislike, so find things that you enjoy and people with whom you share interests. At camp you get to try new things that you may never have the chance to do otherwise. Fearlessly being a part of everything will make you the happiest camper you can be.
 This cannot be stressed enough. Camp is fun because of the people you experience it with. Say hello with a smile and take younger kids under your wing. Find counselors you can trust, learn who lives in which cabin, and get familiar with all the popular hangout spots. Take as many notes and photographs as you can and save all your souvenirs for life.
 This isn't for everyone, but if you're a bit of a prankster, you can have some fun at camp.


Ask your counselor about a prank before you try it. They can make sure all camp rules are being followed.
Choose leaders, one from each side. The two will discuss additional ground rules and make sure all pranks are pulled in the best possible manner. Consider an experienced camper, a prankster with a friendly outlook, or the person who is the sneakiest.
When pulling pranks, remember that the other side will retaliate equally. If ground rules are broken, trust is often hurt. Remember that camp is fun and pranks should be fun, not hurtful. A good prank war builds friendships between everyone involved and is lots of fun!

, On the last day of camp, exchange e-mail, addresses, phone numbers, and/or screen names with all your camp friends so you can keep in touch.


Some camps send out a directory, which is very useful. Save the directories you get every year.
If you all plan to return to camp next summer, communicate as often as you can to keep tabs on how things are going in your lives. Try to get together for birthdays, holidays, and other special events. Don't make the mistake of forgetting about each other during the school year.

