 A plain hat like a fedora or straw hat can be instantly dressed up by adding a new ribbon above the brim.Measure the circumference of the base of the crown of the hat with a flexible measuring tape made for sewing, and cut your ribbon about an inch longer than this measurement, so you have a small overlap to glue.
Glue the ribbon around the hat. Use a small line of hot glue in the middle of the ribbon. Tuck the exposed edge under slightly so it doesn’t look frayed or become more frayed over time.
For whimsy, use a bright ribbon with a pattern like polka dots or stripes.
For a more classic style, use a solid color, satin ribbon.
 This works well to adorn fabric hats like the top of a baseball cap or a woven bean.First, use a piece of white chalk or chalk pencil to draw the design you want to create on your hat. It can help to mark off where you want each individual stitch by using dotted lines.
Then, thread an embroidery needle with embroidery floss in your color of choice. You can find both of these at most craft stores. They will be labeled for embroidery.
Follow your design by bringing the need down and through each of your dotted stich marks. When you finish your design, tie off the end of the thread so that your embroidery doesn’t come out.
If you’ve never embroidered before, start with a simple design, like a geometrical shape or group of shapes like squares or stars.
You can go back over your design with a different color of thread if you want a bit more complexity.
 A single homemade rosette can be a nice touch on a hate like a fedora.You can use any fabric you want, like tulle or thick cotton.


Cut out petals from your fabric. These should be ovals in varying sizes. You’ll want a few large petals for the bottom of your flower and smaller ones for the top petals.
To attach them, either sew them together, or glue them on top of one another. Cross two petals on the bottom, and continue them upward until you use your smallest petals.
Glue the finished rosette to your hat with a large dot of fabric glue or hot glue.
 Another two-dimensional way to spice up your hat is to draw on it with fabric markers or paints.This is great for first-time fabric crafters.


Draw your design on your hat first in pencil or with chalk.
Use the fabric markers to go over the outline you made, and then fill in your design with additional colors.
This works well with hats like baseball caps that are made from cotton. It doesn’t work as well on textured materials like straw or felt. If you do want to draw on a more textured hat, opt for the fabric paint over the markers.

