 Rules? Who needs rules? Simply arm each player, load up with water, and have at it! Soak whomever you choose.Make sure everyone’s having a good time, though. If you see players ganging up on another player who is really young and likely to get upset (or even someone who is older but just as likely to get upset), come to their defense. Target the other players and break the gang up.
 Once everyone is armed and loaded, have everyone shout, “Not it!” Make whoever shouts last be It. Give everyone else a headstart to get out of It’s range. Then have It chase people down and shoot at them. Whomever It hits is now It, so run away from them!If you have more players than gun, this can also be played with just one gun that only It carries and then hands over to the next It.
 Determine who It is with a round of “Not it!” Whoever says It last starts off as It. Allow everyone a headstart to get away from It. Then, when It begins the chase, have each person they hit freeze in place with their legs spread. Unfreeze them by crawling between their legs. Try to unfreeze as many players as possible before It freezes them all!Since only It is firing a weapon, only one water gun is needed.
 Arm each player. Divide everyone into two or more teams of equal numbers. Set a time limit (five, ten, fifteen minutes). Then have each team try to soak the others as much as possible at the start of “Go!” At the end of the time limit, have everyone line up and give them points based on how wet they are. Add up the totals for each team, and then compare the totals. Whichever team has the lowest score wins.Give one point for little splashes here and there. Give five points if one or more pieces of clothing are wet all over. Give ten points if they are soaked from head to foot.
Be careful with the time limit. If the weather is hot and dry, keep it short so everyone is just as wet at the end as they are in the first minute of play.
 If you have an even number of players, split them into two equal teams. Line them up facing each other within range of the weakest gun. Yell, “Go,” and have the two teams fire at each other. When someone is hit, have them leave. Continue until only one person is left dry and standing.If you don’t have enough water guns, use balloons or bombs instead.
 For older or more experienced players, put everyone’s aim to the test to make things more challenging. For each player, poke a hole through an Alka-Seltzer tablet. Feed a string through the hole and then tie the ends together to make a necklace. Alter the rules of whichever game you choose so that a hit only counts if the tablet is struck and begins to dissolve.