


Click the blue “Sign Up” button in the top left corner, next to the Flickr logo.
Enter the information that it requests. If you have a Yahoo account, you can create a Flickr account using your Yahoo login information.
 By doing this you can upload photos to Flickr directly from your smartphone.


Search for the app in the App Store or Play Store, depending on what type of device you have.
Open it once it is downloaded and log into your account.



On your home page, you can drag and drop your photos anywhere on the page below the navigation bar, or you can click the blue button that says “Select files to upload.”
Select the photos you would like to upload and either drag-and-drop them or open them from your documents.
Once your photo is uploaded, you can click on it to edit its privacy settings, edit the photo itself, share it, add it to an album, or download it to your computer. If you edit it, be sure to save your edits.



You have a few options to share it, such as Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and email.
You can also grab the link for the image and share that with whoever you want to see the photos.
Follow the prompts to share photos to social media platforms or to email. When you click one of the social media websites, a pop-up window will appear asking you to write a post to go along with those photos.
 You must open the app to do this.


Tap the button that looks like a camera in the middle of the navigation bar.
You can take a photo directly with the app by tapping the large white circle, or you can choose a photo from your photo gallery by choosing the square to the left of the large white circle.
You will be able to edit the photo if you would like to do that. When you are done editing, tap the “Next” button in the top right corner.
You can give your photo a title, and you can determine its privacy settings before sharing it. Not only will the photo post to your Flickr account, but you can also share it with Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr from the app.
When you are ready to share it, press the “Post” button in the top right corner.

