 Place 1/2 cup (75 g) of raw cashews into a prep bowl and pour enough water over them to cover the nuts completely. Let the cashews soak in the water for 4 to 8 hours. When you're ready to make the soup, drain the nuts, which should be softened.You can discard the soaking liquid.
 Chop 1 pound (480 g) of assorted fresh mushrooms. Pour 1/4 cup (60 ml) of olive oil into a Dutch oven or soup pot and turn the heat on to medium. Add the chopped mushrooms and saute them for about 8 to 10 minutes. Stir the mushrooms occasionally, so they begin to soften and turn brown.You can use a mix of your favorite mushrooms. For example, try white button, cremini, and shiitake.
 While the mushrooms are sauteing, chop the other vegetables and then add them to the soup pot. Saute the mixture for about 5 minutes, so the vegetables soften. You'll need to dice and add:1 medium onion,
2 medium carrots
2 celery ribs
4 garlic cloves, minced

, Stir 1 cup (236 ml) of dry white wine into the pot along with 1 teaspoon of dried thyme. Turn the heat up to medium-high, so the soup begins to bubble gently. Continue to adjust the heat, so the soup keeps simmering. Simmer the soup with the lid off for about 5 minutes.Simmering will help the soup reduce and thicken. About half of the liquid in the pot should evaporate as it cooks.
 Add 5 cups (1.18 liters) of the broth to the pot along with 1/2 cup (100 g) of pearl barley. Turn the heat up to high, so the soup begins to boil. Turn the heat back down, so it bubbles gently. Simmer the soup with the lid off for about 45 minutes.The pearl barley should become tender once it's finished cooking.
 Place the soaked cashews in a blender. Scoop 1 cup of the soup out of the pot and add it to the blender along with the remaining 1 cup (236 ml) of broth. Put the lid on the blender and blitz the mixture until it's smooth.Blending the cashews will give a creamy taste to the soup without adding any dairy.
 Pour the blended cashew mixture into the soup pot and add 1 1/2 tablespoons of soy sauce. If you want to add the white miso paste, stir in 1 1/2 teaspoons of it, so it completely dissolves. Taste the soup and add salt and pepper to taste before you serve it.If the soup is too thick for your liking, you can pour in a little water to thin it out.

