 It's best to get financial and any other logistical concerns out of the way before the session begins. This way you'll have a clear head without worrying about when to pay or anything else business related.
 You may want to censor yourself because you want your therapist to like you, but it's best to allow yourself to say whatever is on your mind. This will aid your therapist in helping you, since he or she will have a better gauge of where you're at and what needs to be addressed., If you're struggling to open up or having other problems, include your therapist in the discussion. It might feel uncomfortable for you to share with your therapist your impressions of how your therapy sessions are going. Even though it might feel awkward, remember your therapy sessions are a partnership. If you have concerns, unanswered questions, or if you have needs to address, you need to be honest with your therapist.


Among other things, therapy is a relationship for helping you learn to have better relationships. Good communication and opening up to your therapist will help you with other relationships in life.If you're stuck, simply tell your therapist "I feel stuck." He or she will probably ask you to elaborate. Go from there, based on your experience in the moment. Having a dialogue about what you're feeling is a great way to get unstuck.
 If you don't know what to say or what direction the therapy should go in, take a deep breath and ask yourself what you're feeling. You may realize that you're feeling stressed, anxious, sad, hopeful, unsure, or something else. Share this valuable information with your therapist, which will build trust as well as give you both a starting point., If your therapist gives you a diagnosis or uses some psychology jargon, ask him or her what it means. If you want feedback about the therapeutic relationship, ask your therapist how he or she feels about working with you. If you don't know how to incorporate what happens in therapy into your life, ask your therapist if he or she has any helpful suggestions. There are a lot of questions you can ask, and it's important for effective therapy to be active in the relationship., It's easy to want to vent about your life and get caught up in things outside your immediate control. This can be useful at times, but it's also extremely valuable to work within the room and the therapy relationship itself.


If you do bring up outside issues, look for ways that you can use these problems to identify how the situation made you feel, what you did in response, and how you can respond better in the future. For example, you might have felt angry because your husband didn't take the garbage out last night, and you might have lost your temper and yelled at him in response. You might be able to use this situation to decide on a better response, such as by taking a minute to calm down and then reminding him to take out the garbage in a calm voice.
It is okay to focus on your relationships with other people, but instead of focusing on something small, try to focus on the bigger issue. For example, you might wish your husband would help out more with the chores in the house without you having to ask him or that he would listen to you when are talking. Understanding that this is what you really want may help you and your therapist to think of ways that you could express this desire.
 In order to get the most out of therapy, it's important to reflect on what happens in each session. Journaling is a great way to get your thoughts in order. You may even come up with questions or remarks for your therapist during your next session.Write about how you felt during the session, how you feel while you are journaling, things you would like to say to your therapist, and any interesting dreams that you have, as a few examples.
 Therapy can be of great help, but it's important to transfer the things you learn there into the rest of your life. If you have social anxiety, talk to your therapist about trying something that makes you slightly uncomfortable, like going on a date or hanging out with a friend. Your therapist can help you formulate a plan of action, and then you can try it out on your own. This is a good example of how you can make the most of therapy. Don't forget to talk about how it went in your next session!, Your therapist may give you worksheets to do, ask you to record your dreams, or encourage you to go outside of your comfort zone in-between sessions. In order for your actual therapy to be as effective as possible, it's important to engage with these requests to the best of your ability. If you have trouble with any assigned homework, discuss it with your therapist in the session., Therapy can feel like friendship at times, but your therapist likely has a lot of clients and only so much energy. Your therapist may establish some "ground rules" about contact outside of therapy or business hours, but if your therapist doesn't, assume that you probably shouldn't text or call your therapist at 8 on a Friday evening, unless it's an emergency.
 It's important to have a clear picture of your struggles and personal goals before you seek out a therapist, so that you can most effectively communicate what you want from therapy. This will ensure that you find a therapist who is the best fit for you and your unique set of concerns.Do you want to learn to love yourself better? Do you want to learn how to cope with stress or anxiety? Are you feeling hopeless about where you are in your life? These are a few reasons you might want to go to therapy.
 In order for therapy to be effective, you need to have a good relationship with your therapist. The "therapeutic alliance" between the two of you is actually one of the most important elements of good, effective therapy.Use a website like http://www.psychologytoday.com to search for therapists in your area. Many times this website and others will have a short statement from the therapist as well as information about how they practice therapy. You can use this information to make a more informed decision and find a therapist you connect with.
Try to find an expert in your area of struggle. If you're an adult with anxiety, see if you can find someone who specializes in adults with anxiety., Not all therapists take insurance, and therapy can be expensive. If you have insurance, contact the therapist to see if he or she is in your network (or ask your insurance company). You may only have a small copay if the therapist in network. If you don't have insurance, talk to your therapist about a sliding scale, which will allow you to pay based on your income., During the first session, before you commit, have a conversation with the therapist about your struggles and goals. Ask the therapist what sort of therapy he or she does and how that relates to your struggles. This process will allow you get to know your therapist a little better and decide if he or she is the right fit., You may want to preserve the feelings of your therapist or you may be scared of leaving, but if you feel like therapy isn't working for you, be honest about it. The two of you can talk it through, and your therapist might even refer you to someone who would work better with you.