 Waking up one hour earlier each morning allows you time to focus on yourself, your goals, and your intention to change your attitude. You might spend this time in meditation, or reading a favorite book. Having the time set aside to plan and reflect upon your day is an important tool in changing your attitude.If it's easier for you to take an additional hour at the end of the day, you can try this. Most, but not all, people find it more productive to take time in the early morning hours.
Don't allow yourself to waste the morning time in negative mind traps, like reading depressing news or scrolling through social media.
 If there are people in your life who leave you feeling drained, unproductive, and depressed, you may need to spend less time with them if you're trying to develop a new attitude. Avoid depressing news stories and take time to read uplifting journalism. Put yourself on a "positivity" diet, and minimize the amount of negativity you take in per day.This doesn't mean to abandon a friend who may be having a hard time, but if your friend's life is always full of drama and hardship, you may need to take a break.
If being around negative people is unavoidable (for instance, if it's your boss or supervisor) you may be able to put their negativity to use. Try to understand where it's coming from, and counter it with positivity.
 That sounds easy, but it may not be something that you're used to paying attention to. Try making a list of things that you do every day (or, most days), then make a second list of things that make you happy. Compare your lists, and see what changes you can make to include more happiness.Think about what adjustments you can make to your daily routine to include more things that bring you happiness.
Pause several times per day to take your happiness level. If you're feeling happy, think about the circumstances that have contributed to this feeling.
 When you're in a stressful situation, think about it, use reason to find a solution, and do what makes sense. When you react, you skip the reasoning stage and respond automatically. This only serves to cause more problems and frustration.When you're in a new, stressful situation, pause and take a deep breath before doing or saying anything.
If you can, take the time to think something out before giving an answer. Say, "I need to think about it."

, If you're trying to develop a new attitude, keep your attention on the present moment. When you find yourself worrying about the future, or revisiting difficult moments of the past, gently return your attention to the present moment.You might use a particular word or phrase to return your attention to the present, such as "now" or "present" or "return."
Don't berate yourself for losing focus. Remember, kindness is essential to developing a positive attitude.
 Research shows that trying to spread your attention too broadly results in increased stress and lower levels of concentration. Developing a greater amount of control over your attention will positively affect your feeling of well-being and positivity.Try not to keep multiple tabs up on your internet browser, and turn off your phone when you're watching television. If you are washing dishes, turn off the news. Doing one thing at a time, and doing it well, will increase your positive attitude.If you have to multitask, set aside specific times for it. When the time is up, return to your single-task outlook.
When you're having a conversation with a friend, turn off your phone.
Slow down your attention to be more fully present in every activity.

