 This single-ingredient product is a safe, effective ways to lock in moisture and prevent further drying.Most lip balm products with additional ingredients cannot make the same guarantee.;
, You'd think any lip balm would work, since it's designed for this exact problem. Unfortunately, products that contain menthol, camphor, or peppermint are particularly harsh on damaged lips. Avoid purchasing products with these items listed as ingredients.Many dermatologists recommend petroleum jelly (Vaseline), but some disagree, stating that it may cause harm.
 Unlike lip balms, which seal in moisture to prevent drying, lip moisturizers try to rehydrate directly. Some dermatologists recommend moisturizers that contain vitamins A, B, and E, or dimethicone. It's best when used right after a shower, as water, shampoo, and soap can dry out already damaged lips., All-natural lip balms and moisturizers can be effective, but many claims are not supported by evidence. In general, waxes and fats are likely to help seal in moisture, including beeswax, shea butter, coconut oil, cocoa butter, and vegetable oils. However, essential oils and fragrances are more likely to irritate your lips than soothe them, and can even cause a major reaction., If you're not interested in buying products from a store, you can use items housed in your kitchen for relief. Keep in mind that most of these recipes are not vetted by professionals. It's best to stick to simple ingredients and avoid essential oils, or dilute them to 2% strength or less.


To make a simple lip balm, take a cup of shaved beeswax, 3 tablespoons of coconut oil, and a teaspoon of vitamin E oil and boil them together over the stove. Remove from heat and let the concoction dry and solidify overnight.
 A gentle exfoliant may help your lips, but too much can easily cause harm.Try applying a mixture of olive oil, honey, and sugar to your lips for 10 minutes and then washing it off. This should moisturize and soften your lips, but stop if you notice further damage.
 Some websites claim flaxseed oil helps heal chapped lips by restoring essential fatty acids.This may or may not work, but be aware that flax can have dangerous effects if you have certain medical conditions, or an allergic reaction.If you decide to use it, you may apply a small dab of flaxseed oil directly to your lips.


Flaxseed oil can also be used as an ingredient in dressings, salsa, and dips. You can also add a drop to foods like cottage cheese, baked potatoes, and popcorn.Be careful. Flaxseed oil does not last long, so make sure to use it within the first three months of purchase.