 Some children only have one parent who provides daily care. When this parent is imprisoned, the child is homeless. The child may have extended family who can take care of him or her (such as a grandparent or aunt/uncle). However, you should contact Child Protective Services, which can arrange emergency foster care.


You can find the phone number for Child Protective Services by looking in your phone book. The child should be placed that day with a foster family on an emergency basis.
If you can’t find the number and feel overwhelmed, call the police. They can connect you to CPS.;
, Emergency foster care services last only so long. In some states, they last only 30 days or less. During this period, the caseworker, family, and parent will work to find a permanent placement for a child.The state would prefer that extended family provide foster care.If you are a relative, such as an aunt, uncle, older sibling, or grandparent, then you might want to serve as a foster parent.
You should contact Child Protective Services and ask how to apply.
 When family members or close family friends take care of a child, it is called “kinship care.” The process for offering kinship care differs by state. You should coordinate with CPS to figure out your state’s specific requirements.


In some states, you will need to undergo the formal licensing process for becoming a foster care provider. This process often involves taking particular trainings and undergoing criminal and financial background checks. If you become licensed, then you can also qualify for monthly payments to pay for the cost of caring for the child.
In other states, the process is more informal. You may only undergo a home study to check that your home is suitable for a child., At a minimum, a caseworker will probably visit your home to make sure that it is appropriate for a child. If anything is wrong with the living area, the worker will notify you so that you can correct the problem. To prepare for the home study, go through your home and perform the following:Fix hazards. The home must be safe. Fix broken bannisters and steps. Cover up electrical wires, and fix holes in the walls.
Cover up your pool so that a child can’t fall into it.
Safely store items that could be dangerous to children. For example, store medicines in medicine cabinets and cleaning supplies and household chemicals in locked cabinets.
Lock up any firearms. You should also lock up the ammunition in a separate location away from the gun.
Post emergency numbers near the telephone.
Clean out your house. Remove all trash, accumulated dirt, pet dander, and moldy food.

