 If you have long hair, pull all of your hair away from your face and secure it with a hair tie. If you have bangs, you may need a headband to hold them back away from your face as well.;
, The water should be hot, but not so hot that it burns your skin. Place the washcloth on your face for one to two minutes to open your pores. Alternately, take a hot shower first and soak in the steam for several minutes.
 You don’t need to scrub hard, you just want to have a nice clean face to exfoliate.
 Before you use a new product, you should do a patch test to make sure that you do not have an allergic reaction. Choose a one-inch square along the side of your face or chin. Dampen the area, and apply the exfoliant. Wait about five or ten minutes. If the area starts to burn, wash it off quickly. Do not continue using that product. If there is no reaction, you can use it on the rest of your face.
 Whatever exfoliant you’re using, have it ready to go. Maybe you decided to make a scrub at home, or maybe you’ve purchased a product at the store. Either way, apply the exfoliating paste to your clean, wet skin. Use two fingers or a clean washcloth wet with warm water. Gently rub the paste in circular motions over your entire face to get rid of dead skin.









If you’re using an exfoliating brush or sponge, use short light strokes for about 30 seconds.Don’t exfoliate if you have open cuts, wounds, a sunburn, or a herpes outbreak.
 Wash off all the exfoliating paste with warm, not hot, water. Then splash your face with cold water to close your pores. Make sure you’ve removed all of the scrub, otherwise your face will be sticky or grainy from the leftover scrub.
 Use a fresh, soft, clean towel to gently pat dry your face. Do not rub your skin. Your skin may be a little more sensitive after exfoliation, and you do not want to irritate it further by rubbing it.
 After you are done exfoliating, use a non-comedogenic moisturizer with sunscreen to preserve your skin’s smoothness, avoid breaking out, and protect it from harmful UV rays.It’s easy for fresh skin to be damaged by the sun, so be sure to wear sunscreen if you’ll be spending time outdoors.









Use a moisturizer with at least SPF 15 sun block.
 If you have oily, tough skin, you may be able to exfoliate daily without any problem. On the other hand, those with sensitive or dry skin should limit at-home exfoliating to 1-2 times per week.If your skin becomes red or irritated, cut back on how much you’re exfoliating and consult your doctor.

