 Once you feel prepared, you need to let the other person know that you need to have a talk about something important. This way, you can be certain that he or she also has enough time and that you won't be interfering with an important public, business, or social engagement.


If you can help it, do not tell the other person you need to have this conversation until a few hours beforehand, at most. Especially if there are obvious issues in the relationship, the other person may spend a lot agonizing hours worrying about what's going to happen if you give him or her too much advance notice., Don't be unkind or accusatory, but tell the person in simple and straightforward terms that the relationship is over, and explain why.Be specific about why it didn't work out. This can be a learning opportunity for the other person.
For example, if you are breaking up with this person because he or she doesn't include you in other aspects of life (e.g. social outings with friends or meeting family), you might say: "I haven't felt like I'm really part of your life. When you go out with your friends, I feel uninvited, and I feel that you haven't been inclusive when I've asked to go. I also feel concerned that you haven't introduced me to your family. It makes me feel like I'm not that important to you. I think you're a great person, but that's not the kind of relationship that's going to make me happy, so I need to move on."
It is ok to be honest about your feelings about the breakup as well. If this is difficult for you, let the other person know. It can help both you and him or her feel better about the situation., While you want to be as kind as possible, you should not sugarcoat things or be too nice. This can send mixed signals that be confusing to the other person.It can lead him or her to hold onto hope that you may change your mind. This doesn't do the other person any favors in the long run.


It's possible for a breakup to be so nice that the other person doesn't realize what has happened. If this occurs, you'll have to go through the whole thing again.
You would not want to say, for example, "I really love you, and I think this is something you need to work on." This could be interpreted to mean that if he or she made some changes, you'd be willing to continue the relationship.
 In most cases, when a relationship ends, both parties bear some responsibility. It's very seldom only person's fault. Acknowledge your responsibility for the end of the relationship.For example, you might say, "I probably should have spoken up more before now to let you know how I felt about these problems," or "I know there's more I could have done to make you part of my life, too." Statements like these will help the other person feel less as if she or he is being blamed for all the problems that have brought about the end of the relationship.
 Using the "It's not you, it's me" line can make the other person feel like you really are blaming him or her. Instead, provide a specific reason for the the breakup based on your needs, but don't feel like you have to tell the person every single reason why you want to break up.For example, you might say something like, "I have noticed that I am becoming really critical of you and it is interfering with my ability to be a good boyfriend/girlfriend. That is not fair to you and it tells me that I am not ready for this kind of commitment."

, You're not going to be the only person with something important to say in this conversation. Listen patiently and respectfully to the other person's response, and truthfully answer any questions she or he might have.


The other person's response may be emotional. He or she may wish to tell you about their feelings. There may be difficult questions. Be prepared for and accepting of all of this.For example, if the other person bursts into tears, you might say "I understand that this probably hurts you a lot. I'm sorry this is so difficult for you."

, While it is respectful to hear the other person out and answer any questions she or he may have, do not allow this to become an argument. This will benefit neither of you.If the other person starts making accusations or blaming you for the problems, you could say something like: "I know I wasn't a perfect boyfriend/girlfriend either, but this is how I feel. I really don't want to have an argument about it."
If the person tries to talk you into remaining in the relationship, you can say something like, "I'm sorry, but my mind is made up, and I'm not going to change it."

, However the other person responds, try to be the calm one in this situation. You've had time to prepare yourself, the other person has not.You may have very strong feelings about the relationship ending. The other person may react in a way that is hurtful to you. Regardless of how this plays out, take a deep breath and try to keep your emotions under control. Getting angry and having a fight now will definitely not promote an amicable split.
 Tell the other person, in straightforward terms, what type of relationship you would like to have with them in the future. If you hope to still be friends, say so. If you don't want to see her or him again for awhile (or ever) say that, too.For example, if you hope to stay friends, you could say something like: "I hope after we both take a little time to heal, we can still be friends." If you do not want to have the other person in your life at all, be honest. Say something like: "I really think trying to be friends would be too difficult for me. It's probably best if we don't see each other anymore."
Even if you want to stay friends, don't assume that will necessarily work out. The other person may not feel that way. Or, it may simply be too difficult for one or both of you.