 The first and easiest approach to prevent hives is to avoid the allergen. This means avoiding situations where you may be exposed to the allergen or learning how to adapt to unavoidable situations.For example, if you have a food allergy that causes hives, refrain from eating that food. When you go out to eat or eat at someone else’s home, inform them that you have a food allergy. Ask if which dishes are not made with that particular food.
If you have sun hives, you should take caution when outside in the sun. Wear hats and long-sleeved shirts. Wear sunscreen. Avoid long periods in the direct sunlight and find places to stand in the shade.
If you have pressure hives, avoid wearing tight clothing.
To prevent temperature hives, don’t swim in cold water, and if you do, make sure not to swim alone. Wear a scarf around your nose and head when walking in cold weather. Wear warm clothing and layers when in the cold.
You can learn how to treat hives for those times when you get in a situation where you can’t prevent hives.;
, Some allergens that cause hives can be determined by going through a process of allergy skin testing. There are two main forms of allergy testing. The allergen can be scratched into your skin, or a very small amount can be injected into the skin. These are not very painful but can be uncomfortable, especially if you react to the substance.Most positive reactions will occur within minutes, usually within 20 to 30 minutes. Delayed reactions may occur as well within 24 to 48 hours.
For young children and babies, a blood sample may be taken and tested.
In some people who may be at risk for anaphylaxis, who are taking certain medications, or who have severe skin conditions such as eczema or psoriasis, a blood sample may be taken to avoid severe skin reactions.
The skin tests may have to be repeated for a wide variety of allergens, but you should know that the specific allergen that you react to may not be a part of the panel of allergens tested, so it is possible that even after testing, you still will not know what it is you should avoid.
 If the testing doesn’t identify the allergen, try keeping a diary to see if you can narrow down the possibilities. Write down any minor thing that could cause them, even if you’re not sure it’s the cause. Especially pay attention to hives that occur in similar situations, or hives that only occur when exposed to specific circumstances.Keep track of what you eat, what medicines you take, and what environmental allergens may be around. Environmental allergens include pets, dust, and plants.
Also keep track of any drastic temperature changes or physical injury, such as scrapes or scratches that may cause any hives.
Vibrations can cause hives, so keep a log of things you touch that vibrate, like speakers with heavy bass, lawn mowers, or jack hammers.

