


Read reviews and advertisements in gun magazines such as Guns & Ammo.
Browse the selections at your local sporting goods or other specialty stores. Cabela's, Simmons Sporting Goods and Dick's Sporting Goods are good sources for information on gun cabinets.
Check reviews of different cabinets online. Websites that cater to gun owners will often have reviews of different products that you can read and consider when you are selecting a gun cabinet. Online selections might be larger and less expensive as well.;
,


Select a gun cabinet that will fit into the space you have in your home or office. Measure the area where you plan to keep the cabinet, and shop for one that will fit.
Look for a gun cabinet with an interior that will hold all of your guns and ammunition. See if you have the option to add shelving or other accessories to the interior.
 Look for chips or gaps near the trim and hinges. You will want to be able to open and close it easily and quickly.
 Select a gun cabinet that allows you to lock up your collection. You do not want anyone with unauthorized access to be able to get into the cabinet.
 There should be padding and insulation that will prevent scratches or damage to your guns.
 If you are choosing a cabinet over a safe, you will probably want your guns to be visible. As you are shopping, make sure you look at cabinets that have guns inside of them so that you can get an idea of how they will look with your collection.


Select a cabinet that does not display the guns if you are more concerned about safety and storage, and less interested in keeping your collection on display. There are cabinets that are industrial and made from steel, keeping all the guns out of sight.
 Depending on the size and style of the gun cabinet you select, you will pay as little as $100, or more than $500. Decide what you want to spend before you begin shopping.


Shop for a used gun cabinet if you are hoping to save money. You can check online sites such as eBay and Amazon, or look locally on Craigslist.
 If you decide you do not like the gun cabinet you purchase, or you find a defect in it, make sure you will be able to return it for a refund or an exchange.
 Unless your gun cabinet will be delivered, you may have to put it together. Make sure instructions will be provided, and assess your ability to assemble the cabinet before you select one.

