 Playing is the way that babies learn.It allows them to explore their own bodies, the world around them, and their own minds. Engage your baby in activities that make them smile and laugh to support their mental growth.


Play peek-a-boo and other games with your baby to interact with them.
Give your baby time and space to look and move around in their immediate environment.
Provide different textures and sounds for your baby to experience. For example, show your baby a bumpy ball or fluffy animal.
Not all toys and playthings are safe for your baby to use on their own so be careful about leaving your baby alone with toys, and make sure that you choose age appropriate toys for your baby.;
, One of the best things you can do to support your baby’s mental development is to talk with them. Have a conversation with your baby about what you are doing, what they are doing, and what is going on around them.Treat your baby’s looks, smiles, frowns, gagas, and googoos like responses to what you are saying.
For example, you might say, “I’m cooking dinner right now.” If your baby frowns, you could tell them, “Oh, it doesn’t smell that bad.”
Or, for instance, if your baby is smiling you could say, “Do you like that? What is making you so happy? Is it the smell of the food?”

, Reading exposes your baby to new sounds, words, word patterns, and speech rhythms. It is one of the key’s to language development.Read the same couple of short books to your baby to allow them to become familiar with the words and language in general.
Point to each word, or track them, as you read to model good reading habits to your baby early on.
Let your baby touch the book, it gives them a new sensory experience. If you can, get a board book or plastic book designed for babies to interact with.
 Hearing the tunes, melodies, beats, and more will help your baby develop their sense of hearing and speaking. In addition, there is research that suggests that learning music rhythms is a first step to learning math.Turn on the radio and sing along when the two of you are in the car. Make sure it’s not too loud so you can protect your baby’s hearing.
Sing nursery rhymes and other children’s songs to your baby on a regular basis.

