 When buying sweet potatoes remember that they can be called both "sweet potatoes" and "yams" in the grocery store. Usually those called "yams" are have bright orange flesh and are sweet when roasted, while those called "sweet potato" are a starchier variety that has light yellow flesh.Garnet sweet potatoes, with their bright orange flesh and sweetness when cooked, are a great choice for roasting in pieces.;
, The skin is edible, but can be rough and fibrous, so if you are concerned with texture you should peel the skin off.
 The most important thing is to aim to make them all the same size. This will ensure that they'll cook evenly.









Thick wedges are a common shape, but there are no strict shape requirements. Many people enjoy making sweet potato fries by roasting sweet potato that has been cut into a thick julienne.
Small cubes will take a more caramelized flavor, as you will have more surface area exposed to the heat of the over. Thinner wedges can become crisp if cooked longer at a lower temperature.
 Add seasonings to either highlight the sweetness of the sweet potato or the savoriness of the sweet potato.









If you want to highlight the sweetness of the sweet potato dust them lightly with cinnamon or allspice and then mix them with the zest and juice of one orange (for four portion sized amounts). You can even add honey, brown sugar, sweet chili sauce or a similar glaze but they require a slightly lower temperature and more frequent checking to ensure the sugars don't burn.
If you want to highlight the savoriness of the sweet potato, add one clove of crushed garlic and one teaspoon of a combination of thyme and rosemary.
 Stir well to ensure that all pieces are coated evenly. Doing this will assure that their surface becomes nice and caramelized during the roasting process.
 If you have access to a good reliable non stick baking tray or metal casserole style pan, these are ideal.


Make sure it is large enough that most of the pieces are spread out and not on top of each other. This will allow for more browning of each piece.
Sweet potatoes contain a lot of sugar and water, so they're liable to stick to unlined trays.
 Remember that you need a baking tray which is large enough so the hot air can circulate around the separate pieces of potato (approx 1cm or 1/2 inch or a little more is fine). If they are too densely packed, they may go soggy and cook unevenly, but too far apart may make them become dry and leathery.
 After the first 15 minutes, turn them and move them around the tray so they roast evenly and develop a nice, even colour.
 Not all seasonings should go on before roasting. Lighter and fresher flavors should be added after cooking. For instance:


1 tablespoon (16 g) balsamic vinegar (or salad dressing) and salt and pepper, added just before serving.
Chopped fresh parsley or basil, chili and a sprinkling of lemon juice.
 Serve while still warm, along with other meal items, or add to another recipe.


Apart from serving them as they are, roasted sweet potatoes can also be used in in a variety ways: mashed and added into soups, stuffed in other vegetables or chicken, served with a rich gravy sauce or a stew, or used cold or warm in salads.

