 Your home is likely your most valuable belonging. It is likely worth insuring. It is important to note that federal catastrophe grants do exist in some countries, but will likely not cover the expenses incurred from damages associated with a wildfire. Keep your home insurance policy up-to-date by making payments on time.Update your policy whenever you make substantial renovations to your home or property.
Stay informed about your policy. Speak with your insurance company annually, and check to see that stats like the size of your home are accurate after any changes.
If you are renting, considering getting renter’s insurance. You can likely bundle renter’s insurance with your car insurance for an affordable price.
 Documents and other small valuables can usually be stored in fire-resistant safes. Larger valuables, such as vehicles, should be moved to a safe location. Contact your insurance provider to enquire about whether your coverage will cover costs associated with moving any vehicles.Keep an itemized list of belongings in a fire-proof safe or offsite deposit box as well. Include photos and videos of valuable possessions, including jewelry, electronics, and furniture.
 Copy your passports, birth certificates, and insurance policies before placing them a fire-resistant safe. Place these copies in your vehicle. If you do not have a safe, place the originals in your vehicle. Put other small valuables or mementos in your vehicle as well., Keep receipts for any expenses you incur in the course of an evacuation. This may include accommodations, meals, and even toiletries. Many home insurance policies with covers these expenses for a short period if you are forced to evacuate. Be aware that your policy deductible will likely apply during a fire-related claim., If you own vehicles that you only occasionally use, or only use seasonally, you may want to insure them year-round if you live in a wildfire-affected area. For instance, recreational vehicles or antique cars may be worth insuring. You’ll also be able to more easily (and legally) move an insured vehicle before an oncoming wildfire arrives., Making an insurance claim will go more smoothly if you have a visual record of your belongings. Take photos and videos of anything you may wish to claim. At the very least, take a video of each room in your house with your phone. As you shoot the video, describe the contents of each room, highlighting expensive items.Store these files online and/or on a flash drive in an offsite deposit box.
Mention the price you paid for specific items, as well as the rough date you purchased them.
Don’t forget to video or photograph the contents of your garage or outlying structures, as well as any landscaping features.

