 Before and during times of stress, whether it’s something stressful occurring within the family or within the larger community, holding regular family meetings is an easy way for each family member to have time to share their concerns. Holding family meetings builds trust and allows a safe space for each member to get support. Successful ways to plan family meetings include:

Make the first part of the meeting fun and encouraging before moving into serious topics.
Keep the meeting brief.
Make everyone feel welcome to join the meeting, but don’t force them to come.
Let everyone have a turn speaking.
Come to a consensus or compromise based on what everyone can agree to.
 Avoid placing blame or using judgmental language toward your family members. Avoid statements that begin with “you,” which can sound like you’re accusing your family member of something. Instead, try expressing yourself with “I” statements. These statements look like:Name your feeling, “I feel…”
Name the situation, “when you…”
Explain how their behavior affected you, “because…”
Ask what you need in the future, “would you please…?”

, Know what your stress signals are and when things are getting too heated between family members to keep talking. Make sure you take a break when communication is too difficult, otherwise you might get trapped in blaming or criticizing other family members and not really listening to them. Take a break to do something fun or relaxing to reset.


You can say, “I think we all need to take a break for 15 minutes and come back to this later. Why don’t we go outside and play with the dog?”

, Don’t ever assume that you’re understanding what the other person is saying without checking in with them first. Checking in will help to avoid misunderstanding.You can ask:“What did you mean when you said…?”
“Did you mean/say…?”
“You feel___. Did I understand that right?”

, Especially if you have young children, it’s important to focus on the positive and be confident. State your assurance in your family’s ability to make it through the stressful time/situation.

Help your kids and other family members focus on the positive things that are going well. Remind them of everyone’s unique personal strengths and contributions to the family. Make sure they know you’re sticking together as a team.