 Use large sheets, as you'll be cutting many circles from them. This is available from craft stores. For the wreath form, natural is nicest, such as grapevine wreaths. Check your craft store for natural branch-created wreath forms.


You could use fabric in place of felt. For a tutorial on making fabric roses, see How to make a fabric rose.
 Knowing the design in advance will help you to determine just how many roses you need to make. You have a choice to either bunch up the roses together or place them at evenly spaced positions around the wreath. Your choice will depend on the type of wreath form you have (ugly wreath forms will need total coverage, while prettier wreath forms can handle being part of the display). It will also depend on how much time and energy you have to make felt roses.


If you decide to space the felt roses evenly around the wreath, you may like to also add felt leaves in a golden color. This can help the design to keep "flowing".
 They don't need to be perfect, so either freehand cut them or trace around a circle if preferred.


The circle size depends on how large you want the roses to be on the wreath. It is recommended that anywhere between 10-25cm/4-10 inches is manageable.
 Cut each felt circle into a spiral shape; start at one edge and cut in a spiral fashion into the center of the circle. It should look like a snake in a spiral when done. You'll get better the more you cut.
 This step creates the first rose.


Begin at the outer edge of the spiral and roll inwards.
As you roll, pinch the base of the spiral; this forms the rose's base.
When done, the spiral looks like a rose. It now needs securing––turn the rose over and stitch the rose together at the back of it; use several stitches for certainty, then knot and tie off. Trim off any excess thread.
 You'll need to make a lot to cover a wreath, so it's recommended that you take breaks and come back to it. Or, get a whole lot of helping hands!

, There are two ways of doing this:


1. Hot glue the roses around the wreath. You'll need to hold each rose in position until it takes. It's a good idea to wiggle the flower base right in to give it something to hold onto.
2. Stitch the roses in place. This will only work with natural wreaths and takes a bit of patience, as you'll need to weave in and out of the wreath as well as through the base of the felt rose.
 Simply tie a big and bountiful bow from the orange ribbon around the wreath and over the top of the roses in that part of the wreath.
, The felt won't weather well if it is rained on, so don't hang outdoors unless you know it will be safe from the rain.

