 Though it sounds harsh, if you're going to hook up with an ex, then you should only hook up with her.


Be honest about it. Don't make an excuse every time your ex wants to go somewhere public with you. Tell her that you're not looking for anything other than hooking up.
 Hooking up with your ex can be fun and exciting, but that doesn't mean you should do it every night, because guess what? That's starting to look like a relationship. If you're basically only hooking up with your ex, then you're not letting yourself meet other girls or have any fun on the side. The more time you spend together, the more likely you both are to be hurt, so keep it fun and spontaneous instead of setting a hook-up date for every night of the week.


Keep it fun and spontaneous. If you see her out, then take her home. If not, then don't call her or text her to find out where she is. You're not supposed to care that much, remember?

, It can be tricky to hook up with an ex without feeling too comfortable.


No cuddling, no passionate kisses as you leave, and no hanging out around the house in sweatpants eating cold nachos from the night before. All of these signs show that you're too comfortable in the non-relationship and that you're on your way to dating again.
 If you want to hook up with your ex without any trouble, then you have to maintain control of the situation at all times. Don't let her set the terms of your hook up, and try to keep things at her place so you remain the master of your own domain. Don't cancel your plans to hang out with your buddies if she wants to hang out; tell her you'll hang out with her if she's free.


This doesn't mean you should tell your ex exactly what to do; you should find a time and place that works for both of you, but you shouldn't fall prey to her needs.
 Don't hang out with your ex in front of your friends, go to a party with her because she doesn't want to show up alone, or tell your friends that you've been hooking up with her again. The more people you bring into it, the more complicated things will get, and you should keep it simple -- just between the two of you.


If you start going out in public with her and hanging out with her friends, they'll immediately disapprove and tell your ex that she should set the terms for your relationship.
If you bring her out in front of your friends, then she'll start to feel like your girlfriend again.
 Maybe when you were dating, you would be tender with your woman, telling her how beautiful she is, how much you love her, and how much you love the little dimples in her cheeks. Well, all of your Romeo-moves have to go out the door at this point, or she'll get the wrong picture. She'll think, "He said I'm beautiful -- he must still love me," or "He ran his hands through my hair -- it has to mean something." By doing this, you'll be leading her on and making her feel like you still want to date her.


You can tell her how hot she is and how much you love her body, but stick to the sexy -- not the tender -- compliments if you want it to last.

