 For the first week, check at least twice a day to make sure that your dog is recovering and that the puppies are doing well.

Monitor your mother dog's vaginal discharge post-whelping.
Take your dog's temperature to make sure that she doesn't spike a fever. A high temperature for a dog is a temperature over 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. You can take your dog's temperature either rectally with a mercury thermometer or in your dog's ear with an ear thermometer.Weigh the puppies every day, and track their weights to make sure that they gain every day. You will need to find a way to distinguish the puppies from each other if they look similar to each other. It's important that you know if one of the puppies is not gaining.;
, There are certain symptoms that, if exhibited by the mother dog or pups, may require the immediate attention of a veterinarian. If the mother dog has difficulty nursing, runs a fever, develops any swelling or tenderness in her teats, or generally seems disinterested in her pups, you should seek veterinary assistance immediately. If the pups struggle to gain weight, fail to nurse properly, or die, you should also visit a veterinarian as soon as possible. To save the life of your dog and the pups, prompt action is essential.It is important that you are able to recognize the symptoms of Eclampsia (milk fever), metritis, and mastitis in your mother dog.
Eclampsia occurs when a mother dog's calcium is low and usually happens in small dogs. Symptoms include stiff gait, trouble standing, restlessness, pacing, panting, fever, muscle spasms, seizures, and lack of interest in her puppies.
Metritis is usually caused by after-birth or a stillborn puppy that remains in the mother dog. Symptoms include fever, lethargy, lack of appetite, smelly discharge, fast heart rate, dehydration, panting, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Mastitis is an infection in the dog's mammary glands. Symptoms include red, hot, inflamed nipples.You should also be sure to deal with nipple guarding among your puppies, which can lead to fading puppy syndrome and death.
 Once the mother dog has delivered her pups, you will want to contact your vet to schedule a visit. If the birth normal and all of the animals are healthy, you should have a postpartum checkup 24 to 48 hours after the delivery of the pups. You will also want to schedule an appointment for the veterinarian to examine your dog and the puppies at the same time.Because you want to avoid the risk of infection with your newborn pups and the mother, ask if the veterinarian will make a home visit. Although it may cost extra, it prevents you from risking the health of your dog and pups.
Be clear with the clinic staff about why you are bringing your dog, especially if the mother or pups are experiencing any postpartum complications, such as eclampsia, metritis, or mastitis. Say, "My dog recently gave birth, and I need to have her evaluated to make sure that she is recovering well. I also want to have the puppies checked. Her temperature has peaked at 102 degrees Fahrenheit, so she appears to be doing well. However, one of the puppies is struggling to gain weight."

, Before you go to the veterinarian, write down the condition of the mother and the pups. Try to be as detailed as possible when describing any problems that you notice. This will help the veterinarian get a better idea of what potential complications may arise.Detailed notes can help your veterinarian diagnose things like fading puppy syndrome in the pups or mastitis in the mother.
 Before the appointment, make a list of questions that you would like the veterinarian to answer. This will help you avoid forgetting any important questions about your animals’ health. Since you will be taking the mother and the pups, try to think of questions for both.You might ask things like “What do I do if a puppy doesn’t nurse?” “What do I do if the mother does not produce enough milk?” "What do I do if the mother refuses to nurse the puppies?" "What can I do if a puppy prevents other puppies from nursing?" "What is normal behavior for a postnatal dog?" "How often should the puppies nurse?" and "When should I call for an appointment?"

