 Take your child and a group of their friends to sing a song or do a dance at a local senior center.Some centers have reading programs where your child can read to an elderly person. If your child is a little more competitive, have them join some elders for a game of bingo.You may have elderly neighbors who need help around their home. Go with your child to offer your services shoveling snow, gardening, raking leaves, or doing housework.Some elderly have difficulty using technology. Your child is just the person to teach an elder some basic tech skills.
Your child doesn’t only have to sing, dance, or play bingo. They could learn a useful skill, like knitting or make fun crafts., Your child might do well as a role model for younger children who need someone to look up to. This doesn’t have to be with a formal program, like Big Brothers Big Sisters. Your child could help with young ones at church, afterschool childcare, or as an unofficial sports mentor.Check in with your child about their mentoring activities. You never know when they might need some perspective or your advice.
It may be difficult for your child to think up things to do with their mentee. Offer suggestions on what you think might be fun, like seeing a movie, exploring a park, playing capture the flag, playing video games, practicing sports, and so on.
 Community associations often hold local cleanup events to keep trash from accumulating. These events frequently occur at parks, beaches, and rivers. Contact your local officials about community cleanups or search your local area for them at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) homepage.The EPA offers a lookup feature where you can input your ZIP code to find community cleanup events near you.Make sure your child is properly equipped to pick up trash. Some garbage can be dangerous. Send them to cleanups with pair of work gloves to prevent cuts.
 Charitable races and relays, like Race for the Cure or Relay for Life, are great ways of raising money for a good cause.Your child might also enjoy similar events, like a dance marathon. Get more information for these events and sign up online.


Coordinate these kinds of activities with your child's friends from school, church, and clubs. These activities are a great opportunity for your child to connect with others.
Sometimes the competitive aspect of events like these can make your child lose focus on its purpose. Remind them the goal isn’t to raise the most money or run the fastest, it’s to help others.
 Local libraries often hold events for the community, like reading to young children, craft making, book clubs, game clubs, book bingo, murder mysteries, origami, and more.Your child can take part in these activities as a helper or they can assist the librarian prepare materials and set up.


Contact your local library about helping out. For example, you might say, “Hi, I’m calling because my 12-year-old wants to volunteer and I thought he might be able to help with one of your events.”
Donating needed materials to your local library can help out, too. Books and novels your child doesn’t read anymore are prime candidates., Suitable trees can be purchased at your local nursery. When you join the Arbor Day Foundation for $10, you’ll receive 10 trees that are suitable for your region.Plant trees with your child in your yard or talk to a public or school official about planting trees on public property.While planting your tree, take this opportunity to speak with your child about the importance of taking care of natural resources.
You might explain to your child, “Trees produce oxygen, and people need oxygen to breathe. But we cut down trees to make things like paper and houses, so we need to plant new ones.”

