 This way, when you start being friendly to her, she will have seen you before and she will be more comfortable with you. Also, those girls could invite you over to a sleepover, along with the popular girl you want to be friends with, and that is a great way to bond with her. Try hanging out with one of her shy friends.


Identify the nicest and friendliest of the popular girls, but make sure she's not the leader - the leader usually isn't very approachable unless you're friends with someone else in her clique. You should make friends with the nice popular girl, but make sure not to use her to get a better social status.;
, Stop thinking of this girl as a popular girl. If you're going to be friends, you can't just use her. Try to think of her as a person who you have heard of and want to be friends with!

, If one day you're totally indifferent and the next day you're clinging on to the popular girls, she'll get creeped out. It's important to be approachable but not clingy and to stay true to yourself.


Don't hang onto the new popular girls desperately. Start out with hanging out with them once a day, then during a break, then during both breaks, then at lockers. Slow and steady wins the race.
 Are purple shirts in? Or is everyone wearing dangling earrings? Try to identify with their style, without changing your entire style. If you're good with fashion, try not to follow the trends, but be a trendsetter based off the style you have noticed the populars preferring.
 This means positive attitude, even when things seem quite the opposite. Everyone wants to be around someone who brightens up their day.
 It shows that you have a great personality.
 It is important that you have a sense of humor.
 Nobody likes a person who listens to all their secrets, then blabs them to the rest of the school.
 If you're in another place for a vacation, bring back keychains or bracelets for the populars. Everybody loves getting souvenirs and gifts.
 Notice what she wears and what her group wears. Imitate the style but try to also own it, by adding your individual elements to it. If she wears clothes that are too expensive for you, find substitutes that are just as good, such as by shopping selectively for one or two good items, visiting thrift and vintage stores and generally dressing with care. The clothing you wear can help get her to begin to notice you more.
 Start off by complimenting her outfit, and doing small things like lending her pencils. Then, start doing bigger things. Offer to be her lab partner when she has no friends in that class, or include her in games with your friends. Then you can start walking next to her in the halls, talking more, and maybe even texting. As long as your friendly and fun, and she likes you, you will find yourself becoming her friend.
, But don't lie - don't say something that you don't mean. If you like her hair, say "I love your hair!" or "you have beautiful hair!", be creative. Come up with your own ways to compliment. Everyone appreciates compliments. Don't overdo it, or it will lose its effects. Compliment every now and then; she'll get the idea.
 If you are shy, you have to come out of your shell a bit and strike up a conversation. Greet her when you see her in the hallway. Be extra nice to her, like offer to help her with her assignment, buy her a drink, invite her shopping, etc. She will appreciate it. The more you talk, the better friends you will become with her!

, Make sure the sleepover is fun, not boring. Do things like nails, watch funny movies, baking cookies, and makeovers. You want her to see that you can be a very good friend.
 Sit with her at lunch, talk to her, and be nice. She will see that you are a friend, and start treating you like one.
 Try hosting your own social gatherings. Always be there to support her.
 Don't be discouraged, you can be her friend without having to be friends with all her other friends. Just go for being her friend, and you can be friends with some of her friends that are nice. Besides, if you eventually become like, best friends with her, you will end up "stealing" her from the meaner friends and soon she'll like you better than them!

, Don't freak out if you feel nervous, it will take some time to get more confident around her. Also, studies show that looking at a person and then smiling instantly charms them.
 Don't follow her around everywhere, that's creepy. Give her space. If she wants to hang out with her friends and not you, leave it be and come back later. Avoid creating the impression that you're needy and likely to be in her way all the time.

