 Visit the Andyroid website and click the green download button at the bottom of the screen. It will automatically download whichever emulator goes with your computer system. Wait it to finish downloading, then click on the file to begin the installation. Follow the installation steps until you have finished the process.


Andyroid does come with the following system requirements: Windows 7 or 8 or x64, the newest Mac OS (or you might run into bugs), at least 3GB of RAM (to run the software without it freezing) and more than 20GB of hard drive space. Do know that it will work on older OS X but may crash more frequently. Additionally, your video graphics card must be up to date with an updated driver and OpenGL ES 2.0 capable video card. Most cards fall into this category so if you have a relatively new computer you don't need to worry about this.
 At the bottom of the screen will be a small Play Store icon. Click on this twice. You will then be prompted to login to your Google Play account so that you can successfully download Kik and so Google can sync your personal account onto Andyroid. If you already have Kik downloaded on that account, it may sync all of your apps automatically and you won’t have to manually download it. If Kik Messenger hasn't been automatically installed, click the search icon in Google Play and type in "Kik" or "Kik Messenger". Find Kik in the list of results and click the "Install" button, then wait until it finishes downloading and open the app.
 When you launch Kik, you will be greeted with a screen with two options- to sign up or log in. To log in, type in your login credentials (these will be your email/username and password). Click the "Login" button at the bottom of the screen and wait until the verification page comes up. You will be required to either solve a CAPTCHA or a puzzle that will present you with an array of pictures. You will be given the name of an item and you must click the pictures that include that item (this verifies that you are not a bot). To sign up, type in the required information (username, email, password, name, etc.) and click the "Sign Up" button at the bottom of the screen. Pass the verification test to open up your account.
 Text your friends, use the web features, etc. Besides texting friends, you can use the web features such as Image, Video and GIF Search, Kik Points, Smiley Shop and more. When texting, you can send smileys, pictures, videos, stickers, memes and more. You can change your profile name and picture as well. Instead of touch screen, you use the mouse, but it is exactly like the mobile app.

