 In a Western place setting, the soup spoon will be the largest. At some restaurants, a special soup spoon may be brought to you when your soup is served. Your fork will be used to wind up the pho noodles and spear other ingredients, like meat or vegetables.In British and American dining culture, the farthest right spoon is typically your soup spoon. In some cases, you may find a seafood/oyster fork to the right of your soup spoon., In Western culture, it's considered impolite to blow on soup-like dishes to cool them off. Participate in dinner conversation while waiting for it to cool. Blowing on your pho can make you seem impatient or result in soup splattering on yourself, the table, or others.You can politely check the temperature of your pho by using your spoon to stir the broth and holding it to your lips. If the spoon is uncomfortably hot, your pho probably needs more time to cool.
 When eating pho with proper Western manners, you'll want to position your spoon toward the back of the bowl so the front of the spoon faces away from you. This will make you less likely to drip any pho on yourself while eating.


Though it may feel unnatural at first, you should drink the broth by sipping it from the side of the spoon instead of putting the whole spoon in your mouth., Now that you pho has cooled, take your spoon and taste the broth. Add a scoop of beansprouts and use your spoon to push these and under cooked meat to the bottom of the bowl. Add herbs and spices to your pho with serving utensils.


Generally, when eating with Western manners, it is considered impolite to handle herbs, spices, and other seasonings with your bare hands., The same as you would normally when eating pho, take a small dish or saucer and combine equal parts hoisin sauce and sriracha chili. If you dislike spicy food, you might want to go light on the sriracha chili or leave it out completely.


You can sample your sauce to check its spiciness by dipping the tip of a utensil, like your spoon, into the sauce and tasting it., Take a fork in your right hand and swirl it through the pho noodles to catch some in the tines of your fork. Hold your spoon in your left hand, and submerge it in the broth. Then:


Place the tip of your fork into the bowl of your spoon and twist the fork to collect the noodles together.
Scoop or skewer meat and/or vegetables on the end of your fork, then dip the noodles and veggies into the sauce.
Hold your fork over the sauce dish until it stops dripping sauce, or position your spoon closely beneath your fork to catch dripped sauce, then eat the pho.
When you start getting low on pho, tilt your bowl backwards slightly to collect the remnants there. Then use your spoon to finish the meal.