 If you have physical space for your business, there's a lot you can do with your space to make it a promotional resource. Host events, and go over-the-top with decorating whenever you can.Host classes, parties, contests and product demonstrations to bring people into the store.
Put up eye-catching decorations, especially around the holidays, to make sure anyone passing by will notice your business.
 Donating to a good cause can be a great way to not only get your business's name out there, but also to show potential customers you care about the same things they do. Pick a charity or charities to get involved with.Donate products, either for a charity's promotional events or their day-to-day operations. Donate a case of wine from your wine shop to the next charity auction, for example.
If you don't have a product that works well for this, you can also donate your time. Show up and volunteer with a team of your employees, wearing company t-shirts.This is a great way to get some visibility for your name and logo in a context that many will view positively.
 If you have a product that works well, another good option is to donate to contests, like local radio station giveaways.The fifth caller could receive tickets to see a concert at your club or a free guided wine tasting session.


There are also websites, such as Online-Sweepstakes.com that will allow you to host your own sweepstakes contest., Another great way to advertise your business, while promoting an image of generosity, is to give away inexpensive items. Here are a few suggestions:Get some balloons printed with your logo and give them away to children at community events.
Offer complimentary hot beverages like cider, cocoa, or coffee at your shop during the winter. Offer snacks like popcorn. For extra impact, get some paper cups or snack bags printed with the company logo.
Give away inexpensive promotional items like key chains or pens.
 Don't underestimate the value of of old-fashioned paper promotional materials. For pennies apiece, you can print some slick-looking business cards or flyers to bring your business to the attention of potential customers.


Put flyers on people's door knobs or under windshield wipers. In an afternoon, you can reach hundreds of potential customers. Include a coupon or discount code to make your flyer more valuable.Business cards with promotional discount codes can be handed out on the street or at events, and you can track the codes to see where the most effective place to hand them out is.It's true that most of these will be thrown away, but given how inexpensive they are to print, you only need a handful of positive responses to recoup your investment.
 You can look into getting your car "wrapped" with advertising decals, or for a relatively low cost, get a magnetic sign made that can be attached to any car.With a magnetic sign, any car can become the "company car," advertising your business wherever you go!

, Do something unusual to attract the attention of potential customers and the media. Set out to break a record in the Guinness Book of World Records, for example. These kinds of stunts can be inexpensive and result in national media attention.For best effect, do your publicity stunt wearing a company t-shirt, or even in your store if possible.
 Do things to generate loyalty among those who choose your business. There are many ways to do this, including:Sending thank you notes to customers.
Attaching a coupon or discount code to receipts or invoices.
Starting a referral program, in which existing customers get incentives for referring friends.
Going where your customers spend time to meet people and develop a personal connection. If you have a wine store, for example, spend time at the local wine bar and introduce yourself to people. Don't try to sell them anything, but do mention your store.

