 Keep in mind any extra costs for plane tickets. If they really want to tag along, though, let them. If you're afraid of being embarrassed, keep in mind that you probably won't be the only kid with their parents on the trip.;
, Flutes, trumpets, oboes, smaller saxes, and clarinets will probably take their instruments as a carry-on on the plane. Tubas, trombones, French horns, baritones, bassoons, and larger saxes such as tenor and baritone will probably need to check their instruments in. Piccolos may be able to squeeze their case into their suitcase. Percussionists can put their stick bags in their luggage as well, as your band director will work out the plan for percussion equipment. Don't forget to bring your sheet music, either, especially if you're the only one with that specific part!

, Your band teacher will probably have already talked to you about this by now. Don't forget dress shoes, tights, a belt, or whatever else you need for it.
 Will there be snow? Rain? Will it be warm? Pack whatever you need to be comfortable in whatever weather awaits you.
 They will want to hear all about what cool things you're doing! Calling them at night is a good idea. Just make sure whatever you decide to do works with your parents' schedules and yours! Be aware of long-distance costs and whether your hotel supports long-distance calls. If you're in doubt, bring your cell phone!

, A special stuffed animal, a little pillow, or even your iPod can comfort you whenever you may feel homesick. Remember, everything seems gloomier at night, so bring something to help you go to sleep.
 Toothpaste and a toothbrush are essential! Most hotels have shampoo and body wash, but if you want to be safe, bring your own. Deodorant is also a good idea.
 Makeup, a brush or comb, etc. are good things to bring. You probably won't need to worry about a hairdryer, but you may need a diffuser. Are you going to pack your straightener, or will you borrow your roommate's? Let her know if you plan on borrowing; she may not want to share.
 Your Nintendo DS, your iPod, your book, your doodle journal, or a deck of cards are good things to bring. Be sure it won't be too loud; teachers and other passengers won't like that. You will also be responsible for any valuables you lose.

