 Not all states recognize strict liability claims for injuries caused by a defective product.


Under a strict liability theory, you are liable for the plaintiff's injuries if your product was defective and the plaintiff was injured as a result of that defect. For the purposes of the law, "defective" typically is defined as "not meeting the customer's expectations." Your product also may be considered defective if you fail to warn users of a significant health or safety risk associated with use of your product.Most states have strict products liability to some extent, but the claim may not be available in certain circumstances, or against certain defendants. Nearly half of all states prohibit strict liability claims against anyone other than the company that manufactures the product.In states that have these laws, you can have the plaintiff's lawsuit dismissed for failure to state a claim, since you cannot be held strictly liable for injuries that result from use of the product – provided you are not the manufacturer of that product.
 You have a valid defense to the plaintiff's strict liability claim if you can prove the plaintiff misused or modified your product.


The misuse defense is based on the plaintiff's behavior, while the modification defense is based on the product itself.For both defenses, you will need to use the discovery process – in which parties exchange information and evidence relative to the lawsuit prior to trial – to gain knowledge about the situation in which the plaintiff used the product.
Any instruction guides that came with the product can help strengthen your defense, because you can compare the plaintiff's use of the product to the use described in the guide. An instruction guide also provides evidence that the plaintiff understood the correct use of the product.
To succeed in the modification defense, you also must demonstrate that the changes the plaintiff made resulted in his or her injuries.For example, suppose you manufacture a saw with a rotating blade that has a guard to keep users from cutting their hands while operating the saw. If the plaintiff removes the guard, her modification could be the reason she cut her hand. However, if instead the plaintiff was electrocuted by faulty wiring, her modification had nothing to do with her injury.
A modification defense also might succeed if the plaintiff modified your product to such an extent that you can argue the product that injured him was no longer yours., If the plaintiff misused your product, your defense is stronger if you can prove that use was unforeseeable.Even if the plaintiff misused your product, your defense will not succeed if her behavior could be reasonably anticipated.If the use differs significantly from the reason the product was designed you have a strong argument that the plaintiff was injured due to his or her own behavior rather than a defect in your product.
A good way to analyze foreseeability is to look at what the plaintiff actually did and compare that to your product's intended purpose. For example, a car is meant to be driven. Driving a car in excess of the posted speed limit could be considered a misuse of the car; however, it is a foreseeable misuse. The car is still being driven, even though the driving is unsafe.
In contrast, if the plaintiff is injured while using her car engine as a makeshift grill to cook her food, this would be an unforeseeable use. Car manufacturers don't make cars for use as cooking devices.
 If the plaintiff knew of the hazard that would accompany his or her use of the product and went forward anyway, you can argue that he or she assumed the risk.


Assumption of the risk is a popular defense to strict liability claims. All you have to prove is that the plaintiff continued using the product even knowing that she might get hurt by doing so.For example, suppose, despite knowing that electricity and water don't mix, the plaintiff decides she's going to multitask and dry her hair while taking a bath. If she subsequently sues you, as the manufacturer of her hair dryer, you can argue that she assumed the risk because despite all warnings that she would get electrocuted if she used the hair dryer in the bath tub, she decided to try it anyway.

