 Identify the most important parts of the bass.;
, Use a reference tone from a tuning device or a tuning fork to tune the bass. The bass is tuned (from above) E A D G where E is the lowest pitch and G is the highest pitch. Learning how to tune the bass is very similar to learning how to Tune-a-Guitar.

Remember the order with this mnemonic:Everyone Admires Dignified Guitarists.
 Plug one end of the audio cable into your amplifier and the other end into the bass. Turn the amplifier on. When done playing turn it off. First learn the difference between volume and gain on the amplifier. Adjust pots on the bass until you have a nice sound. The basics of setting up the bass amplifier are similar to that of a guitar amplifier (see Connect-an-Electric-Guitar-to-a-Combo-Amp.
 Adjust the strap so that playing feels comfortable. Place your right hand above the strings. You may rest the lower arm on the bass. Find a position along the strings where the sound is full between the fretboard and the other end.
 Use the index and middle fingers of your right hand to pluck the strings. Try to isolate the plucking to your fingers, thereby minimizing wrist and arm movement. Learn how to alternate between index and middle fingers. Practice switching between strings in a I-M-I-M pattern where I is index finger and M is middle finger. You may use your thumb as support on the back side of the bass.Alternatively, you may wish to learn to play the bass with a pick. If this is the case, buy a heavy gauge guitar pick. Hold the pick between your index finger (between the first and second knuckles) and your thumb. Then pluck the string by moving the pick downward across it and then upward across it. Practice this down-up plucking motion. If you are unsure as to which technique is best for you, try both.
 When learning how to play bass, ideally a string should never vibrate with another.
 Place your both hands on the bass and try to become as comfortable with your left hand as possible in the direction of the tuning pins of the bass. With your left hand place your index finger on the first fret and your other fingers on adjacent frets.
 Continue for each string A (A# B C C#), D (D# E F F#) and G (G# A A# B).
 Avoid the sound of loose left hand fingers.
 Use a metronome. First, try playing notes using the open E string on each beat of the metronome. These are called quarter notes. Start slowly and gradually speed up the tempo (or speed at which the metronome clicks) as you become comfortable playing in time. Then, start slowly again and attempt to play on each click of the metronome (or beat), as well as once halfway between each beat. These are called eighth notes. Finally, start slowly again, and attempt to play one note on each beat, halfway between each beat, and halfway between each of these. That is to say your first note should line up with a click of the metronome, and you should play three more notes before you hear the next click. These are called sixteenth notes. Be sure to keep each note even with all the others at each step.
 Look for beginners tablature on the internet.
, This is all of the notes in the key of E and is the easiest scale on the bass. Play the E string open, then the E string on the second fret, the E string on the fourth fret, the open A string (or the E string on the fifth fret, as they are the same note), the A string on the second fret, the A string on the fourth fret, the D string on the first fret, and finally the D string on the second fret. Then try going back down the scale and up again until you are comfortable with it. Then, you can learn other scales by playing higher. For instance, the F major scale is the same pattern, you just play each note one fret down the neck (E string first fret, E string third fret, E string fifth fret, A string first fret, etc.). The F# major scale will be two frets down, the G major scale will be three frets down, and so forth.
 The bassist is often thought of as the liaison between the drummer and the rest of the band. This is due to the fact that the bassist is heavily involved in setting the beat of a song, as well as often forming the root of the chords the rest of the band are playing. Thus, you should work very closely with the drummer and work together to keep the tempo.
 The hammer-on is a common technique where a note is played without plucking the string. To do this, try playing the E string on the third fret. While you still hear the note, switch to the fifth fret. You can apply this basic technique to playing any two notes in sequence on the same string.
 Vibrato is a common technique in music used to add texture. To use vibrato, slightly bend the string back and forth with the fretting finger while you still hear the note. Do so faster and faster until you can barely make out the specific times when the tone shifts up or down. With practice, you should be able to add vibrato to sustained notes.
 Aim for playing it in time, with the right intonation. You can see if the song has bass tab available, in which case you should start slow from the tab before playing with a recording of the song. It will be more difficult to learn a song without tab or sheet music, but it can still be done. Find out what chord progression the song has, and try just playing the roots of the chords in rhythm. Then, try using a common bass "walk" along with those chords to add to it. This may not be the exact part you hear on the track, but it will still sound good.
 Some good songs for fans of classic rock basslines include: "(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction" by The Rolling Stones, "You Really Got Me" by The Kinks, "Crossroads" by Cream, "My Generation" by The Who, and "Eight Days a Week" by The Beatles.

