 There are many scar removal products available that may help to reduce the appearance of acne scars. You can apply these before you apply your makeup. For best results, look for a product that:Contains sunscreen, to protect your skin from sun damage.
Hypoallergenic, to reduce the chance of an allergic reaction.
Non-comedogenic, so it won’t clog your pores and give you an acne outbreak.
Contains extra ingredients to help reduce the appearance of scars, such as vitamin C, kojic acid, arbutin (also known as bearberry extract), or licorice.;
, Take a close look at your scars under bright light and examine what colors they have and how they differ from the rest of your skin. You can make them less obvious by applying the opposite color.For example, you can neutralize a red scar with a touch of green concealer, hide a purple blemish with a tiny bit of yellow, or make raised scars look smoother, by shading them slightly darker than the surrounding skin. This will make them appear to stand out less.
Brands that work well for acne scars include: Kryolan Concealer Wheel, Ben Nye Concealer Cover-All Wheel, Laura Geller Real Deal Concealer and Clinique Even Better Concealer.
 Layering your makeup can also help to reduce the appearance of scars. Try starting with a moisturizer, then apply your concealer, then your foundation, and then a little more concealer to cover any scars that still stand out.You can also set your makeup with a powder foundation.If you have a lot of damage, you might try water-free foundations that stay on for a long time and provide complete coverage.
The color must match your skin tone, or it will be obvious that you are wearing heavy makeup. You can either purchase a ready-made color or have a color blended just for you at a cosmetics counter in a department store.
 When you are done, it should not be possible to tell where the foundation starts and stops. Use this method by:


Putting dots of foundation on your cheeks, forehead, nose and chin. You can also apply concealer in a criss-cross fashion.Smooth it into your skin with your fingers. Rubbing in circles works best.
Go all the way up to your hairline and below your jaw.
Smooth streaks with a brush or sponge.
Let it set for 5 minutes.

