 You'll probably get very few kills in multiplayer until you learn to perfect your art, but you can gain great satisfaction in the long run from killing your opponents like a true ninja. It will take time to get results, so be prepared to wait.;
, The Hayabusa armour can be unlocked by finding all hidden skulls in the campaign (excluding the blind skull copy on Cortana), but the katana can only be unlocked by obtaining 1000 gamer score from Halo 3, i.e by completing all challenges and achievements listed in Halo 3's achievements list.The scout recon and/or rouge head/s look like ninja masks too, so try to mix and match with all 4.
 Never change it again, not even for team SWAT, where players usually swap their character to Elites to avoid headshots from behind. Wearing it is often seen as a sign of diligence and skill, as getting the katana and armor is not the easiest task and will take some time. For more information on the Hayabusa armor, see its page on Halo.wikia.com.
 When you feel you are ready you should move to multiplayer.
 At a stretch, magnum pistols may be used, but primarily for hitting the opponent or Gravity Hammers, although they make a lot of noise to alert your opponent. Grenades, especially spike and plasma grenades, are an ideal support-weapon for your activities.
 The ninja's role is to kill without being seen, and crouching hides you from your enemy's radar. Although you move slowly whilst crouching, you will be able to sneak up on enemies without being detected.
 Nothing aids your art more than dark areas and objects to hide behind. Consider practicing on your own in Custom Games and Forge sessions by finding ways around and through maps where you will be well hidden. Take the time to also find your own hiding spots where you can wait for prey.
 If you can do it safely without being seen, jumping is a good option. It will take a bit of skill to jump up to hard-to-reach places or onto small objects without falling, but learning skills such as the double jump or crouch jump will help. Grenade jumping should be avoided unless entirely necessary.
 Ninjas kill their opponents silently and without being detected. Wait until you are close to the player, or preferably above if you are on a ledge or high terrain feature such as a wall, before launching your attack. Finish them off quickly before they can react. If you time it correctly, they will not even have time to fight back.
 The true ninja attacks their opponents from behind, so when you can, sneak up behind your opponent to melee them on their back. One shot and they cannot fight back.
 After killing someone, never ever stay in the same place. Move on, or anticipate where your opponent will come next, such as if you killed them in one corner, move to the opposite one so you can kill them again when they come back looking for you.
 Ninjas move on foot.
 Try to stay near the power-up to help your chances of winning.
 It'll take a while to master the art of sneaking up on your opponent and the ways of the ninja, so practice a lot! The more confident you feel, the more you can be a ninja in multiplayer and in turn, the more multiplayer kills you will get.
 It can be changed in the same place as your armour from the Start menu.
 This is a great way to make your escape if there are too many people aiming at you

