 When a person is on the verge of a mental breakdown the number of cells in the region of the brain called hippocampus get fewer and fewer. But, when a body is exposed to physical exercise the number of cells in the hippocampus goes up. What’s more, the levels of endorphins (feel good hormones) increases, too.Exercise produces endorphins and restricts the release of stress hormones such as cortisol and adrenaline which are often responsible for a mental breakdown.
When you are involved in physical activity your focus tends to shift away from tasks, events and situations that are creating stress in you, which provides time for your mind to recover from stress.
 When you are in a high state of stress, you may experience sleep-related problems, including insomnia. A lack of sleep will make stress even worse and could lead to a mental breakdown.Try to get at least 7 hours of quality sleep every night. Sleep needs vary from person to person, so you may need more or less sleep depending on your activity level, age, and other factors.
 Sometimes stress may be aggravated by medical conditions, such as vitamin deficiencies. Common vitamin deficiencies include vitamin D, B6, and B12. Being deficient in these nutrients could add to your stress and lead to a mental breakdown.If you have not had an appointment with your doctor in a while, schedule a routine check-up to make sure that you are healthy and that you are getting all of the nutrients you need to stay healthy.
 Amino acids play a crucial role in controlling the symptoms caused by stress and depression thus preventing the progress towards mental breakdown Amino acids make up most of the neurotransmitters in the brain, so they are essential for mental health. The basic structure of proteins is composed of amino acids.To enjoy the benefits of amino acids, follow a diet rich in proteins such as milk, dairy products, eggs, poultry, meat, peas, beans, legumes and grains.
Dopamine is a product of an amino acid called tyrosine while serotonin a product of tryptophan. Insufficient synthesis of neurotransmitters in the brain is associated with bad mood and mood swings. This holds greater significance if the transmitters are dopamine and serotonin.
 A high intake of sugar can promote inflammation in the body that in turn disturbs the normal functioning of the brain. Processed foods like candy, cookies, sodas, and others tend to have the most sugar. Steer clear of these types of foods as much as you can to reduce inflammation.High intake of sugar and carbohydrates leads to excessive release of insulin that can also trigger hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia in turn causes the brain to release glutamate in the brain in levels that are both alarming and that can cause symptoms that are indicative of mental breakdown such as anxiety, depression, panic attacks

, Both forms of carbohydrates boost the levels of serotonin (a brain calming and mood enhancing hormone) but with complex carbs (whole grain bread, cereals) the process is gradual and consistent because they are digested slowly. Simple carbs (sweets, candy, soda) which are rich in sugars are digested easily, which results in a spike followed by a crash in serotonin.Avoid or limit foods such as processed foods and foods rich in sugars and gluten. They can be dangerous to an already stressed body and may speed up the process of mental breakdown

, A deficiency in folic acid may also contribute to a stress response. Please be aware that a folic acid deficiency can only be diagnosed by a physician, and any supplements taken should be under a physician’s direction and supervision. A folic acid deficiency may lead to neurological problems such as depression. Having an adequate amount of folic acid in the body also improves the effectiveness of antidepressants.To get more folic acid from food, include spinach and citrus fruits, like oranges, in your diet.
 Foods with B-vitamins help to shield you against depression and mental breakdowns. B complex vitamins and especially B1, B2 and B6 vitamins show promising results when it comes to improving mood. Foods rich in B-vitamins include:Dark leafy green vegetables
Red meat
whole grains, wheat germ,
Green peas
Lentils, nuts such as pecans and almonds,
milk, yogurt, cheese,
poultry, fish, eggs,
legumes, peanuts,
seafood,
bananas,
potatoes

, There is ample research to show that zinc levels are often quite low in people who show symptoms of stress, depression, or who are on the verge of a mental breakdown. Also having an adequate amount of zinc in your body either through diet or oral supplements can improve the effectiveness of any medications that you take for depression and other mental related problems. Foods rich in zinc include:seafood
nuts
wheat germ
pumpkin seeds
spinach
mushrooms
beans
meat

, Iodine, Iron and chromium play a very important role in preventing mental breakdown. Deficiency in these vital minerals may lead to fatigue, depression, and mood swings.Foods rich in Iron: red meat, dark leafy green vegetables, egg yolks, dried fruits (raisins, prunes), poultry, beans, lentils, artichokes
Foods rich in iodine: cow’s milk, yogurt, strawberry, sea vegetables, eggs, soy milk, saltwater fish and cheese
Foods rich in chromium: whole grains, meat, brown rice, seafood, broccoli, mushrooms, beans, dairy products, eggs, cheese, milk, poultry, corn, potatoes, fish, tomatoes, barley, oats, herbs

