 It's easier said than done, but you have to believe in yourself and stop being self critical if you're to stand any chance of snapping yourself out of the state you have put yourself in.;
, Just casually go through your notes and don't think about the exam. If you really can't help it, imagine what will happen if you go into that exam hall or classroom and find that the test is easy? Visualization may help here.
 Set out your revision in bite size chunks. The brain remembers things better if you take a break after ten or twenty minutes of solid revision. While you're taking some time out, perhaps treat yourself a little. Have a nice drink and perhaps something to eat. Reflect on what you've just learnt, but don't go over it obsessively. Allow it to sink in for a while before moving on to the next part of your revision.
 You're not going to ace every single mini-revision test that you do - in fact making these mistakes is the most effective way of learning. Make sure you go over what you didn't do so well on thoroughly and then take a break for today. A small failure once in a while does you the world of good in the long run.
 Staring at notes blindly doesn't work for everyone - in fact, the minority benefit from such a technique, as this does not engage the brain at all. Find out what kind of learner you are: audio, visual, or kinesthetic.


For audio learners, record your notes on tapes or CDs, and maybe put them on your MP3 player. There are helpful podcasts and other soundbites that you can download from various sites with helpful facts that will help you to revise. Maybe even make up a song using some of your facts, whatever works for you.
Visual learners may benefit from colourful diagrams, post-it notes and spreadsheets. Once again you kind find such resources on the web - make sure you pay particular attention to revision or teaching websites.
If you're a kinesthetic learner, think of creative ways that will help you to learn. Write a story about your favourite TV or book characters informing somebody about the topic you are trying to revise, or draw a comic strip. Team up with a friend and take it in turns to say facts about a certain topic. Give your parents or another family member a talk on what you've been learning about. Aim to keep your brain as active as possible.
 This will put you in a good mood for the task at hand.
 Just imagine going into that exam and finding it as easy as anything. You will succeed if you think positive. If you believe you can do well, you will do.

