 Until fairly recently, modern science didn’t have the abilities to understand the way stress can affect our health. Now we know that not needing to control every little element of say, a birthday party, can make such experiences beneficial to our health rather than a drag on it.


Be flexible. As with any event planning, don’t expect every bit of minutiae to happen exactly as you envisioned it down to each minute or birthday candle. Remember-it’s about having a good time and celebrating, not about accomplishing a task.
When things don’t go exactly as you planned, go with it-it’s your birthday, and, well, you can cry if you want to, but there’s really no need. Everyone will have a good time if the host or guest of honor is relaxed and enjoying themselves-so that’s all you need to worry about.
Things happening differently than planned makes for a great story! So when the section of birthday cake with your name on it falls off the serving knife, don’t sweat it.
 If you have family or friends around that express a desire to help make your birthday memorable, let them!


Going out to breakfast, brunch, or lunch is a good way to spend time with close friends and family members before you get on to the later events of your birthday.
Pamper yourself also! Get some quality spa or massage time, or have a luxurious bath followed by chocolates.
 If possible, allow yourself “check out” on your birthday. Don’t let that big deal at the office go awry, of course, and you should still make sure your kids have a ride home from school, but your birthday can be an annual guilt-free opportunity to not worry about the dishes or that wall that needs painting or other minor tasks that you have on your plate.


If possible, get your birthday (or the day after if you’re planning on being up late) off from work. Take the day and enjoy it.
Let yourself slide a little. On your birthday, especially if you’re a big achiever who likes to be on top of everything, let yourself go just a little. Don’t feel like you need to accomplish every little chore on your birthday. It’ll be good for you.

