 To create a nice crocodile head you’ll need a long-sized cardboard box. Make sure it is large enough to fit the future crocodile’s head. You'll also need:


Glue or staples.
Craft knife and/or scissors.
Strong tape suitable for cardboard.
Buttons or other knick-knacks suitable for eyes.;
, Place the box on its base. Tape the box together so that all the openings are secured. Cut out a triangle and leave the base edge attached to the box. Position this cut near the edge of the box and be sure that it is large enough to fit a head. This will form a flap that covers the back of the subject's head.
 Staple a piece of strong and wide clothing elastic to this flap. This should be ample length to go around the back of the subject’s head. It will keep the crocodile head strapped to the subject’s head. Make sure to staple several times for extra strength., Down the two long side edges of the cardboard box, cut out two "mouth lines." You could cut a wavy or a straight mouth. Have an idea of the crocodile’s mouth before cutting. You may even want to outline the lines to cut with pencil to create an even cut.


Start the mouth about a quarter away from the end where the subject’s head will go.
When you reach the other end of the box, continue cutting the mouth's shape. You want the mouth to open like a gaping crocodile!
Leave the "lips" and "jaws" intact., To make the crocodile mask more authentic, paint it green or a tan brown. Paint the base before adding teeth and eyes. The classic crocodile look is green like the crocodile who ate Captain Hook's’ hand in Peter Pan.
 You could cut simple jagged tooth shapes from paper or foam. Hunt around for old pieces of white foam that come from recent electronics purchase. Cut material into the shape of teeth. Glue or staple the teeth firmly at even intervals along the mouth shape.


Another great alternative is to use up the foam peanuts that surround goods in packages., The eyes should sit directly above the beginning of the mouth at the top of the mask. Draw on eyes with a thick, dark colored marker. You could also use anything lying around in your craft or sewing basket. Big round yellow buttons are good to draw a crocodile eye slit in with a Sharpie marker. Stick the buttons on firmly with glue.