 WD-40 will break down most general types of adhesive and clean them off of nearly all surfaces. For example, spray WD-40 on jars to remove the adhesive remnants of the labels or masking tape, or use it to remove the adhesive from stickers on glass or plastic surfaces. WD-40 can also loosen and remove gum and rubber cement from surfaces they have been stuck to. Spray WD-40 directly onto the unwanted adhesive, and use a rag or old toothbrush to remove the substance.WD-40 will even work to clean gum, oil, or dog poop off of the soles of your shoes.In any of these cases, spray WD-40 directly onto the adhesive substance, and then scrub vigorously with an old, unused toothbrush.;
, New or unused leather shoes that have not been worn recently are often inflexible and can be uncomfortable to slide your foot into or wear for a day. You can use WD-40 to soften the leather and make the shoes comfortable to wear. To soften the leather, spray WD-40 generously over the leather material, and rub the material into the shoe with a clean, dry cloth.An application of WD-40 will also soften any other leather items, from dog collars to baseball gloves.
WD-40 can also be used to clean scuff marks off of the tops and sides of shoes. Black scuff marks build up from normal use and wear (including from the shoes bumping together as you walk). To remove scuffs, spray the marked area with WD-40 and buff with a dry cloth., As WD-40 is grease-resistant and can break down stubborn adhesives in general, it can even be used to remove grease stains from clothing. To remove the stain, hold the plastic extension tube only about ½ inch away from the stain, and spray liberally to saturate the area. Then wash the piece of clothing in a regular cycle.Before drying the clothing, make sure that the stain has been removed. Drying—especially on medium or high heat—can set the stain and make it impossible to get out. If the stain has not been removed after an initial application of WD-40, repeat the application and wash again.

