 This is often the first treatment strategy for Alopecia X. For many dogs with this condition, surgical removal of the reproductive organs will lead to hair regrowth.A spay is the removal of a female dog’s uterus and ovaries. A neuter is the removal of a male dog’s testicles.


Another name for Alopecia X is ‘castration-responsive alopecia.’Castration is another term for spaying or neutering.;
, The hair regrowth after a spay or neuter is not immediate. It may take several months for the hair to grow back.If the hair doesn’t regrow after this time period, your vet will recommend other treatment options.


Even if your Pomeranian’s hair grows back after surgery, it may fall out again., Other treatment options for Alopecia X are melatonin, mitotane, and growth hormone. As you discuss the different treatment options, remember that Alopecia X is a cosmetic problem—your Pomeranian will not become sick from this disease.If you decide not to pursue any other treatments for the disease, your Pomeranian will be just fine.
 Melatonin is the first medication a vet will prescribe to treat Alopecia X. It is a nutritional supplement that promotes hair growth. Once maximal hair regrowth occurs, your vet will gradually reduce the dosage. Be mindful that if you stop the melatonin treatment and your Pomeranian’s hair starts falling out, giving melatonin again may not work.Given twice a day, melatonin leads to hair regrowth in 30 to 40% of dogs with Alopecia X.Melatonin itself does not cause the hair regrowth, but helps restore the body’s seasonal rhythm of hair shedding and regrowth. It will essentially trick the body into thinking it’s the season for hair regrowth.Your vet may recommend giving melatonin with an oral retinoid, which is similar to vitamin A. The oral retinoid will encourage growth of the hair follicle.Melatonin is available over-the-counter at your local drug store.
 Melatonin is also prescribed as a sleep aide. If your Pomeranian becomes sleepy after a dose of melatonin, consider giving administering it shortly before bedtime.If your Pomeranian seems extremely sluggish or groggy, your vet may have to lower the dosage., Melatonin can cause the body to become resistant to insulin, the substance that helps maintain normal blood glucose levels.If your Pomeranian has diabetes, the melatonin could worsen that condition.
 If neither surgery nor melatonin worked, you could have your veterinarian submit 2 blood samples for a detailed analysis of adrenal sex hormones. The first will be a baseline sample and the second will be taken 1 hour after your vet gives your Pomeranian a hormone called ACTH (stimulates adrenal gland function). Results of the analysis can help your vet determine which other Alopecia X treatments to use.The test, which is performed by University of Tennessee’s College of Veterinary Medicine, is quite expensive.Your vet can help you decide whether to have the test performed.
 Correcting adrenal sex hormone imbalances is another treatment strategy for Alopecia X. Mitotane, a drug normally used to treat Cushing’s disease, can also treat Alopecia X. It destroys the sex hormone-producing section of the adrenal glands.Mitotane treats Cushing’s disease by destroying the cortisol-producing sections of the adrenal glands. This destruction can be permanent, leading to a serious cortisol deficiency condition called Addison’s Disease.Mitotane can cause numerous side effects, including vomiting, decreased appetite, and various neurologic signs (e.g., stupor, circling).Mitotane would need to be given at a lower dosage and frequency than melatonin. In addition, your vet would need to take frequent blood samples to assess liver function and measure adrenal sex hormone levels., A growth hormone injection may help your Pomeranian’s hair grow back. However, injectable growth hormone, which is very expensive, can lead to the development of diabetes. In addition, hair starts falling out again after growth hormone treatment is discontinued.Discuss with your vet whether growth hormone injections would be a good idea for your Pomeranian.
 Even though a number of treatment options are available for Alopecia X treatment, they are unlikely to be 100% effective for the long term. One way or another, your Pomeranian’s hair will likely fall out again after treatment has stopped. Hair loss can occur as early as 1 month, or as late as several years, after the last treatment., Hair loss due to Alopecia X is gradual and symmetrical. Beginning as early as 1 year of age, the hair loss occurs over the torso and the backs of the thighs, but does not affect the head or front legs. Your Pomeranian’s outer coat will go first, exposing a soft and fuzzy ‘puppy’ coat. Eventually, this puppy coat will also go.The top of your Pomeranian’s tail may be the first place you notice the hair loss.The exact cause of hair loss remains unknown, explaining the ‘X’ in the condition’s name. It may be caused an enzyme deficiency in the adrenal glands that eventually leads to decreased adrenal function and hair loss., Alopecia X often causes the skin to darken, a condition called hyperpigmentation.Fortunately, skin affected by Alopecia X is not itchy.Therefore, your Pomeranian’s skin will not show signs of irritation or infection (e.g., redness, thickened skin, draining sores).
 Since Alopecia X can resemble other hormone-related diseases (Cushing’s disease, hypothyroidism), your vet must first make sure your Pomeranian does not have these diseases. To rule out hypothyroidism (under-functioning thyroid gland), your vet will test your Pomeranian’s blood for levels of a thyroid hormone called T-4. Testing the blood for specific adrenal hormones will help rule out Cushing’s disease (overproduction of adrenal cortisol).Cortisol is one of the steroid hormones produced by the adrenal glands.
In addition to these specific blood tests, your vet will take blood and urine samples for a broad analysis of your Pomeranian’s health. They may also take a skin biopsy.