


Eat three square meals a day with moderate, balanced portions. Be sure to eat a protein-rich food with every meal. Protein balances out sugar levels in your blood and helps you to feel full longer.
Eat plenty of vegetables with every meal. Vegetables are high in water content which acts as a diuretic and helps filter your system. Vegetables are also high in vitamins and low in calories, making them a great part of a healthy diet.;
,


A lean source of protein, such as a small piece of poultry, hard boiled egg, nuts, low-fat yogurt or cheese, should accompany every snack.
Fruit is a great snack as long as you also eat a protein with it. The water content in most fruits is even higher than many vegetables. The fruit, which is high in sugar, needs a protein to help your body to process it.
 Studies have found high levels of women who report the worst PMS symptoms show deficiencies in calcium.


Low-fat dairy protein choices, such as yogurt, cheese, milk and ice cream, have the added benefit of providing calcium.
Green leafy vegetables such as kale, spinach and broccoli are also high in calcium.
Eat fortified products such as breakfast cereals and nutritional bars if you need additional sources of calcium in your diet.



Green leafy vegetables chosen for calcium, such as swiss chard and spinach, also have a high level of magnesium.
Snack on sunflower and pumpkin seeds, soybeans, cashews, peanuts and peanut butter, which are all high in magnesium.
Choose whole grain breads, brown rice, potatoes with skins on and salmon whenever they are options. All are healthy sources of magnesium.
 Vitamin B6 may also provide some help with breast tenderness.


Vitamin B-6 is necessary for the body to make dopamine, a mood neurotransmitter. Research is mixed, with some studies concluding that an increase vitamin B-6 is beneficial for PMS sufferers, and others reporting no correlation between the amount of B6 a woman consumes and her PMS symptoms.
Since foods that are high in B-6 are healthy in other ways too, there is no reason not to eat more of them.
Some good sources of vitamin B-6 include lean beef, pork, chicken breast and salmon. Other foods that provide high levels of B-6 are fortified cereals, oatmeal, bananas, lentils and white potatoes with skins on.
 There are a limited number of foods high in manganese including: spinach, collard greens, lima beans, pineapple, raspberries, oats, wheat germ, walnuts and pumpkin seeds.

