 Angles give it a more masculine look. Females often have softer chins and other features, so avoid squaring the jaw or sinking the cheeks until you have the other points mastered.;
, The eyes are approximately halfway down the head (measuring from the top of the head, not the hairline--hair should come later). The nose begins at the eyeline, and ends approximately halfway between the eyeline and the bottom of the chin. The mouth falls approximately halfway between the bottom of the nose and the bottom of the chin. Draw horizontal lines to act as guides, and we'll go over each facial feature.
 The eyes are usually spaced one eye-length apart. When drawing feminine eyes, remember that femininity is associated with softness and roundness. Large, rounded eyes will have a more feminine look than small, narrow ones. If your 'subject' has visible eyelid creases, articulate them well, and space them far enough from the eye as to be noticeable. Large irises are associated with both femininity and youth. Long, dark, well illustrated eyelashes on both upper and lower lids are possibly considered the most feminine of the eye features. Remember that eyelashes curve outward as well as upward.
 The nose is one of the most difficult features to master, and also the one that can most affect how feminine or masculine your portrait will appear. Again, femininity is associated with softness and roundness--and in this particular case, a smaller size. Larger noses are considered more masculine than smaller one. You may use sharper angles on the tip of the nose if you like, but articulate everything very softly. The fewer lines and the lighter the shading, the better. Illustrate the bridge as little as possible. The alae (the 'wings' protruding from each side of the nose) should be drawn in very lightly, if at all.
 The mouth requires the same treatment as the eyes do. Soft and round, often large but not necessarily so. Lips do not usually seem to divide in the center of the mass. Typically the upper and lower lips will seem asymmetrical, with the lower being thicker, and the upper thinner. Often this is because the 'face' of the upper lip is slanted slightly downward, reducing the view. The mouth is possibly the easiest to 'feminize'. As long as both lips, both upper and lower, are well articulated, you're good to go.

