 From the first drop-down menu, labeled “Send To,” select the country in which the recipient will be receiving and processing the money order. Under “Receive Option,” choose “Pick Up Any Agent – USD.” In the third field, labeled “Amount,” enter the amount to be paid to the recipient. Even if you’re sending an even dollar amount, like $25, include a decimal and two zeroes to indicate that no cents should be paid: 25.00.
 The amount of the transfer fee you have to pay will depend on how fast you want them to process and send your payment. If you use a debit or credit card to make your payment, MoneyGram can process your money order within about 10 minutes. However, if you want to use your bank account to pay for the money order, it will take them 3 business days to process it., If you already have an account, enter your email address and password to log in to their system. If you’re new to MoneyGram, you will need to sign up for an account by entering your email address.


On the next screen, enter your name, phone number, billing address, date of birth, and the last 4 digits of your Social Security number.
Uncheck the box that says “Yes, I would like to receive promotions and special offers from MoneyGram” if you don’t want to get emails from them.
Create a password for your account.
Click the button that says “No, thank you. Do not enroll me in MoneyGram Plus” if you want to opt out of that program.
 On the same screen where you sign up for your MoneyGram account, you will enter your recipient’s contact information. Include their first and last name, as well as the state in which they live.


Note that you can only send up to $499.99 to the state of Arizona.
Click the “Yes” or the “No” button to answer the question “Are you sending money for the purchase of goods or services.”
If you would like to send the recipient a message, you can type one of up to 40 characters.
 At the bottom of the screen, you will be prompted for you payment information. If paying by card, you will need to provide your card type — MoneyGram only accepts Visa, Mastercard, and Discover cards. Then, fill in your card number, the expiration date, and the CVV number. If paying with your bank account, you will need to provide the name of your bank, your account type (checking or savings), your routing number, and your account number.


Regardless of which bank issues it, all checks format their routing and account numbers the same way. At the bottom of your check, you will see a long string of numbers. The first set of numbers is your routing number. The second set is your account number. The third set is the number for that specific check.Once you’ve confirmed all your information, you can complete your money order!

