 There are some common causes of broken femurs that can be easily identified. Because the femur is such a strong bone, it usually requires significant impact or trauma to break it. Some of the most common ways to break your femur are:


Falls. Falling is the most common cause of a fracture, especially when you land badly. Toddlers who play outdoors, often slip and accidentally fall because of scattered toys.
Significant or massive trauma. This kind of trauma would be impossible to miss, and could include being hit in the leg with a hammer or a vehicular accident.
Sports injuries. Injuries, especially in contact sports such as hockey, can commonly cause broken femurs. This is especially the case in sports where a bat or hockey stick is used and accidentally hits the thigh.
 Individuals who participate in sports or are serious athletes are at high risk for a broken femur. Athletes who do certain activities like running, ballet dancing, basketball and other close contact sports like football and hockey are also prone to having broken femurs due to the high impact blows that the thigh bone receives.
 Women, especially those with an irregular menstrual cycle, are at an increased risk of breaking bones. During menstruation, a sufficient amount of iron is lost. Iron is needed in the proper development of bones.


Iron deficiency can predispose women to breaking bones.
Additionally, hormonal imbalances in women lead to bone weakening especially if estrogen (female sex hormone that regulates bone growth) is low.
 People with preexisting medical conditions, especially osteoporosis, are prone to breaking bones because they have weak and brittle bones.


Osteoporosis is a condition related to aging which causes the bones to become fragile and brittle because of hormonal and lack of absorption of calcium and vitamin D.
 People aged above 65 are at an increased risk of breaking their femur. This is because during aging, our bones weaken as the body absorbs less calcium, a mineral necessary for strong bones.


The body’s ability to metabolize important nutrients diminishes as a normal part of aging.
 People who drink more than 10 alcoholic drinks a week or smoke are at a higher risk of breaking bones. This is because substances in alcohol and cigarettes tend to reduce bone density.


Additionally, people with eating disorders have reduced amounts of calcium and vitamin D, nutrients that are necessary for strengthening the bones.
 As tumors or cysts grow, they can press against the surrounding tissues of the bone resulting in bone destruction and weakening. This can put you at increased risk of breaking your femur.


If you suspect that you may have some kind of tumor, get it checked out by the doctor immediately.
 Deconditioning causes decreased muscle mass and muscle weakness, especially due to lack of exercise. Physical activity causes formation of new bone tissue. If you stay inactive, then your bones will become brittle and fragile.

