 Students with disabilities are at risk for bullying, so it's important to send the message that you will not allow anyone to treat others with disrespect (whether the victim is disabled or not).


Explain that adults can be bullies too, and that bullying is the fault of the bully, not of the victim. Emphasize that bullying is wrong.
Don't push the disabled student into spending time with students that they don't want to be with. Being alone is better than being pushed to spend time with mean or indifferent children, and being told that these people are your friends.Let the student choose which people they are comfortable with (if any).
 You can help by being a good role model, and always treating your students with dignity. You can also talk about values and character in your classroom activities.


Treat the student with the same respect that you want other students to give them.
Be fair. Don't expect the special needs student to follow rules that other students are allowed to break., All students, disabled ones in particular, need to know life skills like saying "no," respecting bodily autonomy, and so on.


You need to respect personal space too. For example, if a student is fidgeting with their hands, it is not okay to grab their hands and force them to stop.
If you're making a demand, phrase it as a demand. If you're making a request that doesn't have to be followed, phrase it as a question, and respect the student's choice., Some people don't make eye contact when talking, some people wear hearing aids, some people rock back and forth, some people have aides, et cetera. Teach your students that these things are normal and okay. If you treat it like it's a fact of life, your students will learn that it's not a big deal, and disabled children are people like anyone else.


Don't try to push the special needs student to become indistinguishable from their peers. Instead, focus on helping them build on their strengths and improve their weaknesses., For group projects, intentionally pair the disabled student with someone who seems like they might be a good friend. Sometimes, this is the only push they need to become friends.


It won't always lead to friendship, and that's okay.
 You don't have to orchestrate every single part of the student's social life. You're just one person, and the person need to be able to act independently too.


Avoid pushing unwilling children together. They're likely to resent the interference, and rebel by not becoming friends.
It's okay if the student is alone sometimes. It only becomes a problem if the student is often alone, and doesn't want to be.

