


Provide a comfortable setting for the discussion.
Ensure there is room for everyone; both in the location and parking spaces.;
,


Pets: Keep pets away from the meeting area.
Inquire if your guests have allergies or fears of animals.



Know how many are coming.
Plan for at least 3 more guests than you expect.
Know whether or not your group is looking for or introducing new members.



Make sure everyone else knows where the meeting is being held.
Provide clear directions.



Check to ensure your guests do not have allergies to ingredients such as peanuts.



Place chairs in a circular fashion to equalize guest and promote discussion.
,, You should be ready or arrive ten minutes before your guest to ensure everything is ready.



Make sure you read the correct book.
If the book was hard to understand, research and make notes so that you understand the book and can explain it to others.



If you make notes inside the book, mark your pages to find them immediately.
Know what you’re going to discuss before the meeting.



Make sure your questions/topics promote discussion.
Do not ask “yes or no” questions.
Focus on themes, plot, characters, morals, messages, etc.
Stay away from “I like” or “I don’t like” as the center of the meeting.



Understand the guidelines of your group and select a book accordingly.
Make sure the group has not read it previously.
Research basic information about your selection.
Write down the name of the author and book title with correct spelling.



It is your job to make everyone feel comfortable in the environment.

Where the bathroom is.
 If it is not, show them where they can smoke.
, This shows them that they are welcome to help themselves.



Guests will want to mingle after putting their things down.



Do so when everyone is seated. Allow the new member to say a few things about him or herself.
Make the guest feel especially welcome and comfortable.
Don’t be intrusive.
 You should already have your book and discussion topics ready.



Control any outside conversation.
Don’t let conversation stray away from discussion of the book.



If one of your guests has a question or topic that is not on your list, do not hesitate to let the group answer or discuss the topic.



Don’t rush other members.
Let everyone take their turn speaking and presenting thoughts and opinions.
 Decide who will host and what book to read.
 Let them know you had a great time.

