 If your Breyers are knocked down, stand them up. It's just so your movie can look better. Make your barn look more realistic!;
, If you have a wide selection of horses, use common colors like a liver chestnut horse, that is, a very common color in horses. You can even use a lot of different modes. Like when the liver chestnut is young, when it's older, and during its middle life. Like middle age. But what if you do not have a wide selection of Breyers? Well, find a horse you like commonly in your collection. Like a black horse. And then age but not as many stages. You can start with a foal stage, and then have him or her grow up. Or make it stay one age the whole movie.
 Here's a good example. Start out with the action. Showing hooves is a good way to show action. Show a close up of what's holding the action, or causing it. Then, show a close up of the actual horse and the details. Pan from most of the middle face, down a little bit to the nose, and that's where the action starts. You should mostly show the action. And if you make a Breyer horse struggling in its stable, then you might want to consider starting with the hooves and then panning up. In that case, it makes the horse look larger. Which makes the action seem more aggressive. Or hyper. The other thing to do is start where the action originates, in cast the nose where he's being tied up. To show his face to show his expression and his eyes. You can also put some voicing. You can make them talking, whatever you want. Here's an example: "Why did they capture me? I should have ran away, what should I do now?" Remember, if you are showing action like that, make sure you pan upwards to make it more hyper and aggressive. Also, pan from the nose to the eyes.
 A human trait would be, when the person or horse is talking, you should make it look at the person or horse in the eyes. This trait invites people more into the story.
 It's hopefully doing all three at once. There are a lot of examples of this. But Afleet Alex and Red Rum is not one of those models. They are either walking or trotting. So, he's not a good model to be in a race, he could be standing in a stall though. Those horses can be anything though. The model called Snowman, can be anything. If you have him, look at him. He may be running, he could trotting, and he could also be standing in a stall. Snowman is the perfect model for any movie. There are a lot of other horses like these, but you have to look and see if that model is doing all three gaits. Ruffian is good, but is a really bad example of a horse that has all three gaits. See, she could never ever be standing in a stall. And if you notice, if you try to ever fit her into one, her back legs will get scratched. Ruffian is a great model for racing videos, and stuff like that, she could never be standing in a stall. Don't use her as a main character. But she could definitely be in a movie. Instead, you can use a model that looks like her. If you notice, Ruffian and Flash look the same, but he is a lot smaller than Ruffian and could fit into a stall better. He almost has all three gaits down. He would be a good model in addition to Ruffian. She could be in a run and Flash could be just in a canter.
 There are two ways on how to do the script. You can type it up and look at it as you go. The other way to do it is you can make up what's going on. It's quick thinking, but that's the best way to do it.
 Carpet is the hardest thing for Breyer horses to stand on. Models lean over and fall down. Which is a very bad thing to happen when you are in the middle of making a movie. You can make a movie in a hallway or a kitchen, where the floor is not flush like carpet. Sometimes there's hard pack carpet. But it's easier on hard wood floors or dirt if your making the movie outside.
 You know how to create a Breyer movie!

