 Make sure your Barbie’s hair is free of tangles before you curl it. Use a Barbie brush or a human hair brush to gently work through the doll hair.


Just like with human hair, detangling works best if you pull the brush downward with short strokes, starting from the bottom (ends) of the hair and working up toward the tops (roots).
If you are having trouble detangling Barbie hair that has become very matted or damaged by products, try first soaking the hair in a mug of warm water and about a tablespoon of fabric softener for 10-15 minutes.;
, Split your Barbie’s hair into several small sections to create braids all over her head. Split each section into three strands and do a standard braid all the way to the ends of the hair.


The number of sections you make in your Barbie’s hair is up to you. The fewer the sections, the more hair will be in each braid, resulting in larger, looser waves. The more sections, the less hair will be in each braid, resulting in smaller, tighter waves.
Choose this method for your Barbie’s hair if you want her to have a wavy, crimped-looking hairdo rather than round ringlet curls.
 Use pieces of drinking straws, pipe cleaner, or aluminum foil to create miniature hair rollers for your Barbie that will create round barrel or ringlet curls. Take a small section of hair and wrap or roll it around a curler, then do the same for each strand on the entire head of hair.


To use straws, cut them into pieces about an inch long. Place the straw at the bottom of a strand of hair and roll the hair up and around it. Keep rolling till you reach the top of the hair strand.To use aluminum foil, cut strips of foil about 4 inches wide. Fold each in half repeatedly until you have a small, thick strip. Twist the strip to make a strong rope shape. Then place a “rope” against your Barbie’s hair, in the same direction the hair falls. Twist a small strand of hair around the foil all the way to the bottom.To use pipe cleaners, cut them to a length a little longer than your Barbie’s hair and wrap small strands around the pipe cleaner in the same way as with a piece of foil. Or, you can fold a pipe cleaner in half, place the crook of the fold against the Barbie’s head, and weave the hair through the two ends of the pipe cleaner for tight “rotini” curls., Make sure your braids or little curlers don’t fall out during the next steps. Secure the hair with elastics or bobby pins to maintain the curls while they get wet, freeze, and dry out.


If you used aluminum foil or pipe cleaners, all you have to do is fold over the ends of each piece and wrap them around your spiral of hair to hold them in place.For braids, use small size elastics to secure the hair at the end of each of your braids.
For straws, use two bobby pins per straw piece. Push one onto each end of the straw piece to hold it, and the hair wrapped around it, in place.