 If you decide to freeze an unbaked quiche after pouring the filling into the crust, do so by tray freezing it. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set the quiche on top.


The parchment paper is not strictly necessary, but lining the baking sheet with parchment paper first can make it easier to clean things up in case any of the filling spills out and onto the tray as you transfer it into the freezer.
 Transfer the quiche and the baking sheet into the freezer, letting it rest in as flat a position as possible. Freeze the quiche for several hours, or until the filling becomes solid.


The quiche should be as solid as possible. If the surface is soft, sticky, or tacky, it might stick to the plastic wrap or become indented after you place it in the freezer for storage.
 Get a large piece of plastic wrap and wrap it around the entire quiche, pressing the edges of the wrap together to create an airtight seal.


It is important that you place the plastic wrap over the quiche before you place the aluminum foil over it. The plastic wrap will prevent the foil from sticking to the quiche after it freezes., Cover the plastic wrap covered quiche with a layer of aluminum foil. Once again, you should seal the edges firmly to minimize the amount of air getting inside.


It is important that you do not let air come into contact with the quiche as it freezes. If the quiche gets exposed to air, ice crystals could form on the surface. These ice crystals could cause the crust to become soggy once they melt.
 If you do not have plastic wrap and/or aluminum foil, or if you are not confident that you created tight seals with either, place the quiche into a large plastic freezer bag and seal, squeezing out the excess air before zipping it closed.


Whether you do this step or not, you should label the outer layer of wrapping with the current date and the contents of the dish. Doing so will make it easier for you to keep track of how long the quiche has been in the freezer.
 Transfer the wrapped quiche to the freezer and let it remain there at a temperature of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) until you are ready to use it.


Unbaked quiche can be frozen for about one month without the quality being reduced.
 Do not thaw the quiche prior to baking it. Unwrap it and bake as directed according to the recipe's instructions, allowing 10 to 20 minutes of extra baking time.Baking the quiche from frozen is recommended since thawing it out first can increase the likelihood of the crust becoming soggy.

