 Once you've selected your product, get the right supplies. For washing the sink, you'll need a soft to medium nylon scrub brush. Anything more abrasive can scratch the surface of your sink. You also may want to wear dish gloves while cleaning.Read your manufacturer's instructions to select a cleaning agent. Stainless steel sinks are all made from slightly different materials. These materials respond differently to different types of cleaning products. To make sure you choose the right product for your sink, it's best to defer to manufacturer's instructions in regards to care, cleaning, and general maintenance.
In the absence of instructions, use your best judgement and select a cleaning product recommended by manufactures and manufacturer's agencies in regards to stainless steel sink care.
Products frequently recommended for a stainless steel sink are Fantastik Antibacterial Heavy Duty, Formula 409 Antibacterial All Purpose, Windex, Bar Keeper's Friend and Soft Cleanser, and stainless steel cleaner and polish.;
, Turn on the water and allow food particles to flow down the drain. You can use a sponge to help guide the particles down the drain. In the event food is stuck on the sink, pour a small amount of dish soap on the sink and then rinse out with hot water.
 Apply your cleaner to your rag or brush. Brush the cleaner on, working in the direction of the sink's metal grain.Make sure to remember to clean off the faucet and the sink's handles, as grime often builds up on these places.
 Many cleaners contain bleach or other chemicals that can be corrosive to a stainless steel sink over time. Turn on the faucet and rinse the cleaner out completely. Make sure you keep rinsing until you no longer see any residue or bubbles from the cleaning product.








Make sure to rinse off hard-to-reach places as well. Take a wet rag and wipe down the faucet, handles, and other places. Make sure to keep wiping until any residue is removed.
 Use paper towels or a dry rag to dry the sink completely. Stainless steel can rust if water evaporates on its surface. Make sure to rub the sink down until it's completely dry after cleaning to prevent this issue.








Make sure you use softer rags and paper towels to dry the sink. Using a rag that's too abrasive can cause scratching.
 Every day use causes most stainless steel sinks to scratch slightly, even with proper care. Unless scratches are particularly large or unsightly, it may be a good idea to simply let them blend. Eventually, small scratches will create a unique finish for your sink., Minor scratches are a common problem for stainless steel sinks. How you remove the scratches depends on the type of sink you have. If you have manufacturer's instructions, refer to these. You can also ask your landlord if you rent.Brush stainless steels that come in a Number 3 or Number 4 finish are fairly typical. Scratches here may be difficult, but not impossible, to remove. Hairline finish, another brush finish, may not respond well to treatments. However, abrasive pads or sandpaper can be used to remove scratches on these surfaces.
You should always defer to manufacturer's instructions if you have them. If you have instructions for your specific type of sink, use a product reccomended by these instructions.
 Sandpaper or abrasive pads with a grip between 80 and 120 can be used on scratches for brush stainless steel. You can purchase sandpaper at a local hard ware. Rub the sandpaper along the length of the scratch until it is removed.








Make sure you know what type of stainless steel you have before using sandpaper. Non-brush stainless steel may not respond well to sandpaper.
If you rent, you may want to ask your landlord to repair the sink. If you cause further damage, you may be fined. Your landlord likely has a maintenance worker who will know how to repair your sink.
 You can also use store bought liquid cleaners to remove rust, stains, and lessen the appearance of scratches. Autosol rust remover is recommended by some stainless steel manufacturers and can successfully address damage such as rust.








Follow the usage instructions for such products. With some products, you may put the product on the sink and then rinse it off. With other products, you may have to let the liquid dry over a stain or scratch before removing the stain.
 Some people advise certain home remedies for stains. While there's no guarantee such remedies will work, they're worth a try if you're struggling with a set in stain on your sink.








Mix equal parts lemon juice and baking soda into a paste. Rub this paste over the stain with a damp sponge. Let the paste sit for 15 to 20 minutes, and then wipe the area clean.
Mix a tablespoon of cream of tartar with a couple of drops of lemon juice. Rub this paste on rust spots and stains until they come off.
 Steel wool is very abrasive. If used on a stainless steel sink, it can easily cause scratches. Stick to softer and non-abrasive brushes and sponges when cleaning a stainless steel sink., Do not place a rubber dish mat at the bottom of a stainless steel sink. These products can trap water, resulting in discoloration over time.If you prefer to use a rubber dish mat when doing dishes, leave the mat in the sink while you're washing dishes. Then, remove it and dry the area underneath when you're done.
 You may place a wet rag somewhere in the sink when you finish doing dishes or wiping down countertops. While this is convenient, you should never leave wet rags or sponges in a stainless steel sink. Excess water can cause rust and stains. Store your wet rags somewhere else in your kitchen., Cast iron cookware produces a lot of residue that can wear down stainless steel. If left in a stainless steel sink, this can cause the sink to rust and stain. It's also not good for cast iron cookware to be left wet for long, as this can cause the cookware to rust as well.