 Giving a child more freedoms and privileges is a big step for parents. If you ask for their advice or involvement in the process, they may be more willing to take your side.Ask them to help you do more research on the topic. Say something like, “I would like to drive with my friend to visit her sister at college. Can you help us figure out how long that would take and what the best route would be?”
You could also say something such as, “I really think I want to pursue a Ph.D. in art history. Can you help me figure out which study abroad program would be most beneficial for helping me reach this goal?”

, It’s not a good idea to ask your parents for new privileges as you’re all trying to get to school or work on time. By having a calm discussion with them, you’re more likely to convince them to see your side.


Figure out a time to talk with them when you will not be rushed.
If you have younger siblings, try to talk when they are not home. That way, you won’t be distracted or interrupted.
 By getting right to the point, you can more quickly start to explain to your parents what you want and why you think you deserve that new privilege. Stay calm and be respectful during your conversation.


Say something like, “Mom and dad, I’m getting older, and I think I’ve shown I’m responsible enough to have my curfew extended.”
Another approach could be, “I’ve really gotten interested in French history and culture through my French classes at school, I would like to study in Paris next year to really immerse myself in the culture.”
You could also remind them of how they could help themselves by granting you new freedoms: “I think you would have a better time at your cousin’s wedding if you made it a romantic weekend. I am happy to stay home by myself for a few days while you get away and relax.”

, Take time during the discussion to show your parents how much you have matured recently, whether through improving your grades or volunteering at an animal hospital. In the hustle and bustle of daily life, sometimes everyone forgets to notice the changes going on around them.


You could show them how much your bank account has grown recently through your dedication to saving and/or your part-time job.
Be sure to remind them of all you have done recently around the house to make your home a better place.
If you’ve recently improved your math grade, make it a point to tell your parents during this discussion. Anything you can add about your added maturity and sense of responsibility will help you.
 If you let them know that you’ve taken the time to research and think about what you’re asking for, they will be more likely to take your request seriously.


Use your research to say something like, “I know it will be expensive for me to study in Paris next year, but here’s how I plan to pay for most of it.” Or, you could take another approach, “Studies show that those who study abroad have an increased chance of attending graduate school.”
If your request involves extending your curfew, say something like, “Mom and dad, the concert I want to attend ends later than my curfew. The concert venue is in a safe location, and I will be with several friends. I think that I deserve an extended curfew because I know how to be safe and I will be responsible.”

, Despite all of your planning and persuasive efforts, your parents may not agree to additional freedoms or privileges for you just yet.


Calmly ask about their objections. You could say, “I’m really disappointed that you feel this way. Why do you think this is a bad idea?”
Don’t yell or cry; that response will further convince them you are not mature enough for extended privileges.
Ask what you can do to prove to them you are ready for this step. You could say something such as, “I understand you think I’m not ready to travel alone yet, but can we talk about this in a month or two? I think I’ll be able to show you that I’m responsible and ready for this privilege before we discuss this again.”

