 Go to the Options->Preferences screen and assign the controls, graphics and everything else you need to feel good while playing. Make sure you set a comfortable set of keyboard controls. Keep in mind that seemingly insignificant things like sound and graphics are very important - it will depend on these factors whether you are "in the game" or not.;
, The "Practice Session" game mode is made for you to train and get used to the game. Pick a suitable map, set a bot level (if this is your first time, pick "Novice") and try out your newly assigned controls. Also, at this point you can feel free to change the preferences to whichever fit best. Change in between the difficulty levels! If "Novice" is too easy for you, change to "Average" etc. Try to experiment. As soon as you feel that you have had enough practice, proceed to the next step, but don't forget to have a training session in between games - practice makes perfect!

, This is where the single player mode starts. First, you can create a character. Pick the most attractive team, appearance, name and difficulty level - all of which now must be experimented in the practice mode. These assignments will lead you the whole game.
 You're on your own now. Start a death match. The first level looks quite easy, but the matches get more difficult every level, and after three games a new mode will unlock... The chain of the game will pass on for long, and it will take a lot of patience (and ammunition) to progress in the tournament. In between these games your playing style will progress as well - eventually you will find out which weapon best suits your playing style, what game mode is the most fun, how to counter various obstacles, etc. - these things are very important, remember them, and as you progress through the tournament, make sure you are progressing your game. Read some tricks and tips below, have a practice session. And don't forget - for every game mode you will finish, there is a neat trophy, so keep on shooting those bots.



Assault. You will eventually face with a quite difficult game mode - assault - which can be quite complex, yet fun. Assault levels are usually a set of objectives you have to accomplish in the enemy's base - is it destroying some control system or pushing a button - at a certain amount of time, and then defending the base for the amount of time in which you "infiltrated the base". It might look easy at first, but the pressure of time running down and bots constantly blasting you with a rocket will most likely get you frustrated. Be sure to take the Assault tutorial - it will teach you the basics, and in every match, closely examine the objectives. However, strategy is something else, something more difficult. In an Assault match, you will start as the attacker - this is the hardest part. As i said before, there can be a lot of strategies for each level. Speed running (simply running towards the objective through a pile of enemies in front of you) might be an option, but at higher difficulties it will get harder. Don't forget to give orders to your teammates - press (default) V and negotiate, as pointless as it seems, it actually helps.







AS-Frigate. As the first assault map, it shouldn't be hard to think of a suitable strategy. You can enter the ship through the door, which is guarded by an automatic cannon, or an underwater entrance through the bottom of the ship. The underwater entrance is usually less guarded. It would be best to enter through here and make your way to the long corridor. On the way up, take a mini gun or a flak cannon - make sure you're not just with your enforcer. Now, the compressor will usually be guarded by all of the enemy team, so beware. Fire a few flak shells at the enemies. If there is not much of the opposing team there, you may choose the easiest way - quickly jump in the room and fire a few shells at the big compressor glass. As soon as you destroy the compressor, hurry up the stairs to the highest point in the ship - it would be best to do this before the enemy does. At the peak - the control room - you should see a big red button. Run into it and you are done. The defence strategy in this map should not be hard to think of - just climb up to the place where the automatic cannon is and shoot every enemy who sets a foot on the bridge, at the lower difficulties the bots never enter the ship through the underwater entrance.

AS-HiSpeed. The train is most likely the easiest assault map. What you have to do as the attacker is to get the Anti-Grav boots as soon as you jump from the helicopter you start in. They are just on the left, near the border - you probably won't miss them. After you get these, run towards the front of the train while picking up some armor or thigh pads (and try not to jump). When you reach the big platform which comes before Car 3 (actually the first car) (you should see some enemies standing at the distance), jump on it. If you jumped on the right platform there should be a pool of strange green liquid at the middle. Do not jump over it! Try to maneuver by the sides without jumping over or falling in the goo. When you pass the pool, run towards the edge of this platform. When you reach it, jump over onto Car 3. You should see an automatic turret on it - do not be afraid, however, it will slightly hurt you. Once again, hold yourself against jumping, but try to (at least slightly) maneuver through the bullets. Run towards Car 2 and, again, jump onto it. Your Anti-Grav boots should be drained by now (after 3 jumps), so after you reach the end of this one, jump down at the edge of Car 2 and enter Car 1. Quickly climb up the stairs and run to the front. At the end you should find the switch that opens the control cabin. Jump down after you click the switch and enter the red room. Run into the control desk and you're finished. If you done this all right without dying a single time you should've finished in exactly a minute. When defending, simply camp near the entrance to Car 3. The match should end quite fast.

AS-Rook. The castle might be a challenge, because, actually, there is not much strategy you can think of for this level. Now it all depends on your accuracy and skill. You will start inside some chambers in the castle. Here, make sure you pick up some weapons, but make it quick. If you'll go through the big door you'll find yourself outside, and normally there should be a fence of enemies standing in front of you. First of all, speed running will not work. You will barely make it to the entrance switch in one piece. It'd be best to pick up the minigun while still in the chambers and shoot the enemies from a distance, one by one. Quickly run to the wheel/switch - it will open the entrance to the library. Enter through the door and run through the corridors (don't climb upstairs) until you see a tall winch. Run to it and slightly above your head you should see two chains. Shoot at them until they both break. Now, for the sake of time, you may kill yourself (or let an enemy kill you). As soon as you spawn run through the same door where you started (in the chambers). Slightly on the left you should see a small gatehouse with a switch inside it. Run into it. The huge main doors should be open now - escape the castle through these doors and run until you reach the waterfall.

AS-Mazon. Again, the difficulty of this level relies on your own skill, however, it should be done in a more "speedy" strategy. You can start off by picking up all the weapons you see in front of yourself when you start and quickly run through the automatic cannons that are shooting at you. When you pass the cave and you see some enemies camping on top of a structure, before they saw you, equip the sniper rifle you picked up and head shot every bot, one by one. When there will only be left 1-2 enemies, run towards the gate. Destroy the two counterweights at the sides of the gate with a rocket launcher and proceed inside the building. Here, if you're playing on Novice difficulty, you can just speed run upstairs and find the Reactor Room switch, but if you prefer doing it slower, kill some enemies, run upstairs, first find the main gate switch. It will open the main gate (the one that you saw at the start, where the cannons were shooting) and, if you die, it will be a shorter route for you to enter the building. Once again, find the reactor room switch, click it run into the big room through the doors on the sides that just opened. You will see a huge shiny crystal - destroy it and you're done.

AS-OceanFloor. It might be quite a challenge to conquer the underwater base. It'd be best if you would make up your own strategy for this one, because the most common locations of the enemies varies between difficulty levels. Just remember - the terminals can be destroyed in any order. If playing on Novice, speed running might be an option too. But defence is where it gets tricky. Even in Average, you could find yourself pointlessly running around the base while the enemy is destroying the terminals one by one. There are more than one entrances to the base, so camping at one of them might not be the best idea. In lower difficulties, a good option would be just guarding one particular terminal, the best ones being Terminal 4 and Terminal 1.

AS-Overlord. The last assault match. This map more relies on pick-ups and speed rather than tactics, as well, but there are some basic tips - this map is by far not the easiest one. Right after you start, pick up the guns that are in the boat. Peek a little out of the boat, equip your sniper rifle and head shot a few enemies before sprinting to the front. While running, keep your head up and observe the point where the bright light is shining. There is a cannon that shoots mortars and these mortars can blast your body to bits. Be aware of the flying projectiles. After you breach the beachhead, make haste downstairs and equip your mini gun. There will be a pile of enemies waiting for you there. Your goal right now is to breach the boiler room - if you do that, your new spawn point will be this room. Make sure to pick up all the weapons and armors here - especially the Flak Cannon. Now you're on your own. Once again, there will be a fence of enemies near the Gun Control Room, but you should make it by yourself quite soon. Sprint into the Control Room and fire something at the control desk. You should be done. Defence for this map shouldn't be too hard - you will find yourself in a teleport room with which you will navigate through all the base. Good luck - by now you should have the great Assault trophy.



The last match. Yes, after 5 hard game modes you have finally reached the "Hyperblast" level. You will finally face the tournament champion - Xan Kriegor - in a fight-to-the-death 1 on 1 galactic death match. Be aware, this level can be quite a challenge, even in "Novice" mode, but patience is all it takes. Examine the map, find out where are Xan's favourite spots, what power-ups he picks up first - it depends on the difficulty - and create your own strategy. If you cannot think of a suitable plan the best tactics you could follow would be staying in more open areas (preferably space), picking up the shield belt as soon as it spawns, picking up the invisibility power-up as soon as it spawns (it has small effect against bots, but you wouldn't want Xan to pick it up) and picking up all of the ammunition. Xan Kriegor will also occasionally taunt you - don't let this bother you! Once again, experiment with the preferences, go on a practice session, re-read this article, do not give up!







, Eventually you will beat the last match, congratulations - but there is still a lot to explore in the Unreal Tournament universe. Now you can start another tournament - at a higher difficulty, you can also search for internet games, play some LAN games with your friends. Keep playing.

