 Any smartphone or regular phone with a GPS chip can be tracked. Here are some options for keeping track of your family's location at all times:

Contact your cell phone provider to ask if they offer a family tracking plan for an additional monthly charge. This may also come with parental control abilities.Install a GPS tracking app on your family's smart phones. Some apps allow the user to voluntarily share her location with friends, while others are intended for parents to track children. Browse your phone's app store or do research online to find the app that suits your needs.






Install AccuTracking on non-smart phones. AccuTracking is one of the few third-party location trackers that works on non-smart phones. See their website for which phone models it works with and monthly fee information.
If you are trying to track someone's location without his permission, install an app hider on their phone and use it to conceal the tracking app. Alternatively, you can put the tracking app in an obscure folder of their phone to minimize his chance of finding it.
 If you're worried about losing your phone or having it stolen, there are many apps designed to let you track your phone's GPS location from a computer and/or prevent a thief from using it.


Browse your phone's app store or search online for a tracking or anti-theft app that works on your device.
AccuTracking is one of the few services that can track (GPS-enabled) non-smart phones.
 If you already lost your phone and did not previously install any tracking software, you still have a chance to locate it:


Many smart phone manufacturers can automatically locate your phone. Call customer service or search online for instructions for your model. If you have access to a computer, you will likely be able to track your phone's location and/or set it to make a loud sound at regular intervals.
Some tracking apps (such as Android's "Plan B") can be downloaded remotely onto your phone from a computer. Make sure to do this before your smart phone runs out of battery.






Your cell service provider may offer GPS location for a fee, remotely activating your phone's GPS chip. This may be your only option for locating a non-smart phone.

