 As you read, make sure to go slow. In addition, enunciate words carefully and correctly. This way, your child – depending on age – can better follow along. In addition, reading slowly will make your time together more relaxed and enjoyable for both of you. Ultimately, if you rush through the book, the experience may seem stressful to you and your child., As you read, don’t stress about reading the book word-for-word. It is more important that you convey important ideas and engage your child in the book. Ultimately, focusing on reading the book word-for-word will not only distract you from this goal, it will also make the reading experience less attractive for your child.Paraphrase, if you want.
Rephrase or put difficult sentences or concepts in your own words.
Express familiar concepts in a language or cultural perspective that is unique to your family.
 Whether you’re reading to an infant or an older baby, try to be as interactive as you can. This includes changing the intonation of your voice, pitch, and more. In addition, use your hands to express the story to make it more exciting. After doing this, you’ll find that your child will be much more engaged in the activity., While infants may grab at the book and occasionally touch it, older babies will likely show more of an interest in touching the book. Touching the book is important as it will allow your child to gain an attachment to the book and be more vested in the reading process.


Help infants touch pictures and different textures and surfaces in the book.
Encourage older babies to help you turn the page., As you read your book, make sure to point to the pictures that are the subject of what you’re reading about. For example, if you’re reading about an apple on a given page, point to the picture. Then, encourage your child to point to and touch the picture, too. By pointing out what you’re talking about, you’ll stimulate your child and begin to lay the foundation of their vocabulary., While you read, stop and ask your child questions. Questions will make the experience more entertaining, interactive, and might pique your child’s interest. In fact, it doesn’t matter if your child understands the question you’re asking or even answers. Questions are more about transforming the reading experience into a dialogue between you and your child.

If the subject of your book is about pets, ask your child whether they like dogs or cats better.
If the subject of your book is about colors, ask what color they prefer. Then, use the opportunity to point out colors throughout the room.