 It doesn’t take a genius to know that a tired kid is often one that is cranky. You may not know it, but your kids might not get the adequate amount of sleep they need in order to be happy and able to focus at school. Consult with your child’s doctor about the appropriate amount of sleep they need if you’re not sure.


In order for your child to get enough sleep, you may have to start putting them to bed earlier. Although this can be challenging, you can get it done by putting them to bed sooner and sooner over time. Eventually, they will get used to it and likely respond better to the morning rush.According to the National Sleep Foundation, preschoolers should get about 11 to 13 hours each night and kids ages six to thirteen should sleep at least nine to 11 hours. Older kids' sleep schedules can be set at your own discretion., Just about every parent knows how rough it can be to get your child to do what you want; however, if you give them options on how to get the job done while still getting the same outcome, you may find that your morning routine becomes a lot less stressful. Giving them a choice helps them to feel more in control, and in turn, often more cooperative.


For example, if your child doesn’t like to brush their teeth first thing in the morning, allow them to eat their breakfast first. Or, if they don’t want to put their shoes on while they are getting dressed, let them do it right before they walk out of the door. Giving them this little bit of control creates the same end result, and can reduce the amount of stress you feel., Moving from one task to the next without any warning is often difficult for a child. When you make your child stop what they are doing abruptly without preparing them for what is to come can result in a temper tantrum. Instead, give them a heads-up that they need to finish what they are working on and move on to the next task.


For example, you could say, “You have two minutes to finish playing that game before we go to school.” Allowing time to prepare themselves can make the transition easier for everyone involved., If your child is consistently slow-moving and resistant to the morning routine, use something to entice them to get them going. Just simply getting done only so they can go to school isn’t usually enough motivation. Giving them a reward, however, can be what it takes to get them moving.


For example, you could say, “After you get dressed, you can play with your toys until it’s time to leave.” Using this type of reward could get them to accomplish what they need to do without the argument.You may be able to bring a sense of fun to the chaos by turning morning tasks into a game. If your kids love playing pretend, you may come up with a character who must do their chores. Or give them their own kid-sized cleaning tools to help, like a scrub brush that is their size to clean off their breakfast dishes. Or you can make it a race to see who can be ready and waiting by the door first, dressed and with all their things packed. The winner gets to pick what you have for dessert that night.
 Entice your kids to stick to the schedule during the week so that they can relax on the weekend. Although you don’t want to get too far away from your routine, you can slow things down so that they don’t feel rushed. Looking forward to this special time may encourage your kids to cooperate during the weekday mornings.


For instance, you still want your little ones to get enough sleep on Saturday and Sunday; however, you can create a weekend routine that doesn’t include rushing out of the door. You can make a special breakfast on the weekend or enjoy a family activity, such as reading the paper or watching cartoons.