 Click on the specific blog name that has comments you want to moderate, if you have more than 1 blog. Activate WordPress blog moderation in 1 of the following ways:


If you are activating a privately hosted WordPress.org blog, have an administrator go to "SiteAdmin." Then, have them click on "Options," go to "Blogs," and look for the "Awaiting Moderation" activation link. Click on the link. When you registered a new blog, your WordPress administrator may have also received an email with this activation link.
If you are starting a hosted WordPress.com blog, go through the new blog registration process, and then go to your Dashboard. Click on the "Settings" tab and the "Discussion" option. Look at the options for "Other Comment Settings," and choose if the person commenting is required to fill out a name or email, or if they must be a WordPress member. Also, in the "Before a comment appears" section, click on "An administrator must always approve the comment," unless you want comments to go up without your approval. You can also decide whether WordPress should try to weed out spam comments.;
, In your Dashboard, under the Settings and Discussion sections, you can choose if you get emails every time someone comments on your blog, or every time a comment appears in the "Comments" section of your Dashboard.


This is a good idea if you have infrequent comments, if you travel often, or you have created strict rules on commenting. You can also check a box that says you can reply to this comment via email. If you are moderating a number of blogs, this is not recommended, because it may overload your email inbox.
 Click on the "Comments" section in your Dashboard list, and this will take you to the page that holds all your comments awaiting approval. Above the list you can choose to see all comments, pending comments, spam comments or trash.


Click on "Pending," to see all the comments that are awaiting moderation. Hover over the comment with your cursor, and you will see options to approve, disapprove, mark as spam, or throw the comment in the trash. Choose the action that best fits the comment.
You can also choose to take a bulk action to your comments. You can click the box to the left of the comment. Click on the "Bulk Actions" drop down menu above and choose to approve, disapprove or delete (trash) all the selected comments. This will save time when dealing with many comments at once, especially to weed out spammers or approve comments from frequent readers.
If you mark something as spam once, all the comments from the same email will be marked as spam.
 If you manage many blogs or 1 popular blog, you may not have the time to log into the WordPress Admin section throughout the day. Choose a plugin to download onto your computer so that you can check on comments without using a web browser.


Go to WordPress.org and click on the "Plugins" tab. Search for popular moderation plugins, such as DiscussIt Moderator. If you use Windows Live Writer, you can also choose a Windows Live Writer plugin that will create a page for your blog on your Windows Live Writer.
Check on the right hand side to make sure your WordPress version and other system requirements are up to date, in order to run this plugin. Download the plugin. Open the zip file on your computer. Choose the "Plugins" section of your Admin Panel to activate the plugin.

