 Cover the dish with microwave-safe plastic wrap.


A glass casserole dish will usually suffice, but make sure that the dish is safe for microwave use.
Note that most plastic wrap is safe for microwave use, but not all plastic wrap is. Check yours to verify that it can be used in the microwave before using it.
 If your microwave does not have a rotating tray, pause the cooking time halfway through, turn the dish 180 degrees, and continue cooking.


Watch the beans carefully as you microwave them to make sure that the plastic wrap does not melt.
 Carefully remove the dish of beans from the microwave and let them stand in the hot water undisturbed.
 Stir in another 2 cups (500 ml) of very hot water. Let the beans sit for another 1 hour.
 Transfer the beans to a colander to drain them.


Rinse the beans under warm running water after draining them.
Discard the water the beans soaked in.
 Place the oil in a microwave-safe baking dish for 1 minute to heat it.


Most glass baking dishes are microwave-safe, but you should always check your dish to make sure.
Do not use a metal baking dish.
 Stir the chopped onions, garlic powder, bay leaf, chili powder, cumin, Creole seasoning, and salt to the baking dish. Mix well to combine and coat in oil.
 Cook the onions and seasonings on high to soften the onion.


Leave the dish uncovered.
 Add the pre-soaked beans and 4 cups (1 L) of hot water to the baking dish, stirring well to combine.


Cover the baking dish with microwave-safe plastic wrap.
 Cook the chili beans until tender. If your tray does not rotate, turn the dish once in the middle of the cooking process so that the beans cook evenly.


Watch the chili beans as they cook to ensure that the plastic wrap does not melt.
 Remove the cooked beans from the microwave and let stand, covered, for 15 minutes.


Uncover the baking dish carefully when the time comes. Be careful, or else you may burn yourself on the steam.
 Stir the diced tomato into the chili beans until evenly combined.
 The hot chili beans can be enjoyed on their own, added to cooked meat to form a traditional chili, or served as a side dish.

