 If you’re willing to work extra hard and you have marketable skills or abilities, you may be able to make your own opportunities. The advantage of employing yourself is that you do not have to submit to background checks or other hurdles.Consider becoming a skilled laborer, such as an electrician, plumber, or barber. Some professions require you to get a professional license. In many cases, the licensing process may require you to disclose a criminal record. However, a conviction on its own is usually not enough to disqualify you from licensure. This is especially true if your conviction was a long time ago and/or you have not had multiple convictions for the same type of crime.Most state licensing boards will have a list of criminal convictions that may pose a barrier to entering a specific profession. For example, a person wishing to become a cosmetologist would likely have trouble getting licensed if he or she had a conviction involving children, sexual misconduct, or personal assaults. This is because a cosmetologist often has direct contact with the public in unsupervised settings, so a history of crimes against people could pose a threat.Consider what you’re good at. If you have maintenance or lawn-care skills, try starting a small business that uses those skills. People who employ handymen or lawn-care specialists are more likely to judge you based on the quality of the work you can do, not your background If you were part of a work release program, you may consider staying in the industry that you worked in.
You’ll probably need to have another job while you’re getting your business on its feet.
 Some people think that the military will take just about anyone, while some think that you can’t get in at all with a criminal record. In the U.S., they’re both wrong.Depending on the type, number of offenses, and the length of time since your offense, you may be able to get a waiver that will allow you to enlist. Waivers are easier to get with misdemeanors and non-violent offenses. Multiple felony convictions are usually an automatic disqualification, as are convictions for distributing or selling illegal drugs.
You may be required to provide letters of reference that attest to your character. If you can get strong letters from responsible community members (employers, ministers, law enforcement, etc.), you have a better chance of getting a waiver.Before you enlist, consider the potential risks and benefits of joining the military. The military can provide job training and instill discipline. Some civilian employers may be more willing to hire you if you have military job skills. However, there are also risks, such as the possibility of deployment, injury, or death.
Lying to a military recruiter about your criminal history is a felony—don’t do it.The military has the right to investigate your entire criminal record, including offenses and records that have been sealed or expunged. When applying to the military, you cannot legally answer “no” to questions about your criminal history, even if records were sealed or expunged.
Some branches of the military, such as the Army and the Marine Corps, may be more willing to grant waivers to individuals with felony convictions., Even if you can't get a paid position to start, volunteer work looks good to employers. It can even count as job training for many professions and the Department of Social Services. Find a local soup kitchen, animal shelter, or even an advocacy organization to join.


Working as a volunteer gives you the chance to show that you are responsible, dependable, and trustworthy. It will also give you the chance to make a good impression on people in charge of you, who can vouch for your character when you apply for jobs.

