 Depending on your school, there may already be a resource room for blind and visually impaired students. The resource room will have instructors trained in teaching the blind and visually impaired as well as tools and resources for learning. There will be blindness-specific instruction that follows the Expanded Core Curriculum.There may also be services for other students with disabilities, such as deaf students, offered at the resource room.
If there is not already a resource room for blind students at your school, you may be able to be bused to a school that has one.
 The Teachers of Students with Visual Impairments (TVI) model works by having instructors trained to work with blind and visually impaired students travel to schools that need this service. The TVIs will coach general education teachers on how to provide instruction and class material that are accessible to disabled students.This may be a good option if there are only a few children with a visual impairment and traveling to another school with a resource room is difficult or expensive.
A good TVI model will provide daily instruction and teaching materials. There should also be a push to have visually impaired students interact with each other in the classroom on a regular basis.
 An individualized educational program (IEP) can help you determine your educational needs. Set up an IEP meeting with a professional at your current school or through local services for the blind or visually impaired in your area. The IEP can help determine which program will be best for you, from a state school to a resource room to TVI.The IEP can also change or evolve as you get older and require different educational support.
Your needs will vary based on the level of school you are pursuing. For example, elementary school years will require specialized instruction in braille. High school schooling will require progression into learning specific academic subjects when blind or visually impaired. The IEP will help identify what you need based on your level of schooling.

