 It is important to get medical personal on the scene as quickly as possible. If you and the injured person are alone, you need to get extreme bleeding under control before going for help.
 It is important to keep a barrier between you and someone else's blood. Latex gloves will protect you from any possible transfer of disease from the other person's blood.
 Also check the patient's breathing and circulation. Ask the person to lay down or sit down if possible, to allow the person to rest and relax.


Check it to see what the problem is. Cut away clothing, if needed, so that you can see the wound. Be careful to avoid getting debris in the wound as you cut away the clothing.
 If the wound is causing severe bleeding from an arm or leg, ask the patient to elevate his or her affected limb. Then, place supports under the limb, such as pillows or folded blankets, or have helpers hold it up. Keep it in this position until the bleeding stops.


Shock can also be a life-threatening issue. If the patient is in shock, keep him or her warm and relaxed as possible. Symptoms of shock include pale, cold, clammy skin, disorientation, and decreased alertness.
Do not try to remove any object, such as a glass splinter, unless you are properly trained to do so; removal could cause a great deal of blood loss if the item is the only thing stoppering the flow.
 Put a clean and non-fluffy dressing pad over the cut. Apply firm pressure directly to the cut.


A compression bandage can be made from clothing, fabric, rags, etc., if you don't have any first aid bandages. If you have one available, wrap the compression bandage around the wound. Do not wrap too tightly; ensure that two fingers can slip under the bandage.
 Do not attempt to remove the existing dressing and bandage, as this would disturb the wound.


Leave underlying bandages on. This will help to leave in place any clots that might form. These prevent more blood from flowing out of the wound.
 Reassure the person until help arrives (if severe) or until the bleeding stops (less severe). An ambulance must be called if the cut is severe and/or the bleeding fails to stop.


Be sure to describe the person's injury when you call emergency services. This will make it easier for paramedics to arrive on the scene prepared to immediately assist.
 For example, if the cut was deep or dirty, you may need a tetanus shot. Tetanus is a serious bacterial infection that can cause paralysis and death if not treated. Most people receive a tetanus vaccine and boosters as part of their routine physicals every few years.


If you are exposed to the bacteria through a cut from something dirty or rusty, it is important to get a booster shot to prevent future infection. Call your doctor to see if you need one!