 It's a light-blue app with a white "V" on it.

If you haven't yet downloaded Venmo, do so now for iPhone (https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/venmo/id351727428?mt=8) or for Android (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.venmo&hl=en).
To sign up for a Venmo account on desktop, go to Venmo's website at https://venmo.com/.;
, You can sign up for Venmo using your Facebook details by tapping Sign up with Facebook, or you can tap the Sign up with Email option to use an email address.

Choosing an email address will require you to manually enter account details like your name, your address, and so on.
If you're using the Venmo desktop site, click one of the sign-up options on the right side of the page.
 The process for doing so will vary depending on the sign-up method you chose:


Facebook - Tap Log in with the Facebook app and then tap Continue as if prompted. Otherwise, enter your Facebook email address (or phone number) and password, then tap Log In to save your login details. You'll then need to enter your phone number and Venmo password, tap Send Code, and verify your phone number by typing the code Venmo sends to you into Venmo. Tap Verify to continue.

Email - Enter your name, email address, and password, then tap Next. Enter your phone number, then tap Send Code. Open the text message from Venmo, look at the code in it, and type the code into the Venmo app. Tap Verify to complete the process.
 Once the account creation and verification process is complete, you'll be able to link a card or bank account and start sending and receiving money with Venmo., It's in the top-left corner of the Venmo app.

Skip this step if you are on the Venmo desktop website.
 This option is at the bottom of the left side menu on the mobile app and the top right of your Venmo homepage on the website.

Skip this step if you are using the Android app.
 You'll see this option near the top of the menu and on the left side of the Settings page on desktop., You can also select Add Debit or Credit Card on this page if you'd like to add a card as an intermediary.

If you decide to add a card, enter your card's information when prompted and then select Add Card.
On desktop, first click Edit payment methods below the "Payment Methods" box.
 As long as they match your existing bank account, doing so will show a list of your checking accounts., Doing so will add it to your Venmo account; you'll be able to send money from and receive money to this account., To do so, tap ☰, then tap Home near the top of the menu.

On desktop, click the "Venmo" logo in the top-left side of the page.
 It's a square with a pencil icon in the top-right corner of the Venmo screen.

On Android, this icon is in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
On desktop, click the white field at the top of the page that says "Pay or charge someone".
 If you're friends on Venmo, you can simply type in their name., You'll see it below the search bar., You should see the corresponding dollar amount appear as you type.

On desktop, you'll first click Pay or Charge to the left of the search bar.
 To do so, tap the "What's it for?" field below the payment area.

On desktop, just press the space bar to enter a note.
 These options are near the bottom of the screen.

On desktop, click Pay or Charge below the note box. Doing so will send or request the allotted amount.
 Doing so will send your payment or request for payment to your selected recipient.

You won't need to perform this step on desktop.
 It's in the top-left corner of the Venmo page.

On desktop, scroll down to the bottom of the home page.
 You'll see it at the top of the menu.

Skip this step on desktop.
 It's in the middle of the page, to the right of your current balance.

On desktop, Transfer to Bank is in the bottom-right corner of the page and will only be visible if your Venmo account has a positive balance.
 It's at the top of the screen (mobile) or the transfer window (desktop)., Make sure you don't overdraw your Venmo balance, which is listed below the "Amount" field (mobile) or right of the "Amount" field (desktop)., If you have multiple bank accounts registered to Venmo, click or tap the one to which you wish to withdraw your funds.

If you only have one bank account tied to Venmo, skip this step.
 It's a blue button near the bottom of the page (mobile) or the bottom of the transfer window (desktop). Doing so will transfer your selected amount of money into your linked bank account. This process will typically be completed by the end of the next business day.