 Ensure that your cat is eating a well-rounded diet formulated for cats. If you are not sure what to feed your cat, ask the vet for a dietary plan.


Your cat may require a special high-fiber diet in order to manage chronic constipation. Your veterinarian can help you determine if this is necessary.
 Feeding your cat an all-canned food diet may help with constipation. Canned food typically contains 75% or more moisture and promotes healthy digestion and elimination.
 While an all-fish diet won't supply the nutrients your cat needs, tuna may help stimulate the appetite. Oily fish like mackerel and sardines may help with constipation issues.
 Dehydration will contribute to constipation. Additionally, if your cat eats only dry food, he will need to drink more water than cats getting canned food.


Have a bowl of fresh water in an accessible location for your cat, preferably next to the food dish.Some cats prefer to drink running water like that from a dripping sink or a kitty water fountain.
 Constipation is more common in obese cats than normal weight cats.Consult a resource like the Body Condition Scoring Chart to determine if your cat is too heavy. This chart differentiates among emaciated, thin, moderate, stout and obese body conditions.


If you have any questions, consult your veterinarian.
 Olive oil can act as an intestinal lubricant and help move food through the cat’s body. Add ¼ or ½ teaspoon of olive oil to some canned food.
 Psyllium is the husk of the Plantago seed and is commonly used to aid in digestion and intestinal tract health (common brands for human consumption include Metamucil and Fiberall). Veterinary brands are available at pet supply stores.


Add ¼ to ½ teaspoon of psyllium husks to canned food to add dietary fiber to the diet to help keep digestion moving along.
 If you have a long-haired cat, trim the hair around your cat’s backside, to keep the hair from getting tangled. This will keep the area clean. It can also help prevent constipation. When stool tangles with hair, stool can get held inside the anus and cause constipation.
 Long-haired cats also ingest a lot of hair when they groom themselves. Keep your cat’s coat free of mats with regular grooming.


Some cats may benefit from being shaved down once or twice a year to manage their hair coat.
 Some cats, especially long-haired ones, may need a hairball remedy to reduce the amount of hair in the digestive tract. Hairball remedies are available in various cat-friendly flavors, such as tuna, that provide petroleum-based intestinal lubrication. Long-haired cats will benefit from receiving a hairball remedy a few times per week to keep the hair from accumulating inside the digestive tract.


Some common products include Laxatone and Petromalt, which are available in tubes. They can be offered to your cat as a treat or mixed into his food for easy consumption.
 A clean litter box will encourage your cat to use it regularly. Scoop at least every other day if you have one cat, and scoop every day if you have more than one cat.Some cats dislike strongly perfumed litters, so use litter without an added fragrance.

