 Wash your raw potatoes well in cold water. Cook the potatoes, either by baking or boiling.


If boiling, place the potatoes in a large saucepan and cover with cold water. Bring the water to a boil, then cook potatoes until tender. This should take about 20 minutes.
If baking, pierce the skin of the potato with a fork 3-4 times. Wrap the potatoes in aluminum foil or place directly on the middle shelf of an oven, preheated to 350ʡF (177ʡC). The potato will bake in about an hour.
If you already have leftover, cooked potatoes from a previous meal, you can go ahead and use those to make hash browns.
 Allow the cooked potatoes to cool. Leave overnight in the refrigerator, if possible. Once the potatoes have cooled, you can peel them using a small knife or vegetable peeler.
 Shred the potatoes using a cheese grater. They will shred very easily as they are soft when cooked. At this point, you can either cook them, or freeze them.


To freeze them, lay them flat on a parchment paper lined cookie sheet. Put the cookie sheet into the freezer for a couple of hours or until the potatoes are frozen, then transfer them into freezer bags to use at your convenience.
 Heat a large skillet pan (preferably cast iron) over a medium-high heat. Add the butter to the pan and allow to melt. Once the butter has melted, add the cooked, shredded potatoes to the pan and toss to coat with butter. Season with salt and pepper.
 Once the potato has been coated with butter, flatten it using a spatula to maximize contact with the hot pan. It should be no more than 1/2 an inch thick. Cook for 3-4 minutes on the first side, flip, then cook for 2-3 minutes on the other side. The hash brown potatoes are ready when each side is crisp and golden brown.


If you are using the frozen potatoes that you prepared earlier, you can cook them in the exact same way. They will just take a few extra minutes.
 Slide the hash brown from the pan, or lift using a large spatula. Cut it into halves or quarters, if necessary. Serve on their own, or alongside breakfast or dinner.

