 Japanese Bobtails require about 80 calories of food per kilogram (two pounds three ounces) of bodyweight per day. In other words, if your cat weighs three kilos (6.6 pounds), it will require around 240 calories of food daily.Japanese Bobtails are known to overeat, so manage your cat’s caloric intake carefully.
Feed your cat once or twice each day. This will make sure your cat has the right amount of food when they are hungry without over or underfeeding them.
 Like people, different cats have different tastes. Some will enjoy tuna flavored food, while others will like chicken flavored food. Some will enjoy dry food, while others enjoy wet food. By providing your cat with a variety of dining options, you’ll be able to ensure it gets to experience a range of different textures and flavors. Giving your cat a variety of food will also ensure that it is less likely to be a finicky eater.Offer your cat a variety of foods and observe it while it eats. When you’ve found a food that your cat consumes with gusto, buy it frequently.
There are three main types of food: dry food, semi-moist food, and wet (canned) food. Any of these could be acceptable as long as it is nutritionally balanced.
Japanese Bobtails don’t have any specific dietary needs, but they do prefer fish.Try a food that contains fish to keep your cat happy at mealtime.
 To identify a high-quality cat food, check the ingredients label. The best foods will have meat, meat byproducts, or seafood listed among their main ingredients. High-quality foods should also bear a seal of approval from an organization like the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO).While you may want to attempt to make your own cat food at home, it is best to buy commercial food. Commercial cat food is specially balanced to provide all of the correct vitamins, minerals, and amino acids that cats need to survive. If you make food at home without the guidance of an animal nutritionist, your cat may suffer from health problems and deficiencies.
Cats are obligate carnivores. This means that they must eat meat to get all of their nutrients., Each day, empty your cat’s water dish and fill it with new water. This will help with digestion, circulation of the blood, and general good health.Use ceramic, glass, or stainless steel bowls. These are heavier and prevent spillage, and they also prevent the water from absorbing chemicals that may have been used to treat plastic water dishes.
Wash the cat's dish every now and then to prevent the build-up of bacteria in the bowl.
Do not give your cat milk instead of water.