 This includes products such as soap and laundry detergent, as well as things such as lotion.Avoid bubble baths for children.
Use non-drying, mild soaps such as Cetaphil, Dove, or Aveeno.
Avoid any products that contain alcohol, as these can dry out skin.
Avoid using things like fabric softeners or dryer sheets, as these usually have fragrances that can cause irritation.;
,
Wash new clothes before you wear them. This can help remove any agents left over from manufacturing that might irritate your skin., Heat and sweating can make the condition worse, so it is important to be aware of the temperature of your environment.Always rinse your skin off after sweating. In addition to the fluid loss that can cause dry skin, sweating also leaves salts on your skin that can cause irritation and flare-ups., Eczema is known to go hand-in-hand with dry skin, so adding moisture to the environment can help to diminish the severity of symptoms.Keep your humidifier clean. The humidity in a humidifier is a perfect place for mold, mildew, and bacteria to grow. Clean it regularly according to its instruction manual.
 This can help to reduce the sensation of itching.Soak bandages or light towels in cool water. Wring them out until they’re moist but not soaked. Wrap them around your skin in the affected areas.
 Over-the-counter anti-itch soaks containing oatmeal are available at your local pharmacy or drugstore.In general, do not bathe children with eczema more than 2-3 times per week, or you could actually make the condition worse.Another option is to make a homemade anti-itch bath soak for eczema by adding baking soda and oatmeal to a bath. Soak for 10 minutes.You can also try a bleach bath, which will help reduce bacteria on the skin. Add ½ cup of household bleach to a bathtub full of warm water. Soak for about 10 minutes. Do not submerge your face or get the water in your eyes. Rinse with clean water. Talk to your doctor before giving your child a bleach bath.Do not allow children to soak in the bath for more than 5-10 minutes., You should apply moisturizer as soon as you get out of the bath. Your doctor or dermatologist will be able to recommend products that will not irritate your skin.Look for products that are fragrance-free and designed for sensitive skin or eczema.Pat the skin dry after washing, and use a thick moisturizing cream, lotion, or ointment to seal in moisture. Aim to moisturize within 3 minutes of towelling off.Try to moisturize 2 to 3 times per day.
Petroleum jelly is fragrance-free and can often work very well to keep irritated patches moisturized., Longer nails can do damage to skin if you scratch at your eczema. Trim your nails short. If you have children, cut their nails short too.If your child cannot keep from scratching, consider having him or her wear gloves or bandages over the fingers to avoid excessive damage to the skin.
 For some people this is certain foods, dust, soaps, clothes, perfumes, etc.Keep a list of triggers you can associate with flare-ups of your eczema, and avoid these whenever possible.


Prevention is the best medicine, so if you can recognize and avoid triggers it can greatly diminish the severity of your symptoms!

, Stress is also known to be a trigger for eczema, and it has been shown that effective stress-reduction techniques, as well as diminishing the overall stress in your life, can improve symptoms and reduce the amount of flare-ups. Try yoga or tai chi for easy stress relief.You may also find that meditation helps relieve your stress.Avoid excessive caffeine.Caffeine can cause stress-like symptoms such as rapid heartbeat or jittery feelings.
 If you cannot get your eczema under control with lifestyle methods, it is important to consult your physician around appropriate medical treatment. This is because excessive scratching can lead to complications, such as infections, eye problems, and/or permanent skin changes. Potential complications include:


skin infections
permanent changes to the texture and color of the skin (called "neurodermatitis")
eye complications (from excessive eye watering, eye discharge, and inflammation that often come hand-in-hand with the eczema rash)
hypopigmentation (decreased skin color) or hyperpigmentation (increased skin color), which may be permanent
"eczema herpeticum," which is when the herpes simplex virus (which is the same one that causes cold sores) gets into the open areas of the rash that have been excessively scratched