 Recreational and medicinal marijuana use is legal in 4 states (Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, and Washington) and Washington D.C.,whereas marijuana can only be possessed and used for medically prescribed purposes in 19 states.It is important you familiarize yourself with state laws and regulations before attempting home cultivation. In a search engine, type the "state name" plus "marijuana laws".;
, Cannabis cannot be grown at home, and can only be obtained with a prescription from a licensed physician from licensed dispensaries in Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, and Washington D.C. In Nevada and Arizona, you can only cultivate at home if you live 25 miles or more from a dispensary or receive a hardship waiver.Most states do not allow marijuana use for any reason by individuals under 21 years of age.How many plants you can grow (ranges from 0 to 24) or how much marijuana you can possess at a time (ranges from 1 oz to 24 oz; 10 to 60 day supply) varies by state. You can be fined or arrested if you do not comply.Most states require you to sign-up and pay a registration fee that can range from $15 to $200., Federal laws supersede state laws. The Department of Justice continues marijuana enforcement under the Controlled Substances Act.It is illegal to grow or possess marijuana on public or federal lands, or distribute it to a minor.
 Countries outside the U.S. have their own laws and regulations when it comes to growing and possessing cannabis. Research laws in your country to avoid fines or even imprisonment.Countries where it is legal to grow cannabis include: Colombia (20 plants), Czech Republic (5 plants), Spain, and Switzerland (4 plants). In all these countries, cannabis can only be grown for personal use (medical or recreational) and cannot be sold or transported out of the country., Cannabis contains over 70 cannabinoids that produce a psychoactive effect in humans, the strongest being delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinal (THC). THC is produced as a sticky resin on the surface of plants. Levels of THC vary based on: part of the plant (buds contain the most followed by the leaves, stems, and seeds), growing conditions, and subspecies.There are three subspecies of cannabis differentiated on the basis of cannabinoid content: sativa, indica, and ruderalis.Most seeds provided by commercial suppliers are "feminized", meaning they are treated with hormones or cloned from female plants.Male, or staminate, plants do not flower. Thus, only female, or pistillate, plants are capable of producing usable cannabinoids.
Untreated or organically grown seeds will produce 50% male (staminate) and 50% female (pistillate) plants.
Sativa and indica are the most common types of cannabis grown for recreational or medicinal use. Most plants grown today are sativa-indica hybrids.
Indica hybrids are known for their pain-relieving and calming properties, and are good for growing indoors as they only grow 2-3 feet tall and have a diameter of 12-18 inches., Growing cannabis indoors is notoriously energy inefficient and can increase you electricity bills more than 10%.Your seeds will have to be germinated indoors. However, if you plan on replanting outside, you should start your seeds by late-March to early-April at the latest.The growing season for cannabis in the northern hemisphere runs from early May to October.
You want to give plants a headstart and gradually acclimate them to outdoor climates by growing indoors under fluorescent grow lights for 2 to 3 weeks after germination.
Expect germination to take from 2 days up to 2 weeks.
The benefit of growing plants indoors is that you can control temperature, light, and humidity, and they can be grown year-round. Additionally, most states require cannabis to be grown inside in a secure location.