


Ask family and friends for recommendations. The people with whom you are closest will be the most honest with you about their experiences with wallpaper hangers. They will tell you which wallpaper contractors were the most professional and which did a substandard job.
Find wallpaper hangers by asking contractors you have used for other types of jobs for their recommendations.
Call the Better Business Bureau to find out if there are multiple complaints filed against the wallpaper contractor you are considering.;
, The wallpaper hanger will come to the site of the job, assess the materials and labor necessary and provide you with a statement detailing how much the job will cost.
 You want to be certain that the work has held up over time, and find out whether the wallpaper contractor finished the job professionally, on time and on budget.
, If the wallpaper hanger is legitimate, there shouldn't be any problem receiving proof of a contracting license and certificate of insurance. These documents will give you the information you need to be sure the wallpaper hanger is in good professional standing.
 Never hire a wallpaper hanger unless everything is in writing so that you have something concrete to refer to should a disagreement arise regarding any aspect of the work. A reputable wallpaper contractor will not hesitate to agree to, and should ideally insist upon, providing a contract.


The contract should include: the contractor's name, address, telephone numbers, email, website and insurance and licensing information; the cost of the job and the terms of payment with start and completion dates; a detailed list of supplies; warranties, guaranties and cancellation policies; and any other terms you feel are important, such as cleanup.
 If there are problems once the job has started, ask to speak with the wallpaper hanger in private for a few minutes to address what is worrying you. Waiting until the wallpaper job is finished will only serve to make you more frustrated as work continues when the problem could have been solved with a few words in a timely manner.

