 Always add your oil while the skillet is heating-- it can damage you pan to heat it up with nothing in it.


Use the biggest pan you have-- this evenly distributes the heat and helps the rice cook better.;
, You can cut these to whatever size you prefer, but they will generally cook best as small, diced chunks. Stir occasionally.
 Remove the stems and cut the mushrooms to your desired thickness, usually around 1/2 a centimeter each. You want roughly 1-2 cups of mushroom, depending on your preferences.
 This usually takes 3-5 minutes. Translucent onions are almost, but not quite, see-through. Add salt and pepper and stir everything to coat the vegetables in oil.


This does not need to be an exact science -- if you think the onions are translucent, go ahead and add the mushrooms.
 Using a medium sauce pot or the microwave, heat up all of your broth on medium high heat. It does not need to be boiling, just hot to the touch.


If you add cold broth to your rice you greatly lower the temperature of the pan, effectively halting cooking and preventing the rice from absorbing the liquid., The mushrooms should look slightly wilted, and they will have sucked up the liquid in the skillet. For a slightly healthier risotto you can skip the butter. Herbs to add include 1 teaspoon of the following (if using fresh, instead of dried, herbs, double the amounts).


Thyme
Sage
Rosemary
Basil
Cracked red pepper.
 Once the butter has melted, add the rice and stir so that it is coated with the oil and butter. Cook for 1 minute, until the edges of the rice begin to appear clear. This is also known as "toasting" the rice. You want to do this before adding any liquid.


Cooking the rice without liquid hardens the starch on the outside, preventing it from sticking together later.You can also use baldo or carnaroli rice for a creamier texture.
 Add the white wine and stir into the rice. Cook together until almost all of the wine is evaporated or absorbed into the rice. Don't worry, the final dish will not be alcoholic -- most of the alcohol will burn off.


Wine "deglazes" the skillet, removing tasty bits of caramelized vegetables from the pan and adding them to the rice.
Move on once all of the wine is absorbed.
 Once the wine is absorbed, use a ladle to add the first cup of broth to the rice mixture. Resist the urge to add more than one cup -- you need to take it slow to get the best risotto you can.


Too much liquid, too quickly, will lead to mushy, unappetizing rice. Take it slow -- the patience will pay off., You cannot stir risotto enough. Though you can leave the pan briefly if you need, the more you stir the risotto the better the texture and flavor will be when you are done.
 Once most of the broth has been absorbed by the rice, add another cup. You'll know when it is absorbed, as there are no more puddles or visible liquid.
 The rice should be slightly firm and creamy, but never mushy. Depending on the amount and quality of rice, you may need 1 cup more or less. After about half the broth is added, taste it regularly to get your desired consistency.If your rice is still hard but you are out of broth, add a little water or milk and continue stirring.
 Add any salt and pepper you desire and garnish on top with Parmesan cheese or truffle oil.
 Make sure the cream of mushroom is hot before adding it, and add the cream of mushroom last to make sure the rice cooks properly.
 Red wine imparts a somewhat richer flavor on the risotto, and it often pairs well with the earthy, nutty flavor of mushrooms. Try to use a dry red wine like a Pinot noir or Chianti, or better yet use Sherry or Marsala -- two wines commonly used for cooking.
 Cook your meat and vegetables separately and add them to the risotto with your last cup of broth. You can use anything you would like, but some some combinations to try include:


Beef/Steak cubes, red wine, and goat cheese.
Brussel sprouts, carrots, and celery, all cooked until soft.
Shallots, porcini mushroom, and green onions.

