 If someone is binging and purging, they will often excuse themselves from the table before anyone else. They will also go to purge if they feel that they have eaten too much or eaten the wrong foods. This often means they will go to the restroom, but not always. You should pay close attention to after meal habits., It is common for someone purging in the bathroom to run water to cover up the sounds of purging.They also may flush the toilet several times, as the smell is unpleasant in between bouts of purging. These episodes usually happen shortly after eating., When someone is combatting bulimia, there is an underlying component of guilt and low self-esteem. This will cause someone to stop engaging socially, such as making eye contact. It can also cause a person to stop engaging physically and emotionally in relationships., It is common for someone with bulimia to have trouble sticking to a meal schedule. They may skip meals and they eat large portions, stopping only when they are physically uncomfortable. Sometimes clear cycles of overeating and then fasting will be clear. These are all signs of bulimia., These obsessions can be elusive and well hidden under the guise of “being concerned about health.” Common body image obsessions include picky eating, calorie counting and crash diets, excessive exercise habits, constantly worrying over food and weight, and obsessing over the way they look. While it is healthy to take care of one’s self, obsessing over “health” or “looks” can be a sign of bulimia., If someone you care about is hiding bulimia, they do not want you to find out. The guilt and shame that fuels the binging and purging cycles also makes the thought of being caught unbearable for most. If you bring up food or eating habits, it is likely that someone struggling with bulimia will become irrationally defensive., If a person is purging by inducing vomiting, they will likely use minty breath fresheners (e.g., gum, mouthwash, or mints) to cover their breath. If you are noticing other signs of bulimia, or have a strong suspicion of bulimia, this is another sign to watch for. Remember that just having gum is not a cause for suspicion., Bulimia stems from emotional and self-esteem struggles. It is very common that someone with bulimia will engage in other behaviors that reflect those struggles. Drug use, depression, anxiety, and anorexia are all common in people struggling with bulimia.