 There's no way to properly evaluate the performance of a particular folding bike unless you have the opportunity to go ride it yourself. Try to test ride several different folding bikes so you can compare.Most bike specialty shops and some larger sporting goods stores will arrange test rides for you, but you may have to ask.
Take your test ride on terrain that best matches the terrain where you plan to use the bike the most. For example, if you want to take the bike on a tour of the Southeast Asian countryside, you want to take your test rides on dirt or gravel roads.
 Where you plan to ride your folding bike makes a big difference in which folding bike will work best for you. Consider the type of terrain as well as the average length of your rides.Generally, a bike with larger wheels and more gears will give you better performance on longer, touring rides. However, a bike with smaller wheels and fewer gears is better for urban riding, where you typically will have to stop and start frequently.
Consider maneuverability as well. If you plan to bike in hilly or mountainous areas, you'll want a bike with a more rigid frame so you have more control over it.
 The weight of the frame may normally make a difference with a bicycle's performance. However, in the case of folding bikes the weight of the bike doesn't make that big of a difference in terms of touring performance.If you're going to be carrying your folding bike around a lot, however, you may prefer the lightest frame possible.
 The gear ratio of folding bikes is measured in a unit called "gear inches." The number of gear inches you need to get the best performance out of your folding bike depends on where you're going to use it.A low gear of 25 inches is suitable for nearly any type of terrain, whether urban street or country trail.
If you're an urban commuter who will primarily be using your bike in the city, look for a bike with a top gear of around 70 inches.
For the highest performance folding bike, look for one with a top gear of over 100 inches.
 The best tires for your folding bike depend on where you'll typically be riding it. You'll also want to take into consideration other features such as extra puncture protection, regardless of where you'll be riding your bike.For example, if you plan on riding your bike primarily on paved roads, and speed is important to you, a slick tire that would enable greater speed and maneuverability would probably be your best choice.
There are limited types of tires available for most folding bikes. For this reason, the tires available for the bike will become a factor when choosing the bike itself. When you've found a frame you like, make sure you can get the tires you'll need.

