 The three main kinds are the ID or symbol cane, the guide cane and the long cane. None of these canes are suitable for leaning on, so if you are visually impaired and want a weight-bearing cane, your best option is to go for a white support cane. It will not aid your mobility in the way the guide canes do but it will act as an ID cane.


The ID cane doesn't aid your mobility. It is simply a white cane that is there to let other people know that you have a visual impairment. If your visual impairment is not too severe or you simply prefer not to use a longer cane, it is an easy way of telling people about your visual impairment and allows them to be more helpful towards you.
The guide cane not only tells others that your vision is impaired but it can also be held diagonally in front of you and gives you some protection on the street from being bumped or jostled or from walking into objects immediately in front of you. Additionally it can be held downwards and used to detect steps and curbs. If you still have a reasonable degree of vision or simply aren't comfortable with using a long cane, a guide cane can be an excellent choice.
The long cane is the best known style of white cane. It is used by sweeping it across the floor in front of you and so can provide you a great deal of information on the terrain ahead as well as warning of obstacles in front of you. This cane combines the advantages of the other two canes with the maximum aid to mobility.;
, For ID canes the length isn't important but you will need the right length for your height when using the other canes.


A guide cane is traditionally the length from the floor to your waist. However if you have particularly short arms you might benefit from a longer cane - and a shorter cane if your arms are long.
A long cane traditionally extends from floor to sternum or underarm, although sometimes people use even longer length canes.
 Wrong! You can have your white cane in different colours if you wish. And if you also have a hearing disability then you can have two red stripes on the bottom of your white cane to let others know about your hearing impairment.
 Straight canes tend to be lighter but obviously folding ones can be much more convenient when sitting in a crowded space as they can be put away until you need them again.
 They come in various forms of aluminum, other metals and plastic.
 There are many different kinds of tip and not all of them may be suitable for the kind of cane you've chosen. If using a particular tip is important to you then make sure it's compatible with the cane you're considering before making a final decision. Some cane tip options are:


The pointer tip. This is like a finger on the end of the cane. It's tapped over the ground so may give less information about the terrain. This tip is traditionally used with a guide cane.
The ball tip. This is a ball the size of a small apple which is rolled over the ground in front of the user. It provides much more information about the terrain and has become a very popular choice for long cane users.

