 Make sure they can hear, smell, and possibly see each other without being able to touch each other. Switch which side they are on daily.
 You can do this by placing one in a box and putting the second one in the first hamster's cage, and then placing the first hamster in the second hamster's cage. At first, the hamsters will be stressed as they'll think they're in enemy territory, but once getting used to the other hamster's scent, you can leave them in there for longer periods of time. Start out by a few hours each day, then increase to a whole day. Switch the first and second hamster into different habitats daily.
 It must be at least 3–4 feet (0.9–1.2 m) long and have lots of floor space. Make sure that it is new and that neither hamster has been in it before, so it will be neutral ground.


Have a wire mesh divider to separate it into halves, so that your hamsters can be near each other but cannot try to harm each other.
Set up each half of the habitat as you would a single habitat and place one hamster on one side of the divider and the other hamster on the other side. After a 3 to 5 days, begin to switch which side of the divider they are on. This stage may take about a week, depending on the progress of your hamsters.
 Have only nesting houses and hideouts that have more than one exit so that one hamsters cannot corner the other and start a fight. Have enough food, water, and toys for each hamster. If the hamsters start to fight, you'll have to try to continue switching them on each side of the wire mesh divider. If it fails again and again, remember that some Dwarf hamsters simply like to live without the company of other Dwarf hamsters. If the hamsters sniff each other, act cautious, and chase each other around without fighting, they may be doing well. Watch them closely, especially during the mornings and late afternoons and evenings. They may look friendly towards each other during the day but fight at night, so be watchful. If the hamsters fight and bleed, you probably shouldn't try to introduce these two hamsters to each other.
 Hamsters that have lived together for a long period of time (over a year) may suddenly begin to fight. Make sure you provide two water bottles, enough food for two hamsters, nest boxes, hideouts, two of each toy, and two exercise wheels to prevent fighting. If bullying or frequent fighting occurs, you'll need to separate them.

