 This will help you to regain your self esteem. By trying to counter negativity with positivity, you can re-train your brain into positive thinking. Recognize that you may have some negative thoughts about yourself after a partner cheats on you.
These may take the form of “If only I had ___________, then he/she wouldn’t have cheated.”
Don’t blame yourself for the infidelity. The fault lies with the unfaithful significant other.
Try to counter any negative thoughts with positive self-talk.
 Keep track of your thoughts and emotions regarding the situation. It is important to acknowledge when you catch yourself thinking negatively about yourself so you can break the pattern. List your negative thoughts in your journal.
Channel some creativity to think about positive affirmations that counter these negative emotions.
For example, write about moments in the past where you felt good about yourself or when your self-esteem was higher.
Doing this will help you keep up the momentum for building your self-esteem and re-discovering yourself after a bad relationship.
 Ask yourself what you want in life. Write your goals in your journal and start working towards a plan to make them happen. Write a description of how you would like yourself to be and feel.
Make a plan to take weekly and monthly actions towards this goal.
Everyone wants to be happy, but your version of happiness is unique to you.
You have to define for yourself what it means to be happy.
 Part of re-discovering yourself and building confidence after a bad relationship involves accepting yourself. Try getting back into hobbies or learn something new.Spend some time alone to journal, read, or meditate.
Do something for yourself that you have been putting off.
You have the power to make your life better.
Spend time with friends and family that make you feel good about yourself.
 There will be good days and bad days. It is important to know that even though you might have a bad day, there will be better days ahead.


The road to recovery can be long and difficult.
When you are having a bad day, remember that every little step you take towards taking back your life is progress.
If you are feeling overwhelmed, set smaller goals.
The true sign of moving on is making plans for your future and following through with them.

