 A sporty girl is not a girly girl, but equally, she's also not a tomboy. A sporty girl is a girl who plays sports, and wears more casual clothes than a girly girl, but also makes the effort to look pretty and sweet. She's also not "one of the guys". She's a well rounded girl who tends to have a lot of friends! Plus, she lives in the suburbs.;
, There is no real sporty girl attitude. The only change should be your looks, and sport activities. Otherwise keep your personality. Be a nice, fun, outgoing, person, and you'll be fine!

, Getting As & Bs is a must, and no lower than a C! You don't want to fail school. Plus, at most schools, you can kicked out of extra-curricular activities (including sports) if you're failing.
 Know where all of your stuff is, and your life will be so much easier.
 A sporty girl's wardrobe consists of the following:

4-6 pairs of jeans (skinny, legging, boot cut, flare, or straight-legged)
5-9 graphic/logo tees (peace signs, hearts, brand emblems, brands, etc.)
2-3 hoodies (with graphics if wished, or with brand names if you can't abide being apart from the pack)
1-2 warm jackets - try to get your first one in plain black, then the second one or more in your favorite colors.
1-2 nice skirts/dresses- not really for school, more for events like church, temple, weddings, graduations, etc.
2-3 nice white/black blouses/polos for the type of events listed above (this is mostly optional)
1 pair of athletic shoes, 2-5 pairs of flip flops, 2+ pairs of fancy shoes like heels, (but if you are tall, you are lucky because you don't have to wear heels.), 1 pair of plain black sneakers, 1 pair of fur boots (optional)
At least 2 pairs of flip flops
5-7 camisoles - sporty girls layer
3-5 athletic shorts
5-10 t-shirts - get a bunch; sporty girls are definitely seen in t-shirts, especially tied in the back for a more fitted look. To get a lot, try to get a t-shirt from all of your sport events, trips, schools etc.
 Just stick to the above outlined type of wardrobe pieces. You can also get brand name yoga-based clothing if you have the money.
 Popular sporty girl hairstyles are focused on styles that allow for freedom of movement and leave you feeling in control. Some suitable styles include: a braid, a French braid, a messy bun, the basic ponytail, hair down, etc. All of these styles can look super sporty if you add a soft headband.
 Sporty girls sometimes where makeup. Some don't, some do. It's totally your choice. If you choose to, keep it natural.


If it's going to sweat off, leave it off; it will just irritate your skin and look awful.
 Maybe a little eyeliner and some concealer. Aim to make it look like you're not wearing any makeup.
 As for everyone, brush your teeth twice a day at least, floss every day, and shower once a day. Wash your hair every other day, or depending on your hair type and length.
 Don't even think you were considering being a sporty girl, but not playing sports. Try to play at least two or three sports.


Good team-based sports include: volleyball, basketball, soccer, lacrosse, cheer leading, gymnastics, frisbee, softball, and field hockey.
Good individual sports include: Tennis, swimming, cross-country running, athletics, dance, walking, running and ice skating.
 If you're going to be a sporty girl, you need to be good at your sports.Go to the field and play around with friends, take some clinics even. Watch the professionals on TV to learn more about techniques and special skills.
 Sporty girls should really be fit. Follow a healthy diet, do regular exercise, and get regular health check-ups.


Do your chores on time. Chores help you to stay fit and contribute to living in a well-run household.
 Of course, sports and friends are the center of your life! Organize little scrimmages, and games for you and your buds! Head to the movies, the mall, the park, the beach, the pool, coffee shops, smoothies, food, sleepovers, parties, and other fun stuff,


Sporty girls tend to be popular. They don't really hang out with the "populars", but they're friends with everyone and are really social. (The real kind of popular.)

