 One way to find positive peers is to be a positive person yourself. Put forth your strengths and your best characteristics. You may need to remind yourself of your positive attributes if you feel unsure. Try not to focus on your perceived faults.


For example, if you believe your compassion for others, intelligence, and sense of humor are your best attributes, you should focus on those. When you talk to others, remind yourself of these features and let them show through.
Push all negative thoughts about yourself and self-doubt out of your mind. Instead, repeat to yourself, “I am not my shortcomings. I am a positive person with many great things to contribute to others.”

, A good way to be a good, positive person that other positive person is drawn to is to be a good listener. Pay attention to people and be genuinely interested in what they say and do. If someone talks to you, put your attention on them instead of a cell phone or someone else.Ask questions to show that you are interested in the other person.
Gauge how interested the other person is in you. Are they just talking about themselves or are they also asking you questions and encouraging you to talk?

, Everyone, even positive people, have negative characteristics and negativity in their mind. The difference between positive and negative people is that positive people are aware of their negativity and work on healing it while negative people let the negativity grow. To find other positive people, you should work on becoming more positive by healing your negativity.You can try meditation, yoga, or stress-relieving exercises to try and lessen any negativity in your life.
Some people benefit from talking to a therapist or undergoing psychotherapy, especially if their negativity is rooted in mental illnesses, such as anxiety or depression.
 When you are trying to find positive influences, you should also focus on yourself. Positive people are authentic and not phony. This means you should put forth your true self instead of pretending or acting how you think everyone else wants you to be. Listen openly to others and don’t pretend to like things they do just to try to connect.Being authentic means that you are true to your beliefs, present your true self to others, and are honest with others.

