 The strongest pamphlets are built around 1 idea, goal or issue. Too many goals will muddle the message to your readers.
,


For example, a call to action may be to donate, like you on Facebook or email a senator. Make this request short and strong.
Place the Call to Action on an inside page or inside panel.
 Unless you have a highly specialized audience, you will want to make this pamphlet for the layman. Cut out clichés and industry-only phrases. , The front is a good place for the website, while the back panel is a great place for address and map information.


You can save an online map image of your location and place it on the back to help people find you. Make sure all the major streets and landmarks appear on the map.
 Separate your additional information into small excerpts of text that can be divided between the 6 panels in a tri-fold brochure.
 Make a tri-fold and start testing out placement for your information. Ask each person who is working on it to make a sample pamphlet layout in order to share ideas about what should be on the front, inside and back.
 You may even consider putting it on the inside. Make sure it is noticed when it is picked up.
 The place where you put the largest text will train the reader’s eye to follow your message.
 The following are good guidelines for pamphlet design:


Don’t make text less than 12-point. It will become hard to read.
Use bold formatting and italics to highlight information.
Don’t use more than 2 fonts. Make sure those fonts are easy to read by printing out sample text in 12-point font.
 They can be numbered as well.
 If you plan to have it professionally printed, you can do brighter colors; however, keep in mind that it can distract from the text if the layout is too busy.
 Get digital copies of the image, so that you can use them as you make your pamphlet. There are several places you can find captivating images:


Hire a professional photographer to take photos of your location, employees or cause. 1 hour of professional photography can run between $50 and $500, so shop around and hire based on what you can afford. Keep in mind that good photos will increase the effectiveness of a pamphlet.
Find or buy clip art. Search Google or Bing images. Click on the image to see if it is open for use or must be purchased. Very good clip art can be found for $5 and under.
Buy photo rights from Flickr or from local photographers. If you want a stunning image for only 1 project. Buying stock photography is a good investment. Do some price comparisons and negotiate for limited photo rights if you only want to use the photo for a single printed project.
 There are also many options for this project.


Microsoft Word allows you to make brochures within its Publishing layouts. Use a newer version of Word and click “File” and “New from Template.” Choose the “Brochures” option in the Publishing Layouts tab.
Apple’s Pages program is used by many amateur graphic designers because of high quality templates and the ease of use. Click on the “Brochures” option in the “Page Layout” tab. You can purchase Pages for your Mac computer for $19.99 or for your iPad for $9.99.
Graphic designers can turn your sample layout into a finished product using programs like Adobe InDesign or Illustrator. Either hire someone in-house or search for local graphic designers. Most professional designers keep a portfolio so that you can see their past work.
 Pages allows you to drag and drop images into the template. Word asks you to insert the image by right clicking on the image in the layout and changing it or by using the Insert menu above the layout.


Don’t forget to insert your logo in several places.
 You can also type your text from your sample layout, if it is not currently on the computer.


Be careful when copying and pasting from Microsoft Word into Apple’s Pages. You may want to save the text in a rich text format program, such as Notepad or TextEdit so that you can remove the formatting.
Don’t forget to include your contact information.
Format your information using the Word/Pages formatting bars. Both programs are similar, using a top menu for formatting and a pop-out formatting panel. Click on a tab to see different formatting options.
 The first page will include the front, back and interior flap, while the second page will include the 3 inside panels.
 Spell check is not sufficient for a printed project. Ask other people who are involved to check for text and message errors.


Print out copies of the pamphlet on your own printer, as well as sending electronic files for proofing. You may see different mistakes when it is printed.
 You can print it out at home with a 2-sided printer. You can also upload the file to a local print store, such as FedEx Kinkos, upload the file to an online printer or contract with a local printer.


It is better to print using a professional printer, if you are making a brochure for a business or professional organization. Semi-gloss paper and higher resolution will create a product that people are more likely to save.
You will need to choose the paper type, size, turnaround time and proof options when you print the pamphlet professionally.
 The value of your pamphlet is decided by how well you target your chosen demographic and distribute the information. Hire people to distribute it and ask local businesses to keep it on display. 