 The signs of upper GI bleeding can be scary — one of the most common indicators is vomiting blood. Don't panic — call your doctor and get immediate attention if you experience the following:Vomiting blood, which may resemble coffee grounds
Black stools with a foul odor
Fresh blood passing through the anus, usually found with stool (this is more likely to indicate lower GI bleeding, but may still be present with upper GI bleeding)
Feeling faint and lightheaded, weak
Pain in the upper abdomen, just below the ribs
Heartburn or indigestion;
, If you are losing blood at a rapid rate, the amount of blood left to circulate through your body decreases, which can lead to lightheadedness, paleness, fainting, and ultimately signs of shock from blood loss. Your doctor can test your vital signs to get an idea of how much blood you have lost. Signs pointing toward more severe blood loss include:


An abnormally rapid heart rate
An abnormally low blood pressure
An increased respiratory rate
A decreased level of consciousness

, In cases of severe blood loss, the key will be to replace the lost blood and stabilize you medically before moving onto specific diagnosis and treatment options. If you are only losing minimal blood, however, your doctor can proceed straight to diagnosis and treatment.


The best way to assess the degree of blood loss, if it is uncertain (i.e. assuming you are not in shock or showing other clinical signs of blood loss), is through a blood test.
The blood test will check your hemoglobin levels, which is the molecule in your blood that is responsible for carrying oxygen.
Low hemoglobin is diagnostic of "anemia," and the severity of the anemia correlates to the degree of blood lost from the GI bleed.



IV fluids are given in cases of less severe blood loss. They boost your blood volume (the amount of fluid traveling in your circulatory system), but do not directly increase the hemoglobin (or functional oxygen-carrying capacity) of your blood.
If your hemoglobin is substantially decreased (i.e. if you have very severe anemia leading to functional compromise of your cardiorespiratory system), you may need a blood transfusion.


PPIs are medications that can help to decrease the severity of upper GI bleeding. Even before the cause of the bleed is identified, it is recommended to receive PPIs as having them in your system decreases the chances that you will need an endoscopic repair, once the source of bleeding is identified., This is where the contents of the stomach — including possible blood pooling — are washed away to allow a clearer view of the stomach wall on endoscopic examination.


This allows for easier identification of the source of the upper GI bleed.
It also allows for a clearer view to aid in treatment of the GI bleed (which depends upon having a view to identify the source of the bleed).


Once you have been stabilized medically, if needed (i.e. if your vital signs were compromised or your degree of blood loss was severe enough to warrant fluids and/or a transfusion), the next step will be for your doctor to determine the underlying diagnosis — that is, the cause of your GI bleed. Determining the cause will be what dictates the ultimate treatment plan.

An upper GI endoscopy is usually recommended as a diagnostic evaluation within the first 24 hours of the bleed (if possible).
An upper GI endoscopy is when a tube with a camera on the end is inserted down your throat, through your esophagus, and ultimately down to your stomach.
The purpose is to visually assess (via the camera) for the source of the GI bleeding.
Treatments may also be given endoscopically if and when the source of the bleeding is identified.
 These account for 60% of upper GI bleeds. They are more prevalent in individuals who have active H. Pylori infection in their stomachs, so offering antibiotic treatment for this bacteria may be part of the advised treatment plan. What accounts for the other 40% of upper GI bleeds? If you are not diagnosed with a peptic ulcer(s), your doctor will consider the following sources of possible upper GI bleeding:


Mallory-Weiss tears — these are tears in your esophagus, often caused by extreme force such as forceful retching or vomiting leading to rupture of esophageal blood vessels.
Esophageal varices — these are delicate blood vessels in the esophagus that may rupture and bleed.
Arteriovenous malformations — these are genetic abnormalities of the blood vessels predisposing a person to bleeding in the area of the malformation.
Cancer (such as stomach/esophageal/intestinal cancer) — the delicate blood vessels of cancerous growths are highly susceptible to bleeding.
Gastritis — this is abnormal inflammation and irritation of the stomach lining, which may lead to blood loss.
Duodenitis — this is abnormal inflammation and irritation of the duodenum in the small intestine, which may also lead to blood loss.
 Types of treatment that can be offered endoscopically include:


Injection of epinephrine
Thermocoagulation
Banding
Application of clips
Studies have shown that the combination of an epinephrine injection with another form of treatment for the bleed is the most successful at stopping the bleeding and preventing recurrences.


While medical treatment is not the mainstay of treating an upper GI bleed, removing any medications that you may be on that could make the situation worse is key. Medications that may exacerbate (or predispose you to) GI bleeding include:

Blood thinning medications such as Warfarin (Coumadin) or others, which disrupt your natural clotting cascade and hence worsen any existing bleeds. Talk to your doctor about temporarily stopping these medications until your GI bleed is resolved or if you need to stop them permanently.
NSAIDs such as Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), because in many cases these cause upper GI bleeds. Therefore, if you are taking one regularly, consider stopping it and/or replacing it with a different medication.
Aspirin, which interrupts platelet aggregation and hence worsens any existing bleeds. Talk to your doctor about temporarily stopping this medication until your GI bleed is resolved.
 It is important to understand that 10-20% of treated upper GI bleeds recur. That is, the treatment does not last long-term. In cases of recurrence, physicians are advised to try a second attempt at the same endoscopic therapy tried the first time. If this fails again, and the bleed recurs for a third time, physicians are advised to proceed with "arteriography with embolization," or with surgery.

