 No, not all women are the same, but it is probably safe to assume that your wife wants you to at least occasionally just sit down and listen to her vent, complain, brag, gossip, revel, question, or simply talk.Dr. John Gottman advises spouses to "turn toward each other" in a more figurative sense, but it is also a good first step for truly listening.Look at your wife when she wants to talk. Keep eye contact. Turn off the TV. Put away your phone. Listen more than you speak, unless she's seeking a response. It is always a good feeling to know that someone is truly interested in what you have to say, however mundane or ridiculous it may be.
Listen without trying to fix everything. Sometimes your wife, like everyone else, just wants a sounding board. She might want to vocalize and work through a problem with a co-worker, for instance, and what she needs is a supportive face to look at, not for you to call the office the next day to "set things straight." Being attentive is often the best way to be supportive, which is critical to solving problems that originate both inside and outside the marriage., The prevailing stereotype remains that of the stoic, closed-off husband and the wife who is eager to use her "maternal instinct" to care for him (if he would only "let her in"). However accurate (or wildly inaccurate) this image may be in your situation, letting your guard down and letting your wife into your life more will almost certainly be interpreted as a sign of love.If she wants to baby you a little when you're sick, let her (without taking advantage); if she wants to know how you feel about your mother's death, talk to her about it. Let her be your rock, as you try to be hers. Never be afraid to cry; this is a sign of strength, not weakness.
Take it upon yourself to show the bravery to be open, honest, and vulnerable. She didn’t marry you because you were perfect. She doesn’t always want a knight in shining armor; most of the time at least, she wants you to strip away your armor. Give her the real you, and trust that this will make her feel loved., If you have any children together, they are probably now at the core of her sense of self and purpose, perhaps even in ways they are not for you as a father. Regardless of the shifting terrain about what it means to be a "good" mother or father, being a loving, caring, involved parent is always one of the best ways to show love to your spouse.


Think of your children as an extension of your wife, because in many ways they are. In fact, they are an extension of both of you, a new realm of "shared meaning" that binds you together.Make them feel loved, and she will feel it too. Try talking to a few widows and see just how many say something like “he was a good father” as one of their first compliments.
Show your children how much you value her, so they will also value her. Compliment your wife in front of the kids. Treat her with respect. Tell her she’s beautiful, and give her gifts in their presence, or let them help you do it., Those three little words, properly employed, invariably make anyone feel loved. If "words of affirmation" are your wife's primary "love language," then the phrase becomes even more essential.The offhand “I love you” when you’re running out the door to work is good, and usually appreciated. However, don’t forget to stop, look her in the eye, and say “I love you” as well.
Say it when you’re happy, when you’re sad, when you’re frustrated, when times are good and when they’re not so good. Let her know that your love for her is one of the all-too-few constants in her life.

