 If you decide to cut your own hair at home, you should look for cutting shears that are made for hair and that are high quality. You can find good cutting shears online or at beauty supply stores. Using good quality shears will make it easier to cut your hair at home.You should look for cutting shears that have a stainless steel blade and a blade that is sharpened. Do not use kitchen shears, household scissors, or gardening shears as they could pull or damage your hair.;
, You can find hair clippers online or at a beauty supply store. Get hair clippers that are electric and good quality, as you are going to be using this tool to cut the bob.A hair razor will also be useful for cutting the bob as it will allow you to shape and trim your hair without having to do any major cutting. Make sure the hair razor is sharp as a dull razor will make it more difficult to use.
 You will also need a hair comb and three hair ties. You can find these products online or in the beauty aisle of your local drugstore. The hair comb is going to help you create even sections of your hair for the cut. The hair ties will keep sections of hair out of the way as you cut.
 If you are getting a friend to cut your hair into a bob, you should discuss the steps for the cut beforehand. You should also confirm the length and style you want for your hair before your friend starts cutting away.


During the cut, you should also communicate with your friend and confirm that they are doing what you want with your hair. You should let your friend know if the style is too long or if it needs to be tweaked so you end up with a bob you like.
 You will need to start with hair that is clean and dry. Use your usual shampoo and conditioner on your hair. Then, allow it to air dry or blow dry it. Having hair that is dry will ensure you do not cut your hair too short, as wet hair can end up drying shorter than it looks.Before you dry your wet hair, you may want to use the hair comb to find your natural part. Finding your natural part is important if you plan to part your hair to one side, rather than do a middle part.
You can find your natural part by running the comb over the front section of your hair so the hair falls to the back of your hair. Then, use your hand to gently push the hair forward. Your hair should fall toward your natural part.
You can also determine your natural part by noting which side of your head you usually part your hair on. You can then keep this in mind when you are cutting your hair so your hair parts as you like it.
 Use the comb to divide your hair into three even sections: one section at the back, and one section on either side of your head. Secure the three sections using hair ties.Make sure the back section sits just above the back of your neck. You will need to be able to gently slide the hair tie up and down your hair at the back so do not tie it too tightly.
 You may need to use a hand mirror to see the back ponytail if you are cutting your hair yourself. Move the back ponytail up or down against your neck, based on the length you would like the bob to be. If you want a shorter bob, move the ponytail further up. For a longer bob, move the ponytail further down. Most bobs are on the shorter side so you may opt for a shorter cut in the back.








Use the cutting shears to cut right underneath the back ponytail. You may need to cut across the top of the back ponytail slowly to ensure you get an even cut, especially if you have thicker hair.
For a more blunt look, you can use the hair clippers to trim any uneven hairs underneath the back ponytail. If you are using the hair clippers on your own hair, take care to hold the clippers steady as you trim off any uneven hairs. Try to get an even cut all the way across the back ponytail so the back section will appear straight and even.
 Release the back ponytail once you are done trimming it. Then, release the side ponytails. You should have a blunt, even cut in the back section and longer side sections. You will then take the hair razor and shape the side sections until they are the length you would like for the bob.If you are going for a more A-line look, you may keep the side sections a bit longer than the back section. Lift up small sections of hair and run the hair razor through the bottom of the hair in an angled, upward motion. This will help to trim and shape the hair so it is at an even angle to the back section of your hair.
For more of a straight bob look, use the hair razor to shape and trim the side sections so they are in line with the back section. Run the hair razor through the bottom part of your hair in an upward motion until it is trimmed to the length of the back section.
 If you would like to add volume to your bob, you may decide to add layers. This is ideal if you have thinner hair, as you may opt for layers so your hair has more body. If you have thicker hair, you may avoid layers so your hair does not appear too puffy or round.


To add layers, use the hair comb to comb out a section of hair on the side of your head, towards the back of your head. Hold the section of hair so the ends are facing upward and use the cutting shears to trim the ends, pointing the scissors down and in as you trim. Do not cut the hair straight across, as this will lead to jagged ends.
Continue to do this on the sides and back of your hair, cutting the ends of the hair with the scissors pointed down and in. This will create layers throughout your hair, giving your bob a more voluminous look.
 As a finishing touch, you should blend the ends of your hair so your bob looks even and polished. Blending the ends will also help to remove any stray pieces of hair that are too long.








Lift up small pieces of hair and run the hair razor on the ends of the hair in a downward, angled motion. This will help to taper the ends and make them appear more blended. Do this around your entire head so the ends are blended.

