 Do your homework. Researching hotels in Sri Lanka is profusely time consuming but it is even more rewarding. When you travel to the island from afar, you would have no idea what to expect here. The internet provides plenty of details of nearly every hotel in the island. While browsing pages, a few favorites will certainly stick. Jot down these names and look up the hotels a little deeper. There maybe a few brand names that may catch your eye such as Jetwing, Aitken Spense, Amaya and of late the Secret Hotels. Researching will not only help you identify a couple of favorite hotel names but will also you give you a gist of the culture and ambiance of Sri Lanka as a whole.;
, Once you have short listed a few potential candidates you would roughly have an idea of the price range of such hotels. Depending on your travel budget you will be inclined to a particular category of hotels. Sri Lanka has a world of options to choose from. You get luxury at its epitome and authentic budget hotels. But as a general rule prices in Sri Lanka are not as over the top as some other destinations around the globe. In fact hotels offer plenty of jackpot deals during the off season making it an excellent period to enjoy the same perks and rewards if you are a bit low on the budget. Work around the figures and come up with the exact range you can allocate for lodging.
 Pick your favorite from your shortlisted choices. You may have many that caught your eye or you may have a few, but at this juncture it is pivotal to have an intense research on all the chosen candidates. At this point you may even have a fair idea about the attractions you want to see in Sri Lanka. Research a bit on the locations of the hotels; it may work as an advantage if hotels are in close proximity to these attractions. Read reviews. Reviews give you a guest's opinion on the hotel. Web sites and travel agents blindly market and sometimes even exaggerate only the pros of the hotel but if you want a realistic idea of the place reviews is your best bet. Keep key points in mind and look up at the available facilities in each hotel. Depending on whatever looks the most satisfying, opt for that hotel.
 Once you have chosen your hotel, aim to get the best deal. Travel sites like Agoda, Travelocity, Priceline, Bookings.com, Kayak.com, etc., all offer its very own deals on the hotel. In a systematic manner compare prices from each site. If you are struggling to choose between 2 or 3 favorite hotel names, this comparison may help you pick one hotel. Do not be completely bound by price, look at the deal as a whole such as included meals, policy on children sharing the room etc. Whatever is most worth what you are paying for opt for that deal. But do not hurry to make the booking just yet for there is a little more ground work left to do.
 Always contact the hotel directly and ask for the availability of special deals. Sometimes hotels have a few special offers that are not available online. If it is a better option, opt for such a deal. You can also clarify at this juncture anything else you want to know about the hotel. Thoroughly understand the hotels cancellation policy and ask for a pamphlet or brochure to be sent so that you know exactly what to expect from the hotel. Thoroughly satisfied? Now make your booking and do not forget to keep your reference number safe.

