 My E-Verify is a website that provides employees with a tool called "Self Check" for checking their records within the same databases used by employers to verify employment eligibility. Self Check guides you through a series of basic questions about your identity and work authorization and then compares the information you provide with various government records to determine your work eligibility in the United States.To use Self Check, you must be over the age of 16 and live in the U.S.
Self Check is a useful tool for job seekers who wish to confirm their records before an employer investigates their employment authorization.
 In order to use My E-Verify to confirm your employment eligibility, you must first establish your identity.Open the following link: https://selfcheck.uscis.gov/SelfCheckUI/

Review the Terms of Use and Privacy Statement and indicate whether you wish to continue in English or Spanish.
Enter basic identifying information, such as your name, address and date of birth. Entering your Social Security Number is optional at this point, but will be mandatory at a later stage.
Answer a series of questions based on your personal information that only you would be able to answer. Note that, though the quiz only takes about a minute to complete, you will be timed.
 If you successfully establish your identity, you will be directed to confirm your work eligibility.When prompted, enter your Social Security Number, citizenship status and document type (i.e. Social Security number or U.S. passport).
This information will be compared to SSA and DHS records to determine if you would be successfully authorized by the E-Verify system.
 In the final screen, the system will inform you of whether the information you provided matches the government records used by E-Verify. If there is a mismatch, this means an employer who searches your name using E-Verify will not be able to authorize your employment.If there is a mismatch and you believe it is a mistake, Self Check will provide you with instructions for correcting your records with the appropriate government agency.

