 Most one year olds share many common characteristics, but every child is unique. To discipline your child well, you need to understand his or her behavior and learn to predict his or her reactions. Pay attention to what your child likes and dislikes.;
, One year olds will not be able to adhere to many complicated rules, so set a few simple, safety-related rules instead. Have reasonable expectations: your child is really still a baby.
 It is hard to explain causes and consequences to a one-year-old child, but now is the time to start trying. Explain positive consequences, and reward good behavior. In addition, explain negative consequences, and punish (in an age-appropriate way) bad behavior.
 Your one year old will not learn the rules if they vary from day to day. Stick to them consistently.


Both parents need to enforce the rules if a one-year-old child is going to learn them. Be sure that you and your partner are on the same page.
 One year olds do not understand the concept of punishment because they have not mastered cause and effect. With lots of repetition, though, they can begin to understand rules and learn lessons.
 Children can begin to learn, at this stage, that their behavior affects other people. For example, a one-year-old child can learn, with repetition, that throwing food makes you angry. Explain these dynamics as often as possible, in a calm tone.
 Because a one year old can only be expected to follow so many rules, you should emphasize those that relate to safety. Explain unsafe situations as they arise, and set rules. One year olds can start to learn that safety-related rules are non-negotiable.
 Children often learn more from positive reinforcement than from punishment. Praise your child whenever he or she behaves well or does something nice. One year olds can learn to repeat behaviors that make their parents happy.
 Whether your one year old can use words or not, he or she does communicate with you. Pay attention to your child’s moods and behavior, and change your approach as needed.


To communicate better with a one year old, try looking into his or her eyes and paying attention to his or her signals. Try using some simple sign language, too.
 Remove items that should not be touched. You will be fighting a losing battle if you expect your one year old to refrain from touching dozens of forbidden objects in easy reach.
 If a child touches something he or she should not or does something against the rules, do not punish immediately. Instead, offer an alternative: children are easily distracted with other safe and interesting toys. Punish only if the unwanted behavior persists.
 One year olds may not be able to understand you completely, but you should still state the facts behind why something should not be done. Repeat these explanations frequently.
 No matter how frustrated you become, breathe deeply and stay calm. Children are better prepared to hear what you say if you are calm and rational.
 Discipline is important, but one year olds can only be expected to follow so many rules. Be consistent with safety-related rules, but know that you do not always have to “win” with other things. A little food on your child’s clothes or on the floor won’t hurt anything, and neither will a cookie or a piece of candy from time to time.
 It is difficult to get good behavior from any one year old, but it’s almost impossible if your one year old is overly tired, hungry, thirsty, or nervous. Anticipate your child’s needs, and you will have a better chance at seeing good behavior.
 If you pay attention, you may notice that certain situations upset your one year old and make bad behavior more likely. Avoid these situations when possible, and when there’s no way to do that, try to help by bringing a favorite toy or keeping your child occupied with a song or snack.
 One year olds do not understand cause and effect well, and yelling will only frighten and upset them. Your child will learn to be afraid of you but will not necessarily learn how to behave.
 They are not “bad” – they just don’t know better.
 For the word “no” to have maximum impact, reserve it for times when it is really necessary – as, for example, if your child is doing something dangerous. Otherwise, frame your sentence as a positive: say, “color on the paper!” rather than “no! Don’t color on the wall!”

, If you only pay attention to your child when he or she is doing something wrong or dangerous, then your child will learn that that’s the way to engage you. Spend time just learning, playing, and exploring with your child when he or she is behaving well.

