 Despite what some articles say, Abercrombie and Fitch, Hollister, and American Eagle do offer good preppy clothing, but stay away from anything over-ripped or low cut. A good starter wardrobe would consist of:


4-6 pairs of jeans (1-2 pairs skinny, 2-4 pairs straight for special occasions). Get these at Hollister, A & F, or American Eagle, but if you're smaller, try Abercrombie kids. Try to avoid pairs that are distressed and brightly colored , please.
3-4 polos. Every prep has to have polos. You can find good ones at J. Crew, Ralph Lauren, the Gap, and A & F. Again, try Abercrombie kids if you're smaller, but another option would be Ralph Lauren Kids or Gap Kids. Don't get them too low cut.
5-6 logo tees. Get at least one with the name of a preppy place, such as Martha's Vineyard or Harvard. You can get logo tees basically anywhere, but try Ralph Lauren or Guess if you're looking for good ones. Both of these brands offer kid's lines.
3-4 pairs of flip-flops. Go for one pair of leather flip-flops at either A & F or Hollister, (smaller sizes try Abercrombie kids) then opt for some white and navy Havaianas. If you can't find Havaianas in your area, get the white and navy flip-flops at Old Navy. The quality is just about the same.
1 pair soccer sandals. Get Adidas slides if possible, but if you can't, VS Pink is OK. Almost every suburban girl has them.
1 pair loafers. Try Sperry Top-siders or Uggs. If these are a bit high-priced, Target has good options for about 20 or 30 dollars.
1 canvas tote bag. Get one from Lands' End, Vera Bradley, or L.L.Bean. These are nice and durable, and they have the preppy look to them.
A sweater. Get one at Lands' End or Ralph Lauren. Both have kids' sizes.
4-5 pairs of shorts. Go to A & F, Hollister, or American Eagle for these. Don't go too short though! PacSun is also good for plaid shorts. Abercrombie kids offers kids sizes.
A nice sundress. Get one from Lilly Pulitzer if possible. The designs are perfectly preppy and pretty too.
A North Face jacket. This is a preppy essential--EVERY cute suburban girl has one. Get one at a North Face store or the North Face website (thenorthface.com) They can be on the expensive side, but sometimes you can find them at sporting goods stores for much cheaper!
Delicate jewelry. Try SilverJewelryClub.com, their prices are good and the jewelry is gorgeous. If you can afford it, go to Tiffany.;
, See the Style Preppy Hair article for help with that.
 Play a sport (or two or three!) and join some clubs at school. Many preps opt to join student government. Try that for starters and if you like it move on from there.
 Is your family going to an art gallery opening or a social event at a country club? If the answer is yes, go and be seen. Do things with your whole family every once in a while, like eat out or see a play. Preppy activities include: social events, art galleries, eating out, operas, ballets, museums, basically anything that is high-class or middle-class. Don't opt for being cheap. It is not an option.
 All preps are confident. Even if you don't have a huge house, fancy cars, and nice things, be confident. If you're really shy, work on your confidence in a mirror. It's sure to help.

