 Pomegranate naturally contains bleaching properties, which can inhibit melanin production and potentially decreasing the appearance of a mole.Apply fresh pomegranate juice to the mole using a cotton ball or a cotton swab. Let it stay for 15 minutes and then wash it off vigorously with warm water and soap.
Try pomegranate extract instead, which can be ordered online or from a health food store.
 Like aloe vera, honey is thought to soften moles decrease the keratinized (hardened) tissue. It also makes the mole more flexible and mobile if it has a stalk or root.


Honey can be applied on the face of the mole using a cotton swab. Plain honey — undiluted — acts best. Occasionally, neem leaves or turmeric powder may be mixed with it for better results.
 Similarly to aloe vera and honey, this method is thought to soften the mole, reducing its appearance over time.


Castor oil can be applied using a cotton ball or even massaged in a circular motion around and on the mole using your fingers.
Avoid using castor oil if you are prone to acne, as it may aggravate the acne.
 Application of an ice cube directly on the mole or while covered with a cloth decreases the blood supply to the mole, essentially deadening the tissue. This is owing to the contraction caused in the small blood vessels that supply it by the cold temperature of the ice cube applied locally and focused on one area.


Doing this as often as every 4 hours for 5 days is thought to cause a visible decline in the size of the mole.
If it doesn’t respond within 3 days, do not continue with this line of treatment.
 A long strand of hair from the tail of a horse is one of the better known "natural" cures for moles that protrude quite a bit from the skin, as well as skin tags. Horsehair is very thin but strong and when tied around the mole can completely cut off the blood supply, forcing the mole to fall off.The hair must be wrapped around the stalk or the base as tightly and firmly as possible. This will ensure cessation of the blood flow and by the next 72 to 96 hours the mole will fall off.
The thread must not be removed even during a bath.

