 This is a very important step. Always stretch your back muscles to help prevent further injury and to loosen your back. Ask your doctor or physiotherapist for suitable stretching exercises that will continue to strengthen your back and for specific exercises that you can implement prior to a game. Some stretching that may be suitable includes:Stretch the shoulder and torso: Hold a golf club behind your neck and shoulders grasping both ends of the club with your hands and rotate your torso gently from side to side. Do this a few times.

Stretch the hips: Pull one knee to your chest. Drop gently and then pull the other knee to your chest. Repeat a few times.

Stretch the hamstrings: Bend over and try to touch your toes. Don't go further than you can or you may cause more problems and only do this if your physical therapist has approved the move. Flexible hamstrings are important to enable better hip motion and to reduce pressure on the lower back discs.Easy, gentle swings will help you to warm up before the game; practice some before beginning each game.;
, When you have back pain, you'll need to accept that you will lose some power. Help yourself out by 'clubbing up' one or two clubs.


When practicing, start with small irons and work up to large wood. This eases the muscle groups into gradual warming up., Spend a little time practicing at a drive range to put yourself in sync. This may feel repetitive but it will help your body to slowly regain the required movements and your muscle memory will restore sooner with easier moves.
 Aim to stand 2-3 inches (5-7.5cm) closer to the ball than you previously stood. This positioning will give you a better center of gravity and it helps you to turn your hips easily.
 Bend your left knee (if you're right handed, opposite if left handed) a little more to allow your hips to turn further.


To prevent back pain at any time, golf players should aim for smooth swings. Aim to gently rotate the shoulder, hip, chest and lower spine at the same time, so that all these parts of the body share the load., The problems really start on the downswing for people with back pain. Most golfers initiate their downswing with the hips, but when you can't torque your hips as much, they get way ahead of your hands. To avoid this, start your downswing with your hands moving slowly, and then engage your hips to blast through the ball.
 While golf swings naturally create torsion (twisting), don't twist right around when swinging and certainly don't twist around to observe – move your whole body instead to see where the ball has gone. And be aware that you don't have to twist your body around to finish in a perfect pose. Just make sure to finish with the club high. Over your head is fine.
 If you can only manage a few holes initially, that is better than none. Listen to your body as you're moving around the course and take a break when you need to.


Remember to carry all golf items with care, especially the golf bag. You can undo a whole day's careful golf playing with poor bag carrying! Avoid repeated bending over to collect the bag by using a wheeled stand that keeps the bag upright or a rolling cart bag. If you're carrying a bag on your shoulders, make sure that it has two straps to evenly distribute the weight.