 Don't put it in a high-traffic area of your home, like the kitchen or entry hall. The ideal litter box location is easily accessible, offers plenty of privacy, and is free from sudden noises that could frighten a kitten.Though a laundry room is a popular choice for a location because it has less traffic than other areas of most houses, the sudden noises that a washer or dryer can make while switching cycles could frighten a kitten and cause her to fear using the box.The litter box should be in an area that a kitten spends a lot of time. The kitten should be able to see the litter box most of the time so that she can use it if she needs to.
Kittens and cats prefer a little privacy. If they don't have it, they may start relieving themselves behind the sofa or in another out-of-the-way corner.If you start litter training a kitten and it becomes necessary to move the box, do it gradually, a few feet at a time every few days. Moving the box to a different room from one day to the next could confuse the kitten and lead to accidents around the house. It may also help to place the kitten’s food bowl where the litter box used to be, as most cats are reticent to use the toilet where they eat.
 As soon as you bring the kitten home, place her in the box so she can get used to the smell and feel of the kitty litter. Let her spend a few minutes there, even if she doesn't go to the bathroom the first time. Continue to place the kitten in the box after she eats meals, wakes up, or any other time when you predict she may need to relieve herself. In addition, if she squats anywhere other than the litter box place her in it immediately.


Some kittens will understand the purpose of the litter box immediately and require no additional litter training. Others will need to be placed in the litter box as many as ten times a day before they figure it out.
You should avoid attempting to "show" the kitten the digging motion that cats use to bury their waste as it may frighten them, so avoid the temptation to take her paws and help her dig into the litter until she catches on., As the kitten grows used to the litter box and starts using it as her toilet, praise her each time she goes by petting her and making comforting sounds. Do not discipline her while she is in the box, or she might start associating being in the box with punishment.Kittens do not respond well to having their noses rubbed in a mess they have made outside the litter box. If she has an accident, let her sniff the mess, then gently lift her and put her in the box, so she knows where to go next time.
Never spank or yell at a kitten to punish her. It will only serve to make her afraid of you.
 If possible, you should have one litter box for each cat in your house, plus an additional litter box.


For example, one kitten should ideally have 2 litter box options. If you have three cats, you should provide four litter boxes.
 When you first introduce a kitten to your home, you may want to confine her to a small area for the first few weeks. This can help her acclimate slowly to her new environment, will give her easy access to her litter box, and can help minimize or confine accident areas.You may want to confine the kitten to an area without carpet to make accidents easier to clean if they do occur.
Keep the litter box and the kitten’s food and bedding at opposite ends of the confinement area.