;
, That helps keep the conversation more emotionally safe. Laughing at yourself is rarely a faux pas.
 Think about this from their position - how would you feel if your mom or dad talked about personal sexual experiences? For many people not thinking about their parents having sex is part of the incest taboo, which is a natural instinct. Discussing it in the abstract or about fiction or other people's sex lives defuses this problem. This may also be why so many parents have trouble discussing sex with their teens.
 If you have beliefs that you shouldn't have sex until marriage, just admit it. Face the fact that your teen may choose to have sex despite your values. Face the fact that your teen may disagree about your values and not think it's wrong, which may be even more shocking than that your teen might do something you think is wrong. This can happen in either direction - parents with more liberal sexual mores may find their teens getting caught up in right-wing youth movements and condemning their values. "Agree to disagree" is a way to keep the family together. Whichever way the disagreement goes, make sure the teen is fully informed about the subject, get the teen to agree to that.
 Your teen will shut down, and you may be doing a lot of harm to your relationship with them and their attitude towards sex.


Don't lecture. This isn't a classroom. Engage your teen in respectful dialogue, listen to your teen's ideas on the subject and take them seriously. Respect is mutual, when you treat your teen with respect what you say will carry a lot more impact.
If you can imagine your teen is twenty years old and discussing this at a time when his or her options are all legal, that may help create that sense of adult respect to give impact to your discussion. If you have a lot of fears about this, it's true - in only a short time your teen will be legally adult and make their own decisions with or without your input. You need to make sure they know what they're doing when they make those choices and understand their reasons why - and know that they understand their reasons for those choices instead of getting tricked by unscrupulous people. This is also the way to establish the trust that when they really are in their twenties and run into bad situations, they are still willing to turn to you for emotional support.
Discuss relationships too, good relationships and unhealthy relationships. This is also a time to bring up the kinds of emotional trouble people run into with romantic and sexual relationships, problems they may already be facing with controlling romantic partners, unfaithful partners, lying partners. Bring up the issue of trust and sexuality, how sex without trust can lead to a lot more problems in life than it does with safer activities like kissing and making out, emotional pledges. There's a big difference in walking away from a bad relationship with or without a child. There's a big difference remembering your first experience bitterly with a bad person or fondly with someone you can still trust as an ex or a partner.
 If you don't know answers to certain aspects of sex just admit it. Find answers with your teen in books or other resources. If your teen is dismissive and wants to blow off the entire topic because he or she already knows everything about it, question them about the important points in the first step and make sure they really do know rather than just think what they know is all there is to know. This includes condom use and contraceptive information.
 More teens who are knowledgeable put off becoming sexually active than those who are ignorant. The truth is more likely to make them think twice about casual or unprotected sex.
 Educate yourself about rape. If your teen is talking to you about rape, your teen needs to know she or he can trust you if they get raped. Since sexual assault happens to one in five women during their lifetime, it's not something to avoid the topic. Discussing rape with your male teen is important too, boys and men get raped less often than women and girls but it happens. Also your boy may be at risk of becoming a rapist if he doesn't understand what rape is and why it's wrong, what its consequences are and that giving a girl a date-rape drug in order to get her consent is a form of rape that may get him prosecuted.


If your daughter or son reveals that they've been raped, listen more than talk. Respect their feelings. Leave the decision to prosecute up to the teen, encourage going to the authorities but understand and be aware of the risks and problems going to court. This includes statutory rape. They are close to adulthood, if you want a relationship with this teen as an adult, don't make this the breaking point that means they never come back when legal age. Suggest and strongly encourage counseling. Suggest and strongly encourage documenting the rape to give your teen the option of prosecuting but don't blame them if they showered and destroyed the evidence because they wanted to be clean. That's a natural reaction. If it happened long ago, there's not much chance of prosecuting anyway but you can help them heal the damage and protect themselves in future. Do not force contact or confrontation with the rapist even if that's your current spouse or domestic partner. Do not tell the teen they're lying and deny what happened, that will break your relationship with your child to no purpose.
 Tell your teen its okay to choose to wait even if he or she has had sex before.
 The decision to become sexually active is too important to be based on other people's point of view. Especially with young male virgins, tell your teen it's okay to lie about it to teasing peers and point out how many of his friends may also be lying about it. That peace-keeping white lie is more likely to be believed if they are knowledgeable about sex.
 That's a sitcom gag, not a real situation. Most often teens who are talking about a friend either know someone or heard about someone who's in a bad situation, got scared and want to know how to handle it if that ever happens to them. They may be looking for help for a real friend. Don't ask who the friend is until you've reached a level of trust where your teen knows the friend's not going to get in trouble by your knowing. Understand your legal liabilities in the situation. You may be giving good advice to a teen you don't know through your teen's friendship but if you said something directly to the teen you could be infringing on the teens' parents' rights.


Do advise the teen by way of your teen to seek help from police or Child Services if there are situations those authorities can help with, such as rape, abuse or incest. Don't advise them to run away or do anything else that's illegal.
Do make it clear to your teen and their friends that having sex under the influence of a date-rape drug is rape and the teen who gave it to them is responsible for it. Advise against taking it because it's illegal and it will also suspend your teen's judgment about sex and other activities.
 To feel comfortable talking openly with you, assure your teen that you will not punish him or her for being totally honest.
, Your first discussion with your teen about sex should never ever be its last. Tell your teen that you are always willing to talk about anything related to sex whether its questions or concerns.
 Educate yourself on GBLT issues and deal with your feelings about them before the discussion so that you don't react in a strong negative way and destroy the relationship the first time it comes up. Chances are if your kid is GBLT, there were signs before the topic came up openly and you suspected it. Acceptance is the only way you will be able to still have a relationship with your child. Acceptance isn't necessarily approval, but at least make it clear that you understand this isn't something they can change about themselves and that you love your child for who they are regardless of the challenges this gives them. Be as supportive and accepting as you can. If you belong to a church that condemns GBLT, consider looking for a church that doesn't and talking to a new pastor about how to live with this revelation. If you prepare for the possibility before the teen comes out, you may be able to provide support where they expect rejection and build a much stronger relationship with your child.


Consider family counseling whatever your feelings are about their coming out. That can give both of you time to get over the pain if their revelation took you by surprise and shocked you. Homophobia is a real phobia, it's like fear of heights or fear of drowning, your reactions are real and natural if you were raised to hate GBLT people and never questioned that hate. A good counselor can help you overcome the fear and rebuild trust with your child even if you said things you later regret.
Really consider a GBLT-friendly congregation or church, spiritual and religious support is very important to be able to deal with this kind of situation. Jesus got that angry at the money-changers in the temple, not at people who come out different from other people and might be frightening. He was often on the side of sinners and the poor and the rejected, even if you believe acting on it is a sin then understanding that they can't help being who they are is vitally important to that acceptance and being able to keep the relationship.
 Your teenager needs to see you as open, but also someone that knows where the limits are. If you really are the "cool parent" you don't have to work at it because your relationship is already that strong and trusting.

