 Maintaining your endurance during a boxing match can be harder than other sports, because of psychological factors that may make you more nervous and interrupt your breathing.Pace yourself in the fight and don't make unnecessary movements or punches if you know they are not going to help you win.


The first round should be a feeling out round. Use defense and evaluate your opponent's technique.
 Find weaknesses in the opponents defense that you can exploit as the match progresses, instead of punching wildly and becoming tired. Take note of the bad habits or tendencies that they have as a fighter. For instance, if they always lower one hand when they throw a straight, this is an opportunity to counter with a hook.


If they put their hands down when they are disengaging, this is a good opportunity to move in and land some solid face punches.
If they don't protect their body, land body shots early in the fight, so you tire them out as the match progresses.
 If you can defend properly and your opponent punches wildly, you can make them tired and take advantage of his lack of endurance during the later rounds. If your opponent is a power puncher and is looking to land one good shot, make sure to stay mobile and always keep your hands up.


Explosive punchers become tired more quickly because of the energy that they spend on each strike., Do not stay immobile and defensive on the ropes, or the referee may stop the fight early. Even when you are blocking, it's up the ref to make the final decision on whether the fight should continue. Also, being on the ropes limits your mobility and reduces your options if you need to move back., During the later rounds, you may become tired, and your hands will most likely start to fall, leaving your face and head exposed. This is the perfect opportunity for an opponent to take advantage of a hole in your defense and knock you out. Always keep your hands up unless you are defending body shots.


A boxer with a lot of power can punch through your block and cause damage even if you have your hands up. In this case, use lateral movement to stay away from his strikes.
Use a combination of head movement and blocking to defend strikes and tire out your opponent., Your corner will be able to see the fight from a different angle and can tell you where you need to improve and how and why you are winning or losing the fight.Make sure to listen to them between rounds and try to make adjustments as the fight progresses.


It's easy to develop tunnel vision during a fight and block out any noise or advice, but this will only work against you.
 Once you've learned the fundamentals and have spent time competing, you'll most likely have a style of your own. While the basic building blocks must always be there, people are proficient in different things. Leverage whatever your best assets are and use them in your boxing strategy.


If you are a powerful puncher, work on your blocking technique and opening up your opponent's defense by landing body shots.
If you have really good stamina, try wearing down your opponent and taking the fight into the later rounds.
If you are quick, work on counter punching , movement, and slipping your opponents punches.

