 Yes, there are a lot of reasons a person may feel sad: a job loss, the loss of a loved one, poor relationships, a traumatic event, or other stress. At some point in time, everyone will experience a reason to be sad. Feeling sad occasionally is normal. The major difference between sadness and depression is the focus.When you are sad, your feelings arise from a specific event or situation. Once that event changes, or time passes, the sadness fades.
Depression, on the other hand, affects your thoughts, feelings, perceptions, and behaviors. You don't just feel sad about one thing, you feel sad about everything. And, despite, your trying to pull yourself out of this mood, the feeling sticks. In fact, you can feel depressed and not even have a reason to attribute to it.;
, Depression isn't just "all in your head." Research demonstrates that it's a bodily illness, and thus requires medical attention.Here's what's happening:


Neurotransmitters are the chemical messengers that relay messages between brain cells. Abnormal levels of neurotransmitters are thought to play a role in depression.
Changes in hormone balance may cause depression. Such changes can include thyroid problems, menopause, or a recent pregnancy.
Physical changes have been observed in the brains of individuals who are depressed. The significance is unknown, but such observations may someday pinpoint the cause of depression.
Depression often runs in families. This suggests that there are genes specific to depression, researchers are actively working on identifying them.Reading that depression is genetic and that your kids are possibly at greater risk for depression can lead to feelings of guilt. Remember that you have no control over your genetic makeup. It is not your fault. Instead take control over what you can. Be a good role model for fighting depression, and get help.
 It's important to note that depression can be as unique as the individuals who suffer from it. Not every person will experience the same symptoms - some people will have few symptoms in a mild intensity and others will experience many severe symptoms. For some, depression may affect them once in life, while others experience chronic depressive symptoms. The signs and symptoms of depression are:Persistent sadness or emptiness
Changes in appetite (i.e. eating too much or too little)
Weight fluctuations
Sleep disruption
Hopelessness or pessimism
Feeling fatigued or lacking energy
Feeling worthless, guilty, or helpless
Lacking interest in normally pleasurable activities
Problems concentrating or making decisions
Restlessness and irritability
Suicidal thoughts
Physical symptoms, such as pain or headaches

