 Pulley systems are a great way to lift heavy objects with minimal effort, but they need to be properly set up to have any chance of working. Look up specific diagrams online, as people have posted systems for every variety of pulley imaginable. Know, as you read the schematics, the differences in pulleys:



Fixed: The pulley wheel spins, but the whole thing stays in place. The rope is simply draped over the top. You pulling down on one half of the rope pulls the other half up. There is an axle in the middle of the wheel.

Movable Pulley: The pulley has a hook in the center, not an axle. As such, it is almost always used with other pulleys. As you pull the rope, the area around the pulley shortens, lifting/lowering the weight and pulley together. The weight is usually attached to pulley by the hook.

Double pulley: Best seen in an example: think of a hanging PowerPoint screen. You pull the cord on one side, but both sides go up identically -- this is because the same rope is looped on both sides. It goes through the left side, to the right, then back to the double pulley on the left, where you pull the string down.Look into a block and tackle system. The block and tackle just refers to the apparatus of pulleys and rope you’re using, where the rope is threaded 2-4 times on the same pulley. Block and tackles usually come with specific instructions for assembly., You want everything to be on a load-bearing post or stud. If you don't have secure areas close together for the screws, you can build a platform. Attach two blocks to a 2x4 plank. These are known as the “standing blocks” because they stand in a fixed position to form fixed pulleys. Then attach the plank securely to your ceiling or roof.Attach them about a foot apart on a standard 2x4.


The 2x4 should be high enough to be slightly above the position where you want to lift the object with the compound pulley.
 For this example, you can use the most common M-shaped compound system. To do so, you install your pulleys in a line, with the two fixed pulleys on the outside and the moving pulley in the middle. The movable pulley is not installed into the ceiling, however -- it will be held up by the rope. For now, line up the two fixed pulleys and install them.


Make sure you use a level, straightedge, and careful measurement to ensure that the two fixed pulleys are aligned.
There should be the same amount of space between each fixed pulley and the movable pulley in the center., Begin using the rope on the third pulley, the one that is not attached to the board. This is called the moving block. The rope goes on the bottom of the wheel, and most movable pulleys have a small metal tab to keep the rope from coming out., Feed each side of the rope through the other two pulleys. The movable pulley will now be hanging from the tops of the two fixed pulleys. The rope will be on top of each fixed pulley and at the bottom of the movable one.The rope should look a bit like an "M." It will drape down from either pulley on the end. and come down to a "point" around the movable pulley in the middle.
 Attach whatever you’re lifting to the bottom of the movable pulley, securing it to the hook. You may need to step on or hold the rope to keep it from yanking down if you don't have a lot of slack.


Consider attaching a bucket or toolbox to the movable pulley.That way, you can easily transport multiple objects or objects that don’t attach well to the pulley itself.

