, Think about what you really want as it may be saving up for a holiday, improve your health etc.
 Each letter stands for a word, as below:

Sensible/Specific: Make sure the goal is precise. Don't just say "Exercise and Do Homework." Instead, say things like "Do 30 minutes of stretching and work on your essay for English Class." This will allow you to achieve more because if you are not specific then you will only do a small amount.
Measurable: Make sure you can measure progress. For example, a goal should not be 'write the first part of a new blog post.' Instead, a goal should be something like 'do 500 words of a new blog post.'
Achievable/Attainable: Make sure you can achieve your goal. If you are going to be awake for 16 hours one day, then doing 15 hours of work and leaving the remaining hour to eating is not going to be achievable. You need to give a realistic amount of time to do work, and leave time to do other things.
Realistic/Relevant: First, do not try to do things which have a very low likelihood of happening. For example, a business owner may plan to be the leader of the market within three months. However, if they are going through a hard time and three other companies are given strong competition, this will probably not happen. Secondly, do not do irrelevant things. If you are asked to write a report on the effects of flooding to Victorians, then you do not need to research the causes of rainfall.
Time based: Set a time period to do things in. Deadlines increase productivity quickly.
 What can you do and what will you need help from others to do. Do you need to get kits or equipment first for your project?

, If you need to have a project finished in time for a meeting or some other deadline, chart out how much time you need to do the job and where you can fit it in. Use a diary or calendar or even put reminders on the fridge.
 If you find yourself making excuses, then its time to step back and re-evaluate if your goal is really important.
 It will make your life more difficult.
 They are doing you a favor by helping you, but by the same token you have to be able to be independent. If your goal is to wake up and exercise at 6AM, make sure they respect your decision.
 Monitor how it goes and improve things you feel can be improved. Have fun and enjoy completing whatever project you're working on.
,, Give yourself time to eat your meal slowly so not only can you enjoy it more, but that you don't eat too much and still feel hungry. It's okay to have dessert, but choose healthy snacks between meals.
,,


If a friend calls you and invites you out for a meal, you don't want to say no just because it will ruin your daily routine. Check your schedule to see if you have time, and let your friend know about any dietary restrictions you have.
 Give them to charity.
 By finding a balance, you can improve your life and regain some self control.

