 Although prerequisites vary by department, expect these three to be nearly universal:Be 18 years old or older.
Have a high school degree or general education degree (GED).
Have a valid driver’s license.
 Refrain from criminal behavior. Avoid being immediately rejected due to a prior felony or misdemeanor. Also keep in mind that your fire department may expect members to uphold a certain code of conduct in their personal lives. Be discerning when posting anything online, since they may check your social media accounts for any offensive material that would reflect poorly on the department as a whole., Expect the job itself to be physically demanding, requiring long hours and heavy lifting. Anticipate having your fitness and endurance tested as part of the hiring process. Adopt a regular exercise program and stick to it.A key standard used to judge applicants’ fitness is their ability to carry, with a partner, a stretcher with a person weighing 180 pounds (82 kg). Together, they must transport the patient up or down a minimum of three flights of stairs and then load them safely into an ambulance.
 Although this may not be a requirement, boost your value to the department by being able to communicate with various language speakers. Research the community that it serves to find out which languages are spoken within it. Learn the basics as well as medical-specific terms., Expect some departments to demand that paramedics have earned an associate’s degree.Even if this isn’t specifically required, consider enrolling at a local community college or higher. Set yourself apart from other candidates by obtaining a relevant degree. Stand out as an applicant who will start in-house training with a fundamental understanding of the concepts to be taught, right from the get-go.Since you are pursuing a career as a paramedic with a fire department, relevant degrees include Fire Science, Firefighter-Paramedic, and Firefighter-Emergency Medical Services (EMS).
Before enrolling, research the fire departments that you intend to apply to. Remember that some departments may pay for your education if you commit to x-amount of time as a volunteer EMT.
 Become familiar with your potential employer by visiting the station and speaking directly with paramedics on hand. Take advantage of any outreach or ride-along programs that they may offer for an inside view of what the job actually entails. Ask for any tips, advice, or considerations that may not be included on their website or other recruitment materials.Find out such info as:


Whether you will be expected to live part-time at the station house.Whether paramedics double as firefighters in this department.
What skillsets they require and which they are lacking (for instance, a foreign language that would be useful in serving an immigrant population within city limits).

