 Most Nokia phones come with their own data cable. Use this to plug and connect your phone to your computer.;
, If your phone has Bluetooth, turn it on and have your phone and your computer pair up.


If this is your first time to link the two devices, you will be asked for a passcode that you would need to enter in both devices.
 Look for the Nokia PC Suite under your programs in the Start menu of your Windows desktop. Click on it to launch.
 Depending on your phone, you can do several things with it from the Nokia PC Suite. Navigate through the menus and the functionalities. All the connected phones will be listed on the left side of the program window.
 Click on the "Contacts" icon. The Nokia Communication Center sub-program will appear. Your Nokia phone will also light up and start syncing or sending contacts to this program.
 Choose your device from the drop-down list. Your contact groups will appear on the left side and your contact list on the right.
 From here, you can easily create a new contact by clicking on "Create New Contact."


You can also edit your contact’s details by clicking on "Edit Contact" or just by double-clicking the name.
You can also remove a contact or several contacts at the same time just by selecting them and clicking on "Delete."
It’s relatively easier to manage your contact list from here as compared to doing it directly from your Nokia phone.
 From the contact groups on the left panel, click on a group to view the contacts under it.
 If you want to create a new group, just click on "Add New Group." A new group will be created for you to name.


Name the group something short but descriptive.
 Adding contacts to the new group you’ve just created is easy. Go to the main contact list and select the contacts you want to add. Once you’re done with the selection, click and drag them to the new group.
 If you want to remove a group from your phone, click on the name and press "Delete" on your keyboard. The group will be deleted but the contacts will remain in your main contact list.
 Repeat steps 4 to 7 as needed.
 Click on "File" from the menu then click on "Exit." Whatever you did with your contact list and contact groups from the Nokia PC Suite will automatically reflect on your Nokia phone.