 Since chargebacks typically involve the receipt of faulty or defective merchandise, you typically must provide proof of the transaction amount as well as evidence that the product you received was defective.

This federal protection only extends to purchases over $50, and the sale must have taken place in your home state or within 100 miles of your address.
Some banks and credit card companies may offer chargeback protections for other transactions, such as online sales, beyond those covered by federal law.
 Use the chargeback process as a last resort after the company refuses to issue you a refund.Typically you must be able to demonstrate to your bank or credit card company that you made a good faith effort to work with the merchant to solve the problem before you initiated a chargeback.
Sometimes this option isn't possible. For example, if you ordered a product from a website and the website was later taken down, you may have no way to contact the company from which you bought the product.
Provided you can, contact the company where you bought the defective product and ask for a refund. Make your request in writing so you have proof of the exchange. Attach any evidence you have regarding your problem with the product.
Generally, you should begin collecting documentation of the dispute as soon as you have an idea that something is wrong. The more documentation you have, the more likely your bank will be to side with you., Banks may have different policies for handling chargebacks, depending on whether you made your purchase using a debit or credit card.


Since federal law does not give you the right to withhold payment for defective goods purchased with a debit card, you are at the mercy of your bank's policy regarding whether you can initiate a chargeback if you paid with a debit card., Typically you can call your bank's main customer service number to begin the chargeback process.Follow the prompts to dispute a transaction or talk to a customer service agent, and explain that you want to initiate a chargeback due to a defective product.
These deadlines are the same as those for billing errors. You must notify the bank within 60 days of the transaction if you want to initiate a chargeback., After receiving your request, the bank will send you forms to fill out detailing the transaction and the reason you're requesting a chargeback.Typically you must enter details about the transaction, including the date and amount of your purchase, and describe why you want to refuse payment.
You may have to include receipts, photos, or other evidence to back up your claim.
You also may have to explain the methods you pursued to resolve the problem with the merchant before attempting a chargeback, or why those methods were unavailable or ineffective.
Keep your answers brief, and stick to the facts. Make sure you have documentation to back up any statements you make on your claim form.
 Once the bank hears back from the merchant, it will make a decision either approving or denying your chargeback request.Just as with billing errors, the bank has two billing cycles to respond to your claim and either return the funds to your account or explain why your chargeback is being refused.