 Teaching your dog some basic commands is an excellent way to establish your dominance, encourage your dog to be polite, and begin building a relationship with your dog. You can begin by teaching “sit,” and then move on to teaching “stay,” “lay down,” and “heel.”


Stand in front of the dog and give the verbal command.
When the dog completes the action, give them a treat and offer praise.
Wait until your dog has mastered each command before teaching them a new one.;
, Dogs are pack animals, and as such, they enjoy understanding the rules of a given situation. Decide what boundaries you would like to set for your Affenpinscher. For instance, you may not allow your dog on the furniture, or may not want them to jump on people. It will be important for you to make these rules clear, and to stay consistent with your dog.


Each time your dog does the undesired behavior, redirect their actions. (Move them off of the furniture or stop them from jumping).
Offer them praise when they do the correct action.
Avoid physical punishment or yelling.
 Affenpinschers are fun and affectionate dogs, but they are also known to be quite stubborn. It is crucial to be consistent with your dog training.Stick to a daily routine with regular feeding times, walk times, and play times.
Don’t bend the rules. If they are not meant to be on the furniture, don’t ever allow them on the furniture.
Avoid giving attention to negative behaviors. Instead, offer praise and rewards for good behaviors (positive reinforcement).
 Like other toy dog breeds, Affenpinscher dogs can be difficult to housetrain. Crate training is strongly recommended. Crate training draws on your dog’s natural instinct to find a safe den for sleeping.


Select the right crate for your dog. Your dog should be able to stand, sit, and lie down inside.
Place it in a good location. You want it to be someplace it can stay all the time.
Create a positive association. Make the crate comfortable with a soft blanket, and provide toys and/or treats that your dog enjoys. (Do not include anything that could be a choking hazard.)
Allow the dog to “find” the crate and enter it on their own. Never force the dog into the crate.
Work toward getting the dog to stay in the crate through the night. (If your dog is a puppy, give them a bathroom break every 4 hours).
Since dogs do not like to soil their “nest,” crate training is a great way to housebreak your dog.
 Affenpinschers are very friendly and sociable dogs. Frequent socialization with people and other dogs is crucial for your Affenpinscher to grow into a well-rounded dog. Allow friends and family to come over, and take your dog to a popular dog park.Expose your dog (especially a puppy) to different kinds of people. Introduce your dog to people of different ages, genders, and races. It is also good for your dog to encounter people who wear glasses or hats, or have facial hair.
Introduce your dog to other dogs. Visit the home of a friend with dogs or go to a dog park. Doing this outdoors works best.
Be patient when exposing your dog to new people or animals. Provide praise and watch for signs of stress (such as whining, growling, exposing teeth, or trying to hide).

