 This should be self-explanatory, but more often than not, people forget to be specific. What is it that you want out of sending this email? Are you sending a mass email to see who replies first or are you interested in this particular person? If you're sending a mass email, good luck. If you're genuinely interested, then he/she will think you've sent a mass email. To avoid this, make it a point that you have checked out his/her profile by commenting on something that he/she either liked or disliked (try to comment positively and make it something that you two have in common).;
, Don't go on about how much you work out at the gym or how good your hair looks. That's no way to introduce yourself. Instead, try to find things you have in common or that you are curious about (be appropriate and mature here) and show him/her that you are curious about them (they will think it's flattering).
 If you start off with  "I'm so lonely and need someone to talk to. Will you please go on a date with me or at least respond back to my email" then you've already struck out. Being confident is what sells, but don't be overly confident. But don't try to be sell yourself as someone else, tell them who you are and be upfront. Don't pretend to like something or be someone you're know just to score a date. That's not fun for you and eventually it will catch up with you.
 Even if you think the person you sent the email to could be the love of your life, you have to prepare yourself for the harsh reality of rejection - not hearing back from him/her. If they don't respond the first time, it's not a good idea to send another email until they respond - if this is your goal, then you won't ever be successful. Again, if they didn't respond the first time, what makes you think harassing he/she is a successful way to create a spark? It's possible to get kicked off the dating site by sending such emails, too. It's not worth it.
 Though most people will respond well to physical compliments, doesn't mean it should be your default introduction. If he/she has posted a stunning picture, creepy remarks such as, "When I look into your beautiful eyes, I see a new world and I want to explore this new beautiful world." This doesn't help you, it hurts you and your credibility. Unless you want a one-way ticket to the trash icon, then focus on something other than physical appearance. 

