 To make this costume, you will need:


Sewing supplies
Black felt
Yellow felt
White felt
Black hooded sweatshirt
Hot glue
Dark pants and shoes

, Use sharp scissors to cut both pieces out.


You can freehand sketch the beak pattern, if desired. Note that you need to draw the beak from a side view, rather than a top view. The base should be somewhat rectangular, but the beak itself should appear as a hooked or curved triangular shape.
Your beak should be large enough to attach to your sweatshirt and make the hood of the black sweatshirt look like the bird’s head. The size may be dependent on if you are an adult or a kid.
 Lay the two beak pieces on top of each other and sew along the top edge. Place the beak on the top of the hood, just above the opening, and sew the base of the beak onto the hood.


Since felt doesn't fray, you do not need to turn the material inside-out as you work. Make sure that your seams are neat and even, however, to prevent the work from looking messy.
The beak should be positioned in the center of the hood and should hang over the face area when you put the hood on your head.
 For each eye, you will need a yellow circle, a black circle, and a white semi-circle.


The yellow circles should be about 3 inches in diameter.
The black circles should be about 2.5 inches in diameter.
The white semi-circle should be about 1 inch in diameter.
 Lay the black circle on top of the yellow circle, precisely centered. Glue in place. Lay the white semi-circle on top of the black circle so that the flat edge lies in the center of the black circle. Glue in place.


Use fabric glue or hot glue for this.
Let dry before pressing on.
 Cut off a few individual feathers from your strip of feathered fringe. Turn each eye over to reveal the back, and glue these feathers around about half of each eye.


Note that the feathers should fan out from the side of the eye facing the flat side of your white semi-circular portion.
 Position the eyes on either side of the beak on the hood. They should be to the sides of the beak, but above the actual beak base. Fix in place by sewing or gluing them on.


The curved side of the white semi-circles should face inward, toward the beak, and the feathers surrounding each eye should fan out to the sides.
 Cut a strip of feathered fringe, out of black felt, long enough to cover the sleeve of your arm, extending from the shoulder seam down to the cuff. Pin and sew in place.


Note that the fringe should point down and out when you put the shirt on. Keep that in mind as you pin and sew.
Repeat this process with the other sleeve so that both are covered with black feathered fringe.
 Put on some black pants and black shoes. Slip on your feathered black sweatshirt, then pull the hood over your head so that the beak and eyes show. This completes your raven costume.

