 Cheryl is known for her very slim figure.To help you on your way to slimming down, start by eating right. That is, move your diet to more healthy foods over time, and reduce your overall caloric intake.Fill your diet with plenty of fruits and vegetables. Choose whole grains over more processed grains. Try lean proteins and low-fat dairy.
In addition, pick healthy fats, such as avocado, nuts, and salmon over less healthy fats, like the ones found in fried foods or red meat.In particular, Cheryl loves foods such as nuts, blueberries, and avocados.;
, Simple sugar, like that found in soda, juice, or sweets, just adds empty calories to your diet, making it more difficult for you to lose weight. Plus, you're leaving out the fiber of fruit, which helps keep you full. Drink water instead of soda, and pick a piece of fruit for dessert., Not only will sleep help you look better overall, sleep is essential for losing weight, as well. Make sure you are getting in your recommended 8 hours of sleep each night.If you're having trouble going to bed on time, trying setting an alarm an hour before you need to go to sleep. That way, you have an auditory clue to tell you it's time to go to bed. Shut off any electronics, and start getting ready for bed.
 To keep yourself in shape, you need regular bouts of aerobic exercise. At a minimum, you need at least 70 minutes of aerobic activity a week if it's vigorous or 150 minutes if it's moderate. However, to get Cheryl's body, you're probably going to need to put in some extra hours.You should also strength train at least twice a week. Strength-training exercises include things like lifting weights, doing sit-ups, and doing push-ups.
Aerobic exercises include swimming, running, biking, or playing a sport.
 Hydration keeps you healthier overall. Plus, Cheryl swears by it and always has water on hand. In addition, it can keep you looking younger by increasing your skin hydration., That is, when you're young, you've already got great skin. Cheryl recommends a tinted moisturizer rather than a heavy foundation, especially when you're younger., Cheryl sometimes creates a smokiness around her eyes for a dramatic effect. Mostly, this look involves making the underside of your eye darker.Line the underside of your eyes with a dark color (but not black), bringing it out about a half an inch past the eye on the outside, tipping it slightly up as you go. Use a eyeliner brush to help pull the color into a thicker line. Basically, you're making a sharp-pointed cat-eye.Also come back on top with the color, but just a little about a third of way along the top, following your eyelid.Add in some smokey eye shadow under your eye, making the line thicker once again. Finally, come with a much darker eye shadow, just along the bottom edge of your eye and out into the point.Add in some gold eye shadow on the top of your eye, starting in the inner corner and working outward to the dark part of your eye. Line the upper eye in a dark eye liner. Don't forget the mascara at the end., Shape your eyebrows with an eyebrow pencil. Sometimes, Cheryl goes for a more straightened-out eyebrow,while other times, she prefers a dramatic curve.The choice is up to you, but once you've plucked your eyebrows of any stray hairs, use a brow pencil that matches your hair color to create the shape you want and make your eyebrows more dramatic., During the day, stick with a nude color that matches your skin tone. At night, go for something more colorful and dramatic, such as a bright red.To test a color, rub it on the back of your hand to see how it looks.
 Create a more dramatic look by adding slightly darker contouring makeup to your look. Brush it just under your cheekbones, sloping upward towards the back of your face to help your cheeks pop like Cheryl's., While Cheryl loves makeup, she also enjoys keeping it simple sometimes, especially when she's just hanging out around the house or on a vacation. She does make sure to wash her face thoroughly to remove all the makeup from the day before, though., Cheryl recommends always taking your makeup off before you go to bed. She says it helps to keep your pores clear and keeps your skin looking younger.Pick a cleanser that's right for your skin type. Most cleansers are made for different skin types, such as dry, medium, or oily. Look on the bottle for one that's right for you.
It's also a good idea to wash your face each morning, too.
 After washing it before bed, Cheryl also believes it's important to moisturize. Stick with a facial moisturizer built for your skin. Like cleanser, they range in type from oily to dry., Cheryl is a firm believer in using sunscreen. She sticks with a 30 SPF when she's going to be out in the sun. It helps protect her skin, while still letting her get a nice glow., Cheryl swears by creating a thick cloud of perfume. She goes by one rule: pump your perfume 25 times as you put it on. She lets it gently envelope her whole body, not just her wrists or neck., For deep moisturizing, Cheryl enjoys using oil-based lotions. She slathers them on before sleeping so her skin is moisturized overnight. Be sure to concentrate on dry areas, such as knees, elbows, heels, and hands., Though Cheryl has talked about going super-short with her hair (AKA a pixie cut), she prefers to keep it at least shoulder length. At that length, she can do a number of different styles, from up-dos to braids.About the shortest Cheryl has worn her hair is a bob cut., One thing Cheryl loves about longer hair is that it is easy. She loves to pull it up into a top knot and go., One of Cheryl's favorite tricks is to let a top knot do the work overnight. After washing her hair, she dries it upside-down. Then she uses a warming brush to pull it into the top knot. In the morning, she pulls it down and has wavy hair., Over the years, Cheryl has tried a number of different styles and colors. Of course, she's always going for that perfect look, but she's not afraid to try different things in the pursuit of it., Hair masks help rejuvenate your hair, keeping it from becoming damaged over time. Cheryl prefers to do hair masks at least twice a week. She claims if she doesn't, her hair looks much worse.You can make a simple hair mask at home, probably from ingredients you already have. Mix 1 part coconut oil with 1 part honey (raw, if you have it). You'll likely only need about a tablespoon of each. You can substitute another oil, such as olive oil, if that's all you have.Heat the ingredients quickly on the stove or in the microwave, being careful not to burn them. Make sure the mixture isn't too hot for your skin.Wet your hair first. Rub the mixture into your hair in sections, starting from the top. Make sure you get the tips, as they usually have the most damage. When you've applied it all over your head, scoop your hair up in a bun, and let it sit for about half an hour before washing it out., Cheryl loves high fashion. She isn't afraid to wear a couture gown to hit the red carpet. For instance, one dress she wore in 2015 was a floor-length, full-skirt dress that moved from dramatic red on the top to black on the bottom., While Cheryl can rock a big, fancy dress, she also doesn't mind picking something a little plainer. For instance, sometimes she wears slinky floor-length dresses in a single color.Nonetheless, she isn't afraid to pick something that shows some skin, including long slits up from the floor.
 Cheryl also goes a little old-fashioned sometimes, with a puffy mini-dress or a dress made of lace.She's also not afraid to wear a throw-back pattern or hairdo (like a beehive)., Cheryl likes fancy gowns, but she also doesn't mind a more rock-'n'-roll look. For example, at a one event, she wore a t-shirt, long black coat, black leather skinny pants, and a fringed leather purse, topped off with a pair of leather boots.