 For this method, rectangular paper works best. If you are making a gift or a party favor, use brightly colored and/or patterned paper. If you are simply practicing your paper folding skills, use some scrap paper instead.;
, If using patterned paper, make sure the pattern is on the outside. Unfold the paper again.Make sure each fold is creased well. You can crease the folds with your fingernail, a coin, or some other small, hard object.
If you're using cardstock or another kind of thick paper, you can use something called a "scoring tool." This can be a very dull knife, an empty ballpoint pen, a bone folder, or an embossing tool., Take the edge and line it with the center crease. Once again, the pattern should be on the outside. Unfold the paper. It should now be in quarters sectioned widthwise.
 The pattern should be on the outside. Unfold the paper once more. It should now be in eight equal sections.
 You are doing the same thing with this new lengthwise center crease as you did in Step 3.


This will give the new side four sections. The paper should now have 16 sections in all.
Do not unfold your paper this time. Keep in folded lengthwise.
 Line the corners up with the nearest lengthwise crease. The folded corners should each form right triangles with their bases flush with a lengthwise crease. You should end up with an uneven octagon.


A strip of paper should be between the center creased edges and the edge of the newly folded corner, creating a flap.
 This opens the center of the paper so you can see the center crease inside the box.


This flap will be seen from outside the box. If you are making a gift or decorative box, you might consider using two-sided patterned paper for additional ornamentation.
 You can grip them by the creases in the middle. You should now have a complete box.


You may have to re-crease some of the folds to make your box stand more securely.
 Use some scotch tape on the corners if you would like them to sit flat. Decorate the bed of the box with markers or pens if you want to. If you're using it to hold a gift, write a surprise message to your giftee that will be covered by the item.

