 Although it is called "morning sickness," pregnancy-related nausea can strike at any time. The best way to keep this at bay is to keep a little bit of food in your tummy at all times. Keep healthy snacks with you at work.Fresh fruit, dried fruit, nuts, crackers, cheese, milk/non-dairy drinks, and water are good selections to have at hand.
Try to avoid snacking on high-sugar, low-quality foods. These can contribute to feeling tired.
Talk to your employer about working short snack-breaks into your schedule.
 These can be drastically different for everyone, but it won't take you long to decipher what makes your stomach turn. Avoid eating foods or encountering smells that trigger your nausea. Consider moving your work station (if possible), or asking co-workers to alter their behaviors (if you think it will help).Some common triggers include:

Food smells
Perfume smells
Coffee
Greasy foods
Visual triggers, such as watching people eat

, Some over-the-counter and prescription nausea medications are approved for use during pregnancy. Talk to your doctor about the best options for you, especially if morning sickness is interfering with your happiness, comfort, or ability to work.Supplements such as B6 might help.
Dramamine is approved for use during pregnancy.
Prescription drugs such as doxylamine and pyridoxine are approved for use during pregnancy, but they have been shown to cause drowsiness.
 You also have a number of natural nausea remedies available to you that you can explore. Every person is different, so you will need to experiment to find something that works for you.You might try:

Mint (essential oil, tea, or candies)
Ginger (tea, hard candies, ginger chews, or supplements)
Acupressure therapy (such as motion sickness bracelets)
Acupuncture
Hypnosis
Aromatherapy

, Another common digestive problem during pregnancy is heartburn. When it comes to managing heartburn, you have a couple of options. You can avoid heartburn-producing foods (such as tomato sauce, greasy food, spicy food, citrus, or dairy), and/or you can take approved medication.

Some OTC approved medications for heartburn include: Tums, Mylanta, Malox, or Pepcid.
Your doctor may recommend Zantac or Tagamet if your heartburn is severe.
 Particularly if you are prone to morning sickness (but even if you are not), staying hydrated can help keep you healthy and comfortable during your pregnancy. Drinking water after you eat may also help prevent heartburn..

Plain water is your best option, but sparkling water, coconut water, non-dairy milks, and occasional fruit juice are good choices, too
If you have been vomiting, it is especially important to consume fluids.
For some, sparkling water can help ease nausea.

