 Even people in healthy relationships will have fights and disagreements. Problems in the relationship only occur if you fail to handle the conflict properly. If you or your friend struggles with handling conflict, your relationship can be harmed. By using good communication and problem solving skills, you can keep your friendship healthy.



Actively listen to your friend.

Make compromises so that you’re both happy.;
, When you have a disagreement with your friend, you can experience strong intense emotions. This often leads to hurt feelings, disappointment, and discomfort. When you are unable to work through your issues, you may be left feeling hurt. Instead, work with your friend to resolve your issues so that you can build trust and a deeper, stronger bond between the both of you., After you have had an argument with a friend, you should consider giving it some time before you try to talk to them again. People tend to say hurtful things when emotions are high. Allow each party some time to relax before reaching out to your friend again.Allow two to three days for you and your friend to calm down before trying to reach out to your friend.
 It is normal and healthy to confide in someone when something is really bothering you. While you give your friend some time to cool down, take some time to vent your feelings and frustrations to a trusted friend or family member. You will feel much better once you have received some advice and validation.For example, if you friend said something hurtful to you about your weight, you might confide in another friend by saying, “It really made me angry when Anna pointed out that I had gained weight.”

, Once you have taken a few days to calm down, writing a letter to your friend is a good first step when reaching out after an argument. You can write to them by email, social media, or snail mail. Though reaching out can be difficult, you should avoid waiting too long to reach out to your friend. The longer you go without talking to your friend the harder it will be to repair the relationship., Reconnect with your friend with a phone call or text message. Have a conversation about your parting ways. Suggest that you get together for lunch or coffee to continue the conversation in person. If distance has put a strain on your friendship, consider scheduling regular phone calls to keep in touch.Discuss why you parted ways and why you are interested in rekindling the friendship.
Address any hurt feelings or concerns that you may have.

