 Some people try natural antimicrobial remedies before seeing a doctor. This can actually be very dangerous, as you cannot tell if the child is actually suffering from a perforated eardrum, a tumor in the ear canal, a cut in the skin in the ear, or something else more severe than a simple ear infection. Applying a home remedy may aggravate these conditions and/or may mask a doctors ability to detect them when she looks inside the ear. if the child has a perforated eardrum, doing this could also seriously risk causing deafness in that ear.
 Both garlic and coconut oils have antiviral and antibacterial properties and have long been used for treatment of infections at home. Garlic oil can be made at home from several cloves of garlic and coconut oil should be virgin and cold pressed to have the best results.Make your own garlic oil at home by crushing a couple cloves of fresh garlic and soaking it in olive oil on very low heat for 30 minutes. Coconut oil is widely available at grocery stores and health food stores.
To use, place two or three drops of the oil of your choice in the affected ear and lay down for 10 minutes on the other side of your head up so that the oil doesn’t drip out.
Never put oil in an ear in which you believe the eardrum may have ruptured. The oil may damage the inside of the ear if it goes through the eardrum.
 Xylitol is a natural sweetener or sugar substitute. There are studies that show that Xylitol may keep the number of ear infections you get to a minimum because it fights against bacteria that can grow in your ear and cause infections. Chew two pieces of gum containing Xylitol five times a day.However, chew this gum with caution. The Xylitol can kill the bacteria responsible for the development of ear infections, but frequent chewing can also increase the potential for temporomandibular joint syndrome and lead to the erosion of your teeth due to artificial flavors and preservatives., Another natural antimicrobial remedy is apple cider vinegar. There is some anecdotal evidence—though no firm scientific support—that vinegar may be effective in helping relieve ear infections. Dilute the vinegar, using one part vinegar to one part water, then fill the ear canal with the solution, plugging it with a cotton ball or washcloth or lying on the opposite side. After five minutes, drain the ear by turning over, with the affected side facing down.You could also apply three to four straight drops of apple cider vinegar into the affected ear with a syringe and then lie on the opposite side for a few minutes to let it settle.
 Although the most recent research shows that dairy products probably do not increase mucus production, there are case studies in which people report that it does. If mucus production increases it can block the eustachian tubes and increase the risk of bacterial growth.