 No matter what kind of valerian root you purchase, be sure to always read the instructions on the packaging carefully. If a recommended dose is given, follow the instructions, unless your doctor recommends a different dose. All products are different, so they may contain different concentrations of the herb.;
, The easiest way to take valerian root is to purchase pills or capsules at your local drug store. The recommended dose is between 400 and 900 mg of valerian root.Taking valerian root in pill form will help you avoid the unpleasant taste associated with many of its other forms.
Some pills contain only valerian root, while others contain other herbs as well.
 If you purchase dried valerian root, you can use it to steep your own herbal tea. Simply place one teaspoon of the valerian root (approximately 2-3 grams) in a mug and add hot water. Allow the tea to steep for at least five minutes before drinking.You may be able to purchase either powdered valerian root extract or a whole piece of dried root for use in your tea. You may also be able to find pre-made teabags.
 You can purchase two different kinds of liquid valerian root: a tincture, which is less concentrated, or a liquid extract, which is more concentrated. You can add either to water.If you use a tincture, add between 1 and 1-1/2 teaspoon of valerian root to your water. If you use a liquid extract, add between 1/2 teaspoon and 1 teaspoon.
If you find the taste too unpleasant, you can try adding some honey or sugar to the mixture., No matter what form you take valerian root in, take it one to two hours before bedtime for the best results. It may take several weeks for you to understand exactly how long it will take valerian root to start having an effect, so adjust accordingly.Valerian root can also be taken during the day to help ease anxiety and stomach problems, but it does cause drowsiness, so be very careful with your dosage if you choose to do this.
 You may not get any benefit the first several times you take valerian root. In fact, it is often not effective until it has been taken regularly for several weeks. If you want to give it a fair chance, continue taking valerian root daily for at least two to three weeks., Valerian root is often taken alone, but it is also commonly mixed with other herbs that are thought to help sleep. Lemon balm and hops are two of the most popular herbs used in conjunction with valerian root.Try taking 120 mg of valerian root along with 80 mg of lemon balm. Alternatively, you can try taking a combination pill that contains 180 mg of valerian root along with 41.9 mg of hops.
Always talk to your doctor before taking multiple herbal supplements together, as they may interact with each other.
 While valerian root is a fairly safe herbal supplement, there are some side effects that you may experience while taking it. These include dizziness, headaches, and stomach problems.In addition, you may feel very drowsy, even after a full night’s sleep, so it is important to use extreme caution when driving or operating machinery.
 Valerian root is not right for everyone. Before you take it, talk to your doctor to ensure that it is safe for you.Women who are pregnant or nursing should not take valerian root.
Children under 3 years old should not take valerian root.
People with liver disease should not take valerian root.
 Valerian root may interact with prescription medications and other herbal supplements you are taking. Always talk to your doctor about all of the medications and supplements you take.Valerian root is known to interact with alcohol and sedatives.
Valerian root may also affect your liver function, so be cautious if you are taking medications that are broken down by the liver.
 If you suffer from insomnia, taking valerian root may not be the best remedy for your condition. Seeing a doctor for a diagnosis can help you discover and treat the root cause of your insomnia.Cognitive behavioral therapy is a very effective treatment for insomnia that is not caused by an underlying medical condition.

