 One major way you can avoid a buildup of plaque on your teeth is brushing your teeth twice a day, once in the morning and once before bed. You may also brush your teeth after meals to make sure there are no food particles stuck in your teeth. Use a toothbrush with a soft bristle head and toothpaste that contains fluoride.When you brush, move the toothbrush backwards and forwards in short, circular motions. Sweep the toothbrush into the divots between your gums and your teeth at a 45 degree angle.
Try to brush every tooth in your mouth, especially teeth in the back of your mouth. You may work your way across the top and then the bottom row of teeth to ensure you brush each one. Brush your gums vertically to stimulate the blood circulation, which prevents swelling and bleeding gums.
Consider investing in an electric toothbrush, as they often work better than manual toothbrushes. Look for an electric toothbrush that has oscillating and rotating features. Make sure you use the electric toothbrush correctly to avoid causing gum recession.;
, Flossing after meals can help to remove food particles and other bacteria that can cause gum disease. Try to get in the habit of flossing after you eat and after you brush your teeth. You can also floss before brushing your teeth or rinsing with mouthwash. You may also carry floss with you in your bag so you can floss right after you eat or when you are not at home.Floss by holding a long piece of floss between your two pointer fingers. Then, angle the floss to get between each tooth in your mouth. You may start at your top row of teeth and then finish by flossing your bottom row of teeth.
Change the floss if you see plaque on it and expect a bit of gum bleeding when you are flossing.
Make sure you floss your back teeth so there are no food particles remaining in your mouth.
 You can keep your teeth clean by gargling with mouthwash every time you brush or floss. Swishing your mouth with mouthwash can help to remove any food particles or bacteria that you missed while flossing or brushing.Look for mouthwash that does not contain alcohol or any other additives. Go for a mouthwash that advertises plaque removal.
You can get brighter teeth if you brush your teeth while holding half of a cup of mouthwash in your mouth. Use the mouthwash as a toothpaste and brush your teeth gently, especially the visible part of your teeth.
 You should try to get yearly teeth cleanings so you are at a lower risk of developing gum disease. Set up a schedule with your dentist so you have a teeth cleaning every year and can get any dental issues checked out. This will ensure your teeth remain healthy and you are aware of any dental issues before they become more serious.