 Pull all drawers out of the cabinets and remove any hardware connecting the drawers to the outer cupboard shells.






;
, Take the screws out of hinges and pull the doors off of frames. Once the doors are off, go back and remove any hardware attached to the cabinet frames.









This is also a good opportunity to assess the hardware that holds the cupboards together. Any screws, hinges or braces that look worn should be replaced after you paint the cupboards.
 Use a grease-removing cleaner and a sponge or soft cloth to remove dirt and stains before you paint kitchen cupboards. Rinse the cupboards with water and let them dry completely.









TSP, or trisodium phosphate, is a great industrial-grade cleaner that is sure to remove grease and grime from the surface of your cupboards. Since TSP can be harmful to the environment, you can also look for a TSP substitute instead.
 Whether you've got scratches, scuffs, gouges, or other unsightly marks, a professional looking cupboard painting isn't complete without a smooth surface. Be sure to let the compound dry.









Use a putty knife or other flat surface to skim off excess filler. It's better to over-apply than under-apply, as filler constricts somewhat when it dries. If you apply too little filler the first time, you can always go over the dent with another patch of filler.
At this point, decide if you want new handles on your cabinets. If the new hardware requires different size holes, or holes closer or farther apart, you'll need to fill the existing holes with wood filler and drill new holes before painting.
 Lightly rub all areas you will paint with a 120-grit sandpaper. This will help the primer and paint adhere better when you paint the cabinets.









Sanding is especially important for cupboards that have a shiny polyurethane coating on them. A new paint will peel quickly when applied on top of this shiny surface.
 Primer is an undercoat that's applied before the coat(s) of paint. Paint that is applied directly to wood will dry prematurely, as wood is very porous and soaks up the solvent quickly. For this reason, Primer helps paint adhere to it and dry slower, making the color more brilliant and the texture smoother.









Most experts stick with an oil-based primer. Oil-based primers can be used even if you intend to use latex-based paint to cover the primer. You'll need to let the primer dry completely, however, and roughen up the surface afterward with sandpaper.
If your cupboards are stained and old-looking, you may want to consider a cover stain primer. These primers are specifically designed to cover up unsightly stains, caused by mildew, smoke, and other irritants.
 Once the primer is completely dried, use a 240-grit sandpaper to go over the primer. Again, this will roughen up the surface and help the coat(s) of paint to bond to the primer.
 Tape around the inside edge of drawers or cabinets if you do not paint to bleed into the insides. Be sure to tape around ceiling edges or walls where the cupboards meet.
 Use a trim brush to paint all small cabinet frame areas, and continue painting inside the cupboards with a small roller or brush.
 Roll paint on the doors with a large roller brush to cover bigger areas at one time. Paint the edges of doors, cabinets and drawers with a small brush. Remember to paint the door and drawer backsides, as well.









Apply paint on thin to leave fewer visible brushstrokes. If you used a primer beforehand, thin brushstrokes should adequately cover the cupboard surface. Remember that you can also apply a second coat of paint.
You can take cupboard doors outside or to a garage and use a paint sprayer to coat them. Let one side dry, then flip them over and coat the other side.
 The first coat of paint should be given at least four hours to dry if another coat of paint will be applied over it.
 You don't need more than two coats of paint, especially if you have a primer on, but the difference between one coat of paint and two can be startling: It can be the difference between a decent job and a professional-looking job. Give the paint a whole day to dry.
 Re-attach all cupboard doors and drawers.








