 Make sure that you're checking the most recent version of the document. If you want to check punctuation for the whole thing, proceed to the "Spelling & Grammar" tab to open up an easy spell-check tool. If you want to check punctuation for a specific section of the text, simply highlight that text before you use the spell-check tool.
 First, click on the Review tab at the top of the Word window (between Mailings and View). You'll be presented with a list of various editing options. Click "Spelling & Grammar" – the button should appear in the top-left corner of the screen, just below "File". Click on it and it will run a spell check on the whole document. If there are any punctuation mistakes, this tool will generate a pop-up box with options for corrections.


If you're using a Windows computer, you may also simply press the F7 key shortcut while in Word to start a spell-check.
All words that are not spelled correctly will show up in red. The proper nouns that the program doesn't recognize will render in blue, and the grammatical mistakes will appear green.
 For each grammatical mistake, the pop-up box will give you several suggestions for the You'll also have the option to "Ignore", "Ignore All", or "Add to Dictionary". Understand what each of these options means:


Ignore will signal to the program that there is nothing wrong with this particular instance of this word, but it won't stop the spell-check algorithm from picking up that word the next time that it appears.
Ignore All will signal to the program that all instances of this specific spelling are correct, as long as they appear within this document. Any red and green squiggly underlines will disappear, which may make it easier to read and review your document.
Add to Dictionary will permanently enter this spelling into Word's library of "known" words. You should be able to write the word (with this exact spelling) in any future document without it being flagged again.
 You'll be prompted with several options for each flagged word, so be sure to pick the right one. Click the suggested word, then click Change. If you misspelled the word in multiple places, click Change All to fix them all at once.


If you aren't sure which suggestion is correct, run a web search for the word and try to discern how people usually spell it. Sophisticated search engines will even pull your search results from the correctly-spelled version of the word.
 When there are no other punctuation mistakes to run through, you'll be prompted to confirm that the spelling and grammar check is complete. Once you click this button, you're free to save the document or keep working. You can always run another spell-check if another punctuation issue comes up!

