 Read the platform of each candidate and determine which candidate’s plan aligns the most with your views. You can also watch debates to get a better idea of their leaderships styles. Pay particular attention to the issues that are most important to you. Make sure that you support a candidate who shares similar views concerning these particular issues., Rather than just sitting at home stressing about the impending election, actively get involved. Channel your energy and try and make a positive change in an issue you care about. You can volunteer your time in order to actively support one of the candidates. This will allow you to work as a part of a community that is making a difference in your area, regardless of election results.For example, you could canvass for one of the candidates by going door-to-door explaining the party platform.
You could also try donating money to one of the candidates.
 If you have friends or relatives who support a different political candidate than you, talk with them about the upcoming election. Try and understand their position, even if you don't necessarily agree with it. Then explain to them why you support a different candidate.


This type of conversation and debate can lead you to see the opposing side in a more positive light and you may be able to learn something new.
Only try this when you are calm and level-headed enough to have a thoughtful discussion without letting your emotions get the better of you. Do not enter trying to defend your points or persuade someone else to see things your way. Talk to create mutual understanding and acceptance of different opinions.
 Voting is an important part of the democratic process and allows you to have your voice heard. By casting a vote you are actively participating in the outcome of the election. Make sure that you register to vote well in advance of the election date. You should also educate yourself about all of the candidates on the ballot, not just the presidential candidate. This will ensure that you make informed decisions.