 If you lost your job because it was obsolete, it will be very hard to find the same job again. This is your chance to update your skills for a new era.;
, Most of these places offer resume services for free, in addition to job placement. Do this immediately after you lose your job, in order to take advantage of job coaching.
 This is a great time to get certificates or to increase your computer knowledge. Contact your local Lifelong Learning Center, Job Services department or Community College and sign up for classes that will make you more qualified with the tools you work with.
 It is good to stay busy, but too much unpaid work can take away from valuable job-seeking time. The best volunteer positions for your resume are those that allow you to get out and make contacts in the community, produce something you can show in interviews or lead a team., If you are unemployed because of health issues, look for vocational rehabilitation. You may qualify to undergo retraining for a new career free of charge.
 Change your experience to reflect the relevant skills you have. One of the biggest mistakes people make is turning in the same resume to each job, despite vastly different job requirements.
 If you don’t feel confident enough to break out on your own, visit all the temp agencies in town and have them assess your skills. For most people, they don’t require five full days of job searching, but they do need an income in the short-term.
 Make low-cost business cards and drop them around town with a letter about your freelance services. Some companies don’t have the money to hire a full-time employee, but they need short-term contractors.
 You may even be able to offer up very low-cost services on Fiverr.com, where someone pays you five dollars to provide a service. Even if they don’t provide a large salary, these opportunities can sometimes fill the gaps while you look for employment., Look for blogging, speaking or ghostwriting gigs that use the knowledge you’ve gained. Trade journals and business people are often looking for writers who have technical knowledge to write manuals, biographies, eBooks and more.
 This is a time when friends and family members understand when you ask for their help, since most people learn about jobs through their social network.


Getting in touch with friends and family is also a good emotional decision after losing a job. Unemployment often leads to insecurity and depression. Ask for support during this difficult time., Most towns have women’s business networks, sustainable business networks or Chamber of Commerce groups. Get involved so that you can meet the people supplying the jobs.
 In fact, if you know friends do cocktail hours with clients or work colleagues, this is a perfect time to meet new people and get your name out in the community.
 Brush up your resume, put on a suit and market your experience at these fairs. If the job fair offers an online resume option, consider this as well.
 They may be willing to share knowledge about company job openings before they are posted.

