 These items will help you better navigate the camping area and may come in handy in an emergency.

Bring flashlights or lanterns. For late night hikes or middle-of-the-night bathroom calls, a portable light source is a must. Make sure you take the correct batteries for your light source.



 


Store matches in a plastic bag or bring a lighter and lighter fluid. Lanterns and flashlights are great for the dark, but you will also need to build fires if your campsite does not have fire rings for cooking. Also remember to bring newspapers to help start your fire.






Bring a map of the area you will be camping in. In case you become lost and do not have a cell phone, you will need to know how to navigate back to your campsite. To better help you navigate, take a compass as well; simply align the compass so that the edge connects your current location to your intended destination. Follow the arrow while it is pointed at your intended destination.






Take a first aid kit. Being able to bandage and disinfect wounds obtained in the wilderness is a top priority. Remember the Boy Scouts motto: "Be prepared!"Bring a shiny belt to signal helicopters in case you get lost. If traveling with other people, create a yell and Bing a whistle to signal each other in case you get lost.;
, Even if you plan on "roughing it," be sure to bring basic toiletries and hygiene tools.

Pack a toothbrush, soap, towels, and toilet paper. Even if your campsite doesn't offer a public restroom and shower, you will need to brush, bathe, and use the bathroom often.






Pack enough clothes. Make sure that you dress according to the area and weather. Boots, sweaters, worn jeans, and t-shirts are better suited than nice jeans, sneakers, and polo shirts. If camping in cold or rainy weather, be sure to wear thick, waterproof clothing.






Remember to bring prescription medications and asthma inhalers. If you have allergies, bring your EpiPen or over the counter allergy medicines. If you are female, make sure to bring essential feminine care products.






Bring a pocket knife.Knives come in handy for small but important tasks like opening food bags or mark trees when hiking. Buy a Swiss army knife as a more reliable and versatile option; Swiss army knives have specialized tools like bottle openers and scissors.Store items in backpacks and large duffle bags. These are more mobile and easier to carry than luggage.
 If you are camping on public grounds and do not intend to use local lodging, make sure you bring the necessary housing items.

Bring your tent along with a mallet for staking tent loops and rain fly loops to the ground. If you plan on camping in rain, take a tarp to waterproof your tent.






Take plenty of blankets. Even though you may be camping during summer, nights can get cold quickly. You can also layer blankets on the floor of your inner tent. This will cushion your tent floor and make it easier to sleep.
Pack sleeping bags and pillows. Though both are optional, it's nice being able to keep as warm as possible during the night and rest your head on a soft, cushioned surface.
If your campsite doesn't come equipped with picnic benches and tables, bring folding chairs and tables

, Be sure to check with grounds officials about how to properly store foods to avoid attracting local wildlife.Water bottles and canteens are ideal, especially when hiking. If you plan on doing a lot of physical activities, you will need to stay hydrated especially during hotter weather. Remember to pack a watercooler to help keep water refrigerated.
Lean towards food that is easily cooked over fire. This includes eggs, vegetables, and thin slices of vacuum-packed meat.Don't just take raw foods, take non-perishable foods as well. Chances are you won't be cooking for all meals, and having foods that won't spoil in hot weather is a nice option to have.Make sure you take recipes along with the food you intend to cook.
Pack all perishable foods in tightly sealed plastic bags. Keeping moisture out will help them stay edible longer. For fragile foods like eggs, cushion plastic bags with folded paper towels.
Remember camping classics. Take marshmallows, chocolate, and graham crackers to make S'mores! Simply roast marshmallows over an open flame and sandwich them between a bar of chocolate and two graham crackers.
 Some campsites do not have fire rings or allow camp stoves, so be prepared to cook over an open flame.


Knives specifically for cutting food are handy to have. Pocket knives, while useful, are not made for slicing meat or chopping vegetables.
Pack pots and pans for cooking over a flame.Camp-friendly pots and pans aren't just more portable than regular kitchenware, they are specifically tailored for open flame cooking (for example, stainless steal pots with heavy duty bottoms for even heat distribution).Bring eating utensils. Cups, plates, forks, and spoons are essential when eating. Also bring grilling tools like tongs and spatulas to help you cook hot foods.
Bring a barbecue grill, coal, and some bottled beers if your campsite allows it. Barbecuing during hot weather is great for days when you just want to sit and relax.

