 In a medium bowl, sift the flour, sugar, and salt until the ingredients are completely incorporated., Place the cubes of butter in the flour mixture. Use a pastry cutter to work the butter into the dough until it resembles cornmeal, with a few pea-sized pieces of butter mixed in.
 Lightly beat the egg in a separate bowl. Pour it into the crust mixture and use a spoon to fold it in until it is just incorporated. Don't overmix, or the dough will turn out too dense.
 Use your hands to shape it into a ball. Place the ball on a sheet of plastic wrap, and fold the edges over it.
 Press down on the ball with the heels of your hands to flatten the dough into a disc.
, Remove the dough from the refrigerator, take it out of the plastic wrap, and place it on a floured surface. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough into a large circular shape that will fit over a 9-inch pie dish. Drape the crust over the dish and trim the edges. Use your fingers to crimp the dough over the edges of the dish to hold it in place.


If you'd like, use a fork to make decorative notches around the rim of the pie crust.
Take care not to tear a hole in the pie crust. If you accidentally tear one, use a little extra dough to patch it up.
 Cover the crust with plastic wrap and place the pie plate in the freezer to firm up for at least 30 minutes.
 Cover the pie crust with aluminum foil. Use pie weights or dried beans to fill the crust - this prevents it from bubbling up when it bakes.
, Remove it from the oven while you make the filling.
 Place the butter, brown sugar, corn syrup, and salt in a saucepan. Place the saucepan over medium high heat and bring the ingredients to a boil, stirring constantly. Let them boil for one minute so that the mixture begins to thicken., Incorporate the pecans fully, then add the bourbon and vanilla and stir again. Let the mixture cool for about 5 minutes.
 Beat the eggs lightly in a separate bowl, then add them to the filling mixture. Whisk until the eggs are fully blended with the rest of the filling (if you tried leaving the eggs out, the filling would not firm up when cooled).
 Place the pie crust on a baking sheet. Pour the filling into the crust. Use a spatula to spread it evenly.
 Place the pie in the oven (still heated to 350 degrees) and bake it until the filling edges are set, about 50 to 60 minutes (if you had not precooked the pecans, crust and filling then it could take longer). Check it frequently to make sure the crust doesn't burn.


You can cover the edge area of the crust by making and laying a ring of aluminum foil on top of the edge of the crust to prevent it from burning while the filling cooks.
Jiggle the pie to test if it's done. If the filling is still too runny, it needs more time. If it moves just a little, it's ready.
 Let it cool on the counter for about 10 minutes (to serve very warm) or an hour or two to serve cooled. Slice the pie and distribute it onto plates. Serve with whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.

