 Cognitive behavioral therapy is a common technique used to help with body image issues. CBT works to reverse negative self-talk and a person’s obsession with flaws. CBT also helps a person learn what self images are real and what others have arisen from unhealthy development of your esteem.CBT tries to help replace negative thoughts with positive thoughts. Your counselor will help you challenge your unfounded beliefs about yourself as you develop a healthier body image.
 One aspect of CBT is monitoring your thoughts. Your therapist can help you learn how to recognize unhealthy and damaging thoughts. You can also learn how to pay attention to the circumstances that trigger your thoughts or cause the thoughts to worsen.You may have to keep a diary of your emotions and thoughts about yourself.
 After you have monitored your thoughts and identified the unhealthy, damaging ideas you have about yourself, the next step of CBT is to challenge those thoughts. Your counselor will help you learn strategies and develop skills that will allow you to challenge these unrealistic thoughts about yourself.


For example, you may feel that because of your burn scar that you are ugly and people won't want to look at you. You may feel that because you are male with small muscles, you are less masculine. You have a negative self-perception because your body looks different than your identified gender. CBT can help you challenge these thoughts by exploring if these thoughts are true, and what are the pros and cons of holding on to this belief., The goal of CBT is for you to modify your thoughts, feelings, and behaviors from the negative thoughts. Many body image issues stem from inaccurate and/or unrealistic thoughts about your body. Whether the thoughts are about your weight, a body part, your gender, or a trauma scar, these thoughts are damaging to self-esteem and your well-being.


CBT works to modify the negative thoughts and perceptions you have about yourself. You learn how to replace these negative thoughts with realistic, and therefore healthier and more positive, thoughts.
 Another facet of CBT involves learning how to prioritize the way you think. Each thought you have takes up a place in your brain, and some thoughts are larger and more important than others. CBT helps you learn how to put healthier thoughts into a priority spot into your brain, while pushing negative thoughts down the priority list.For example, if you think you are fat, this is not a thought that should be the first in your brain. You should reorder the thoughts in your brain so that you focus more on your career, your friends, or how you are a great pianist instead of how you perceive yourself as fat.

