 One strategy for getting your kids to eat more of their lunches is to actually pack smaller portions of food. This might seem counterintuitive, however, large amounts of food can be overwhelming to children, especially if they have a limited amount of time to eat. School lunches can sometimes be as short as 20 minutes, so big portions might seem like too much to eat in the allotted amount of time and, therefore, be ignored.


For example, instead of packing a whole turkey sandwich, try providing just half of a turkey sandwich. This portion may seem more manageable in the time your child has to eat lunch.;
, If you are packing smaller portions of food, you can also pack a wider variety. Instead of providing a sandwich and an apple, you could provide half a sandwich, a few slices of apple, crackers, and some raw veggies. Providing a wider variety of food in your kid’s lunch may encourage them to eat more because, in addition to the portions being more manageable, it will also provide them with options of what they want to eat.


For instance, say you pack your child a turkey sandwich and an apple, but they only eat half the sandwich and a few bites of the apple. It could be that your child just wasn’t in the mood for what you packed them that day. Had you packed a variety of things, there’s a good chance your child would find something in their lunch they wanted to eat.Include foods with different colors, textures, and shapes. These can include colorful fruits and veggies with dips, proteins like hardboiled eggs, chickpeas, or yogurt, and whole grains like bread, muffins, or crackers.You can even change the shape of same foods from day to day. For example, on one day you can cut the sandwich into triangles; the next day, you can use a cooker cutter to make it a star-shape.
 If time is a concern for your child, you can encourage them to eat more by packing foods that are easy to eat fast. For example, pack sliced fruit instead of whole, cut sandwiches into bite-sized pieces, or provide food that can be eaten with their fingers. In addition, make sure food packaging is easy-to-open. It might even help to practice opening containers at home., Children often go through stages where they don’t want their food to touch. If your kid is not eating their lunch, it’s possible this could be the problem. Try deconstructing the food you put into their lunch, rather than providing already put-together options.


For example, pack sandwich condiments (like lettuce, tomato, mustard, or mayonnaise) separately and let your child put their sandwich together. It could be they just enjoy making their own sandwich, or maybe the condiments make the bread soggy when it is pre-assembled.