 If you have charged the battery using a charger or another vehicle but your vehicle still won’t start, remove the battery (if you haven’t already) and take it to a local auto parts store. There, they can charge the battery and check to see if it works fine, can be serviced, or needs to be replaced. If your vehicle’s battery is a VRLA battery or a no-maintenance wet cell battery, you will have to replace it if it doesn’t hold a charge.If the battery is bad, you will need to purchase a replacement for it.
If the battery is fully charged and working well but your car won’t start, check the battery cables to ensure they aren’t broken and connect firmly to the battery.
 A faulty alternator can prevent your vehicle from sufficiently charging the battery enough to start the car again and can even fail to produce enough electricity to keep the vehicle running. You can check to see if you have an issue with the alternator by starting the vehicle, then disconnecting the positive terminal of the battery. A properly functioning alternator will produce enough electricity to keep the vehicle running without the battery, but if the vehicle shuts off, the alternator likely needs to be replaced.You can sometimes tell if there is an issue with your alternator by looking at your interior lights. If the lights get brighter as you press on the gas pedal, then dim again when you remove your foot, the alternator may be bad.
If you remove the alternator from your vehicle, many auto parts stores can test it to ensure it’s the problem before ordering a replacement.
 If the car won’t start, but produces audible clicking when you try, there likely isn’t enough electricity in the battery to start the vehicle. This may be because it failed to charge properly when you were charging it or it may be a result of the battery simply being too worn out to hold a charge. Try jump starting the car again, or remove the battery and have it tested.Make sure you have a good connection to the battery when charging it, otherwise the battery will not be able to start the car.
The clicking indicates that there is some electricity in the battery, but not enough to start the engine.
 If the vehicle starts after you charge the battery, but stalls soon after it starts to run, it may be because of the alternator. If it will start up again or it continues to crank but fails to start running however, the issue is not electrical. You may have an issue with fuel or air delivery.Your vehicle needs air, fuel and electricity to run properly.
You will likely need to take the car to a mechanic to identify the issue if this occurs.

