 Every country, and sometimes even every state, has a slightly different limit for what it means to be legally drunk. Everyone is different, but as a rough rule of thumb, your body can process (metabolize) one drink per hour. If you've had more than one drink per hour, then -- you guessed it -- you are drunk. Legally, anyway. Even if you don't feel drunk, don't even think about driving a car even if you feel perfectly fine or going to work or caring for a child, or, editing wikiHow or doing anything else you need to have full control of your faculties for.


"One drink" means one standard glass of wine, one shot of vodka, or 12 ounces of beer or the equivalent of in other alcoholic beverages. A sherry, a pint of cider, a Bacardi, a larger etc.;
, Do you have a computer or phone handy? If you want to find out if you're legally drunk right now, check out a helpful Blood Alcohol Content (B.A.C.) calculator. One of the most well-respected ones comes from the University of Oklahoma.But if you're not living in the United States, then you should check out an online calculator from your country.


Online calculators also take a significant factor into account: your weight. The bigger you are, the more slowly you'll get drunk. So, a 100 lb. girl drinking two beers will get a lot more drunk than a 200 lb. guy drinking the same two beers.
The calculators may also offer more than just the option of the standard meaning of "one drink," and give you more variables so you can see exactly how much you really consumed.
 Drunk is normally defined as having a B.A.C. of .05-.10. In some countries, like Russia, you are not allowed to drive if there is any alcohol in your body at all.


That is a percent, so if your blood is more than 0.1% you are probably legally drunk.
A good assumption is about .08, but look at your local laws.
 Breathalyzers are small devices that you can breathe into to calculate your B.A.C. Though you may not have one handy currently, you can get one at most pharmacies or order it online -- hopefully you don't encounter one in the hands of a police officer. Stocking your car or home with a breathalyzer is a great idea because it can let you know if you -- or your guests -- are legally able to drive.


Don't take a big swig of alcohol before testing your B.A.C. Even if you're just having fun, it will give you a higher reading than normal.

