 Make sure your video has been rewound to the beginning.


Plug your camcorder or other video recording device into the computer with a FireWire cable.
In Windows Movie Maker, select "Capture video from digital video camera" from the task pane on the left.
Save your video on your computer as directed.;
, Connect your camera to the computer with a USB cable. Save pictures as directed to your computer.
 Choose "Import Pictures" from the program's task pane on the left.


Navigate to where your commercial pictures are saved and select the pictures you want. Click "Import."

, Save the music in an easily accessible location.


Import the music to Windows Movie Maker. Choose "Import audio or music" from the left task pane.
Find the location where you saved your commercial music. Select your file(s) and click "Import."

, You can click the "Play" button in the preview window on the right to see its footage.


Use the "Split" button in the bottom right corner of the preview window to divide a video clip into parts. You can cut out unnecessary or unusable parts of the video clip this way.
Leave extra video frames before or after the point(s) where you split the clip(s). The extra frames may be used for transitions or other video effects.
 They should be selected in the order you want them to appear to make editing the commercial easier.


The default viewing mode for the bottom part of Windows Movie Maker is the "Storyboard" view. You can switch from "Storyboard" to "Timeline" view for more detailed editing of transitions, effects, and to see audio or music files in your commercial.
,


Click the location in your video where you want a title to be. A title can be a separate clip or be overlaid on a video clip or picture.
Click on "Titles and Credits" from the left task pane. Alternatively, go to "Tools," then "Titles and Credits."
Click the link for where you want to add your title if necessary.
Type in text for your title in the "Enter text for title" box.
Change the title's animation if desired. Click the "Change the title animation" link and choose a desired animation.
Change the title's font style and color if desired. Click on "Change the text font and color." Choose your options for the title's background color, text positioning, font color, font style, size and more.
Drag the right edge of your title's clip to shorten or lengthen the title clip's length. Switch to "Timeline view" to do this.



Click the second of 2 clips where you want a transition to be. You can be in either "Storyline" or "Timeline" view. In "Storyline" view, the transition will be in the smaller rectangle in between the 2 clips. In "Timeline" view, the transition will appear under the clips as a bar. The timeline's "Video" section should be expanded to see the transitions.
Click on "Tools," then select "Transitions."
Choose the transition you want to add from the "Contents" pane. Preview the transition by clicking "Play" under the preview window.
Click "Clip" and then "Add to Timeline" or "Add to Storyboard." You can also drag the transition in between its 2 clips in the timeline or drag it to the smaller rectangle in between 2 storyboard clips.



View your project in "Timeline" mode. Drag the start of a transition towards the right to shorten it. Drag it towards the left to lengthen it.
 You can be in "Storyboard" or "Timeline" view.


Click on "Tools." Choose "Effects" from the menu.
Click the effect you want from the "Contents" pane. Preview it by clicking the "Play" button in the preview window.
Click on "Clip." Select "Add to Storyboard" or "Add to Timeline." You can also drag the effect from its pane and drop it in an effect cell for a video clip or on a picture in "Storyboard" view. Alternatively, drag and drop the effect on a video clip or picture in "Timeline" view.
 This must be done in "Timeline" view.


Drag your imported music file(s) into the timeline area.
Connect a microphone and speakers to your computer to add audio.
Click where you want narration, dialogue or other audio for your commercial to begin.
Click the down arrow in the "Timeline." Select "Narrate Timeline," then click "Start Narration."
Speak into the microphone to narrate or include dialogue or other audio in your commercial.
Click "Stop Narration" when finished. Save and close your narration. The audio file will be placed in the "Audio/Music" line, beginning where your cursor was.
, Select "Save to this computer" from the left task pane. Name your commercial Windows Movie Maker file.


Choose a location to save your commercial on your computer. Click "Finish."

