 Do not do it because you consider it is necessary to fit in at school or to be popular or accepted by people who appear to be popular. Being popular isn't the be all and end all of life, and trying to be cute when it isn't really you is self-deception and you'll just feel very uncomfortable in your own skin. The only good reason to try the cute look is because you really identify with it as part of your own personality.;
, Regardless of your appearance, having confidence in your own abilities and having a sense of self-worth is an important part of being a happy and fulfilled person. Being cute isn't just about having a sweet appearance; it's also about feeling good about yourself so that you feel confident in front of other people and don't gain insecurities or need to chase other people's approval.
 Start by knowing what a bad attitude is. It is feeling less than others around you and turning that into gossiping, spreading rumors and dissing them. None of these things will help you to feel any better and they'll gain you a reputation for being unfriendly and insecure. A cute girl is cute because her attitude radiates friendliness, kindness and acceptance of self and others. Aim for that to be your attitude too.
 Don't change for some guy or girl. When you're sad, at least try to smile. Be there for your friends and they will be there for you.
 If you have a uniform then look around the school and find hints of the style, either it's folding your shorts up or tucking your shirt in your school pants, give it a try. If you have no uniforms get some cute jeans and some cute shirts. Even apply some makeup if you want. You will look very cute and the makeup will highlight your beautiful face


You don't have to look or dress inappropriately to look pretty, you're already beautiful!

, Some ideas for hairstyles include:

Curled or straightened ponytail
Side fishtail braid
Two Dutch or French braids
A single Dutch or French braid
Space buns
Half up half down (curly or straight)
Down and straight
Down and curly
Try not to have frizzy, puffy or messy hair.
Choose hairstyles that match your face. Everyone is different.
 But remember, always stick it the school rules.
 Whatever looks cute. Now with your bag, get a cute bag that is big enough for a lot of books. You can make your bag and pencil case look cute on the outside by decorating it, put some key chains on the zippers or write on it with cute quotes and song lyrics. Now your locker, decorate it with pictures of your friends and some cute wrapping paper or anything you want. But make sure it's tidy.
 Be polite to everyone, and show a pleasant attitude to everyone.


Be helpful to everyone and share things. Never be rude deliberately.
 Stuff all of the mean girls and get with your girls and have a place in the school where you meet every lunch time and hang out there. Even give your group a name if you want, for more fun.
 Sure, being cute is a lot of fun, but don't forget school. Do your homework, be organized, get to class on time, study for exams, catch up for days you were away, but most importantly, try your hardest on your schoolwork.
 Being social is cute so meet new people, hang out with your new friends, but don't forget your old friends. Go to discos with yours girlfriends and dress up and have fun. Go shopping every two weeks with your girls, watch a movie or even have a sleepover. And most importantly, be friendly and nice to everyone, because if you be mean it will ruin your look.
 There are some rules to dating when being a cute chick. You must never let a person touch you anywhere that makes you feel uncomfortable. In public you can flirt and hold hands and kiss your partner on the cheek or lips, but no more than that (Save the rest for when you are alone). Also remember, when you're dating someone, don't forget your friends or leave them behind! Balance the time you spend with your partner and your other friends.

