 To do so, double-click on the yellow app icon that contains the letters "Ai," then click on File in the menu bar at the top of the screen, and:

Click on Open... to open an existing image; or
Click on New... to create a new image.;
, It's the T icon at the upper-right of the toolbar on the left side of the window., Doing so creates a text box., Type anything you like.

Common watermarks include "Sample," "Draft," or copyright notices.
 It's the black pointer in the upper-left part of the toolbar on the left side of the window., Doing so selects the text as an object that you can edit.

Use the three Character: drop-down menus at the top of the window to adjust the font, style, and size of the watermark.
Click on a color in the "Color" window in the upper-right corner of the screen to select a color for your watermark.
If you'd like your watermark to appear at an angle, click on the Rotate Tool ("↺") in the left-center of the toolbar on the left side of the screen, then click and drag over your watermark to rotate it.
 It's the black pointer in the upper-left part of the toolbar on the left side of the window., Doing so selects the text as an object that you can edit.,, It's at the top of the Illustrator window., The background image is now visible beneath your watermark., It's in the menu bar at the top of the window., It's near the top of the menu., Your watermark is now the topmost object in the layer., It's in the menu bar at the top of the window., It's at the top of the window., It's in the menu bar at the top of the window., It's near the top of the menu., The watermark is now "locked" in place on top of the image., It's in the menu bar at the top of the screen., It's near the bottom of the drop-down menu., Do so in the "Save As:" field at the top of the dialog box., It's at the lower-left of the dialog box.,, It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box., It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box. Your image is now a single-layer JPEG file with the watermark locked in place on top of the image.