 A large number of clinical studies have studied the use of vitamin C in the treatment of asthma. The majority showed improvement with supplemental Vitamin C.You can take 500 mg of Vitamin C every day as long as you have no kidney disease.
 Molybdenum is a trace mineral found in beans, lentils, and peas.The Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) of molybdenum for children up to 13 years is 22-43 mcg/day while for people over 14 years is 45 mcg. Pregnant and nursing women need 50 mcg/day. Most multivitamins will include molybdenum, but it can also be purchased individually.
 Selenium is required for biochemical reactions that are involved in controlling inflammation. Food sources include organ meats, seafood, and meat.


If you use a supplement, get one that uses selenomethionine. Studies have indicated that this form of selenium is best absorbed.Don’t take more than 200 mcg of selenium a day. It can be toxic in higher doses.
 Vitamin B6 is involved with over 100 different reactions in the body.It can help reduce inflammation, as well as support the immune system.


Foods highest in the most absorbable form of Vitamin B6 are salmon, potatoes, turkey and chicken, avocados, spinach and bananas.
As a supplement, children between the ages of 1-8 years should take 0.8 mg/day. Between the ages of 9-13, 1.0 mg/day should be taken. Adolescents and adults should take 1.3-1.7 mg/day and women who are pregnant or nursing should take 1.9-2.0 mg/day.
 Vitamin B12 is important to your metabolism and the energy producing citric acid cycle. Deficiency can result in anemia and nervous system disorders.Food sources include meats, seafood, fish, cheese and eggs.


As a supplement, children between the ages of 1-8 years should take 0.9-1.2 mg/day. Between the ages of 9-13, 1.8 mg/day should be taken. Adolescents and adults should take 2.4 mg/day and women who are pregnant or nursing should take 2.6-2.8 mg/day., The most common is licorice root. Talk to your physician before using medicinal herbs, because they may interfere with medications.


If you take these as supplements, follow the manufacturer’s directions.
If using them as teas, take 1 teaspoon of dried herb or 3 teaspoons of fresh herb and steep in boiled water (1 cup) for 10 minutes. Drink 3-4 cups a day.
Lobelia inflata (Indian tobacco) is sometimes smoked for asthma relief, but only do this under the advice of a naturopath or a medical herbalist.

