 Generally, the things you need to do on a computer will fall into four categories. The types of activities you have the most difficulty with will determine which computer set-up will work best for you.For example, if you have difficulty using a computer mouse to navigate the screen, you may prefer a computer with a touch-screen or a laptop with a touchpad instead of a mouse.
If you have difficulty reading text on the screen, even when it's magnified, you may need a computer that will read out things on the screen rather than depend on you to see them.;
, The two most popular OS options are Windows or Apple's OS X. Since the Windows operating system is licensed to different manufacturers, you have a wider range of options there.Generally, both operating systems have similar accessibility features built in. Compare the way each operates so you can decide which one makes better sense for you.
Compare different manufacturers of Windows machines as well, so you can find the configuration that works best for you personally and also fits your budget.
 Since they generally use the same operating systems, choosing between a desktop and a laptop is largely a matter of personal preference. While your visual impairment may play a role, it largely depends on how portable you want your computer to be.If you travel frequently and want to have your computer with you, a laptop may be better for you than a desktop.
If you're more comfortable with a larger screen, you may want to choose a desktop computer instead. Get a smaller device, such as a tablet, to take with you when you need to use a computer while traveling.
 Both Windows and OS X have built-in text-to-speech programs that will read aloud any text that appears on your computer screen. You can listen to the two narrators and decide which one you like better.If you're not happy with either of the built-in text-to-speech options, search online for third-party apps that you can download. You should be able to watch demos of these programs so you can find the one you like the best.
 If you're on a tight budget, you'll spend less money and get more computing power and storage space if you buy refurbished. Typically these machines come with a limited warranty.Manufacturers refurbish computers to certain standards before selling them as certified refurbished machines. That certification entitles you to a warranty and other quality guarantees that you wouldn't get if you just bought a used computer that wasn't certified.
 If you live in the United States, you may be able to purchase a low-cost computer designed specifically for people who are blind or visually impaired.CFTB is a nonprofit organization that provides refurbished computers to people who are blind or visually impaired at a reduced cost. You also can get accessibility software installed for an additional cost.
Outside the United States, check with your nearest nonprofit or governmental organization that assists people who are blind or visually impaired. They will be able to point you towards similar opportunities where you live.

