 It is important that you tell your oldest child that you are pregnant with a new baby. Your child should not learn about their sibling from another family member or friend. Explain that your oldest child is going to become a big brother or a big sister. This will give them a feeling of importance and they can begin to think about their new special role in the family.You may want to have your oldest child exchange gifts with the new baby so that they have a positive association with the baby.;
, Some changes will need to take place when the new baby arrives. For example, parents will need to divide their attention between their two children. If any changes are going to be made to your oldest child’s schedule, try and make those changes well in advance of the new baby. This way the oldest child will not resent their new sibling and associate the changes with the new baby.


For example, if the new baby is going to sleep in your eldest child’s crib, you should move your child to a different bed before the new baby arrives.
Alternatively, if the child used to get dropped off at daycare by one parent, but that is going to change when the baby comes, you should make that change well in advance.
 Have an honest discussion with your oldest child about what to expect when the new baby arrives. For example, you can explain that the new baby will need a lot of time and attention. You should also explain that the baby will only be able to eat, sleep, poop, pee, and cry. This way your older child will not be expecting a playmate., Some older siblings, especially toddlers, will demonstrate regressive behaviour when a new baby arrives. For example, they may begin to act like a baby or ask for a bottle. One way to avoid this type of behaviour is to look at photos and videos from when your oldest child was an infant. You can tell them stories about what they were like as a baby.You can also make it clear that they received a lot of attention when they were a baby as well. Explain how excited you were when they were born and how everyone came to visit them in the hospital. This will make them feel special too.
 Ask your older child to pick out a few decorations for the new baby’s room. This will let them feel like they are included in the decision making process. You can also allow the older child to be involved in some form of child care. For example, the oldest child can help get you a diaper or cloth for the baby. Alternatively, they can help pick out the clothes for the baby to wear.This will let the older child feel a sense of responsibility.
Avoid placing too much responsibility on your oldest child. You want them to feel included, but they are still a kid and need time to play independently. Always ask them if they would like to help out with the new baby, rather than making it a requirement.

