 As a student you already know that you can manage your time for various different activities and excel in them, but as laptop enters your world of activities you should remember one thing: it's an infinite entity. Its resources never end. Be careful when including a laptop into your activity circle.
 This makes sure that you don't waste your time searching for other, unnecessary software. Here is a general list of required software:


Driver software, to make the laptop run smoothly and to avoid alternate software downloads for a particular function. Linux users need not do anything as the drivers are eventually updated or downloaded.
Antivirus, to make sure your operating system runs smoothly without any infection and to avoid wasting time on corrupted or infected files. Linux users are less prone to viruses, though should still have a scanner to check emails and files sent from Windows.
VLC media player, to make all types of videos formats run on your laptop and thus avoid wasting time searching for codecs for various video formats. You can also try KM player which is equally good as VLC, but lacks sound boosting when compared to VLC. Linux users can use Democracy Player to play and download music.
Adobe Reader, to read PDFs and to avoid wasting time on searching for alternate PDF readers. You can also try Nitro PDF reader, if preferred. Linux users can use the PDF Creator to create and access PDF documents.
Google Chrome, to allow faster and issue-free browsing. Mac users can try Safari or Firefox. Linux users already have the Firefox browser installed and are best suited for browsing.
Adobe Flash Player, to use Flash-related educational programs or .exe files.
Internet Download Manager, to speed up downloading.
Microsoft Office. This is the core for any study-related documents on your windows laptop. Linux users can use OpenOffice.org, which allows you to create Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and PDF files for free.
Everything. This software allows you to search your documents in less than a second and doesn’t take up additional memory unlike the indexing option in Windows.
WinRAR. Allows you to extract files or archive files. Sometimes PDFs are in archived .rar format and require use of this software. Linux users can use 7zip to extract archives or archive files.
A photo viewer or editor.
 Don't download any unnecessary files such as games or music. If you have any, delete them.
 Avoid listening to music with vocals, as you may start to write or otherwise focus on the lyrics! If you simply must have vocal music, play songs in a foreign language you don't know. Use headphones to listen to the music while studying; try recording your subjects by singing them to the beat of the music. You can then listen to them at any time by transferring them to your iPod.
 Try to minimize your surfing to once a week for 4 hours. This will keep you motivated for studying, as you will look forward to the time spent surfing.
 Try to get down to 90 to 120 minutes, so you devote more time studying books rather than studying on your laptop.
 Whether it's just a bit confusing or you don't understand it at all, mark it down.


Make a list of unclear topics under various subject headings. Make a "doubt book" and note down the weak topic under the respective subjects along with the page number.
Put in brackets what you need to understand about that topic.
Read from the presentation slides you learned from. This may help with some troubles.
Once a topic is searched, write an explanation in your textbook or notes near the topic in question so it is easy to revise. Alternatively, write explanations in the presentation slides or OneNote study notes.
 It's recommended to do this with the help of friends and teachers. In your doubt book, strike off or tick the topics you've searched for. At the end of the day, research any that are not cleared.


Bookmark important sites so that you don't have to search for them again.
If you get videos, download them using Internet Download Manager’s quick download auto-links. Many educational videos are available on YouTube. Videos serve a great deal of learning. Download videos for topics you are about to learn so you can understand the concept beforehand and impress your teachers and friends; and get an edge over the other students!

, As your time on the laptop comes to an end, save your tabs so you can easily check them later on. You can also right-click on a tab, select "bookmark all tabs", and follow the directions that pop up to save all tabs to a bookmark folder.
 Read the course material. Practice on the relevant software for your courses. Don't limit yourself to the internet.
 Plan everything. Doing so will guarantee that you have time for it all.
 Don't drag yourself down looking at other peoples' fun online only to remember that you're a student. Be productive.
 You never know your true potential unless you try it. Have you ever wondered why the best students have so many doubts? It’s because while doing research, they come to explore even more new ideas and doubts. Stay hungry for knowledge and you may end up being a student with great ideas and skills. This will help throughout your life.
 Make sure you don't spend more than the allotted time on your laptop, and divide it up. Don't use it all in one setting. This ensures that you don't get distracted, plus you won't get as many cramps from sitting in front of a computer.
 Always long for activities which are helpful in real life and are practical. Social media is an example of what to avoid. You start making more and more friends, you keep checking for notifications, you start to worry what will happen if you don't reply quick enough, you start playing games; but what you’ll lose is the time you spend on yourself. Remember that students are known for their knowledge and discipline and not for reaching level 600 on Candy Crush.
 This will allow you to use a USB-pen to take notes and explore various possibilities. It also enables you to do things faster than normal. Using a USB-pen and OneNote, you can create pictures, mind maps, presentations, etc. in seconds.
 No, not the "what type of cookie are you" type of test - do tests about your subject! Note down the problems you were not able to solve or concepts you were weak in and study them. Finish your studying before you go online to write an exam.
 You can also email them. This is one of the best usages of a laptop, as it allows the student to communicate even out of school. You can use Google Hangouts to group-chat with teachers and friends and discuss subjects, projects, etc.
 Laptops aren't just for testing. Extracurricular activities can help you get a job later on and give you something to look forward to. Here are some things you can use a laptop for:


Sports. Laptops can provide you an edge over increasing competition when it comes to sports and can increase your potential. Search for tricks and tutorials on YouTube or sports websites and practice them to develop your game.
Music. You can use a laptop very effectively to help your vocal expertise. The internet serves as the best platform for musicians. Download various songs and practice them on a karaoke software. You can also record music using software such as Audacity. Watch various videos on the subject. You can even learn a new instrument!

Dance. Watch videos and learn more tricks to improve your dancing. Tutorial videos can show you your mistakes. Use YouTube or other sites; there are plenty of them!
Gaming. If you want to pursue a career as a gamer then a laptop provides you with an ultimate edge. You can play and design games. To become a professional game programmer, you’ll need to play and design many games, but don't rush; you'll lose focus on academics. Doing things steadily will make you win the race.
Graphic design. Graphic design is very popular and requires hard work and patience. Use software such as Medi Bang, Photoshop, Gimp, or Paint Tool Sai. Again, don’t rush; this takes time.
Feedback. Perhaps the only good reason for using social media is feedback. Upload your work on social networking sites or on blog forums to get feedback from people, and thus improve next time you do something. Upload your videos on YouTube to share your ideas with the whole world or inspire people. People might sometimes ridicule or abuse your work; ignore them. Know the difference between helpful suggestions and hate.
Fashion. Look on brand-name websites and keep updated on the latest trends.
Software development. Software development requires two things: programming knowledge and a platform to experiment on. By reading free tutorials on the internet, you can learn C programming without even applying for a course. This takes even more time than art or game programming, however, so don't expect immediate results.

Cooking. This is the most important of all mentioned here. You will likely live alone at some point in your life, and fast-food restaurants get old quickly. Invest some time now; it may save you from health issues later.;
