 Gather your prescriptions and take a close look at them, noting detailed information about them. Ask yourself: Why am I taking this medication? What is it treating? If you don't know the answer to this, you need to speak with your doctor. Collecting this information will allow you to build a personal medical record that can help you keep track of your medications.Ask your doctor and pharmacist for detailed and accurate information about your medications.
Check the labels on your medication containers to learn some details about that medication.
Consult any literature that accompanied your medications.
Include prescriptions, over-the-counter medications, or any supplements you might be taking.;
, After you have learned the details of your medications you can create a personal medical record. This personal medical record will allow you and any caregivers to know exact details and scheduling regarding your medication needs.List names of medications. Include brand name, scientific name, or generic name.
Include physical descriptions of pills, including dosage size (Mg), shape, and color.
Mark down how much a single dose is for you.
Write the times when the pills need to be taken and any specific requirements such as “take with food”.
Have a reminder of when you began the medication and when you are to stop taking it or will need a refill. Make sure you know the proper procedure for stopping the medication — some require you to slowly taper off, while others can be stopped when you run out.
List the reasons you are taking the medication.
Include information about which doctor prescribed the medication and how to contact him.
Make note of potential side effects.
 After you have created your personal medication record, make copies of it and share it with family members or caretakers. Providing a copy of your medication record will help keep you on schedule and let family and caretakers help you as best they can to stay on track.Your medical information is your own private information. Share only with those you trust.
You may also want to share your medication record with your doctor.
Keep your list up to date and share new copies as you create them.

