 If you experience any of the warning signs of cardiac arrest, they may or may not be actually indicative of cardiac troubles. Many of them are common side effects of overly-strenuous physical activity. But if you experience any of these symptoms repeatedly, or if you have a history of heart problems (either personally or in your family), contact your doctor.It is also essential that you are evaluated by your doctor if you are planning to return to exercising after a long period of inactivity.


Once you’ve shared your symptoms and risk factors with your doctor, the two of you can begin developing a treatment plan that includes a workout regimen appropriate for you. You can (and should) still exercise, but you may need to modify the exercises or avoid high-impact activities (such as sprinting).
Remember that cardiac arrest caused by exercise is rare, and people who exercise are far less likely to develop heart disease or experience cardiac arrest than those who do not., An ECG is a noninvasive test that measures the electrical activity in your heart. During the examination, a doctor will attach up to 12 electrodes to your arms, legs, and chest. Your heart’s activity can be monitored through these electrodes.Your doctor will be able to interpret the ECG to determine if you have a heart disorder or cardiac issue that puts you at risk for cardiac arrest when working out., Echocardiography (or “echo”) is another noninvasive test that your doctor might use to find out more about the function of your heart. The echo is an ultrasound of your heart and can help your doctor check the size of your heart as well as look for any abnormalities in the muscle and blood flow.A variation of the echo that could be especially helpful to you — as someone who works out — is the stress echo. In this variation, you have an echo done, then undergo a cardiac stress test. A cardiac stress test is basically an examination of the heart before, during, and after a brief period of exercise like riding a stationary bike or running on a treadmill. Afterwards they will perform another echo to see how your heart responded to the activity.
Cardiac stress tests combined with echocardiography can help you determine how worried you should be about cardiac arrest when working out.
 A MUGA test involves the injection of a small amount of radioactive material into your heart. Doctors then use a special camera to track the radioactive material through your body to determine how well your heart is pumping blood.As in echocardiography, you may be asked to work out during your MUGA test in order to help your physician determine how well your heart responds to stress., A cardiac MRI is similar to the MUGA test. Both allow doctors to image your heart and better understand its operation. But the MRI uses magnets and radio waves rather than radiation to obtain detailed images of your heart.In some cases, you might get a saline solution injected into your arm. The solution is used to track the flow of blood through your body.
Since the MRI uses powerful magnets to image your heart, you should leave jewelry at home.
If you have a pacemaker or other implanted device, you might be unable to get an MRI.
 Cardiac catheterization is a procedure in which a long thin tube (a catheter) is inserted into your neck, arm, or upper thigh, then threaded through your body and into your heart. As is the case of MRIs and MUGA tests, you might be injected with a dye or trackable solute to aid in the imaging of your heart.If, in the course of cardiac catheterization, your doctor finds arterial blockages, they might insert a stent in order to keep the artery open and thereby reduce your odds of cardiac arrest when working out.