 You may need to take some time to get your brain back into study mode, especially if you’re doing your homework after dinner. It’ll be easier to focus on boring homework if your brain is ready to work.


Reading is a great way to warm up your brain. Read a newspaper article that catches your eye, a chapter from your favorite book or a section of a magazine.
 When possible, homework should be done on a set schedule as part of a daily routine. Boring homework won’t seem as boring if you know that it’s homework time instead of struggling to find time to get to your homework.Find a routine that works best for you. You might prefer to tackle your homework as soon as you come home to get it out of the way or you might want to take 20 minutes to relax first and then start on your homework. Whatever routine works for you, it’s important that you stick to it.
Try to do your homework in the same place and at the same time each day so your routine becomes second nature.
 Take a few moments to plan out how you are going to do your homework. By creating a plan, the workload will seem more manageable because you’ll know exactly what is coming next.Write your plan as a to do list. Once you finish a task, you can cross it off your list.
Schedule your homework into sections. It’s less overwhelming if your homework is comprised of small tasks instead of one huge project.
Write your plan in the order you want to finish it. Make sure homework that is urgent is on top of the list.
 It’s important to give your mind and your body some rest time while doing your homework. You don’t want to burn out or get frustrated. Schedule your breaks so that you keep yourself fresh and alert.Try the Pomodoro Technique: Set a timer for 25 minutes and work without stopping until the timer goes off. Once it goes off, take a five minute break. Reset the timer for another 25 minutes and repeat. After three breaks short breaks, take a longer (15 - 30 minutes) break.Use your break time wisely. Get yourself a snack, refill a glass of water, stretch or walk around. Try to get up from your desk so that it feels like you’re really taking a break from the work.
 Homework can be hard work, especially if it’s boring and tough to get through. Treat yourself to little rewards as an incentive to push through and get it all done.Set up a reward system so that you get a treat for reaching mini milestones. For example, you can leave a candy at the bottom of every second page to eat once you get there.
Remember, rewards don’t always have to be candy. Get creative and think of other small treats you would enjoy as a reward for a job well done.

