 Each shotgun shell consists of five basic components, somewhat less complex than the materials available for reloading brass.To reload empty shot shells, you'll need:


Empty hulls, checked for wear
Plastic wadding of the appropriate gauge
Shot of the desired "shot number"
Primers
Shotshell powder

, The only reusable component of the shotgun shell is the plastic shell itself, what is ejected from the shotgun after firing a round. To find reusable hulls, look for signs of wear around the mouth of the shell. They should be relatively uniform, rounded and intact plastic casings to reload.


Hold potential reload hulls up to the light and examine the mouth of each for splits and substantial wear along the crimping. If it's too torn up, you won't be able to use it to properly crimp back down, resulting in a faulty shell.
Generally, it's a good idea to throw away shells that have been stepped on or jammed with mud in some way. Shells that come from break-open shotguns that allow you to remove the empty shells directly from the gun are your safest bet. Put them directly into a box or bag to keep them, if you want to reload.
 When you fit the empty shell into the slot on your reloader, the first step is relatively simple. Pull the lever, and the uncapping pin will remove the spent cap from the empty shell, also resizing the casing to proper specifications. If the shell has warped some in transport, this step should round it back out some.
 The safest way to make sure that you're reloading your shells to the proper specifications is to consult a trusty reload guide like the Alliant Guide. Included will be a rundown of powder weights, shot types, and primers used in all brands and varieties of shells. If you're planning on reloading regularly, it's essential to invest in one of these guides.
 Each reloader will work differently, so you might check your owner's manual from your reloading press for a proper guide.


Most reload guides call for Red Dot shotshell powder for use in reloading, of a varying amount.12 ga. shells are usually loaded with between 16 and 25 grains of powder.
Most reloaders have a rotating plate that allows you to keep a load of each necessary "ingredient" queued up, allowing you to work relatively quickly. To advance between the steps, you simply rotate the plate and pull the handle again. You can go as quickly as you can do that simple action.
 Rotate the plate again and use the lever to insert your plastic wadding and the appropriate amount of sized shot for your variety of shell.


You've got some choice in the matter when it comes to what shot you want to load your shells with, depending on your purposes. 12 gauge shells generally use size 7.5, 8, or 9 size shot, sold in big 25 pound bags. The smaller the number, the larger the little lead balls. If you're shooting for sport, 8 or 9 is generally better, while you might want size 7.5 if you're hunting or reloading for some other purpose.
 Rotate the reloader again to crimp the shells closed, securing the completed shell. Store them in shotshell trays, widely available at sporting goods stores or other outlets, or just put them back in the old boxes that the shells came in.


If you've altered the shells in any way--using different sizes of shot or made other manual-approved modifications--make note of it on the box so you know what you're shooting.

