 If you were unable to make it to a casting call, you can apply online by sending photos in for consideration. Playboy requires that you send in one headshot and four to six full-length nude photos. These photos don’t have to be taken by a professional, but they should be in-focus (no blurry shots ladies!). Half of the shots should be of your frontside, and half of your backside.Make copies of your photos because your photos will not be returned after the application process, whether you get hired or not.
 The Playboy application requires you to send in a scanned copy of your photo ID proving that you are 18 years of age or old. This is really important because your application won’t be accepted without proof of your age (no matter how sexy or well-shot your photos are).
 You will need all of the normal information (including full name, address, date of birth, and whether or not you are a United States citizen). You will also need physical information. This info includes your present height, weight, bust size, waist size, hip size, hair color, eye color, and ethnic background.


If you are enrolled in college, you will also need to write down your major and school activities, as well as your college’s name and location.
You also have the option to post links to any online presence you might have, including your website, Facebook page, or Twitter ID.
 When you apply for a model position as a Playmate at Playboy, your application automatically gets sent to other modeling sectors of Playboy. Even if you don’t get hired as a Playmate, your application will get reviewed by other sections of the Playboy business, so you still have the potential to be hired as a model. These other modeling opportunities include Cyber Girls, Playboy Special Editions, Playboy Golf, and others., The application can be found here. As stated above, you will need to fill out all of the information, upload your ID proving you are 18 or older, and upload your photos. You will also be required to write your digital signature and check the ‘I agree’ box stating that you acknowledge the rules and swear everything you wrote down on the application is true.
 You should hear back from Playboy within four to six weeks. If you have not heard from them around six weeks, it means there isn’t a Playmate opening at this time. However, if you do get selected, you will be flown (all expenses paid) to meet with a Playboy photographer for a photo shoot.

