 Prozac works by inhibiting how receptors in your brain reabsorb (or “reuptake”) the neurotransmitter serotonin. Serotonin is a naturally occurring chemical “messenger” (neurotransmitter) that helps maintain mood balance. Research suggests that a deficit of serotonin is a contributing factor in clinical depression.Prozac helps keep your receptors from reabsorbing too much serotonin, thereby increasing the amount available to your body.Prozac is an SSRI because it’s “selective.” It seems to primarily operate on serotonin and not any of the other neurotransmitters that are also partially responsible for mood.;
, Prozac can cause some side effects. Many of these will be mild or go away after four to five weeks. You should talk with your doctor if you have severe side effects or symptoms, or if they do not go away. Possible side effects include:Nervousness
Nausea
Dry mouth
Sore throat
Drowsiness
Weakness
Uncontrollable shaking
Loss of appetite
Weight loss
Changes in sex drive or function
Excessive sweating

, In some cases, Prozac may cause side effects that must be attended to immediately. Prozac has been known to increase the likelihood of suicidal thoughts, especially in people under the age of 24. If you experience thoughts about or consider plans to harm or kill yourself, seek immediate medical attention.You should also call your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:


New or worsening depression
Extreme feelings of worry, agitation, or panic
Aggressive behavior or irritability
Acting without thinking
Severe restlessness
Feelings of frenzied, abnormal excitement

, Prozac is generally an effective antidepressant for most people. However, it may not work with every person’s brain, or neurochemistry. If you continue to experience any of the following after taking Prozac, talk with your doctor. These could be signs that your depression or disorder is not being adequately managed by the medication.You are experiencing severe or continuous side effects (mentioned above)
You continue to feel loss of interest in pleasurable activities or hobbies
Your fatigue does not improve
Your sleep is disturbed (insomnia, excessive sleeping)
You continue to have difficulty concentrating
You experience changes in appetite
You experience physical aches and pains

, Because antidepressants alter your brain chemistry, discontinuing them without medical supervision can cause serious symptoms.Longer-acting medications, such as Prozac, usually have fewer discontinuation symptoms. However, you may still experience side effects such as:

Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or cramping
Sleep issues, such as insomnia or nightmares
Balance issues, such as dizziness or lightheadedness
Sensory or movement issues, such as numbness, tingling, tremors, and lack of physical coordination
Feelings of irritability, agitation, or anxiety


Antidepressants need to be discontinued slowly over a period of time by gradually reducing the dose. This is known as “tapering.” Tapering can take weeks or months, depending on the antidepressant, how long you have taken it, your dosage, and your symptoms. Your doctor will determine the best way for you to taper Prozac.You may experience a relapse of depressive symptoms once you have stopped taking Prozac. To distinguish between discontinuation symptoms and a relapse, think about when the symptoms start, how long they last, and what type they are.
Discontinuation symptoms usually develop quickly. They will usually improve over one to two weeks. They will often include more physical complaints, such as nausea or aches and pains.
Relapse symptoms gradually develop after two to three weeks. They generally worsen over two to four weeks. If any symptom continues to last more than a month, consult your doctor.

