 Straight up, starting a new life doesn't happen overnight. It could take years. You'll probably be making such constant small progress that you won't even notice. Imagine losing 1/16th of a pound a day. You're not going to be able to tell for a long time -- but one day your clothes will be far, far too big.


By the time you do notice, you'll probably be so awesome, happy, and content that rock bottom seems like it barely ever existed. Until the moment comes when you wake up and realize, "Crap. That used to be me, didn't it?" take your time. It'll come. It always does. It's always darkest before the dawn, remember?

, This is another way of saying, "Slow down before the speed bumps." There are going to be times when you're about to lose it -- when you feel on the cusp of falling back to where you used to be, only worse (is there a worse than rock bottom?). It's these times when focusing, staying positive, and realizing this is totally normal are absolutely mandatory.


You're striking a serious balancing act between your old life and your new life right now, and that can get pretty daunting. No one expects you to do it with your hands tied behind your back and one eye closed. In fact, we expect you to lean on us for support. That's what we're here for. Though the transitions will be messy, know that they're only temporary. Focus and you'll get through them.
 You're on the up and up. Fan-fricking-tastic. Now it's time to find something new. Something fulfilling. Something to drive you. Something to keep those demons at bay. What does your mind immediately jump to? Any passion will do as long as you're passionate about it. It'll take up your time, use your creativity, and give you purpose. All wonderful, wonderful things.


Being truly good at something is so rewarding. Being truly good at something you really, really enjoy is even more rewarding. Cultivating a passion, regardless of what it is, can do great things for your sense of self. You'll get so well-established that rock bottom isn't a place on your map anymore. It got erased.
 Now that you have all these new ideas that are fresh and exciting, you've gotta stabilize and make them just part of your everyday world. It might take a few weeks, but balancing work, a social life, your passions, and free time will eventually all fall into place. There's no reason it shouldn't.


The good news here is that the routine will help shape itself. As long as you keep your priorities in line (taking care of your body and your mind, like we covered), it'll fall into place.

