 This is always your number one path of resistance against any superbug. The primary aim is to keep out of hospital where you are most likely to come into contact with superbugs. So it makes good sense to stay as healthy as you can. To this end:



Eat healthily - get adequate nutrition, avoid sugar, trans fats, too many processed foods, and fast food
Exercise regularly - it doesn't have to be painful but it does have to be regular and active. Go for a walk every day, ride your bike, dance daily in your own living room.

Get plenty of sleep every night.
Avoid being a couch potato most of your time - find a variety of ways to unwind after a hard day, from crafts to writing for wikiHow.
Avoid over-consumption of alcohol and drugs.
Keep your distance from people who are unwell - try to stay away from people who have colds and flus. If they come to work, pressure them to go home.;
, If you are healthy, unless you work in a hospital, stay away from them. This is most important where your own health is not optimal but you don't need actual medical attention – a weakened immune system coupled with hospital visits could leave you more exposed to superbugs. If you have no choice but to go to a hospital, consider the following:


Use their hand washing facilities and keep your hands thoroughly cleaned at all times.
Read How reduce the risk of hospital spread infections.
Don't wander around the hospital. Stay to the areas you need to be in (such as visitor's room, emergency entrance area, your own bed ward, etc.).
If you're a patient, try to get some time outside every day if possible. Fresh air is important.
If you are staff, from cleaner to doctor, follow all hospital procedures in place to protect you from illness.
 The following places can serve as breeding grounds for superbugs, either because of the high concentration of people, or because of a combination of poor hygiene habits and environmental factors such as humidity, etc.:


Swimming pools, change rooms, spas, saunas

Gyms
Schools, daycare centers (where an outbreak is confirmed)
Places dealing with beauty or body fashion, such as day spas, tattoo parlors, nail salons, etc.
 There are many personal practices that you can ensure are performed to a high standard of hygiene, including:


Not sharing any products used on your body, including cosmetics, deodorants, toothbrushes, hair brushes, even clothing and shoes.
Keep your hands washed regularly before and after meals, after being outside, after handling publicly shared goods, etc. Normal soap is fine - there is no evidence that commercial products with antibacterial elements are any more beneficial than standard washing products.Keep any wounds you have well covered. Use Band-Aids®, bandages, etc., to cover open wounds and scratches.
Cover your mouth and nose when you cough and sneeze. Dispose of used tissues, etc., immediately, or wash handkerchiefs at a high temperature.
Change your bedding regularly. Wash all bedding in high temperatures.
Don't go to public places like pools and bathhouses if you have any open sores, wounds, warts, etc.
 Be prepared to get yourself to a doctor quickly if you notice anything unusual or you feel bad. Symptoms of a superbug infection will vary, dependent on what microorganism is involved but warning signs might include:


Fever
Pain

Diarrhea, severe, cramps
Feeling really terrible, not at all yourself
Heat, swelling, tenderness in parts of your body.
 Medical tourism is the act of shopping around the world for the best price for medical procedures. The problem is that the standards of a country with cheaper medical options may not be as high as your home country and you can expose yourself to local bug resistance, and then bring it home with you., If you, or your family, are especially susceptible to a superbug breakout for any reason, you might want to consider a temporary move to somewhere else if your city or town has a major problem. Keep in mind the need for good medical care wherever you head to.

