 Duct tape comes in a wide variety of colors and patterns and can be ordered online or purchased from most craft or hardware stores. This method works especially well on messenger-style schoolbags since they provide a flat surface for easy application. Purchase different colored rolls of duct tape. Use scissors to cut strips that vary in length and/or thickness and simply stick to your bag. You can create a collage or geometric design.Decorate a small section or cover your entire schoolbag.
Alternate horizontal and vertical strips to create a checkerboard pattern, or alternate diagonal strips to make a chevron design.
Cut-out shapes (triangles, circles, squares, etc.) by placing tape stick-side down on a self healing mat. Use a ruler and precision cutting tool, such as an exacto knife, to cut shapes. Gently lift off of mat using the tip of the blade and use your fingers to press evenly and firmly onto your schoolbag., You can use metallic (e.g. gold, silver, or copper) or colored glitter to add sparkly embellishments or designs to a plain schoolbag. You will need glitter (any color), a paintbrush, painter's tape, fabric glue, and newspaper. Use the painter's tape to tape-off the section of bag you want to add glitter to. This will help create clean, straight edges. Spread a thin, even layer of fabric glue over the taped-off area using the paintbrush. Pour glitter on glue and press gently so it adheres to the fabric. Shake-off excess glitter onto a newspaper for reuse. Add more glitter until you had a solid layer.Let dry for several hours before removing tape.
Glitter can get messy, so it might be better to do this outside or over a drop cloth or newspapers. This will make it easier to clean-up when you are done.
If you need to wash your schoolbag, hand wash it separately in a sink and let air dry. Placing it in a washing machine may cause the glitter to fall off and stick to other clothes.
 You can make your own stencils or buy them from a craft store. Simply position the stencil in the desired location and use a sponge brush to press (do not brush or glob) paint onto the fabric in the open areas of the stencil.For detail work, use a small paintbrush to dab on paint. Let air dry. Apply another coat of paint if needed.


Make your own stencil by drawing a design on cardstock or freezer paper. Use a marker to color in the areas that you want to cut out. Place the paper with your design on top of cardboard and carefully use an exacto knife to cut out the colored-in sections.
Freezer paper works well for making stencils to use on fabric because it has a regular and glossy side. You can use a hot iron to fuse the glossy side to the fabric. When the paint is dry, you can simply peel off the stencil., If you can't find the color schoolbag you want, or want to create a tie-dye effect, consider doing-it-yourself instead of spending money on a bag you don't want. You will need to start with a light colored bag, preferably cream or white as dark colors will mask the dye. You will need acid dye, rubber bands, a stove, thermometer, and a metal pot. Purchase acid dye from a craft or fabric store and read the instructions on the bottle before beginning. Begin by twisting and bunching-up sections of your school bag and securing with rubber bands.Fill an old pot you no longer use for cooking food with enough water to cover the schoolbag but still allow it to move freely. Stir in dye (2/3 ounce of dye per 1 pound of fabric).Add schoolbag to water with dye. Heat water to 185 to 200 degrees Fahrenheit and let simmer for ten minutes. Add vinegar (1/4 cup vinegar per 1 pound of fabric). Maintain temperature and stir frequently for about 30 minutes. Turn-off burner and allow water and fabric to cool gradually. Remove schoolbag and wash in warm water with synthrapol or a professional textile detergent.
Rinse schoolbag in cold water several times, or until water runs clear, to remove excess dye. Place in dryer on a "hot" setting to set the dye.Check the manufacturer's tag on your schoolbag to see what type of fabric it is made out of. If the schoolbag is nylon with a waterproof coating such as Gore-Tex, then you will not be able to dye it (the waterproofing will prevent any water and therefore dye from soaking into the fabric).