 Though it's not as popular as it once was, scrap metal is still a great way to make money by recycling. While it might be difficult to accumulate enough to make a large profit, you can still make money if you happen to come across some valuable scrap metal.First you have to find a scrap yard. Click here to locate a scrap metal yard near you.
See if a magnet sticks to your metal. If it does, you have a ferrous metal like steel or iron. These metals are less valuable, but scrap yards will still accept them. If it doesn't, you have a non-ferrous metal like copper or aluminum. These are more valuable.
Copper is the most valuable scrap metal. It is usually found in plumbing pipes and electrical wiring.
Brass is the second most valuable scrap metal. You can find it in keys, door handles, and lighting fixtures.
People who work in the construction business usually find scrap metal easily. Electricians and plumbers also may come across scrap metal in their professions. If you don't work in one of these fields, see if you can find someone who does. They may not want to go through the trouble of bringing their metal to the scrap yard and be willing to give it to you.
 It is actually illegal to throw these items in the garbage because they contain toxic elements. If you have to recycle your old phone when you get a new one anyway, you might as well make money off it! There are several websites like Gazelle that specialize in buying old electronics. Even if your phone or calculator is broken, these sites will usually still take them. Visit one of these sites to get a quote for your old electronics., Instead of throwing out old clothes, you can sell them for cash. If there is a secondhand store nearby, you can pack up your clothes and take them there. Otherwise, click here for a list of websites that will buy your old clothes.
 Many people make their own wine at home, and they need empty bottles to store it. It would be cheaper to buy an empty bottle online than buying a full bottle at the store. Try taking this route to make some easy money without much effort., Biodiesel fuel is becoming a more popular energy source. Buyers take used cooking oil and refine it to power their homes. Do a quick internet search to see if someone near you is willing to buy used cooking oil. Sites like Usedoil.org specialize in collecting cooking oil. You can also check Craigslist, since smaller buyers may post ads there., Tennis balls contain a lot of rubber, which can be reused. The company Rebounces manufactures new tennis balls from recycled ones. You'll need to collect a lot of tennis balls before making a decent profit, but if you live near a park or tennis club, you probably find them all the time.

