 There a number of different herbal approaches to treat hyperacidity, but you need to be careful. Talk to your physician first before trying these remedies. In general, natural remedies are very safe, but it is best to be certain they are safe for you. Combining these herbal approaches with the lifestyle modifications should significantly improve how you feel on a daily basis.


If you are pregnant, speak to your physician about using any of the herbs to ensure they won't hurt your baby. , Aloe vera is not just good for the outside of your body. Aloe vera juice has many healing qualities as well. Buy organic aloe vera juice. Pour 1/2 cup into a glass and drink. You can sip this multiple times throughout the day, but since aloe vera can act as a laxative, you may want to limit it to a total of 1-2 cups a day.


Aloe juice decreases inflammation and acts to neutralize the stomach acid. , Although it may seem counter-intuitive, you can use apple cider vinegar to help with acid reflux. Add 1 tablespoon of organic apple cider vinegar to 6 ounces of water. Stir it together well and drink. The vinegar doesn’t have to be organic, but only use apple cider vinegar.


Other vinegars don’t work as well and can end up making your problem worse., You can use citrus fruits to make a drink similar to lemonade or limeade that will help with your acid reflux. Squeeze a few teaspoons of pure lemon or lime juice and add water to taste. Add a bit of honey or a tiny bit of stevia, a natural sweetener, to the drink if you want to make it a little sweater. Drink this before, during, and after meals.


To make the drink more interesting, you can add both kinds of juices if you want.
The extra acid in the juices tell your body that it can shut down acid production by a process called feedback inhibition., Just as the old saying goes, you should eat at least one apple a day. Apples are very good for you and help to calm acid reflux. The pectin in the apple skin acts as a natural antacid.If you don't like eating plain apples, try adding them to a salad or putting them in a smoothie.
 Ginger acts as an anti-inflammatory and a soothing agent for the stomach. It can also help with nausea and vomiting. To make your own ginger tea, cut up about 1 teaspoon of fresh ginger and add it to boiling water. Let the mixture steep for about 5 minutes. Pour it into a mug and drink.


Do this anytime during the day, but especially about 20-30 minutes before meals.
You can buy ginger tea bags if you don't have any fresh ginger., You can make a few other varieties of tea to help with your acid reflux. Fennel helps settle the stomach and decreases the acid levels. To make fennel tea, crush about a teaspoon of fennel seeds and add it to a cup of boiled water. Add honey or some stevia to taste and drink 2-3 cups a day about 20 minutes before meals.


You can also use mustard seeds or powder to make a tea. Mustard acts as an anti-inflammatory and as an acid neutralizer. You can dissolve it in water to make a tea. If you are up to it, you can take 1 teaspoon of mustard by mouth.
You can also try chamomile tea to calm the stomach and act as an anti-inflammatory agent. You can buy chamomile tea in bags or as loose leaf tea., There are a few other herbs that can be taken to help your acid reflux. Deglycyrrhizinated licorice root (DGL) works very well to heal the stomach and control hyperacidity. It comes as chewable tablets, but bear in mind that the taste might take some getting used to. The standard dose of DGL is 2-3 tablets every 4-6 hours.


Try some slippery elm, which you can have either as 3-4 ounce drink or as a tablet. It coats and soothes irritated tissues. Slippery elm is considered safe in pregnancy.
Make sure to follow the manufacturer’s instructions.