 You must do this so that you can identify what you need to obtain and what you already have that you can utilize.;
, Each person will need at least:


One napkin
One glass
One knife
One fork
One spoon

, Choose whatever accent colour you like if you'd like to have an accent. If you don't want an accent colour, then remember that you will almost certainly have to add gold or silver for flatware, unless you can obtain white flatware. Some accent colours you may wish to consider are the following:


Red
Navy blue
Forest Green
Gold
Silver

, White is a popular colour for tablecloths; you shouldn't have too many issues finding one you like in a store or shop, or even online if you don't already have one. Thrift stores, second hand shops and charity shops might have interesting vintage or even antique table cloths. Your tablecloth doesn't have to be plain white fabric; you can use a damask cloth, a cloth with borderie anglaise edging, an embroidered cloth, or whatever you choose, as long as it's winter white. Make sure your chosen cloth is clean and pressed. If you want to economize, a very well-ironed white sheet folded in two may suffice.
,, Ideally, these will match your tablecloth perfectly. Fold the napkins in a fancy way if you know how; if not, fold them into quarters. Consider napkin rings for your winter white table. Napkin rings can be a great way to introduce your accent colour or emphasize the winter white theme.


If you choose silver, gold or plain white napkin rings, consider tucking a sprig of holly or a small sprig of evergreen foliage into the napkin ring along with the napkin.
If you can't match your tablecloth exactly, then you could use napkins in your accent colour. This will look better than a pure white cloth and off-white napkins.
 Add side plates if they will be required. Be sure to place everything correctly, if you feel this is important; this means knives on the right, side plates on the left, cutlery for each course from the outside in, and so on.
 If appropriate, place a candelabra and candles on the table. Use white candles or use your accent colour. If you don't have candelabras, use candle sticks, candle holders, or even small glass jars. Your candles don't have to be tall; sometimes tall candles get in the way of dinner conversation, so utilize tea lights in appropriate holders if you prefer.
 Flowers are a common table centrepiece. White flowers with dark green foliage will add to your winter white theme. Flowers may not be considered wintery by everyone, so consider an arrangement of holly, ivy, evergreen foliage, etc. White Christmas decorations, such as baubles, can be arranged as a centrepiece.
 Add a water jug; a crystal jug would compliment the winter white theme. Don't put bottles of water on the table if you can avoid it; it looks a little tacky. Place a butter dish or two on the table if you are serving bread, and a bread basket or dish. If you wish, line your bread basket with a napkin.


Add a salt cellar, pepper grinder, and any other condiments required.
Put sauces into dishes or bowls; it's tacky to plonk the ketchup bottle on the table.
If you are having a tea party, remember the sugar bowl and milk jug.
 Add confetti sparkles to the table if you like that sort of thing. Drape winter white velvet or silk ribbon along or around the table or use your accent colour. Scatter petals, real or fake, on the table. Small dried leaves, fake leaves, or evergreen foliage can also be used. Beads, pearls, sequins and small crystals can all beautify a winter white table setting.
 These are another way to add your accent colour. Add markers to your guests' glasses if you like, in winter white or your accent colour.

