 Usually medical research ads will include a website, email, or phone number to contact. The recruiters for these studies need very little information to go by, because generally the in-depth questions will happen in person. Follow their instructions to apply for the study.


If you use a service like ResearchMatch, you may be contacted by researchers who are searching for participants. Your use of the service does not mean that you are required to join the study., Once you have applied, you will be contacted by a research coordinator. This will not be a doctor. Rather this is the person who will meet with you for the study, inform you of the procedures, and communicate vital information between the researchers and you.They will ask you general questions to test your eligibility to the study, and, if you qualify, they will also set up your screening and baseline visits. Information you may have to provide includes:


Name
Date of birth
Address
Medical history
Family history
Allergies

, This will be a visit in person with the medical professionals to determine if you are a correct fit for the study. It may involve a medical check-up. The clinical coordinator will outline what will happen during the study, what is expected of you, and what your rights are., Because there are many unknown risks in medical trials, you want to be sure that you know as much as you can about the study. There are certain questions you should always ask before agreeing to do a study. These include:


What potential risks are there? Do you know of any side effects? How do the potential benefits outweigh the risks?
How long will the study or trial last?
What expenses are covered? Are all medical visits covered during this trial? Will I be reimbursed for other expenses?
What type of long-term follow-up care do you offer once the trial ends? Can I continue with this treatment, even after the trial ends?
How will my personal information be used, stored, and protected?
What will I have to do? How often will I have to visit the hospital or clinic?
What tests and procedures are involved?
Will hospitalization be required?, The informed consent form will acknowledge that you have been informed of the study’s procedures, risks, costs, and purpose. Read through the contract carefully. Sign it only if you fully understand what will be required in the study.The informed consent contract is an integral part of the process, and is imperative for conducting a good investigational study. This should be given to you by a clinical coordinator or doctor.
 If you feel comfortable with what you have been told and still wish to join, you will be scheduled for a baseline visit. This may involve more tests, such as X-rays or a CT scan. You may also be given instructions on how to monitor and report your condition from home.You are now officially a part of the study.


Occasionally, your baseline visit will take place at the same time as the screening.

