 Individuals who have satisfying interpersonal relationships and friendships show reduced depression, a more positive outlook, and a better ability to deal with challenging situations and feelings overall.Social support can help reduce stress that is associated with feeling lonely.Going to therapy and going to family therapy are good ways to work on your relationships.
Focus on engaging in social activities that can lead to friendships.
Keep away from cynical and negative people if they bring you down.
Ask for help when you need it.
 Rejection can be more of a worry when you feel lonely. Try not to put pressure on yourself to make a new best friend or a fantastic conversation with each social interaction. Instead, try to enjoy the feeling of connecting in the moment.Social networking allows you to connect without having to worry too much about rejection. Try leaving a comment on someone's post, or sending someone a short message.
When you're socializing in person, whether with someone you know or a stranger, try making small talk. You can start with the friendly question, "How is your day going?". Asking someone how their day is going may not seem like the start of a profound conversation, but it allows you to make a small connection with anyone you meet. If it leads to a deeper conversation, that's fine; if not, you've still shared a moment with another person.
 Signing up for a dating website, joining a group or club, volunteering, or taking a class are just a few ways to put yourself in situations where you'll meet new people who share common interests.


If you are interested in and connect with someone, a great way to follow up is by adding him or her on a social networking site (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter).
Remember that the relationships you form may not grow deeper right away, and that's OK. For now, focus on how it feels to connect with people in the moment.
 It can be tough to get out there and socialize. Each time you make a connection, whether it's making small talk with a stranger or asking someone in your class out for coffee, be proud of yourself for reaching out.


Feeling positive about your social achievements will help you continue making an effort to connect with people.
As your social needs are increasingly met, you'll begin to feel less lonely.