 Blow up roughly one dozen white balloons using your mouth or a portable air pump. Knot the openings of each balloon to prevent air from escaping.


You can vary the number of balloons to create larger or smaller clouds as desired.
If desired, you could experiment by filling the balloons with helium, but the results might seem less than spectacular. The helium will give the cloud a slight lift, but due to the weight of the other materials, the cloud may not rise very high. Moreover, the helium will eventually leak out, causing the cloud to sink even further.;
, Spread a large drop cloth over your work surface. Set the balloons and the remaining supplies on top of this cloth.
 Arrange the balloons in a pile, altering the shape of the pile as needed to form the shape of a cloud. Carefully tape the finished form together with masking tape.


Play around with the placement of your balloons, and consider adding more balloons to the pile or taking some away. Clouds are naturally lumpy and unevenly shaped, so there's no need for perfection here.
Work carefully during this stage to avoid accidentally popping the balloons. Punctured balloons won't matter much once you set the final shape with dried paper mache, but you still need to keep them intact for the time being.
 Mix a batch of paper mache paste in a medium bucket and tear apart 20 to 30 sheets of newsprint into thick ribbons.


Paper mache paste made with flour is recommended for this project. Whisk together three parts water with one part flour until the paste becomes smooth.For clouds made with a dozen balloons, 6 cups (1.5 L) of water and 2 cups (500 ml) of flour should work well.
Tear the newsprint into crosswise shreds measuring 3 to 6 inches (7.6 to 15 cm) wide.
, Then apply the shred to the surface of the balloon. Repeat as often as needed until the entire balloon structure is covered.


Keep the cloud lightweight by letting the excess paste drip off as you lift each strip from the bucket.
Use your hands to smooth out the strips as you apply them, leaving as few wrinkles as possible. Make sure that the connecting space in between individual balloons also gets covered.
 Set aside the cloud base and allow all of the paste to dry. This may take 12 to 24 hours.


You should be able to get rid of any extra paste and newsprint ribbons during this time since later steps do not require them.
, Gently press polyester fiber stuffing into the adhesive.


Grab a handful of stuffing and bunch it up before sticking it in place. Do not stretch the stuffing across the surface of the cloud since doing so will not create the correct effect.
Repeat the process as needed until you cover the entire cloud with stuffing, working in small patches to prevent the adhesive from drying out after application. Take your time to ensure a better result.
 Allow all of the spray adhesive to dry so that the stuffing remains secure. Use your fingers to gently pluck, fluff, and maneuver the stuffing as needed to improve the appearance.
 The process should now be complete, and the balloon cloud should be ready to use.


If desired, you can pierce the top of the paper mache base and weave sturdy twine through the opening. Doing so will puncture the balloon lying beneath the surface, but the paper mache should be sturdy enough to continue holding its form. Use the twine to hang the cloud from a hook, branch, or similar object.

