 Many dry erase boards aren't actually one uniform piece of material like the ones described in the step above. Instead, they're a solid core of hard, smooth material that's been painted with multiple coats of paint to create a smooth writing surface. A wide variety of materials are suitable for these types of boards. Generally speaking, you're looking for something durable that's thin, durable, rectangular, and perfectly smooth. Don't choose anything that's rough or textured, as this will produce an uneven writing surface.


Steel or aluminum sheets are perfect for this task - they are smooth, strong, and thin. Between these two materials, the choice is up to you. Aluminum is lighter, but more expensive. Steel, on the other hand, is heavier, but it is also cheaper and has the added benefit of being magnetic, which can allow you to pin things to it with magnets.
 While there are no rules saying that you have to have a white dry erase board, they are traditionally white for good reason - any color of ink will show up against a white background. Give your board a thorough coating of white paint, ensuring that one surface is entirely covered. You may want to allow your base coat to dry, then add another coat to ensure the board is thick enough.
 When your white base coat is dry, apply a clear outer performance coating. Generously paint the clear, smooth lacquer over the white layer and allow it to dry. As above, consider adding multiple coats to ensure uniform thickness.


There are lots of suitable paints and laminates that can give you a suitable clear performance layer. One of the best of these, melamine, is mentioned as a possible solid base material for your dry erase board in the previous section. Melamine is also available in liquid "paint" form and can be used to give your board a great writing finish.
 After your clear coat dries, the dry erase board is basically ready to use. However, as in the section above, you may want to consider adding extra features like trim and a ledge or tray to hold markers to make your board easier to use. Trim (usually metal or plastic) conceals the unfinished edges of the base material and gives the board a pleasing border. A tray or "ledge", on the other hand, is usually a thin piece of metal that runs along the bottom edge of the board, serving as a place to keep your markers when you're not using them. Install these features (or any others you'd like) before mounting your board on the wall.
 Your painted dry erase board should be hung in basically the same way as the melamine/plexiglass/Lexan examples from the previous section are. To fix the board directly to the wall, use glue, nails, or mounting screws (you may need to make holes in your board to be able to use nails or screws). On the other hand, if you'd like to be able to move your board, consider hanging it from mounting hooks. If you do so, you may want to consider adding a backboard so that the board sits securely against the wall.

