 If the child’s parent or caregiver is present, let them know their child is misbehaving. Ask them to take action. Draw the parent’s attention to the situation without interfering yourself. If necessary, remove the child from the situation and bring them to their parent.Say, “I think your child is having a problem right now” or, “Your child needs some help.”

, While you may not want to step in for all situations, there are some situations in which you must intervene. Aggressive behaviors such as hitting, punching, kicking, biting, or using items as weapons that may hurt someone need intervention. Other problems such as yelling, screaming, or screeching and destructive behaviors like tearing apart the toy room should also be addressed. While you may not want to address all problems, do use discipline when it is warranted.Say, “This is not allowed” or, “It is not okay to do that.”
For example, if a child is about to throw something at another child, touch their arm and say, “Rocks need to stay on the ground. Please do not throw this.”
While it may be important to intervene in certain situations, remember not to use physical punishment as a means of discipline. Scientific data suggests that it may be ineffective, and the use of physical punishment may also cause resentment or action on behalf of the child's guardian., Whether in a big way or a small way, show the child that you are supervising and seeing things get out of hand. Give the child a glance. You can also cross your arms or shake your head in disapproval. These nonverbal behaviors are subtle interventions that show the child that you’re paying attention, yet you are not taking direct action at the moment. They may serve as a warning of intervention.If more intervention is necessary, use a calm but stern voice. Say, “This behavior is not tolerated.”

, You may have more patience with your own children yet little patience for other children. Keep your cool, even if the child is pushing your buttons. Yelling often leads to more yelling and hitting into more hitting. If you’re upset, take some deep breaths, count to ten, or walk away until you feel more collected.If you find it difficult not to raise your voice, sing what they are doing wrong. For example, sing, “Uh oh, you hit. We don’t hit in this house.”

, When handling discipline and consequences, be fair in what you give. Some situations may have natural consequences (like throwing a toy and having it break) while other may have logical consequences (like saying that if your child does not put away their toys, they cannot play with them). Decide what is best and whatever you choose, be firm. Don’t give in to negotiations or tantrums.Don’t give a large consequence for a small misbehavior. If you’re angry or upset, take a few moments to gather yourself before determining a consequence.
 Use a distraction or change activities if the child is having a problem with the current activity. It may be effective to change scenes entirely: move the children into a different room, go outside, or start an entirely different activity, like art or music.Say, “Let’s go downstairs for a snack” or, “I’d like you to work on these finger paints now.”

