 Chapter 7 is reserved for those who truly can’t afford to pay off their debts. Accordingly, you must pass a “means test” before you can apply for Chapter 7.There are two ways you can qualify:


If your income for the previous six months is below the median for your state, then you qualify. The median is based on your family size, so that a family of four has a higher median than a single person. You can find your state’s median here: https://www.justice.gov/ust/eo/bapcpa/20161101/bci_data/median_income_table.htm.
You may also qualify even if above the median. You’ll have to fill out a worksheet to determine if you have enough disposable income after paying allowed expenses. There are also online calculators you can use.;
, You cannot file for Chapter 13 if you have too much debt. Until 2019, the debt limits are as follows:Secured debt: $1,184,200
Unsecured debt: $394,725

, You cannot file a Chapter 13 as a business, unless you are a sole proprietor. Other business entities must file a Chapter 7. They may also file a Chapter 11 if they want to reorganize their debts and stay in business.As a sole proprietor, you have the option of filing either a Chapter 7 or a Chapter 13, since the law doesn’t recognize any distinction between you and your business.
 Both Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 require credit counseling before you can apply.Credit counseling is usually offered by various non-profit groups. The counselor will assess your debts and see if you can avoid bankruptcy altogether.Both Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 filers must also complete a debtor education course before you receive a discharge of your debts. This course will help you understand how to create a budget and avoid financial difficulties in the future.
 The bankruptcy treats different types of debt differently. Some are considered more important than others. Furthermore, you might have to pay off some debts at 100% of face value.


Secured debt. A secured debt is tied to a piece of property, which “secures” the debt. For example, your home secures your home loan and your car probably secures your car loan. If you default on a secured loan, the lender can seize the asset.Unsecured debt. This debt has no asset backing it. If you default, the lender can only sue you but they aren’t entitled to take any asset. Most unsecured debt is credit card debt, personal loans, or medical debt.
Priority debts. Priority debts are not dischargeable in bankruptcy. This means they can’t be wiped out and you will still have to pay them. Common priority debts include child support, alimony, certain taxes, and criminal fines or penalties., In a Chapter 7, your unsecured debt will be wiped out so long as you incurred the debt before filing your bankruptcy petition. However, you cannot discharge secured debts.Whoever holds a security interest in the property will continue to hold the interest. They can foreclose on the property if you don’t stay current on your payments.
You also can’t discharge priority debts—child support, alimony, etc.
 Chapter 13 is called a “wage earner” bankruptcy and is for those with a regular paycheck. In a Chapter 13, you need to repay some of your debts. You will come up with a repayment plan that will last three to five years. How much you must pay will depend on the type of debt you have:Priority debts. You must pay 100% of these debts.
Administrative claims. This includes your filing fee and attorney’s fees. You pay 100%.
Secured debts. You must also pay 100% of your secured debts. However, you can catch up on your unpaid mortgage payments by spreading them out over the course of your repayment plan. In a Chapter 13, you can strip a junior mortgage from your home in some situations.
Unsecured debt. You will pay 0-100% of your unsecured debt. The amount will depend on how much disposable income you have each month after paying necessary expenses. If you make all payments under your payment plan, remaining unpaid debt will be wiped out.
 A Chapter 7 is called a “liquidation.” The person who runs your bankruptcy (the “trustee”) will sell your property and divide the proceeds among your creditors.In a Chapter 7, you can exempt certain property, which keeps it out of the trustee’s hands. You will need to research your state’s exemptions. The website, Nolo, has links for each state here: http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/bankruptcy-exemptions-state. You should also check with an attorney.
In a Chapter 13, the trustee does not sell your property.
 Both a Chapter 7 and a Chapter 13 can stop a foreclosure. Once you file for bankruptcy, an “automatic stay” goes into effect. This stay prevents your creditors from trying to collect on debts. However, you might not be able to save your home depending on what chapter you file.


In a Chapter 7, the bank can start up the foreclosure process once you complete the bankruptcy. Your mortgage will not be discharged the way your credit card debt will be.
The trustee can also sell your home and use the equity to pay off your creditors. However, you might be able to save your home if you can exempt the equity in your home.States allow different amounts to be exempted. For example, Texas offers some homeowners an unlimited homestead exemption.By contrast, Alabama lets you exempt only up to $15,000 of equity in your home.You can also save your home in a Chapter 7 if you are upside-down on the mortgage, meaning you owe more than the home is worth. The trustee won’t sell the home in this situation.
In a Chapter 13, you can keep your home because the trustee does not sell your property. You can pay back any unpaid mortgage payments by including them in your repayment plan.You must remain current on future mortgage payments. If you miss payments, your mortgage lender can foreclose.
You might also be able to strip junior mortgages and other liens from your home in a Chapter 13.
 Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 have a similar effect on your car as they do on your home. Regardless of the bankruptcy, you can’t discharge the car debt because it is probably secured. Accordingly, your car lender can repossess the car if you don’t make payments.


In a Chapter 7, you can reaffirm the loan. This means catching up on unpaid payments and continuing to pay in the future. If you miss payments, your lender can repossess the car.
The trustee can also sell your car if it has equity in it and distribute the proceeds to your creditors.However, you can exempt a certain amount of value in the car, depending on your state’s exemptions.
In a Chapter 13, you can spread out unpaid car payments in the repayment plan. However, you must still stay current on your car loan. If you miss payments, the lender can repossess the car.
You can also reduce the amount of your principal in a Chapter 13 using a “cramdown.” For example, you might have a $10,000 loan on a car that is worth $7,000. You can reduce the principal to $7,000 and the remaining $3,000 is treated like unsecured debt., A Chapter 13 bankruptcy is more complex than a Chapter 7 and, therefore, typically costs more. The amount you end up paying will depend on a variety of factors, such as your location and the experience of your attorney.


The average Chapter 7 costs $1,250 in attorney’s fees. You will also have to pay $335 to file.The average Chapter 13 costs around $3,000 in attorney’s fees, and you’ll pay $310 to file.
You will certainly need a lawyer to file for you if you choose a Chapter 13.You will also greatly benefit from a lawyer if you file Chapter 7. One study in Los Angeles found that Chapter 7 filers succeeded only 60% of the time without a lawyer but 95% of the time with one.
 In a Chapter 7, you need to pay your lawyer’s fees upfront. If you don’t, then the debt you owe the lawyer gets discharged in the bankruptcy.Accordingly, lawyers want to make sure they have money upfront. This might limit your ability to hire a lawyer, especially if you have no money.


In a Chapter 13, you might be able to include attorney’s fees in your repayment plan.This means you can spread out the cost over three to five years. You can’t do this in a Chapter 7 because you don’t have a payment plan.
 Bankruptcy filers have different rates of success. If you file your Chapter 7 paperwork properly and qualify under the means test, you almost certainly will receive a discharge of your debts a couple months later.


Chapter 13 filers have a harder time getting a discharge because they must make payments over several years under their repayment plan. If they fall behind, then the judge can dismiss their bankruptcy or convert the case to a Chapter 7. However, you can ask for more time to get caught up or propose a modified repayment plan.You shouldn’t pick a Chapter 13 unless you are confident you can control your spending and earn a regular paycheck to pay off debt.

