 This divider is simple and easy to make, and even easier to use. It is a great way to divide up the clothes in your dresser. Here's a list of what you will need:Measuring tape
Cardboard
Box cutter
Metal straight edge
Cutting mat (recommended)
Gift wrap
Scissors
Spray adhesive

, You want to measure the width, depth, and height of the drawer. Write those numbers down.
 You will be cutting these out to make a cross-shaped divider. Here are the dimensions for each rectangle based on your measurements:


The first rectangle needs to be the same height and depth as your drawer.
The second rectangle needs to be the same height and width as your drawer.
 Place the cardboard on top of a cutting matt to protect your work surface. Use a box cutter to cut the rectangles out. To make a perfectly straight line, place a metal straight edge/ruler along the line you want to cut, and glide the blade alongside the straight edge.


Do not use scissors to cut cardboard. They are not sharp enough and may create frayed edges.
 Each piece of paper needs to be the same length as the cardboard rectangle, but twice the height. For example:


If your first piece of cardboard measures 6 inches high and 14 inches long, your first piece of paper should be 12 inches high and 14 inches long.
If your second piece of cardboard measures 6 inches high and 28 inches long, your second piece of paper needs to be 12 inches high and 28 inches long.
 Spray the glue on from side to side, using light, even strokes. Try to overlap each stroke by a little to prevent any gaps.


You are working with one piece of paper at a time so that the glue does not dry out.
Consider working on top of some newspaper to protect your work surface.
 This will help it stick better to the paper.
 The long edge of the rectangle should line up with the bottom edge of the paper. The top half of the paper will be sticking out from behind the cardboard.
 Now, both sides of the cardboard should be covered with paper.
, The notches need to go down about halfway down into the cardboard rectangle. This will allow the pieces to slot together and form a cross.
 Form a cross with the rectangles, with the two notches facing each other. Gently push the two pieces of cardboard together.


If the pieces wobble around too much, you can secure the seams with hot glue.
 Your drawer will now have four compartments. You can fill each compartment with a different type of garment, such as camis, socks, underwear, and bras.

