 For a U.S. citizen, to petition for a K-3 visa for his or her spouse (and/or K-4 visas for any children), certain requirements must be met. The main requirements are that:


The non-citizen visa applicant must be the citizen's legal, certified spouse.
The non-citizen must have a Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative, currently pending. In other words, the citizen spouse must have previously filed this form on his or her behalf.
Any children attempting to obtain K-4 visa status must be unmarried, under the age of 21, and the child of a qualified K-3 applicant (the non-citizen spouse, in this case).;
, For his or her spouse and/or children to obtain K-3 (or K-4, in the case of the children) visa status, the US citizen petitioner must file Form I-130 (Petition for Alien Relative, downloadable at the USCIS website). This form must be submitted with the proper documents to prove that the petitioner is a U.S. citizen (passport, birth certificate, etc.) and that any relative for whom an I-130 is being filed is related to the petitioner (marriage certificate, etc.) See the USCIS website for a list of acceptable documents.Finally, a filing fee must also be paid.


A separate I-130 should be filed for each relative - one for the non-citizen spouse and one for each child. As noted above, children require approved I-130s to be able to apply for permanent residency.
Once the USCIS has received the citizen's I-130 petition(s), s/he will be sent a document called a Notice of Action (or I-797). Keep this, as it is required to complete the application process.
 Once the Notice of Action for the spouse's I-130 has been received, the citizen should file an additional form, the I-129F, on his or her behalf. The name of this form is misleading - though it's called the Petition for Alien Fiancé(e), it's required for actual married spouses as well. Though the citizen only needs to submit one I-129F (for his or her spouse), s/he should be sure to list all children seeking K-4 status on this form.


The I-129F requires the original I-797 Notice of Action received after the I-130 was filed.
If the USCIS approves the I-129F, it will be forwarded to the State Department for consular processing.
 Upon completion of forms I-130 and I-129F, the foreign spouse should receive a letter from a US Embassy providing instructions for scheduling a required visa interview at a U.S. consulate in his or her country. If the country does not have an embassy or consulate, the interview will take place at the consulate in a nearby country that does. The foreign spouse should use the time before his or her interview to gather required documents and complete a required medical examination (see below).
 The visa interview requires the non-citizen spouse to bring extensive documentation to the interview to prove his or her eligibility for visa status. S/he should bring the following documentation to the consulate on the day of his or her interview:Completed Form DS-160, Online Nonimmigrant Visa Application. This form is available to be printed from the Department of State websiteA passport that allows valid travel to the United States and with an expiration date at least six months beyond the intended stay in the United States
Birth certificate
Marriage certificate
Divorce or death certificate(s) for any previous spouses
Police certificate(s) from the non-citizen spouse's country of residence and from any country where s/he has lived for 6 months or more since age 16.
Documentation of medical examination (see below)
Evidence of financial support - in other words, proof that the non-citizen won't become a burden of the state because s/he is self-sufficient or has a spouse who can provide support. This can be in the form of I-134, Affidavit of Support.
Two 2x2 photographs. See the State Department's photo guidelinesfor more information.
Evidence of relationship with the U.S. spouse.
Payment of fees.
 Before applying for a visa at the consulate, every applicant must receive an official medical examination from an authorized physician. The consulate or embassy that the non-citizen spouse is applying at should provide him or her with instructions for locating appropriate physicians nearby - see the State Department website for more information.The medical examination includes a review of the patient's medical history, a physical examination, a chest x-ray, and various blood tests.
 The visa interview is a vital part of the application process and takes place at a U.S. consulate in the foreign spouse's country (or, as noted in the exception above, in a nearby country). To account for unexpected delays, the visa applicant should try to arrive at the consulate an hour before his or her interview appointment. S/he should have all necessary documentation when s/he arrives at the consulate. S/he should answer the interview questions as directly and honestly as possible.
 If the applicant's visa petition is approved, the consular officer will give his or her passport (now containing a K-3 visa) back, along with a sealed packet containing the documents s/he provided, plus additional document from the consulate or embassy. This packet should not be opened. The K-3 visa holder should keep both of these things on his or her person when s/he enters the United States - only an authorized Department of Homeland Security (DHS) official should open the packet upon arrival in the U.S.


The spouse who holds the K-3 visa must enter the country before or at the same time as and K-4 status children - the children cannot enter the country first.
The length of time following the visa interview that the K-3 visa is issued can vary. Reasons for delays can include incomplete or incorrect information on a required form and additional administrative processing., The K-3 visa is highly desirable for the non-citizen families of U.S. citizens because it allows them to legally reside together in the United States. However, it's very important to understand the limitations of the K-3 visa before beginning the lengthy application process so as not to be caught off guard by obstacles that may occur. See below:


The primary benefits of the K-3 visa are twofold:

It allows the authorized spouse to be admitted to the United States. Once admitted, K-3 non-immigrants may apply to adjust their status to permanent residency at any time.
It allows the holder to obtain employment authorization. They can obtain the proper documentation to work legally by filing Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization.
Additionally, K-4 visa holders (the minor children of the K-3 holder) can apply for permanent residency after a Form I-130 has been filed on their behalf by the citizen petitioner.


Important limitations to be aware of are as follows:

K-3 and K-4 visa holders are admitted into the United States in two-year increments. If, after two years, the holder's I-130 has not yet been processed, holders may apply for additional time in two-year immigrants until the I-130 is processed.
When the K-3 holder's I-130 is processed, an immigrant visa immediately becomes available to him or her and s/he becomes ineligible for K-3 status. At this point, the K-3 holder must immigrate as a lawful permanent resident.
Note that any K-4 holding children must have approved I-130s to be able to immigrate as a permanent resident. Because of this requirement, the U.S. citizen petitioner should file a separate I-130 for each K-4 child concurrent with the K-3's I-130 so that the children will be able to immigrate legally when the K-3's I-130 is processed.
 K-3 visas are subject to certain rules that can cause them to become invalid - when this happens, the visa expires 30 days after the qualifying conditions are met. These conditions include:


The United States Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS) denying or revoking a Form I-130 petition
The USCIS denying or revoking an I-485 (permanent residency) petition
The Department of State denying the immigrant visa application filed by the K-3 holder
The termination of the marriage (through divorce or annulment)

