 Washitsu (和室) means a Japanese-styled-room(s). This is the traditional way of decorating a Japanese room. Most washitsu have tatami floors, and sliding doors (fusuma), rather than hinged doors.;
, This means that the room must remain simple, pure, uncluttered, and clean. To achieve this when preparing your Japanese-style room, stick to the basics, such as:


Using tatami floors
Placing a low table in the room, and sitting on a zabuton, or a low chair
Creating a tokonoma; an alcove for decorative items
Including a kotatsu, which is a particular type of low table that contains a heating element used in the wintertime. This is particularly important, as most Japanese homes do not have central heating.
 Stick to the basic colors (it applies to the paint as much as to any item placed in the room). Suitable colors include:


White
Tan/light tan
Browns
Oranges
Reds.
 Calm colors are essential to ensure simplicity and clarity. Do not paint any color that may come across as vibrant or flashy. Keep it simple and pure.


Look for online and book images that show Japanese style rooms to get an idea of the color schemes used. If using an image engine, search for the term "Japanese bedrooms" to find inspiration and ideas.
 Traditional Japanese beds are usually low to the ground. Some are even in or on the ground. Beds are commonly set in the middle of the room, or the middle of the wall.
 When you're picking out your blankets, sheets and duvet covers, remember to choose only calming colors. White is the most commonly used, but tans and oranges (and even calm greens) are a nice touch.
 Futons (which are on the floor) always have that Japanese-y feel. Be aware that they can be a pain to clean though.
 Do you have a closet? You can put a shoji screen over it. This will cover the clutter, keeping it simple, and also looking beautiful.
 This is the fun part! Decoration is your way of expressing yourself and using the Japanese style is a beautiful opportunity to find interesting and calming pieces.
 Simple plants; whether small or large, thick or thin, a few plants are a traditional part of decorating a Japanese-style room.
 Hints of vibrant colors are beautiful and stand out against the calm colors used throughout the room. The only rule is to use these splashes of brighter color wisely. Consider a bright flower, colorful painting, candles, colorful lights (for example, fairy lights), etc.


Remember that black is not a bad color, when used in moderation.
 For lighting, consider candles, lanterns, or a lamp. Don't overwhelm the room with these objects though. Decide where you want to put them, and how to get the best light using as few items as possible.
 Shoji screens are very common and make a beautiful addition to any room. Put them on your windows or sliding doors, or even have them as a room divider.


Add some Japanese writing (Kanji, hiragana, katakana) for a cute touch.
 You can't have both and keep it simple at the same time.
 It is, after all, your room. Just because it's minimalist doesn't mean there's no room for any decoration/

