 While it may be tempting to jump right into a heavy workout with lots of reps, you'll want to ease into any exercises you aren’t familiar with. Eventually, you can gradually increase the intensity of your workout to keep from hitting a plateau.


Start by increasing the number of repetitions per set (i.e. the number of times you repeat a given exercise). Then, increase the number of sets you do. You might start out with a 2x5 routine (two sets of five repetitions, before increasing to a 2x7, and then a 2x10. You'll be doing 5x10 in no time.
 You can wear out and overwork muscle groups, so it's very important to vary both the frequency and the content of your workouts. You might try this routine 3 days a week the first week, but switch to two the next, supplementing cardio or other exercise.
 If you're waiting five minutes between sets, your heart rate will slow and you'll lose the cardio element to these ab workouts, an important part of all-around health. You may need the break in the beginning, but gradually work up the speed of your exercise.
 It may be slow going at first, but keeping at your routine is how to build this muscle group. Set a goal and stay consistent.


Try motivational tricks like reading a page of a novel in between sets, or watching an episode of your favorite TV show while you do these ab workouts. If you're excited to work out, you'll be more likely to do it consistently.
 It's better to do a small number of reps correctly because working the abs quickly tends to rely upon the stronger abs and ignore the weaker muscles, which defeats the purpose of exercise.

Exercise balls can be likewise useful in this capacity.
 Though the exercises below will help you build your abdominal muscles, no targeted exercise can selectively burn fat from a certain area. This means you’ll have to lose weight everywhere to show off the muscles you’re creating.The best way to do this is to couple a healthy diet with a regular cardio exercise regimen.
 Eating a balanced diet rich in protein is a good way to build your muscles. Good ab foods include:


Salmon
Almonds
Berries
Yoghurt
Quinoa
Rice
Turkey
Soy
Natural peanut butter
Cruciferous vegetables like broccoli and cauliflower

, Avoiding the following foods will greatly benefit your abdominal development:


Sodas, including sodas with artificial sweeteners
Bagels
Jams and jellies
Pastries
Ice cream
Salty foods
Frozen and processed meals, including "Diet meals"

