 If you've already built things or used up resources, you might have a harder time getting to Rank 3 (Community) than you would with a new start.


Your Settlement can't be higher rank than its Sovereign. Since that's you, you need to focus on raising Importance to make your settlement grow. You'll need to level up, do Important actions, and get as many Upvotes as you can on the forums to keep advancing.;
, Latifundia let you have more Peers, which are the highest ranking class of NPC citizen. They're hard to keep happy, so watch out for the Security, Healthy, Education, Faith, and Prosperity of the District slipping as you build them. You can get some nasty AP penalties from the negative Scenarios that will spawn if you let any of those numbers slip below 40%.
 Farms can Harvest 5 different things; you'll really only need Grain, Hemp, and Produce to start with. Grain will build more Farms and upgrade your Granary. The Granary brings in a lot of population so upgrade it as quickly as possible. You and your Ministers / Citizens can Harvest the same resources as the Farm with your AP so try that as a way to speed up settlement growth.
 You'll have to build the first one in your fields, but it's OK, you can tear it down later and get some Hemp back. Once you build a Quarry, you may have to shut down the production in some of your farms to free up population for the Quarry. Remember to switch the quarry to sandstone for now. You may want to build another Quarry quickly to also harvest Marble, you'll need it for your Town Square.
 It's a bit of a cycle, and you'll get used to the way it works pretty quickly.
 This will bring more peasants and yeomen into the settlement. Keep watching your Happiness ratings, things will get more complicated once your populace begins to become unhappy.
 The brickmaker will use up more Population, but will also Turn Sandstone to Brick. This is probably your first Production Building, so keep in mind it will use up the production of 1 Level of Quarry worth of sandstone per cycle. It's easy to keep the numbers matched up... at first.
 Grocers are also a Production Building, and so they use up Produce to make Groceries.


Groceries can be used to build Cottages, Bricks make Houses, and Produce makes Latifundia. This basic setup will allow you to build up your initial population. Later you'll get more efficient housing buildings, but for now spread out. You have 27 Lots for buildings in your Fields, and it's always more expensive to build 'Up' (Higher Level Building), than to build 'Out' (More L1 Buildings).
 Once you have 1,000 importance and ~3,400 Marble, you're ready to build a Town Square!


The Town Square will upgrade your settlement to Rank 2 (Village) and allow you to build 4 new Districts. You might want to build some new districts and promote any ministers who've gotten to Rank 2 themselves, they're bound to appreciate it.
 You'll need 10 times as much importance to get to Rank 3, and ~2100 Bricks to build a Forum. The forum is the Main Building of your Marketplace, and building it will raise your Settlement to Rank 3 (Community). The Forum also produces 1 Silver Drachma per Yeoman living in the Marketplace per day, so you may want to build some houses or apartment buildings here.
 From this point you'll have to make lots of choices about your settlement, and you'll need help from competent Ministers. Your Marketplace will give you a new Action, 'Bargain Hunt' , which allows you to turn Silver Drachmas into Rank 1 Equipment. This will provide you plenty of gear to sell or donate to your Hero Citizens, who will in turn level up and accomplish more with the improved Attributes from the equipment. You're well on your way to becoming a powerful Lord!

