 Teaching children to love and not fear nature is a vital part of teaching children that this a larger world than their bedroom and games station. It will give them the ability to feel a connection with something other than the house, school and local park. Pack a couple sandwiches, take the kids into the woods and hike a deer trail through the woods. As you go:


Let the kids ask questions. Tell them the answers to their questions if you know, or several answers.
Tell them stories. Make up a funny story or so maybe even with some life lessons.
Keep walking and talking. Take a walk with them and talk and share a good conversation about school, friends, just anything you'd like.
Explore. Walk all around a small forest/creek, and play in the leaves or walk on bridged logs. Take photos of strange trees, or put the leaves into a nice picture.
Wear them out. This would be by having them use a lot of energy during the day, and then around bedtime they should sleep easily and well.;
, It is important that you consider first what purpose means for you before raising this issue with your children. When you have a good idea of it for yourself, start a conversation with them about the concept of purpose and why you think it matters in life to have purpose. Ask them what they consider a good purpose might be for their lives.
 It is important to let children know that you're willing to listen to them whatever has happened. Don't badger, don't scold, just be receptive and available. They'll come to you if you've taken the time to build trust. Just always be there when your children need you.
 It's important that they can understand what they're taught in school, and that they know how to make a tough decision, and problem solve. Compromising is a great way to do that, but not the only way. Just help them and care about the problems they're facing in life, it's for the best to just help out with a dispute among friends, with dealing with bullying, with knowing if they're friends are good friends, or that they even have friends, and so on. Any issues in a child's everyday life can be helped with the parents.
 When they grow up, they'll have to be independently away from parents, and into the harsh world of today. They'll meet so many mean-spirited people that without a guide(parent) that it can become hard to cope with them. If you teach them the right path in life, they'll know how to handle anything. If the child would meet someone really mean,then tell them what would be best to do with them.
 For example, if the child/children do really well in math, then it could be best to have them in a high or the highest math class in their grade. Although, they could be really good in math, but they might not really like math. So, they should be taught to be excited about math for every class, and to have a fun time, but still manage their assignments and work. It all depends on the situation, but try to help them succeed in every class/course, and make sure they do their best, even if they're not good in a subject.

