 With adults, it is advised that you do not feed the bird at all, especially if you are uncertain of its species or its dietary requirements. Furthermore, if injured, it may not be able to handle solid foods. If you must feed the bird and are absolutely positive that it can handle solid foods, be sure to locate the appropriate food for their species. Consult a vet or wild bird center for advice.


Insect eaters can be fed mealworms or small crickets but not thick worms (like earthworms) or ants.
Seed eaters can be fed a fortified mix, such as a fortified cockatiel seed mix.
Fruit eaters can be fed berries or diced fruits. Be sure to cut it up for them., Nestlings require soft foods. In the wild, chicks would be fed regurgitated foods by their parent. You can replicate this by feeding the bird wet canned dog or cat food. You can also soak dry dog or cat food in water to make it mushy.


Baby bird formula may be available at your local pet store.
Do not feed your chick bird seed, sugar water, or bread. These are extremely unhealthy for baby birds and may result in the chick becoming malnourished., Nestlings will need to be fed with a syringe. Feeding syringes can be found at your local pet store or at a drug store in the baby section. Fill the syringe with wet canned dog, cat, or jars of mushy baby food (preferably fruit).Make sure not to shove the eye dropper down the chick's throat. It could choke them.


If you cannot find a feeding syringe, you can also use a toothpick. Skewer the food on the pick. Be careful not to stab the chick as you feed it., Baby birds will eat every fifteen to twenty minutes from dawn to dusk. When hungry, they should call for you with an open mouth. Do not feed them until they exhibit this behavior. At night, the baby birds may not call for food; this is normal.That said, if you have a bird under a week old, it may call for food every few hours in the night. You may feed the bird again if this happens.The bird’s crop (or bottom of their throat) may expand as they eat. This is normal. As you feed the bird, don’t fill the crop entirely. Their swallowing reflex will start when food reaches their crop. The bird should stop when full.Do not give babies water. Chicks will absorb water from the food they eat. By giving them water, you may be inadvertently filling their lungs instead of their stomach. This can cause death., As your chick grows, you will notice it is beginning to sprout feathers and move around its shelter. It is entering the fledgling period of its growth. At this point, a varied diet is important.


For insect eaters, you can introduce bugs such as mealworms or crickets, which can be bought at a local pet store.Seed eaters can start eating spew millet or seeds that have been soaked until they sprout. After a few days, you can add seed, nuts, and pellets to the mix.If the bird is a fruit eater, you can start them on baby food jars of fruit before moving on to diced berries and fruits.