 Your body temperature actually falls during the first stage of your menstrual cycle. It then rises slightly after you have ovulated and the egg has been released. Your body temperature will then remain elevated for the rest of your cycle and then fall again just before your next period. Tracking your basal body temperature can help you to determine when you are ovulating and identify your most fertile days.Your basal body temperature (BBT) is the temperature of your body when it is completely at rest. BBT can vary from person to person, but usually, before ovulation your BBT is 96 to 98° F (35.6 to 36.6°C). After ovulation, your BBT is usually 97 to 99°F (36.1 to 37.2°C).
 To track your basal body temperature, you will need to chart your temperature every day for at least 1-3 cycles. The changes in your body temperature will be very small, about 1/10 to ½ a degree. You will need to use a large-scale basal thermometer that is easy to read.You can find basal thermometers at your local drugstore. Look for a thermometer that only registers 96 to 100 °F (35.6 to 37.8°C). Some basal thermometers are made to be used in your mouth or in your rectum. Rectal thermometers are usually more reliable but can be uncomfortable. Regardless of which type of thermometer you choose, you should take your temperature the same way every day.
 Make sure you take your temperature as soon as you wake up. Do not do any activity before you take your temperature, such as talking, eating, having sex, or smoking.Place the thermometer in your mouth or your rectum for a full five minutes. This will give the thermometer enough time to correctly read your temperature. If you are using an oral thermometer, make sure the tip of the thermometer is under your tongue on the soft flesh at the base of your tongue., Record your temperature every morning within 1/10 of a degree. Do this for one to three menstrual cycles to get a good sense of your basal temperature fluctuation.


You can get a calendar or a chart to record each temperature reading from your doctor or your local women’s health center.
 As you continue to record every morning reading on the chart or calendar, you should be able to see a pattern. You may notice that your temperature rises suddenly, gradually, or in steps. You may also notice that the pattern varies from cycle to cycle.Your BBT can shift due to small changes like stress, illness, or fatigue. It may also shift if you smoke and drink. You should note these changes on the chart so you can understand what may have triggered a change or shift in the pattern. You should also try to get three consecutive hours of sleep before you record your temperature so you get an accurate reading.Show the chart to your doctor after you have recorded your temperature every day for three cycles, or three months. Your doctor can then help you to read the chart and determine your fertile days.
If you have a cycle where you do not have any shifts in temperature at all, you should not use this cycle as part of your temperature method and do another cycle to compensate. You may not experience a temperature fluctuation due to stress or due to a genuine anovulatory cycle, which is a cycle with no ovulation., Highlight the days when your temperature rise lasts for at least three consecutive days. Then, highlight the period when your temperature falls back down from this rise. Do this for all three cycles and note if the three high days fall on the same days in your cycle. After these three high days, you have finished ovulation and the remainder of your cycle is infertile.This means that if you are trying to avoid getting pregnant, you should not have unprotected sexual intercourse during the high periods of your temperature chart, and on the days before you ovulate, or when your temperature rises sharply.
If you are trying to conceive, you should plan to have sexual intercourse during the high temperature days of your temperature chart, as this will be when you are most fertile.
The temperature method is often combined with another method, like the menstrual cycle calendar method, to get a clear picture of the fertile and infertile days of the cycle.

