 The main two complications that may be associated with the Zika virus include GBS (Guillain-Barre Syndrome, an autoimmune disorder that affects the nerves and may lead to paralysis) and microcephaly (an abnormally small head circumference in infants born from infected mothers).The connection between these two complications and the Zika virus has not been confirmed, but there is a strong suspicion that they are related.


Any woman who is pregnant or trying to become pregnant and has traveled to countries with confirmed Zika should present to their physician at the first sign of any infection.
Because the potential complications are much more severe than the Zika virus itself, it is important to be aware of how to treat complications if and when they arise.
 It damages the outer covering of the nerves, leading to sensations of numbness and it may also cause paralysis. GBS starts in the feet and toes and then moves up towards the head.Treatment for GBS includes:



Ventilator support. You may need help breathing if the paralysis moves to your breathing muscles.

Plasma exchange. You may receive an infusion of new plasma (blood) to remove autoimmune antibodies that are causing the damage to your nerves.

Immunoglobulin therapy. This treatment fights the autoimmune antibodies in your system that are causing GBS.

Medications. You may need some medications for pain and other symptom management as needed.
 Microcephaly is a possible complication of the Zika virus that may affect the unborn baby of an infected pregnant woman. A baby born with microcephaly may have an abnormally small head, developmental delays, and intellectual disability. This condition can also cause an infant to die. Microcephaly has no cure, but there are strategies to support a child born with this condition.Support strategies include community and academic support programs, as well as monitoring and support from your child's doctor.
If you are pregnant and have been diagnosed with Zika, speak to your doctor as soon as possible.

