 To make oregano oil, you need to first make sure it is completely dry. If there is any excess water or damp spots, it can cause mold or bacteria to grow in your oil. Gather the amount of oregano you’d like for your oil, such as ½ cup or 1 cup., When you make oregano oil, you will use a 1:1 ratio of oil to oregano. This means you will add the same amount of oil as oregano. If you have ½ cup of oregano, you need ½ cup of oil.


You can use olive oil, grapeseed oil, avocado oil, or almond oil., You should crush the oregano before you add it to the oil to help it start releasing its own oils. You can do this a couple of different ways. You can tear or cut the leaves with a knife.


You can also place the oregano in a plastic bag and smash it with a mallet or rolling pin.If you have a mortar or something similar, you can crush the oregano that way, too.
 Before adding the oil to the oregano, you need make sure it is warm. You can do this by placing it in the microwave, or place the oil in a glass container that you sit in hot water. Just make sure the oil is warm, and not too hot or boiling.Warming the oil helps the oregano and oil infuse better.
Alternately, you can place the jar in hot water after you place the oregano inside and seal the jar to infuse it. If you do this, leave the jar in the hot water for up to 10 minutes., Once you have warm oil, add the oregano and oil to a sanitized jar. Stir is around to mix the oregano fully. You can even massage the leaves if you want to help release their oils.Place the lid on the jar when the oregano is added.
 The oil needs to infuse for a few weeks. You want to let it infuse for at least two weeks. You can set it on a sunny windowsill to let the sunlight heat the oil to help it infuse.Make sure to shake the jar every few days.
Some people think letting it infuse longer is better for medicinal use. If you want to let it infuse longer, keep it infused for up to six weeks, but no longer. It could go bad., After the oil has infused for a number of weeks, you need to strain the oregano from it. Use a strainer or a cheesecloth to strain the oregano from the oil. Make sure to squeeze out all the oil in the oregano leaves.Place the oil in a sanitized jar or a dropper bottle. Store it in a cool, dark place.
You can also store it in the refrigerator.

