 Wipe your knee with a damp washcloth and, if necessary, a mild soap. Wash away grease, sweat, and any soap residue, then dry your knee thoroughly.Making sure your knee is clean and dry will help prevent irritation. You can also shave the area 12 hours prior to taping if it will be taped repeatedly. This will help reduce pain when the tape is removed.;
, Lie with your back propped up or supported and legs outstretched in front of you. Your knees should be completely relaxed and slightly bent. To help keep your knee bent and relaxed, place a rolled towel under it., You’ll use rigid sports tape to perform the actual McConnell technique. However, sports tape can be irritating and uncomfortable, so you should first cover your entire knee with a strip of low irritant, hypoallergenic tape.A permeable, breathable white cotton tape is a good underwrap option., Use a marker or pen to gently trace all four sides of your kneecap. This will define your work surface on the underwrap layer.It’ll be easier to apply the sports tape properly if you can actually see the kneecap’s boundaries.
 Use non-stretch adhesive sports tape for the McConnell technique. Cut a two to three inch (five to eight cm) strip, or enough tape to cover your knee from outer to inner edges.


Sports tape with a width of 38 mm (1.5 inches) is the best size for knee taping., Apply one end of the tape to the outer edge of your kneecap so the tape is vertically centered with the knee. Adhere the tape to your skin in a downward direction toward the lower inside corner of your knee, and use your thumb to gently push the kneecap toward the inside of the leg., While moving the kneecap and applying the tape, use your fingers to carefully pull the skin on the inside of your leg toward the kneecap. Your goal is to push the kneecap toward the inside of your leg, wrinkle the skin there so it meets the kneecap, and use the tape to hold them tightly together., Place one edge of the second strip of tape on the outer edge of your knee and, again, make sure it’s vertically centered with your kneecap. Secure the tape to your skin in a straight, horizontal motion. The tape should make a straight line from the outside of your knee to the inside.Apply one to three more layers of tape until you feel your desired level of tightness and support., Make sure you’ve created skin wrinkles on the inside part of your knee. These wrinkles should run vertically, or up and down, and you should be able to see them through the underlay.Wrinkling of the skin results when you pull the kneecap inward and secure it to the skin on the inside of the leg.
 Wear the tape during physical activity as directed by your physical therapist or another medical professional. In general, you should remove the tape within 48 hours of application.As strength, range of motion, and balance improve, keep the knee taped for shorter periods of time during general activities. Work towards taping it only for higher risk activities, like sports.
 Hold your kneecap as you slowly peel off the tape to prevent worsening an injury. Place your fingers as close as you can to the tape’s line of attachment, or where it meets your skin. Follow the line with your fingers as you pull the strip of tape to guide it off of your skin.Pulling too fast can cause skin irritation or abruptly force the kneecap out of position.
 Remove the tape immediately if it worsens your pain. Take the tape off if you experience discoloration, pins and needles, or swelling after applying the tape. Tell your physical therapist or other medical professional about these or any other adverse symptoms that result from taping.It’s best to consult a medical professional before taping, especially if you have circulatory problems, a knee fracture, or are allergic to sports tape.   

