 Double-click the icon of your preferred Internet browser on your desktop.;
, Once the browser is open, type in http://www.fitbit.com on the address bar at the top of the screen and hit Enter. You’ll be taken to the website’s home page.
 Click the “Log in” button on the upper-right corner, and enter your Fitbit account details on the text fields provided to sign in.


If don’t have an account yet, you need to create one before you can access the the Fitbit Community Forum. Click the “Free Account” link on the login page and enter an email address, password you want to use for your account, your height, and your weight on the text fields provided to sign up for an account.
 You can find this on the navigation bar at the top section of the page.
 There are three that you can select from:


Help Forums — If you have any questions about Fitbit, or you feel like sharing your knowledge by answering questions, you can post questions and answer queries in the Help Forum.
Discussions — Here, members can talk about various topics regarding health and fitness.
Activity Groups — Fitbit users can interact, get together, and compete with each other on different activity events with other members.
 If you have a question and you feel like it has been asked before, use the Help Forum’s search feature. Enter any related words to your query on the text field provided and click the “Ask the Community” button. From then on, just click the thread you like to open from the search result list.
 There are three categories in the Help Forum: “Product,” “Dashboard,” and “Product Development.” Each category opens up to a list of threads. Click to open the category where you think your question or the answer you’re looking for or the topic you want to post about belongs.
 Once inside a category, you’ll a see a list of threads that have been posted by other members. Simply click the thread you’d like to read about to open it. The thread list includes details like:


The title of the thread
Number of replies
The author of the thread
Number of votes
How many times the thread has been viewed
The latest post

, To reply to an existing thread, click the “Reply” button on the upper left-hand section of the page and enter your message on the text field provided. Click the “Post” button to submit and post your reply to that thread then wait for other members to comment on your reply.
 To post a new thread, go back to the thread list and click the “New Topic” button on the upper left-hand section of the page. Enter the title/subject of your thread and your message on the text fields provided. Click the “Post” button to submit and create the new topic then wait for other members to reply to your new thread.
 If you have a specific interest you’d like to read about, use the Discussion’s search feature. Enter any related words to your query on the text field provided and click the “Ask the Community” button. From then on, just click the thread you like to open from the search result list.
 There are several topics listed in the Discussions section, and each one opens up to a list of threads. Click to open the discussion where you think the topics you’d like to discuss belong to.
 Once inside a discussion, you’ll a see a list of threads that have been posted under that topic. Simply click the thread you’d like to read about to open it. The discussion thread list also includes the same details as in the Help Forum.
 To reply to an existing thread, click the “Reply” button on the upper left-hand section of the page and enter your message on the text field provided. Click the “Post” button to submit and post your reply to that thread then wait for other members to comment on your reply.
 To post a new thread, go back to the thread list and click the “New Topic” button on the upper left-hand section of the page. Enter the title/subject of your thread and your message on the text field provided. Click the “Post” button to submit and create the new topic then wait for other members to reply to your new thread.
 If you have a specific group you’d like to join, use the Activity Group’s search feature. Enter any related words to your query on the text field provided and click the “search” button. Otherwise, you can select from the list of groups listed on the Activity Groups section.
 Click the plus (+) icon right next to the name of the group to join one.


If you want to view the details of the group first before joining, click the name of the group to open it in detail.
 Click the name of the group you’ve joined to open it. Below the name of the group in the upper left-hand corner you’ll see the “Leave Group” link. Click this and you’ll be removed as a member of the group.
 Each group have threads inside, similar to the Discussion and Help Forum. To reply to an existing thread, click the pink “Reply” button and enter your message on the text field provided. Click the “Post” button to submit and post your reply to that thread then wait for other members to comment on your reply.
 To post a new thread, go back to the group’s thread list and click the “New Topic” link. Enter the title/subject of your thread and your message on the text field provided. Click the “Post” button to submit and create the new topic then wait for other members to reply to your new thread.

