 Some experts even advise against calorie counting plans for teens, because growing bodies have particular and changing nutritional needs that may not be met with such diets.Any calorie counting plan, or calorie reduction plan in general, needs to emphasize the nutritional value of the calories consumed first and foremost. The advice of a health professional in setting up your plan is the best way to ensure this necessity., Calorie counting is a thoughtful approach that makes sure you stay within healthy energy and nutrition levels.


Without this thoughtful approach, you may end up with malnutrition.When we eat more calories than we need to get through the day, the body stores that energy away for later. Unfortunately, it stores it as fat.
By limiting our calorie intake, we encourage the body to burn off our excess fat for energy.
 Thus, you can’t set your new calorie limit until you figure out how many calories you burn on an average day. Decide where you fit among the following three options:


Sedentary Lifestyle: you spend most of your day sitting, whether at a desk at school or on the couch at home. Exercise isn’t part of your regular routine.
Moderate Activity: You’re active throughout the day, stay on your feet, and do heavier chores around the house like lawn mowing or vacuuming. You make room in your schedule for exercise several times a week, whether on your own or with a team at school, and you work yourself hard during these sessions.
Very Active: You exercise every single day and push yourself as hard as you can.
 For teenagers of high school age (14 – 18), each activity level burns approximately the following amount of calories per day:Sedentary: 1,800 in girls and 2,000 – 2,400 in boys
Moderately Active: 2,000 in girls and 2,400-2,800 in boys
Very active: 2,400 in girls and 2,800-3,200 in boys
One pound of fat is equal to 3,500 calories, so to lose one pound per week, you need to consume on average 500 fewer calories per day (3,500 per week) than you burn.Therefore, if you are a moderately active girl who wants to lose one pound per week, you need to eat 500 calories less per day than the 2,000 you burn; that is, 1,500 calories.
Please note, however, that teens who consume less than 1,600 calories per day risk malnutrition, so only undertake such a diet under the supervision of a medical professional.,


The most important thing about counting calories is making sure you still give your body enough fuel to get through the day. Pushing the limit will put a lot of strain on your vital organs and, over time, could result in serious health risks.
It is also bad for weight loss, as your body gets tricked into thinking it's starving. When this happens, it lowers its metabolism and hangs onto energy (in the form of fat) as long as it can, slowing down weight loss.
Under no circumstances should you eat fewer than 1,200 calories per day.
 The FDA requires all food labels to give accurate information about nutritional content, including calorie count. Use the information on those labels to keep track of how many calories you're eating throughout the day. Make sure to stay as close to your daily limit as possible.


There are many websites and phone apps you can use to track your calorie intake throughout the day. Some phone apps even have barcode scanners that let you input calorie data just by pointing your phone camera at the label.
Make sure to measure out your servings. That a bag of chips from the gas station might have 2.5, not 1 serving in it. Input your calorie information accurately.
 Ideally, you should be eating a lot of healthy fresh fruits and vegetables that don't come with nutrition labels on them. This can make it hard to tell how many calories you're consuming. Luckily, you can just look up the caloric count of these items online.Measure out your serving sizes to make sure you're getting your real calorie count. Measuring cups and food scales are the best way to ensure accuracy.
 Although you can lose weight through pure calorie restriction alone, regardless of how healthy the food is, it's better to eat nutritious options.Those foods, coincidentally, are usually lower in calories to begin with.


Look for foods that are low in calories, but dense in nutrition. Examples include raisins, leafy greens like spinach and kale, fresh vegetables and fruits like strawberries and carrots, and lean proteins like chicken and fish.