 Look at the online classifieds or the classifieds in the paper for any part-time jobs in your area. If you are currently going to school, you should look for an after school job at a store or restaurant close by that you can get to easily. Negotiate your hours with your employer to make sure you have enough time for your schoolwork.Make sure your resume for the part-time job showcases your skills and your education. If the position involves serving customers, you should highlight your strong communication skills and your ability to think quickly on your feet. If the position focuses more on processing and arranging items or data, you should include a note about your strong organizational skills.
 Another way to get some part-time income is to offer to do odd jobs for your neighbors for payment. This could include mowing lawns, shoveling snow, cleaning houses, or repairing broken items.You could also start a part-time service where you mow lawns once a week for a set rate or deliver papers in the neighborhood once a week for payment. This will allow you to have a stable part-time income and be able to pay for items yourself, rather than having to rely on your parents for money.
 Help your parents save money by contributing to the household expenses using your earnings from the part-time job. Offer to put half of your earnings towards expenses for yourself and for maintaining your household.You should put the other half of your earnings in a savings account so you can also save money to pay for things you may need later, like school supplies or clothing. You can also use your savings to prepare for the cost of post secondary education.
 Help your parents make some extra income to contribute to their budget by suggesting a garage sale or an online sale of unneeded household items. This could be the pile of sports gear gathering dust in the garage or old childhood items in the basement. Consider any items you or your parents have not used in at least one to two years and if it has any monetary value. You should work together with your parents to identify items that can be resold.


You may want to hold a garage sale for items that are lesser value or that you may sell for $10-$20. You can then try to sell more expensive items or items worth more money online via online selling sites and advertising.
 You can also cut down on your parents' spending by searching for sales and deals on basic necessities like groceries and household items. You should encourage your parents to take advantage of sale items and discounted items when they buy things for the house or for you.


Depending on how old your parents are, they may also qualify for senior discounts on items and services. Most senior discounts start at age 65 and up. If your parents fall into a senior age range, they may be able to take advantage of senior discount rates.

