 All subwoofers come in a variety of sizes ranging from 8 inches (20.3 cm) to 15 inches (38 cm) and must be fitted in an enclosure (speaker box) and connected to an amplifier. The difference between the different types of subwoofer speakers lies in the enclosure/amplifier setup:


Component subwoofers come speaker only, meaning you have to choose the enclosure and amplifier separately. You can choose from a variety of enclosure types or have one made to your specifications. Component subwoofers are ideal for those who want a highly customized car stereo system.
Enclosed subwoofers are pre-mounted in a box. You must choose an external amplifier for this type of speaker.
Powered subwoofers include the speaker and the amp in 1 compact enclosure and are ideal for installing in small spaces, but not for producing big bass.
Vehicle-specific subwoofers are designed to fit in the out-of-the-way spaces of your car, like the door, for example. These are perfect if you desire a discreet install for your car subwoofers, but they will not create a big bass sound.;
, If you want big, rich bass sounds, you will want high-powered subwoofer speakers.
Sensitivity. A subwoofer with higher sensitivity requires less power to handle big sound.
Frequency range. If you want your subwoofer to be able to handle extremely low frequency sounds, you will need a high frequency range speaker.
Enclosure type. The type of enclosure you choose for your car subwoofers has an effect on the quality of sound they produce.
Number of voice coils. You can choose either single or dual voice coils. Custom car stereo system enthusiasts generally prefer dual voice coils because they offer more flexibility in wiring the sound system.
Impedance. The impedance affects current flow and ranges from 2 to 8 ohms. It is important that your amplifier matches your speaker's impedance.
 This will determine how many car subwoofers you should purchase. Generally speaking, you only need 2 subwoofers if you listen to hip hop, dance, techno or other bass-heavy music genres. Otherwise, 1 subwoofer should do.
 Once you've settled on your subwoofer type and specifications, research your available options online.
