 Oil pulling rests on the yet-untested theory that oils literally pulls toxins out of your system.Although results haven't been conclusive, many people use oil pulling to fight the Candida fungus and to provide temporary relief. Here's how to do it. The process is quite simple.


Brush your teeth beforehand. Oil pull on an empty stomach if at all possible.
Take one tablespoon of oil and swill it around in your mouth for 5 to 10 minutes. Make sure it coats every possible part of your mouth — under you tongue, in your gums, the roof of your mouth.
After 5 to 10 minutes, spit the oil out and rinse with saltwater.
You can do this twice per day for five days. Try doing it once after you wake up in the morning and again before bed.
Use coconut oil for best results, although olive oil works too. Coconut oil is rumored to be particularly effective in fighting fungi.;
, The herb thyme is also supposed to be an effective aid in getting rid of oral thrush, although science has yet to substantiate it.In Europe, thyme is used to treat upper respiratory conditions and thrush. Try sprinkling a moderate amount of thyme on any dish that will take it! You could even make a tincture out of it.
 Take a little bit of apple cider vinegar, dilute it with about a half part of distilled water, and swish it in your mouth for several minutes.Another option is to mix one tablespoon of apple cider vinegar in a full 8 ounces of water and drink before every meal. The vinegar is supposed to fight off intestinal yeast overgrowth that sometimes contributes to oral thrush.
Some people find this method impossible because of the strong taste associated with the vinegar. You might also experience stomach gurgling when you start the treatment, so don’t start this treatment right before a meeting or another situation where you may feel embarrassed.
 Garlic, replete with several different sulphur-containing compounds such as allicin, alliin, alliinase and S-allylcysteine, is reputed to help fight a broad range of fungi, including thrush. Fresh garlic works better than garlic pills, so try to find a way to get more of it into your diet.


For best results, try taking 4 to 5 crushed cloves of garlic per day. If you're worried about chaotic garlic breath, try drinking 3 to 4 cups of garlic tea daily.
 Tee tree oil is renowned for its anti-fungal (and anti-bacterial) properties.It's a common home remedy for everything from acne to athlete's foot. But it's also used for thrush. Dilute one or two drops into a tablespoon of distilled water, insert Q-tip, and dab onto sores inside the mouth.Rinse mouth afterwards with saltwater.

