 A dentist can look at the white spots on your teeth and determine if bleaching may help and whether this procedure is safe based on the current state of your enamel. Your dentist will also be able to seal the enamel with fluoride and other enamel treatments once the whitening process is finished. This will help to strengthen your teeth., Another common way dentists remove white spots from the teeth is by gently scuffing the spots from the teeth with an abrasive material, usually baking soda. This is best for white spots that are small, as too much abrasion on the teeth will wear away a thin layer of enamel.The procedure uses a special device that blows crystal particles directly at the calcium deposit. The abrasive particles gently lift away the calcium deposit. The spot is then fixed with filling to cover the calcium deposit and seal the enamel.
 Like air abrasion, the goal of chemical microabrasion is to remove the white spot by gently removing the calcium deposit causing the discoloration. This is appropriate for small- to medium-sized white spots only, because applying the abrasive chemicals to larger areas will only damage the tooth further.During the procedure, the dentist applies a special acid that eats away the calcium deposit on the tooth. The acid is only applied directly on top of the discolored spots to avoid extensive enamel damage. Then, the dentist will drill in the spots post-etching to seal the enamel of the teeth and protect it from further damage.
 During this procedure, the dentist will use a special resin gel to open the pores of the tooth where the white spots are located. After the resin has penetrated and treated all of the levels of the discolored teeth, the dentist will cure the resin with a special light. After about 15 – 20 minutes, the white spots should blend with the remaining tooth enamel. This procedure also blocks enamel-eating acid from penetrating the tooth and helps preserve the tooth from additional decay and future cracks in the enamel structure., These treatments are similar to homemade remineralization remedies, except that they contain prescription only ingredient levels. These treatments work faster than home remedies by using prescription pastes and gums to reintroduce high levels of minerals to treat the microscopic holes creating the white spots.These products contain high levels of fluoride that help treat the white spots, and they can also help prevent future cavities and spots from forming.
Some products options include casein phosphopeptides (CPP) and amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP) powders, gums, and pastes.

