 Depending on the texture of your hair, you may need to add some product to make sure your messy hair maintains the look you want all day long. It is important to have the proper tools of the trade before you get started.If your hair is thick, coarse, or curly, you are in luck. This look is going to be easy for you. All you will need is a light styling product to keep the frizz in control. You will not need any kind of heat styling (like a curling iron or blow dryer).
If your hair is wavy, this look will be pretty easy for you. A little texture cream should be all you need.
If your hair is fine or straight, do not worry. With the right products, you can add texture to your hair that will make sure the messy look stays put. Get some styling products that add texture (like sea salt, volumizer, or texturizing pomade). You will probably need to use those with some blow-drying and curling.;
, You may have short hair, medium length hair, or long hair. The length of your hair affects the amount of product you use, how long it takes to style your locks, and which messy look you want.


Short and medium length hair look best with both tousled messy hair and curly messy hair. Tousled messy hair is done with your fingers. If you are going for the curly messy hair and you have short hair, be sure to use a smaller barrel size of curling iron.Long hair can also do both types of messy hair but generally looks better with curly messy hair. You will use a larger barrel curling iron because you want loose curls that you can tousle with your fingers., There are a few ways you can achieve the messy hair effect depending on the look you are going for and the texture of your hair. You can go for tousled messy hair, curly messy hair, or combine them.


If your hair is wavy or curly you can achieve any of the messy effects without much extra effort.If your hair is fine, curling the hair first will help maintain the messy hair effect longer. Just tousling the hair with your fingers will not be enough, even with product in your hair. It will benefit you to have the heat styling help of a curling iron., Depending on your hair texture and length, and which style of messy hair you want to achieve you will need a few tools and products to make your messy hair look fabulous.If your hair is curly, a curl-forming cream will keep your curls under control without weighing them down. Avoid using texture sprays and anything with alcohol. If your hair tends to frizz you can try a lightweight frizz control product as well.
If your hair is wavy, try a sea salt spray to add texture and keep your messy look lasting all day long.
If your hair is fine and straight, you will want a texture wax or molding balm. This will help your hair stay in place after curling and tousling.
You will also need a brush, a blow dryer, and a curling or flat iron (unless your hair is already curly).

