 Find a shirt that is relatively large and made out of a stretchy jersey-like fabric. If you don’t have one on hand, you can purchase one meeting these criteria from thrift stores for very cheap.
 You will need to use a sharp pair of scissors to cut five long strips out of the t-shirt.Measure the length around your head from just above your forehead to the nape of your neck. Then, use this measurement to cut five pieces of fabric of the same length and about 1” wide from your t-shirt. Cut an additional piece that is 3” wide and ⅓ the circumference of your head.
 To secure the ends of the fabric before you start braiding them, use a needle and thread or sewing machine to sew over the ends of the pieces of fabric. Make sure that the ends are all lined up before you start sewing. You can simply stack them on top of each other., Once your strips are sewn together at the ends, you can begin braiding them. You will be doing a five strand braid, which can be a little tricky. You may want to tape the end that you have just sewn to a surface to keep it in place while you braid.


Start by braiding with three strand on the right side. Then, as you continue braiding work towards the left side and grab pieces from that side to incorporate into the braid. Keep working back and forth until you have braided all of the fabric together.Tighten the pieces as you weave by pulling on them when they reach the left side. It will appear slightly bunched when you begin, but will flatten out as you continue the weaving pattern.
 When you get to the end of your braid, sew all five strips together at the other end. Use a needle and thread or sewing machine to sew over the strips as you did before. This will secure your braid., The completed woven strip will have shrunk to be about ⅔ of the total distance around your head, and it will need to be longer to fit your head. You will also need to connect the ends to form the braid into a band. To do this, take the additional piece of fabric cut to 3” wide and attach it to the ends of the braid. Sew the shorter/wider piece to the ends of your braid with a needle and thread., Your headband is now complete and you can try it on. Make sure to position the unwoven piece of fabric you added at the end so that it is on the underside of your head.