 Assess how much visibility the floor area receives in each room. Favor open areas over small, cramped ones. Use layered rugs where they will stand out and be noticed, rather than areas where furniture blocks them from view.Larger rooms like the living room or den are generally ideal for this. Depending on the square footage and the amount of furniture inside, master bedrooms can also be a likely candidate.
Layered rugs can also be used in smaller spaces with little or no furniture, like hallways or bathrooms. However, expect rugs to possibly wear out faster here due to concentrated foot traffic.
The dining room, however, is poorly suited for layered rugs, regardless of how much open space or visibility it enjoys. Here, they are more likely to interfere with the movement of the chairs to your table, while the table itself obstructs them from view when seated.
 Maybe you’re buying both at once, or perhaps you’re trying to pair a new rug with one that you already own. Either way, make sure the base rug and accent rug complement each other. Make your selections according to:Size: whether you’re choosing an accent rug, base rug, or both, aim to have at least one foot (30.5 cm) of the base rug revealed along each side of the accent rug. With the base rug, always err on the side of too big if you’re unsure of how large a rug you should select.

Supporting role versus starring role: favor neutral rugs for your base. Let the accent rug shine by choosing a base rug that won’t upstage it. At the same time, make life easier by going with a base rug that can be used year-round while you switch accent rugs by season.

Contrast: make the accent rug pop out even more by pairing it with a base rug that contrasts it. Use color, pile height, shape, texture, or a combination of these features to make your selections more eye-catching.
 For areas like hallways or bathrooms without furniture, simply center the rugs in the open floor space. In more heavily furnished rooms, use your rugs to define specific spaces within that room, such as a sitting area in your living room, or the desk area in your home office. This may take a little trial-and-error depending on the sizes of your rugs, the open space available, and the surrounding furniture. For example:One rule of thumb is to cover at least two feet (61 cm) of both rugs with the furniture surrounding it. Let’s say your rug is being placed at the foot of a single 3-seat sofa in the living room, with no other surrounding furniture. As long as you’re happy with the amount of rug visible, this should be fine.
Now let’s say you’re framing the rugs with an L-shaped couch. Covering two feet on either side of the base rug may look fine, but doing the same to a small accent rug may not. Here, you may want to pull the accent rug out from underneath on one or both sides..
Now say that you also have a coffee table to go with your L-shaped couch. If it’s solid wood (as opposed to glass and see-through), you may wish to pull either the accent rug or both rugs further out from underneath the couch so they are more visible.

