 Even if you're not doing elaborate braids or involved up-dos, it's nice to put at least a bit of effort into making your little girl's hair look nice. You can do this quickly and easily using styling tools like flat irons, curling tongs and crimping irons.



Flat iron: If your little girl tends to have curly, wavy or frizzy hair, straightening it with a flat iron can totally transform her appearance (for special occasions). In addition, it is often a good idea to straighten her hair before you attempt certain up-styles or braids, as sleek, straightened hair can be easier to work with. Make sure to use a generous amount of heat protection spray before you start and remember to work in small section. You can find more detailed instructions on flat ironing hair.

Curl: Little girls look so pretty with curls in their hair. You can go for tight, ringlet-y curls, soft pretty waves or just a simple flick if the ends, all with the help of a curling iron. You can find more information on how to use one here. If you prefer not to use heat, you can try scrunching her hair with a little mousse or making rag roller curlers.

Crimp: A third option is to crimp her hair -- this is more interesting than plain, straight hair and a little funkier than curled hair. You can buy a crimping iron online or at beauty supply stores quite cheaply. The process itself is very easy -- you simply clamp the iron over a section of hair and hold it for 10-20 seconds before releasing. If you don't want to use heat, you can achieve a similar crimped effect by putting mini braids in her hair while it's wet (8 to 12 total), then taking them out once it's dry.
 A cute and easy way to add a bit of interest to your little girl's hair is to twist back the front sections and secure them with a cute barrette or alligator clip.


To do this style, part her hair down the middle or slightly off center -- whichever you prefer. Then take a small front section of hair from one side and twist it towards her head. Secure with a barrette, then repeat on opposite side. And you're done!
You could also try doing double twist backs, where you twist two sections of hair on each side of her head. A variation on this is to twist both pieces towards her head, then wrap both of the twisted sections around each other, in the opposite direction. This creates a pretty effect.
Instead of twisting, you could make a simple braid on either side of her face, then pull them back and secure with a barrette.
 Bantu knot curls are a fun way of curling your little girls hair. These curls are looser and more natural-looking than curls made with a curling iron or hair curlers.


Starting with damp hair, divide the hair into even, precise sections. The number of sections will depend on how thick your little girl's hair is and how tight you want the curls to be -- the smaller the sections, the curlier hair will be.
Work a significant amount of styling gel, mousse or pomade into each section of hair, then start twisting from the roots. Keep twisting until you reach the tips, then give the hair an extra few turns -- it should start to coil in on itself.
Once the hair had started to coil, wrap the rest of the twisted hair around itself and pin to the scalp using some bobby pins. The hair should form a little knot or funnel-shape.
Repeat this process until there is a bantu knot in each individual section of hair. If you do it neatly enough, the bantu knots can make a cute hairstyle on their own! But if you want curls, leave the knots in until your hair is completely dry (you have to allow the hair to dry naturally, you can't use a hairdryer for this).
When the hair is dry, remove the bobby pins and gently untwist the knots. Apply a little light pomade or leave-in conditioner to your hands and finger-comb the curls, gently working them into the desired style. Do not use a hairbrush or her hair will look frizzy instead of curly.