 Never laugh at your kid's hobbies, interests or friends. Instead, help your child follow their dreams by providing support, encouragement and the opportunity to do so.


So, your daughter doesn't want to study medicine and become a doctor? Don't get angry, this is your child's life and they can make some of their own decisions.
Understand that it's okay if your child thinks differently than you. Don't get mad because they have a different opinion than yours.
Who cares if you daughter listens to hip hop music and wears an excessive amount of eyeliner? She's still your daughter.
You might not do what your kids do, but that is their decision, not yours. You have a big impact on their lives already: you choose what school they go to, when they eat dinner, the amount of allowance they get a week. Don't overdo it.;
, Being a mother is a little challenging sometimes. But keep your cool and try to stay patient. Try this approach to other problems. Stay calm, explain the practical reasons not to do something, and then why you don't want them to do something.
 If your son likes music, buy him a guitar and watch him play. Ask questions about music, like his favorite kind of music or his favorite song. If your daughter is interested in fashion, take her out for a shopping spree. Ask her what her favorite thing about fashion is.


Your child might have some interests that you can't understand, no matter how much you try. That's okay. Just do your best to be supportive in a positive interest.
 Okay, so blowing money day after day isn't the best thing to do, but don't automatically say no to everything your kid asks for. If you always say no and follow this with a lecture about saving money, you will be known as the "Tight Parent", the one who never buys anything. Buy something small every now and then. Even offering to purchase some candy or chips at the store can make a difference. Every now and then, buy something big that you are sure your kid wants. For example, an iPod in their favorite color, or maybe a nice computer. And be generous at birthdays - maybe buy them something they have been hinting they want for a while. You can also take them out to a special dinner, see a movie, and choose a nice gift or receive nice gifts from parents.
 Try your hardest to always be understanding and a good listener. Knowing that they can go to their mom for friendship advice, homework help, or just a hug goes a long way for kids. Not having someone they can talk to can cause kids to retreat into a shell, so make sure you talk to them about how they feel regularly.
 It might be hard, but it's better for everyone if you just admit to your mistakes and apologize. It saves everyone the trouble of being mad that you're being stubborn and teaches your kids that it's okay to make mistakes, as well as the importance of an apology. Simply calm yourself, evaluate the situation, determine what you did wrong and why. Then apologize and explain how or why you acted the way you did. A good way to start off may be: "I would like to apologize for how I acted earlier, and I realize that I was wrong," then transition into the rest.
 You should not be jealous of your child loving their father, grandparents, aunt, cousin, uncle, brother, sister or friends.
 Without loving them, it means nothing whatever you do in your life. Understand whenever you love your child or not, somehow deep in your child's heart, they will love you forever whenever they are loved, or not.
 Give them goodnight kisses, hugs and normal kisses, let them sit on your knee and show your love by sharing your memories and dreams and with special endearments (darling, honey, love) and nicknames.

