 A4 paper works, fine too. Either way, work with something similar to 8.5" x 11" (21.6 x 28 cm).









Normal, run-of-the-mill paper is best. Cardboard or stock paper is unnecessary.
 It's important to be as precise as possible. Make a firm crease along the top of the paper, fold it backwards along the same crease, and split it in half.
 The firmer the crease, the better. Open the paper, and you now have a line directly in the middle.









Use the line to fold twice more. Fold each side directly next to this line. Not on top of it, but right next to it. If you fold it on top, it may become too bulky. We're talking millimeters away here. Make two more firm creases.
 Take one end of the paper and fold it onto the other. Fold it so it becomes half the length it once was. Line it up edge to edge, line to line. At the end, make a crease.









Take both corners where the crease is and fold them into the center. This forms two little triangles next to each other. Unfold them and fold them backwards.
Open it up and tuck the folded corners in. Then, reclose the flaps. Do this with both sides. You should now have a screwdriver-like shape.
 Your paper should now be as long as possible, right side unfolded, left side folded in. You'll see a diamond underneath the right fold. Make the creases of that diamond firm and distinct.
 Squash the diamond, folding the corner of the diamond up against the top right of the paper. You should now have a loose "L" shape.









Fold the bottom left side into the pocket of the "L" shape.
 This should create a mountain shape where the two perpendicular lines meet. Take the right side and fold it down, forcing the mountain to the left.
 Place what was the top layer on the bottom, leaving the end (or pocket) open. Fold the end original bottom layer into the pocket, inverting the sides. You now have a very distinct L shape.









Open either end and fold down the edges into two triangles. Unfold the one on the right, but not the one on the left. Open the right side, tucking the corner in. Then, open the left side triangle, close the boomerang and place the edge sticking out in the pocket you just formed on the right. It's a good idea to flatten every edge once created. Repeat for the other side.
Make sure the model is really neat; every crease should be streamlined. If it's not, it won't fly well.

