 It can be hard to swallow, but sometimes we feel betrayal or neglect due to overthinking or oversensitivity. Carefully weigh the context of what’s happening in your friendship before deciding what to do.


Reflect on the evidence. Is there some other way to describe your friend’s behavior? Are they overwhelmed with work? Have they been sick?
Consider your own state of mind. Are you going through a difficult time, and could that be clouding your judgement or perception when it comes to your friend's behavior?
Get a second opinion. Would someone else react the way you are?;
, Betrayal and neglect can lead to painful emotions, so it’s a smart idea to effectively express them. Holding in your pain can cause a blow up in your friendship later. Take some time before confronting your friend to let the dust settle and get your emotions out.Avoid unhealthy coping with food, sex, drugs or alcohol. Instead write in your journal, get some exercise, or listen to soothing music.
Wait until you feel more calm and re-centered before approaching your friend.
 When someone hurts you it may be second-nature to go over the event again and again in your mind. This is called rumination — an ineffective way of solving problems. Rumination only digs into the wound rather than giving it the opportunity to heal.Resist the urge to dwell on the betrayal or neglect. Use your energy to brainstorm solutions. How important was this betrayal? What do you want to do about it? Is it fairly minor and you want to let it go, or do you want to tell your friend how you feel?

, Self-compassion is a vital tool to leading a healthy and wholesome life. Self-care practices offer you the ability to nourish your mind, body, and soul when you’re stressed or hurting. Find a few self-care practices to help you through this upsetting time.Eat a healthy diet, get regular exercise, and sleep seven to nine hours each night to support your body.
Ease your mind by doing relaxation techniques such as mindful meditation or massage therapy.
Nourish your soul with activities like repeating positive affirmations, walking through nature, or praying.
 Although you may not want to share details of one friend’s betrayal with others, you can use this time to get support from existing friends. Social support is instrumental in helping you manage stress and improve your mood.Ask a few friends to get together for a sleepover or game night. Go see a new movie. Or, simply call up a close friend to talk.

