 Being alone doesn't necessarily mean you are lonely and can be a great time for self improvement. You might think that not having friends available means there is something wrong with you. This might also lead to critical thoughts that if you changed you may have more friends. Use being alone as a time to get comfortable in your own skin, with your own thoughts, and to become the best you. Replace negative thoughts with statements of affirmation. For example, replace negative thoughts about yourself with statements like "I am perfectly lovable just how I am."

, Exercise is a great way to occupy your time and also a way to re-focus your energies on making yourself feel and look great. Also, exercising can fire off endorphins in your brain that help fight feelings of despair and loneliness from not having your friends around. You can find a lot of great exercise programs to do right around your home. You can follow a workout video you find online, do push-ups and sit-ups or jog around your neighborhood.
 Time away from friends and alone can be hard, but it can also give you just the time you need to pursue new skills. Take the time you are alone to gain new skills that might help you in your job or career, or just something you've always wanted to learn. Take up basic computer programming using free online courses or using resources from a local library or online.
Learn a new language. There are a number of programs available at local libraries and book stores that help people learn new languages. You can use the time your away from friends to learn a new language that might help you in your career or that you plan on using while traveling and exploring the world.
 Sometimes if you are feeling really badly about not having friends around and lonely, it can be a larger problem like depression, anxiety or social anxiety disorders. You can find a therapist that is equipped to handle these problems or a medically licensed professional to deal with biological symptoms. You can make an appointment with a physician who can further evaluate your situation or look online for a good therapist. They may use a variety of techniques like talk therapy, group therapy, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, or medicinal approaches that help you break free from depression. These techniques may not help you make more friends but they can certainly help you cope with temporary pangs of loneliness.

