 If you want to stop a check payment after you have sent it, it is vital that you act quickly. This is different from voiding a check, and generally incurs a fee. In order to save time with the bank, make sure you have all the necessary information on the check you want to cancel. The information required may vary by bank, but you should make sure you have the following details:


The check number, the amount the check was for, and the date of the check.
The payee, that is the person or organisation who you wrote the check to.
The reason to stop the payment, for example you wrote the wrong amount on the check., Depending on your bank, you will probably be able to cancel a check through your online banking account.It's essential that you do this quickly. If the payment has been processed, the only way to stop it is by contacting your bank directly and getting a "Stop Payment Order."A stop payment order is an order not to pay a check that has been issued but not yet cashed. If requested soon enough, the check will not be debited from the payer's account. Most banks charge a fee for this serviceLog into your account and seek out the customer services and options provided by your bank. If you have the option to stop a check payment or void a check, select this and cancel the appropriate check number.
Make sure you copy the number across correctly or you might cancel the wrong payment.
 If you don't have access to online banking, or just want to deal with a real person, phone up your bank directly. You will be asking them for a "Stop Payment Order." Speed is important, so using the phone is a good option if you get through to somebody in customer services without spending too long on hold.


A stop payment order is an order not to pay a check that has been issued but not yet cashed. If requested soon enough, the check will not be debited from the payer's account. Most banks charge a fee for this service.Before you call, make sure you have all the same information about the check you want to cancel that you would need to cancel it online: the check number, amount, and date; the payee, and the reason you need to stop the payment.

