 Most daycare centers do not accept a child with a fever, however some pediatricians and parents argue about what constitutes a fever.


Dr. Len Leshin, MD, FAAP says that fever is considered to be a temperature of 100 F degrees (37.8 C) in infants and small children; 99.3 F degrees (37.4 C) or higher in school aged children. Check your daycare center guidelines for temperatures considered to be unacceptable.
Use an accurate thermometer to measure your child’s temperature. The old “gold” standard has been the glass thermometer, however modern day digital and ear thermometers may provide an accurate reading and less drama and risk (can be taken by placing underneath the arm or under the tongue in older children).
Consider keeping your child home even if he/she has a borderline fever. Some parents are tempted to give their child Tylenol and still send him/her to daycare. However doing this will only expose other children (and teachers/caregivers) to the virus at daycare and possibly make your child feel worse if he/she isn’t resting.;
, While it may be difficult to determine if your child is having a typical toddler meltdown or if he/she is sick, observe your child for out of the ordinary, uncharacteristic behavior.


Completely unreasonable behavior for your child. If your child seems to be throwing a fit over everything (and typically does not do this) he/she may be on the verge of getting sick. If he/she doesn’t seem to get better after a nap or a snack, take his/her temperature to see if a low grade fever could be present.
Having bathroom accidents after being toilet trained for some time. Early potty trained children may have an accident or two as they learn to master toilet training, however if your preschool aged child has suddenly reverted back to soiling his/her pants seek medical attention for a possible urinary tract or kidney infection.
Exhaustion or lethargy to the point where he/she cannot stand or sit for a period of time. In cases where your child is pale, has difficulty breathing and is very lethargic, bring him/her to the doctor immediately to ensure he doesn’t have a serious condition.
 Communicable diseases may be presented in the form of a skin rash or break out. In most cases, if your child shows up feeling fine but with a rash or an oozing, crusting eye he/she will most likely be sent home to avoid spreading disease.


Head lice. A common pest often passed from youngster to youngster, head lice may look like dandruff or hair spray droplets but are actually nits that may become an adult louse, which resembles a sesame seed.
Pink eye. Pink eye otherwise known as conjunctivitis is inflamed membranes within the eye that may ooze or produce puss. You child may complain that his/her eye is painful and itchy, also he/she may be sensitive to light.
Chicken pox or measles/mumps. Although most children are vaccinated for these diseases, chicken pox, measles and mumps is a raised, inflamed rash that typically begins on the trunk or face. All three diseases are highly contagious.
Pinworms. Pinworms may cause your child to have an upset stomach and an itchy bottom. Pinworms are detected by shining a flashlight toward your child’s rectum while he/she is sleeping (they appear in dark places). If your child has pinworms you’ll see a small, white worm appear.
 Most schools or centers will not accept a child who has been throwing up or has diarrhea. Not only for the sake of the preschool or daycare center but also for your child’s comfort.


Wait 24 hours after the last instance before sending your child back to school. Keep your child home for at least 24 hours so that he/she can gather strength and get back to normal before returning to school. Also, your child should not be contagious 24 hours following the last time he/she threw up or had a loose bowel movement.

