 When you wash your hair too often, you strip your hair of its natural oils. This causes your hair to dry out and become frizzy.Avoid using hot water while washing your hair, as this can damage it and cause it to become puffy.


If you notice the roots of your hair getting too greasy, shake a dry shampoo or baby powder onto your scalp. Let it sit for five minutes, then run your fingers through your hair to disperse the white powders.
 Try to find something that is made for curly or dry hair. Look for labels that say: smoothing, moisturizing, hydrating, or dry & damaged. When using conditioner, leave it in your hair for two to three minutes; this will allow your hair to absorb the nutrients in the conditioner.


Consider using a protein-infused conditioner. This kind of deep conditioner helps repair dry, damaged hair. It also protects it from humidity, which can cause puffiness., Comb your hair in small sections, starting from the ends first, then working your way towards the roots. Never comb your hair straight down, as this can cause the strands to stretch and snap. The best time to do this is while your hair is still damp and covered in conditioner. The conditioner will lubricate the comb and help it glide between the strands easier.If you need to detangle your hair while it is dry, do not use a brush. Use your fingers or a wide-toothed comb. Brushing dry hair with a hairbrush leads to frizz and puff.
If you must use a hairbrush, try to use one made with soft, natural bristles. These will be less likely to snag your hair. The natural bristled brush will also polish your hair and smooth the ends., Right before you step out of the shower, rinse your hair with cool water. This will help seal the cuticle shut and make your hair shinier., This is a great way to add texture but keep your hair natural. Apply it right after you wash your hair, starting at the tips and working your way towards the roots. Styling creams and mousse help hold the natural curl shape of your hair; curly hair becomes puffy when it loses its shape., Gently wrap your hair with the towel or t-shirt, and squeeze it so that the fabric can soak up the excess moisture. If you want, you can wrap the towel around your hair in a loose turban.


Avoid rubbing your hair with a towel. The towel fibers will snag your hair and damage it.
 This is the most natural and gentlest method. It also won't disrupt the natural curl pattern of your hair. Your hair becomes puffy and frizzy when you disrupt the curl pattern. If you must use a hairdryer, be sure to spray your hair down with a heat protecting spray, and to use a low or medium heat setting.
 Coarsely-woven pillowcases can snag your hair, causing it to frizz the next morning. Cotton fabrics also tend to soak up moisture; this can also lead to dry, puffy hair.
 You can use these masks once or twice a month. If your hair is exceptionally dry and puffy, use the mask once a week. Apply the deep conditioning hair mask to your hair while it is still damp. Tuck your hair up into a loose bun, and put on a shower cap. Leave the mask on for the time recommended on the label (usually around 20 minutes), then take the shower cap off and rinse the mask off.

