 If it doesn't, keep in mind that this glitch will not work at all. The type of PC you're using, however, does not matter at all. Although the glitch requires a quick bit of lag to work, you can create such lag by following the steps below. It might seem like a great material, but having a laggy PC doesn't help or hurt your chances with this glitch. A powerful one doesn't hurt, either.;
, Keep in mind that this adventure can only be played during the end of year holidays. If it isn't December where you are, you don't have to stop reading this. Studying and practicing will improve your chances at this glitch later on. Anyway, if it is close to Christmas for you, the easiest way to access the adventure is through the Party Tab. Join any Jamaaliday Rescue available, as it doesn't matter what you play so long as it is Jamaaliday Rescue. (Although, having a friend to wow might score some extra points for you!)

, You don't have to go all the way to the closest wall to the middle if you want to just test this glitch before you take in some major results. Find a wall you can glitch through. Remember that this glitch can only glitch you through walls meant to be accessed for players, which means that you can't go into areas blocked by a clump of pine trees. Once near a wall that is not blocked by anything on the other side, press the arrow key that leads in the direction you want to pass through. For example, if you were at the south end of the wall and wanted to get to the north end, you could simply press the top arrow key button.
 The simplest way to do so is to aim for the middle of the path, not near the edges, as it is much easier. Remember to still keep holding down the desired arrow key while you make the single right-click. (That's right, just the single. One click will be effective.) If you've done it accurately, your animal should not move after the right-click for a few seconds. Then, as if by magic, a short burst of lag will come through and your avatar will pass through the wall. Release the arrow key after your goal has been achieved.
 Many faster computers might not get the glitch processed on the first try. Then again, slower computers might not get it done fast enough and might even fail the glitch altogether. This glitch hasn't been patched by AJHQ yet, so keep trying!If the glitch worked for you on the first try, congratulations! Have a fun time impressing yourself and wowing others as you pass through the walls! Happy Jamming!

