 Children should have complete eye examinations at ages 6 months and 3 years. Youths age 4 to 19 should have the more basic eye screenings every year during medical checkups. People should have a complete eye exam at least once between ages 20 to 29, and twice between ages 30 and 39.


Make an appointment with an ophthalmologist if you have itching, swelling, puffiness, redness or irritation around the eye or eyelid. See a doctor if you have blurred vision or loss of vision. These conditions may be symptoms of eye disease.
The medical industry has made major advancements in treating eye diseases such as glaucoma, cataracts and macular degeneration. If you have been diagnosed with glaucoma, macular degeneration or other eye disease, take your medications and follow the doctor's orders.
Ask your eye doctor about special prescription glasses for working on computers. The prescription for your regular glasses or contacts may not be right for computer work. Working on a computer can strain eyesight.;
, Reducing ultraviolet light exposure will prevent damage from sunlight. Brown cataracts, also called sunshine cataracts, and macular degeneration have been linked to exposure to sunlight.


Limit your time outdoors in the summer sun between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., especially if you already have eye disease. Sunlight strikes the Earth at less of an angle and is more intense when high overhead in midday and in summer.
 Eye injuries resulting in vision loss or blindness may happen when working around airborne or hazardous materials.
 The improved circulation of blood that comes with a getting good nutrition and exercise will also help keep eyes healthy.


If you have diabetes, maintain careful control in order to help prevent diabetic retinopathy, which can result in blindness.
To get proper nutrition eat lean meats, low-fat dairy, lots of fresh fruit and vegetables, nuts, whole grains. Cook with fats derived from plants like canola oil, nut oils or olive oil.
 Drink green tea, carrot juice and eat carrots, tomatoes, peaches, papaya, mangoes, garlic, spinach, turkey, chicken, nuts, sunflower seeds and yogurt. These foods contain vitamins, minerals and other chemicals that may help keep eyes healthy.
 Studies have shown taurine, R-lipoic acid, xanthophylls, bilberry, quercetin, gingko biloba, zinc, carnosine and vitamins A, C and E to be healthy for eyes.
,,


Maintain a distance of 30 centimeter (11.8 in) when working on the computer.
Maintain a distance of 2m when watching television.

