 Emo is short for emotional or emotive hardcore. “Being emo” involves acting according to your emotions and being a part of the whole subculture or lifestyle.In order to act emo, you don’t necessarily have to be moody or sad, but just be more thoughtful, quiet, and expressive through art and style rather than words.


Despite the stereotypes that you may have heard or read, emo does not mean inflicting self-harm or being depressed. These are serious medical conditions that need to be addressed and treated and do not make you more authentically emo.;
, The emo genre of music originated in the 1980s punk music scene in Washington, D.C. Some of the earliest emo bands out of D.C. are Rites of Spring and Embrace. Then there are bands out of the 90s like Sunny Day Real Estate and The Promise Ring, followed by Jimmy Eat World, Dashboard Confessional, and The Get Up Kids. More recently, My Chemical Romance, Fall Out Boy, and Panic! At the Disco are popular emo bands.There are Christian emo bands too! Try listening to bands like Further Seems Forever, Underoath, The Almost and Living Sacrifice.
You don’t need to listen only to emo music. Listen to Christian music too, and whatever other genres you like. The emo subculture is all about being passionate and emotionally invested in whatever you want, so having a varied taste in music is a good thing.
 Guitar, bass, and drums are great choices, and could allow you to join or create an emo band yourself. If you have a youth group that worships to Christian Rock, try to get into the band. You can also get into creating art or starting a journal to write poems, stories, or just thoughts. Getting into any art form is emo, because emo is about expressing feelings and emotions.
 The emo lifestyle is all about expressing your emotions, and you can’t do that if you’re not being true to yourself. Own your identity as both Christian and emo.


If someone asks you about your religion, feel free talk to them about Jesus. The Bible says, “always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have” (I Peter 3:15).If someone asks you about your emo identity or emo music, tell them about the bands or other things you’re into. Many people just don’t understand and want to know more.
If someone asks you about being Christian and being emo at the same time, let them know that you can be both! As long as you are putting Jesus first and living by His word, you can choose whatever styles and music make you happy.

