 Each state has a specific section of its state code that deals with the carrying and possession of dangerous weapons. Although these code sections can be vague and full of legalese, they are still a good starting point.Typically you can find the applicable section of your state's code by doing a general internet search for "state code dangerous weapons" along with the name of your state.
Finding the code online allows you to more easily search for specific words that apply to you or the weapon you want to carry, rather than having to plow through the entire section of the code.
You also may want to look for articles from reputable sources that discuss your state's law in plain language, so you don't have to parse the statute's legal language.
If you're unable to find a summary, look for keywords in the text, such as the name of a specific type of weapon. From there you can figure out whether that particular weapon is prohibited or restricted in any way.;
, Your state's law on dangerous weapons typically will include a list of specific weapons that are banned within the state. These weapons are illegal for you either to carry or to own.For example, most states absolutely prohibit people from carrying brass knuckles or switch blades.
Many states also have specific restrictions related to the length of a knife, or how the blade is presented.
Bludgeoning weapons or clubs such as the billy clubs typically used by law enforcement officers are prohibited for civilians in many states.
With some items, whether the state considers it a weapon depends on your intent. For example, you may be prohibited from keeping a baseball bat in your car for self-defense purposes. However, if you're transporting bats to and from a baseball game, that wouldn't be a problem. Their purpose is for use in the baseball game.
 Your state law may permit the possession of some types of weapons, meaning you can own them and keep them in your home. However, just because you're legally allowed to own the weapon doesn't mean you can legally carry it.This distinction is especially important if you want to carry a marital arts weapon, such as nunchucks or throwing stars.
Many of these weapons are not illegal for you to own, but you may not be allowed to carry them in public.
Pay attention also to how your state defines the word "carry" for purposes of the law. In some states, you're only considered to be carrying a weapon if it's on your person.
However, other states include weapons that are merely near you or within arm's reach, even if they aren't on your person. This would mean that if you had a knife sitting in the cup holder of your car, you would be considered to be carrying that knife while you were in your car.
 One way to figure out if the law applies to your particular weapon is to find out why the state legislature enacted that particular law. If a particular weapon was banned for a specific purpose, you may be able to argue that your use qualifies as an exception.For example, brass knuckles and switchblades were outlawed in many states in the 1950s and 1960s because they were popular weapons with street gangs, which the police were trying to bring under control.
Similarly, many states banned martial arts weapons such as nunchucks and throwing stars after the popularity of martial arts films in the 1970s increased interest in the use of these weapons for crime and violent acts.
Understanding the context within which a law was passed, and the intent behind it, can help you determine if you need any licenses or permits.
For example, in some states martial arts weapons are prohibited, but you can get a permit from your county sheriff to carry these weapons for specific purposes.
 If your particular weapon falls within a gray area of the law, or if you can't determine exactly how your state's law applies to your weapon, you may need to ask an attorney to help you.Keep in mind that a police officer is not necessarily going to be an expert in your state's dangerous weapons law. This is particularly true if you have an uncommon or specialized weapon.
While most law enforcement officers know that, for example, a switch blade is illegal, they may not know the exact length of fixed-blade knives that are permitted in your area.
Gun dealers, or owners or managers of pawn shops, often will be well-versed in the law. They typically must make their own evaluation of the law to avoid selling illegal weapons, which could result in the loss of their license.
An attorney, particularly a criminal defense attorney who specializes in weapons charges, also may be able to help you out.
 States allow you to conceal certain weapons, but prohibit concealed carrying of others. How you choose to carry your weapon can make a difference in whether you are permitted to legally carry it in public.For example, many states don't permit you to conceal a knife with a longer blade – such as a Bowie knife or other hunting knife with a blade longer than six inches.
However, you are allowed to carry such a knife sheathed on your belt. Sheathing a knife is a safety precaution that protects you as much as it does anyone else, and does not mean you are concealing the weapon.
Keep in mind that many knives, such as those used for food preparation, are typically exempted from the laws regulating dangerous weapons. These knives are considered tools rather than weapons.
Some items, such as nunchucks, do not have any other purpose than as a weapon. Your state law may restrict you from carrying these sorts of weapons in public at all.
 Certain non-firearm weapons may be permitted only if you have them for martial arts training, religious, or other purposes that are listed in your state's law. If your reasons for carrying a weapon fall into one of these categories, you should be prepared to prove it to law enforcement authorities who may question your use.Some states, such as Arizona, allow you to get a permit that explicitly allows you to carry specific knives or other non-firearm weapons listed on the permit.
However, these permits only apply to weapons named in your permit, and do not cover any other weapons, even if they are similar or related.
Some knives and non-firearm weapons, such as a bow and arrows, are used specifically for hunting.
If you have a hunting permit, it may allow you to legally carry those weapons even if they would otherwise be prohibited.
 In most states, a firearms carry permit does not explicitly include permission to carry non-firearms weapons. However, if you have been judged trustworthy with firearms, you presumably can be trusted with a non-firearm weapon as well.You can get a firearms carry permit even if you don't own – and don't plan to buy – a firearm. However, be aware that you must meet your state's eligibility requirements to get a firearms permit.
If you're considering getting a firearms permit, you may want to talk to a gun dealer near you to find out more about the process.
Keep in mind that getting a firearms permit, if it does not include permission to carry non-firearms weapons, will not protect you from getting charged with a weapons-related crime.
However, it does give you a pretty strong argument if you are charged with violating your state's dangerous weapons law.
 Weapons that you are permitted to legally carry in public generally may be forbidden in specific places, such as courthouses or airports, where security is a special concern.These restrictions also apply to many other government buildings and schools, and may apply to state or federal parks as well.
Any time you're going to a school or government building, check the website. It should tell you what weapons are prohibited on that property.
Particularly in airports and courthouses, you typically must pass through a metal detector to enter the facility. Any weapons you have on you will be confiscated, and may not be returned.
 A weapon that's legal to carry in the state where you live may be illegal in another state. If you're traveling through one or more states and plan to carry a knife or non-firearm weapon, check the laws in all the states through which you will be traveling.You need to check not only the laws of your destination state, but any states you may travel through along the way.
If you're using mass transportation – such as an airplane, a train, or a bus – there also may be federal laws that restrict your ability to legally carry a knife or non-firearm weapon.
Additionally, your carrier may have its own restrictions regarding the transport of knives or non-firearm weapons.
Your carrier typically will have a summary that describes the items that are prohibited, and the ways in which you can carry any weapons that are not prohibited.
 While most states have storage laws regarding firearms, many do not discuss proper storage of knives or non-firearm weapons. Nonetheless, you should be okay if you store your weapon following the state storage laws for firearms.For example, if you have your knife or other non-firearm weapon in your car, carry it in a locked box in your trunk. Ideally, the box should be a solid color (rather than transparent) with hard sides.
Carrying a weapon in this way means you don't have to worry about letting a law enforcement officer know about the weapon in the event you get pulled over. The officer would need a warrant (absent your specific permission) to check in a locked box.
Additionally, if you're carrying your weapons in a locked box in the trunk, they aren't immediately accessible to you or any of your passengers, and therefore are not considered a threat to the safety of others.
 Voluntarily disclosing the presence of a weapon in an encounter with a police officer or other law enforcement can make a difference in whether you're charged with carrying a weapon illegally.Generally, if you're carrying the weapon openly, or if it's within arm's reach, you don't have much choice in whether to mention it to the officer.
Whatever you do, don't grab your weapon or hold it out to the officer – this could be perceived as threatening.
If your weapon is in your trunk, or concealed in a location where the officer won't be at risk of seeing it, there may be no reason to tell the officer you have a weapon.
At the same time, keep in mind that you don't have to give the officer permission to search your car. If you have a concealed weapon you haven't told the officer about, it is in your best interest to refuse consent to search.

