 Petting or playing with your cat can have a calming effect and can help eliminate feelings of jealousy in your cat. It’s especially important to spend plenty of time with your cat if your dog is new.Provide your cat with the type of attention it likes. Not all cats like to be petted, so do what your cat enjoys.
 Your cat may be attacking your dog because it’s stressed, especially if the dog is new to your home. You can buy a Feliway plug-in or chewy snacks called Composure soft-chews that are designed to help anxious cats calm down., Sometimes cats attack dogs because the dog is playing rough or acting aggressively toward the cat. If your dog is an equal or partial partner in the attacks from your cat, then you may need to train your dog how to act toward your cat. This will help both pets better spend time together.Try training tips from the internet.
Consider taking your dog to a dog trainer. Ask your vet for recommendations.
 If your cat and dog get into a fight, you’ll need to get them to stop. First try creating a loud noise that startles the animals, which will allow one of them to escape or may allow you time to grab one. You can also try spraying your pets with water or throwing a blanket over them.


Avoid yelling, as this can agitate your pets and encourage them to keep fighting.Don’t get in between the two animals.
 Spaying and neutering will reduce aggression in your pets and make them less likely to antagonize each other., When one of your pets starts messing with the other, tell them “no,” pick up your pet, and place them in a separate location like a bathroom. Leave them in time out for 5-10 minutes. When you let them out, treat the pet as though nothing happened., If your cat and dog have been getting along but your cat suddenly begins attacking your dog, then the cat may be ill. A sick cat can react aggressively when it’s messed with, even if it normally wouldn’t behave that way. The vet can rule out illness as a cause for your cat’s attacks on your dog.