 If your cat is constantly scratching you or pieces of furniture, there's a chance that he's doing it because he needs to scratch. A cat scratches household items to mark his scent on that item (using glands in his paws), and to remove the sheath that naturally grows over his claws. Giving him an outlet, like a scratching post, to satisfy his scratching needs should alleviate some of this problem behavior.If you catch your cat scratching furniture, a carpet, or any other place he's not supposed to scratch, interrupt him with a sharp noise. Try clapping your hands or shaking a jar full of coins to startle your cat out of his scratching.Immediately direct your cat to his scratching post. By interrupting his scratching of furniture and moving him to an acceptable object like a scratching post, you are reinforcing for your cat the notion that some objects are okay to scratch, but not others., Cats tend to dislike the smells of citrus and menthol. Rubbing a little bit of oil on the furniture your cat scratches the most could help prevent him from scratching there in the future.Soak several cotton balls in either citrus oil or a menthol-based muscle rub.Try dabbing the cotton ball on the legs and armrests of furniture your cat tends to target. Note that this will leave your furniture with a slight odor and may cause staining. Citrus oil may be less likely to stain. If you're concerned about the oils soaking through to your furniture, you may want to try simply taping the cotton balls onto the legs of couches and tables your cat tends to scratch., If your cat continues to pounce on your hands or feet, or destroy furniture around the house, it might be time to employ the water squirt method. Fill a spray bottle with clean, cold water. When the cat pounces, give him or her a quick squirt. Cats don't appreciate being sprayed with water, and they'll soon learn to associate this uncomfortable sensation with biting or scratching you.


Be advised, however, that your cat will come to associate you with the unpleasant sensation of being sprayed with water. He may even come to fear you., No matter how bad of a scratching problem he has, getting your cat declawed will only cause worse problems. The process is incredibly painful for cats and can cause lasting problems like tissue necrosis, permanent pain, aversion to using the litter box, and increased aggression towards humans.Consult your vet on other ways to curb your cat's scratching if this behavior becomes problematic.

