 Graduate students are eligible for an unsecured Stafford Loan that is not based on financial need. Assuming your advanced degree will increase your income, you will be better able to pay back the money after graduation. Pursuing a graduate degree is an investment in yourself, your future, and your earning potential. Like all investments, it sometimes comes with debt and risks.


Carefully consider how much you think you’ll be able to pay back after you graduate. If your job prospects are going to be challenging, taking out a loan might be a bad idea. You might want to think about working throughout graduate school and paying as much as possible at that time rather than relying on future earnings.
 If you get a fellowship of some kind of assistantship, you might not need to take out a loan. And based on what you do get, it’s likely you won’t need to take out the full amount you are eligible to take. There are times, however, when you need to avail yourself of the full amount of the Stafford Loan. If you attend graduate school full time, you automatically qualify for up to $20,500 each year for a total of up to $138,500, through the Stafford Loan program., The interest on graduate Stafford loans is 5.84% for the 2015-2016 academic year. Because it’s unsubsidized, the interest starts accruing immediately on the loan. You will not be required to pay back the loan until you have completed your graduate studies, plus a grace period of six months. Keep in mind that Stafford Loans also have a loan fee of 1.068%. This is figured as a percentage of the total loan amount. You will end up getting less money than you are actually borrowing because of the loan fee. You will need to pay it all back, including the loan fee, even though you never see that money.10 years is the typical period over which to repay the loan.
If your first job out of graduate school has very low pay, you may qualify to pay based on a percentage of your income, rather than the normal monthly payments., If you have a family member who is able to pay your tuition, then consider asking that person (or persons) for a loan. The average grad school loan carries an interest rate of 6.8%.If your family member is willing to charge you a lower interest rate for the loan, then you can save thousands of dollars on the cost of attending grad school.


Try saying something like, “I am worried about the high interest rates on loans for graduate school and I was wondering if you might be willing to offer me a lower interest loan for part or all of my tuition.”

