 Taking an active role in your child's education can be very beneficial in helping her succeed. One of the most important things you can do is to pay attention to what she is learning in school. Keep track of what subjects she is studying and monitor the assignments she is working on.Younger children tend to bring home projects, worksheets, and information from the teacher. If your child is in elementary school, ask her to go through her backpack with you each afternoon or evening.
Take time to ask what she is working on. Ask her to explain each of the items she brings home, and show a genuine interest.
If your child is older, ask about individual classes. Instead of saying, "How was school?", try saying, "What experiments did you work on in Chemistry today?";
, There are many ways to become more actively involved in your child's education. One of the most effective is to actually spend time at the school. Ask your child's teacher or principal for a list of volunteer opportunities available for parents.


In many elementary schools, parents are regularly utilized as classroom volunteers. Sign up to spend a morning helping with an art project.
If your child is in middle school or high school, volunteer to chaperone a field trip. Serving as an additional supervisor on a visit to the state capital is a great way to interact with your child, her classmates, and teachers.
You can also volunteer in other ways. Think about your own talents. For example, if you are a skilled seamstress, offer to help make costumes for the school play.
Consider volunteering to be the parent adviser for an after school club. Maybe your child is interested in playing chess, and wants to recruit other kids to join in. Talk to the school about organizing a new club.
Offer to give a presentation to your child's class. Many schools have a career day, which would be a great opportunity for you to teach your child and her classmates about your job.
 Your child's teacher obviously plays an important role in your child's education. At the beginning of each school year, contact the teacher and establish an open line of communication. Let her know you are interested in any feedback or comments she has to offer.


You can stop by the classroom before or after school to introduce yourself. Just say, "Hi, I'm Angie's mom, and I wanted to introduce myself. Please feel free to contact me if you feel there is anything about Angie that I should know."
You can also send an introductory note or e-mail at the beginning of the year. You should also contact the teacher throughout the year if you have any specific concerns.
Make parent-teacher conferences a priority. Most schools have regularly scheduled meetings between parents and teachers. Put these occasions on your calendar well in advance so that you have time to attend.
Try to respect boundaries. Schedule an appointment with your child's teacher during regular business hours instead of phoning her at home late at night.
 Sitting in on a lesson or two is a great way to get a clear idea of what your child is learning. Ask the school if they allow parent visitors during classes. Contact the principal's office to learn the specific guidelines.Make sure that the teacher is aware that you will be visiting. Send an e-mail or note ahead of your visit, stating that you are looking forward to watching your child learn.
Follow-up with your child after the visit. Over dinner, ask specific questions, such as, "How long have you been reading that book? Who is your favorite character?"

, If you get to know the other parents at school, you will likely feel more motivated to get involved in the culture. A great way to meet other parents is to join the Parent Teacher Organization or Association. Attend meetings regularly to get to know other parents and learn about issues affecting your child's education.Talk to other parents about what your kids are learning. If you have concerns about anything that is happening at the school, it will be useful to have another viewpoint.
The Parent Teacher Organization will usually sponsor many events and projects throughout the year. For example, they might raise funds for a new computer lab. Joining this organization is a great way to work with others to improve the school.

