 Before you give a pitch, learn about your buyer and how your product can help that customer. Also identify the objective of your pitch. Do you want to make a sale? Do you want to introduce the customer to your company and start a relationship? Consider the amount of time you have to give your pitch as well.Appealing to your audience is the most important part of your pitch.
Write down your talking points and get some feedback from a friend, colleague, or family member. Try to find people who are similar to your target audience.;
, Your pitch will depend on the method you use to deliver. Prepare a pitch for in-person, phone, and elevator speeches. An in-person pitch is a formal presentation that you give to one or more people. Your phone pitch is for cold calling or following up with people who have expressed interest in your company. Your elevator pitch is for informal situations and should only last 30 seconds.Any pitch you give should include your name and the company name, the product you are selling, and how the product can help your customer.
Your pitch should have a beginning, middle, and end.
When you give an elevator pitch, be sure you have a business card with you since you are limited on time.
 A sales pitch is not one-size fits all. It must appeal to the needs of each customer. Think of who your customer is, what your product can do for them, and what other products you are competing with.For example, if you were selling a natural, organic cleaning product to a family with small children, you may emphasize how effective yet safe the product is for children. If you were selling this product to a young millennial, you may emphasize how the product is environmentally friendly.
For the family, you may say, “I think you will love this product. Safe and gentle products are really important to our company. We developed this with families and children in mind.”
For the millennial, you may say, “Our company is really concerned about making sustainable products that do not harm our environment. We are socially responsible just like our customers.”

, You do not always have time to research your customer. You can understand your customer by asking questions. Once you understand the customer’s needs and wants, you can tell them how your product is a solution.You may ask the customer:


About work or school
Their frustrations
Their goals
For example, if you were selling a computer, you may ask: What do you use your computer for? What do you like about your current computer? How would you improve your current computer?

, You may have the best product out there, but you must show how your product will help your customer. Instead of focusing on the specific qualities if your product, focus on how the product will help your customer.For example, instead of talking about the large hard drive and processing speed of the computer, you would talk about how your customer would be able to surf the web faster or save more pictures, videos, and music files.
 Think of some of the most common objections to the product that you are selling. Is it the price? Is it a new or unpopular product? Is the product similar to something else on the market? Write down the top 10 most likely objections and come up with a response.Practice your response to these objections before you pitch the product. Your response should be very natural.
Never ignore or discredit an objection. Say, “That’s true” or “I completely understand” to acknowledge their feelings.
 After you have addressed any objections, it is time to move the conversation forward. Do not expect the customer to close the deal. Here are some phrases you may try:”So, when would you like to make your first purchase?”
”If I can give you a discount today, would you be interested in purchasing?”
”Based on your needs, I think this product would work really well for you. Would you like to give it a try?”
”Can you commit to doing business with us today?”
”If we can resolve the one issue you have with our product, would you be willing to a sign a contract in the next 2 weeks?”

, Your customer may not be ready to make a purchase. If your customer does not give you a firm “yes” or “no,” tell them that they should think about it and you will follow up with them later. To follow up with a customer:Exchange contact information
Set a time period for follow up (e.g. 1 week, 2 days)
Do not give up until you get a final answer. Many sales are made during the follow up period.

