 In order to qualify for a diagnosis, the person must exhibit at least five symptoms (for an adult) or six symptoms (for someone 16 and under) in more than one setting, for at least six months. Symptoms must be inappropriate for the person’s developmental level and be seen as interrupting normal functioning on the job or in social or school settings. Symptoms for ADHD (inattentive presentation) include: Makes careless mistakes, is inattentive to detail
Has trouble paying attention (tasks, playing)
Doesn’t seem to be paying attention when someone is talking to him
Doesn’t follow through (homework, chores, jobs); easily sidetracked
Is organizationally challenged
Avoids tasks requiring sustained focus (like schoolwork)
Can’t keep track of or often loses keys, glasses, papers, tools, etc.
Is easily distracted
Is forgetful;
, ADHD also has a Hyperactive-Impulsive presentation. Some symptoms must be at the level of “disruptive” for them to count in a diagnosis. Track if your boyfriend has at least five symptoms (for an adult) or six symptoms (for someone 16 and under) in more than one setting, for at least six months: Fidgety, squirmy; taps hands or feet
Feels restless
Struggles to play quietly/do quiet activities
“On the go” as if “driven by a motor”
Excessive talking
Blurts out even before questions are asked
Struggles to wait for his turn
Interrupts others, inserts self into others’ discussions/games

, If your boyfriend has five symptoms (for adults) or six symptoms (for children 16 and under) from either the inattentive or hyperactive-impulsive category of ADHD, he may have Combined presentation of ADHD. , As you determine the level of your boyfriend’s ADHD, suggest that he sees a mental health professional to get an official diagnosis.


This person will also be able to determine whether your symptoms can be better explained by or attributable to another mental or psychotic disorder.
 As if having an ADHD diagnosis isn’t challenging enough, one out of every five with ADHD is diagnosed with another serious disorder (depression and bipolar disorder are common partners). One-third of children with ADHD also have a behavioral disorder (conduct disorder, oppositional defiance disorder). ADHD tends to pair up with learning disabilities and anxiety, too.