 Talk with anybody and everybody, and yes, even do so with the adults. Speak clearly, and don't forget that the way you talk can make your reputation ("slow", "talkative", "fast", etc.).;
, Show off your bright smile, and walk with your back straight and your chin up (but don't try too hard, you'll look stiff). Give off an essence of confident, by looking and acting the part. Don't be afraid to wear something that's your style or is different (just don't push it).
 Talk cheerfully, and be creative with your projects and assignments. Try out for the team if everybody thinks you're good enough, and run for school president if you're likable and ready for the job. Give fantastic speeches, and color code your subjects and notes. Be very bubbly and artistic.


Don't be hyper or excited all the time. Enthusiastic means being happy and ready when you need to be. This will create a bad reputation, and it just makes you seem like a child.
 Just chat up somebody whose not busy, introduce yourself to the kids sitting around you, sit down with anyone at lunch, and strike up a conversation with a new person at the end of the day. This is a good start - now about five or six people (at least) know you!

, Imagine how embarrassing it would be for them to have to claim they don't know you in front of a huge crowd? Say your name at the beginning of class, and embellish your binders and notebooks with it (just once for every item, though!) Tell them a bit about yourself, so they'll think about you (that makes the name stick). Ask them about their lives, too - it's caring.
 This is how your name will stay! Ask about them, and be understanding and kind. Tell them some interesting things about you, and compliment them on their clothing or personality if you mean it. Then, tell them goodbye and that you'll talk to them tomorrow. This is the mother of memorable keywords, and I cannot stress this enough, say it! When you say that, they'll keep you in mind. They'll know you'll be in touch.

