 Just as you and your significant other might change over time, your relationship will also evolve. Instead of trying to keep your relationship the same, embrace and appreciate the changes that come with building a more established and long-term relationship.Some people worry about not feeling the same level of infatuation or passion they did in the early days of their relationship, but this is normal. You may have less opportunity for intimacy as your relationship matures with the pressures of work, family, and other commitments. Research suggests, however, that people in committed relationships report they have a more satisfying physical and emotional relationship with their significant other.
Instead of worrying about the negative aspects of a more established relationship, think about the positive ways in which your relationship has developed. For example, do you feel your connection with your significant other is deeper? Are you more confident and trusting than you were when you first entered the relationship? What kind of experiences and challenges have you and your partner gone through together?

, Cultivating a long and happy relationship requires both individuals to invest time, energy, and effort.Instead of thinking about maintaining a relationship as “hard work,” think of it as developing and deepening the connection you and your partner share. While this will sometimes mean confronting challenges, there will also be many enjoyable times, special moments, and exciting opportunities.
Even if your relationship seems like hard work sometimes, focus on the returns you will receive from your investment.
 Treating each other with respect will help you and your significant other build and maintain a long-lasting and happy relationship. Here are some effective ways to demonstrate that you respect your significant other:


Treat your significant other as you would like to be treated.
Be thoughtful and courteous by seeking each other’s opinion and input on important matters, such as parenting, and even about everyday topics such as what you will have for dinner.
Consult each other before making plans.
Ask about the other person’s work, interests, activities, and feelings.
Avoid name-calling or any language and behavior that demeans the other person in the relationship. Sarcasm, nitpicking, and nagging might seem minor, but they can hurt your significant other and make her feel defensive and even hostile.
 Many couples pay special attention to birthdays and anniversaries, but expressing and demonstrating your appreciation for the things your significant other does every day will help you establish a strong and happy relationship.You don’t have to spend money to show you care.
Try doing something helpful or thoughtful without prompting. For example, take the trash out or offer to make dinner.
Tell your significant other why he is important to you.
When your significant other does something nice for you, acknowledge it and say thank you.
If you want your significant other to be more appreciative and considerate, then model the same behavior. You can lead by example.
 Poor communication can prevent you and your significant other from having a long and happy relationship. Effective communication will help make sure you and your significant other are on the same page and that you trust each other.Check in regularly with your significant other, and spend time each day discussing more personal, relationship topics rather than just talking about parenting, work, or household chores.
Communication isn’t always about talking. It’s also about listening carefully to what the other person has to say. Avoid interrupting each other or talking over one another.
When your significant other shares her feelings, acknowledge that you heard her by summarizing what she said. You can start out by saying, “So what I’m hearing or understanding is that. . .” Even if you don’t agree with what the person is saying, this strategy demonstrates that you are paying attention, and it will help you empathize with your significant other. It also usually prevents people from feeling defensive.
Face-to-face communication, especially about your relationship, is often more effective than phone calls, texts, or emails. When you can look a person in the eye, observe her body language, and see her reactions, you will be better able to respond to the situation and address any concerns., Couples who are honest with each other are more likely to enjoy a long-lasting and happy relationship. The mistrust that often results from dishonesty can seriously endanger your relationship.Rather than risk losing trust, be honest and let your significant other know about your feelings and concerns. Even if the conversation is uncomfortable and hard, trying to regain his trust after being dishonest will be even more difficult.
While honesty is essential to a successful relationship, brutal honesty can be hurtful. Try to be kind and sensitive when you convey your concerns or share unpleasant news. If you are rude and insensitive, your message won’t be well-received and you and your significant other will find it even harder to communicate.
 People demonstrate affection and love differently, and realizing this can help you establish a happier and healthier relationship.Be sensitive to each other’s needs by asking what you both can do to demonstrate love and support. Once you both know what the other person needs, you can make a conscious effort to express your feelings for each other.
 Instead of thinking about how much something your partner does irritates you or is different from how you would approach something, try to appreciate your differences.Think about how your differences complement each other and contribute to your relationship. For example, if you are more serious and your partner is more lighthearted, think about how you help balance each other out. Does your significant other force you not to take things too seriously, and are you able to help her focus on the important things?
People often find that a personality trait or habit that is sometimes irritating is also one that initially attracted you to your significant other.
 Oftentimes in more established relationships, people become busy and it can be easy to overlook the importance of sharing quality time with your significant other. Regularly spending time together without interruptions from kids, pets, parents, or work, will help you connect and bond with your significant other.Instead of just watching television or a movie, choose an activity where you interact with each other. You can plan a weekend trip, take a cooking class together, walk around a park, or have dinner together.
Many couples find it helpful to schedule regular “date nights.” Plan what you will do together, or alternate so that you plan activities one week while your partner plans them the following week. Make sure you choose different activities so your date nights don’t become too much like a routine., While spending quality time together is essential, making time for yourself will also help you maintain a long and happy relationship. Anyone can grate on each other’s nerves after awhile, and spending a little time away or making time for yourself often helps you appreciate your significant other even more.Pursue separate interests and activities. You’ll feel independent, but also happier and refreshed when you return.
 Challenges are inevitable in a relationship, but your ability to maintain a sense of humor and laugh with your significant other will help you both overcome difficulties.Try reminiscing about a shared experience or go to a place like an amusement park or comedy club where there is lots of laughter.
Focus on laughing together rather than at each other, which can make the experience negative and prevent you from bonding with your partner.
 Unhappy in-laws, overbearing parents, and bossy friends can all wreak havoc on the relationship you and your significant other are building. Work with your significant other to keep negative interference to a minimum.You don’t need to cut these people out of your life, but don’t tolerate anyone who refuses to be supportive or who is negatively affecting your relationship.
If you or your significant other have concerns about someone intervening in your relationship, talk about it openly and honestly. Work together to brainstorm about potential solutions. For example, if your in-laws insist on coming for Christmas every year, you and your significant other can plan a trip and enjoy some time away from family pressures.
You can listen and respond to concerns people may have about your relationship, but you can also politely and calmly explain how their involvement is negatively affecting you and your significant other.
An exception to this guideline is if you are in a relationship that is abusive or if there is validity to their concerns. In these cases, don’t isolate yourself or dismiss the people who want to help and support you.

