 Mechanics is a branch of physics that is concerned with the rest or motion of bodies with forces applied to those bodies. There are several subjects that fall under Mechanics: Statics, which is concerned with bodies in equilibrium that are at rest, and Dynamics, which is concerned with bodies also in equilibrium that are moving and/or accelerating.


Under dynamics, we have Kinetics, which is used to analyze the forces that cause motion and finally, Kinematics, which is concerned with the geometric aspects of motion.
As a reminder, the term ‘equilibrium’ refers to the state that an object enters into when all of the forces pushing against the object cancel each other out. This results in the object becoming balanced, or static., Kinematics analyzes how a body will move when a certain force is applied to it, including its motion when it’s accelerating or mounted on an angle. Kinematics provides the basis for higher physics theories as well as engineering principles.
 Standards are used to establish uniformity among units assigned in kinematic equations (in this case distance and time). These standards do not change over time, because they provide a fundamental basis for all scientific calculations. There are many types of standards – the Système Internationale (SI), or the metric system and the English system are one of the most used standards.


The SI assigns meter (m) and seconds (s) as their primary unit for distance and time respectively, while the English systems assigns inches (in) or foot (ft) as its primary unit for distance, and seconds (s) for time.
 Because kinematics equations focus on motion, let’s take a simple example of motion: walking. Imagine yourself walking in a straight path. What parameters do you achieve when you walk? First, you arrive at a certain position away from your initial starting point. You covered a certain distance; we can call this first parameter displacement. Second, you traveled that distance in a certain amount of time, which is our second parameter.Distance and time are the basic building blocks of kinematic equations, but it doesn’t mean that we are finished. Kinematics equations are composed of displacement, time, and their derivatives. Derivative units are composed of the product or quotient of two or more standard units.
For example, if you divide meter by second, you will get meter per second (m/s), which is a derivative unit.
 Velocity is the total displacement divided by total time. Let’s look at the walking example: let’s say, you want to find out how much feet you traveled in a second, but you didn’t measure your displacement every second that you were in motion. To determine velocity:


Measure the total distance that you walked, and divide it by the total time that you were walking. This will result in your velocity.
The equation for velocity is meters divided by seconds, or m/s.
 Acceleration is the speed at which you were traveling during your movement. Determining acceleration can help you to figure out if you traveled faster or slower during a certain period. To find acceleration, you divide the velocity by the time. The equation for acceleration is:



(m/s) / (s) = m/s2.

