 Your ex broke up with you, because they couldn't deal with the pressures of an inter religious relationship/marriage.;
, A person possessing this type of character is simply not worth your time and emotions, because they are unreliable. You deserve to be given strength and support from a life partner.
 Remove all pictures put up on your social networking page - pictures of the two of you, remove them and their friends from all your social networking sites. If this is done at the very early stage of a break up, it will help you deal with the stress better. The last thing you need is to weep over these details, as you try to heal yourself.
 But, they are not in it now and you will have to come to terms with it. Re-plan your future slowly, do not take harsh decisions no matter how heart broken you are.
 This is not going to help you, because you are acting on emotions right now.
 At this point, you need to understand that suppressing your emotions will not be the best way to handle this. You need to let it out, communicate about it. You probably don't like the idea of writing, but give it a try, it will be hard to deal with the memories that rush into you when you are dealing with it, but it will help you in the long run.
 Everybody needs help, and sometimes we underestimate the power of trained professionals. You'll be surprised at how much you can connect yourself with the help of a therapist.
 Go to places that are out of your comfort zone, experience something new and document it.
 Make up for the lost time you spent on the failed relationship, by indulging in activities with close people.
 This will only make you miserable and spiteful. Remember : 'If I look back, I am lost'. Hence you must not look back. You did everything in your power to make the relationship work, and you can't blame yourself.
 You have an experience that will make you wiser, stronger and a much better person. As painful as it can be, you will be grateful to it when you are in a much happier place.
 Just because something was broken, it doesn't mean you should stop believing in yourself and living your life. Just as there is certainty that a new day begins after every sunrise, you must be hopeful. Similarly, realize that your ex deserves the same. And they will move on, they will end up marrying somebody of their own religion and begin a new life with them. What could have been your life with them, is now somebody elses. All vacant positions will be taken up, by somebody better deserving for everybody. When this happens, you must let it go and believe - as annoying and painful as it sounds - everything happens for the best.
 Be proud of yourself because you tried, you gave it your best shot, but simply because the other person did not have the courage to try; it can't be your fault. There is more to life than a failed relationship, sometimes we need to let go to see what awaits us in the future.
