


The design for an executive office should be welcoming, but also be practical for what it is going to be used for. For example, a couch is a nice thing to have, but only if the executive really has a need for it. You don't want to take up room with fancy furniture and other items that aren't really necessary to have in the office -- even if they look nice.;
,


If the executive has traditional taste, don't give him or her a contemporary office. No matter what the design of the other offices in the company, the executive should have a space where he or she feels comfortable and where production is the most important thing, not the style of the office. The executive will be the one spending the most time in the room, so it should reflect at least some of who he or she is.



Executives have worked hard to get where they are and they have the honors to show it. Not only do executives want to display their achievements, but clients, and potential clients, want to see them. Seeing the credentials of someone you are doing business with can give confidence to those seeking the company's expertise as well as solidify for current clients that they have made the right decision.
Honors, awards and diplomas can go on surface areas as well as the walls. It is beneficial to the executive design process to check with the executive about what types of things he or she has to display so you can allot the appropriate space for them.



Executives will likely be meeting with many types of people in their offices. The color scheme should be something that is warm and welcoming to anyone. Nice, warm neutral tones are a good choice to give the office some color, but aren't overwhelming. A neutral color palette is also very easy to match when it comes to furniture, carpeting and decorations.



Don't forget to leave enough space for filing cabinets, shelving and bookcases to allow the executive plenty of space to stay organized. It is easy to get wrapped up in the aesthetics of the office, but it is important to remember that someone needs to work in this space. Again, consulting the executive about the type of organizational system he or she prefers will save time..

