 Chest pain is not something you ever want to ignore, so if you have chest pain, you should go to the doctor or emergency room, just in case. Try to take note of where, exactly, you're having chest pain, as well as if certain actions make it feel worse, such as coughing or lying down.Chest pain associated with pericarditis is generally sharp and quick, not drawn out.Coughing or lying down will often make the pain feel worse. Coughing can be a symptom of this condition, too.Pain can also be in your back, neck, shoulder, or middle region.;
, Sometimes, this condition can make it harder to breathe. You'll particularly notice it when you're lying down, so pay attention. If you notice this symptom, you need to talk to your doctor, particularly if it is in conjunction with other symptoms., Of course, everyone feels extra tired from time to time; however, sometimes tiredness has a cause. It's your body's way of telling you there's something wrong. If you notice you just don't have the energy you need or that you're feeling weak, you may want to talk to your doctor, particularly if you're having other symptoms., With this condition, you may have a low fever. If you're feeling a bit warm, try taking your temperature to see if you're running a fever. In addition, you might notice swelling in your legs or abdomen., Often, pericarditis develops after another type of infection, so note if you have these symptoms after having a cold or pneumonia, for instance. It may also develop after a bacterial or fungal infection., Likely one of the first things the doctor will do is listen to your heart with a stethoscope. The doctor will be listening for a "rubbing" sound, which is your pericardium rubbing against the outer layer of your heart. This rubbing is caused by fluid building up in your chest or by the swelling of your pericardium., Another symptom your doctor will be listening for is crackling sounds. These sounds could indicate fluid in your lungs or pericardium, a complication of pericarditis., Your doctor will also listen carefully to your heartbeat, to see if it sounds muffled. Your breathing may be a little labored, too, which your doctor will be able to hear more clearly with the stethoscope., Imaging tests can give your doctor a better picture of your heart, helping with diagnosis. Your doctor may order imaging tests such as an MRI, an echocardiogram, an electrocardiogram, a chest x-ray, or a CT scan., While the symptoms above could indicate pericarditis, some of them could also point to other conditions, such as a heart attack or blood clots. Your doctor will need to analyze the images to determine which condition you have., Pericarditis is often a symptom of another problem, so your doctor will likely do a few more tests to diagnose where the problem came from. The doctor might need to do a biopsy of the pericardium (take a small tissue sample) or a pericardial fluid aspiration to help determine the cause, though the doctor may not able to determine a cause.A pericardial fluid aspiration means removing fluid that has developed around the heart. This procedure can be done to figure out what kind of infection you have, but it may also be done to help treat your condition.
This procedure is done through inserting a needle into your chest to withdraw fluid. You will be given local anesthesia as needed., Your doctor may order other tests to help diagnose the condition, such as blood tests to determine whether your blood counts indicate this condition. They may also use your blood tests to check the presence of other markers in your blood that indicate this condition.