 Physical activity can help increase positive mood (by releasing endorphins) and prevent mood diagnoses such as anxiety and depressive disorders.Focus on exercising at least every other day for at least 30 minutes. Or, when you feel a mood swing coming on get out and do something physical.


Traditional exercises such as walking, running, and lifting weights are useful in creating a physical activity schedule.
You can even do exercises at home. Try sweeping, vacuuming or other types of cleaning. Or, put on a YouTube exercise video for free!
Exercise doesn’t have to be boring. Try fun physical activities like: hiking, canoeing, fishing, kayaking, gardening, jumping rope, dancing, bowling, shooting pool, kickboxing, doing yoga, and playing sports.
 Sleep duration and quality have effects on your mood and overall health.Get less sleep and you might become more anxious or agitated, which can be a trigger to a mood swing.


Sleep at least 8 hours per night.
Set a bedtime and wake-time and stick to them even on weekends.
Stop watching television and using your phone at least 30 minutes before bedtime.
 What goes in your body dictates how you will feel physically. Having a healthy diet can produce stability in both body and mind. Make sure you get enough vitamins and minerals in your diet.Ditch the junk food. It doesn’t help to cope by overeating or eating unhealthy foods.
Don't constantly miss meals. Eat at least 3 solid meals per day. Plan ahead so that you aren’t in a situation where you are left without any food during lunchtime.
Have snacks with you so that you avoid feeling cranky due to hunger. When you start to experience a drop in energy or start to feel moody, eat a snack. Some good options are: yogurt, fruits, nuts (as long as you aren’t allergic), cheese, protein bars, granola bars, and vegetables.
Avoid coffee and soda if you can. Soda and coffee will raise your blood sugar levels rapidly however shortly after these levels drop very low thus effecting your mood swings again. If you drink 4 cups of coffee a day and or 4 sodas a day cut the amount in half for a week. If everything is going well, then reduce in half again for another week. Continue on with this program until you are not consuming any coffee or soda.
If you need extra help, consult a nutritionist or a Physician who is well educated in nutrition, food and supplementation.

