 Communication is very important in relationships, so there's no need to beat around the bush. You could just be forthright and honest.


You want to spare your partner's feelings, so it's best to start by trying to fix a sloppy kisser with positive and subtle encouragement. However, if this doesn't work, your partner should respect your honesty, and it's time to be more direct.
Telling your partner what you do like can be the best way to direct the other person to stop doing what you don't like. However, there may come a time that you need to say something like, "I prefer gentle kissing. Is it OK if we try kissing that way?" Be kind but direct.
 When your partner kisses you in a way that you like, let your partner know. Say things like, “I really love it when you kiss me in this way.”


It’s better to express what you like than to tell your partner what you don’t like because people can get very sensitive about how they kiss.
If your partner is kissing you in a way you don’t like, simply start kissing the other person the way you prefer, but then use positive verbal reinforcement after a few minutes of it to encourage the better way of kissing.
 You could just cut to the chase and tell your partner exactly where and how you want to be kissed. If you do this in a sensual, loving way, it could actually turn your partner on!


Say something like, “I love it most when you kiss me gently” or however you prefer to be kissed.
You could back up and ask your partner to kiss you in a specific way. Being verbal is OK. It’s better to express how you feel than to hold it in and not enjoy the kiss., Don’t immediately dump a person just because they’re a sloppy kisser. You could be giving up a good thing!


A lot of people think they are good kissers and don’t realize they are sloppy. Maybe the last person they kissed preferred the way they are kissing you (as hard as that might be to imagine). Research has shown that some people judge a relationship by the first kiss. This can be a mistake.It takes time to get to know a new partner and to understood their likes and dislikes and the nuances that make a connection work. Give it time, and remember that communication is important.
 There are actually biological reasons for sloppy kissing. Research has found that men are more likely to use sloppy kisses.


Men’s saliva has testosterone in it. Thus, it’s been shown to raise a partner's libido! It might improve your sex life to embrace it! Kissing also has other chemical benefits. It activates the release of dopamine, which makes people feel good, and it can activate release of oxytocin, which creates feelings of attachment.

