 The type of collar you buy will depend greatly on why you want it. Are you looking to provide ID for your cat in case it gets lost? Do you want to start walking your indoor cat on a leash? Make sure you understand all your reasons for wanting a collar before you purchase.If you are looking for a place to hang ID tags, a standard collar should suffice.
Alternatively, for permanent identification, you may opt to have your cat microchipped. A vet can insert a microchip the size of a grain of rice in between your cat’s shoulders. The chip can be read by a scanner to bring up more detailed ownership information than a tag can provide.
If you want to start walking your cat, you should consider purchasing a harness instead of a standard collar, as these are more secure and often more comfortable for cats.
If you are looking for a flea collar, it is best to consult your vet prior to purchase. Flea collars can be especially irritating to cats, and your vet can help you find a collar with the proper dosage of the proper treatment for your particular feline.;
, Look for an adjustable collar or harness that is made from a strong webbing, has double stitching throughout, and has a breakaway safety clasp. Opt for d-rings in place of keyring-style split rings for securing tags.Collars with elastic inserts can stretch and may cause injury to your cat if they become stuck on their paws or legs.
Collars that do not feature break-away safety clasps can increase the risk of choking if your cat gets caught on something.
Take a look at the edges of the collar before purchasing. They should be rounded or folded over, rather than sharp. Sharp edges can dig into the skin and cause injury or discomfort.
 A collar is, in part, an accessory that allows you to show off your style or your cat’s personality. More than that, though, a bright color with a bell on it can make your cat more noticeable if it happens to get out or wander too far from home.Opt for colors that will be highly visible against your cat’s fur. A safety yellow or orange color, for example, might not stand out if your cat has a blonde or orange coat. A vibrant blue or green would provide better contrast.
Consider purchasing a collar with a bell, or a separate bell attachment for the collar, especially if you let your cat outdoors. The noise provided by the bell makes them more noticeable and easier to track, and may scare away other animals.
Look for bells that do not have tapering grooves. This helps your cat avoid getting their claws stuck in their collar.
 Before you purchase a collar, it is best if you can see the collar in person. While there are many high-quality collars available through online retailers, the easiest way to get a sense of the strength, shape, and function of the collar is to inspect it yourself.Check at local pet stores or specialty cat retail stores to find a collar for your cat. Many pet stores have a wide selection of collars with one that is likely to fit your needs.
If you do purchase through an online retailer, try to find one that offers free returns and exchanges if the collar does not fit correctly or is not up to your standards.
 Many pet stores and specialty cat retail stores allow cats in the shops. If possible, bring your cat in and have them try on the collar to make sure it is appropriate for their size and does not cause them any great pain or discomfort.


Cats who have never worn a collar before might find a foreign object around their neck to be awkward or uncomfortable.
Look for signs of pain and distress, such as shallow breathing, increased heart rate, wide eyes, and increased biting or scratching as a sign the collar is causing true pain., Purchase tags for your cat’s collar at the same time you purchase the collar, itself. Many pet stores have machines that will automatically engrave tags for you. At the very least, the tag should include the cat’s name, a mobile phone number where you can always be reached, and the city in which you live.Pets are often found near the same neighborhood where they escaped. If you are comfortable with it and the tag has room, you may also want to include your address.
You may also include vaccination tags on your cat’s collar. Rabies tags can help identify your pet and your contact information should your cat get out.
 When fitting your collar to your cat, adjust the collar so that you know it will be loose. Secure it around your cat’s neck and tighten until you can fit two fingers side-by-side underneath the collar.Collars need to have some extra space to avoid getting caught or choking, but should still be secure enough to keep your cat from slipping out.
 A cat that has never worn a collar before may express some level of displeasure with the new object around their neck, even when fit properly. Help distract your cat by putting on the collar right before mealtime or playtime so that their focus can immediately turn elsewhere.You may want to distract your cat regularly with a training treat, a toy, or other means of play for the first few days while your cat adjusts to the collar.
 Collar fit should be checked every couple weeks or any time you notice the collar looking loose or your cat expressing discomfort over the fit. Check the fit regularly to make sure the collar is secure and comfortable.Fits can change for a number of reasons, including weight gain or loss, your kitten growing, or the collar getting stuck on something that pulls.

