

As you are healing and begin to move on, surround yourself with people who care about you and your well-being.You'll find it easier to move on if you have loved ones cheering you through it.

These are people that should support you and understand that you are going to have to do things at your own pace.
Your support network should include people that you could call if you need someone to talk to or if you need help.
 When you are ready to do out into the world of social activities again, go with friends. Take the time to reconnect with them and reestablish your relationships. It will not only help ease stress you might be having about moving on, but will also give you time to rediscover what you love about each of your friends. Make plans for lunch, go together to a party, or have a spa day.
 As you are moving on listen to yourself, you will know when you are ready to do each step of the process. Go slow and don't force yourself to try and get over the break up as quickly as possible. Break ups unfortunately do not work like that. Healing and moving on can take some time.Give yourself the time to do it right, and you'll be better off for it.
 It's sometimes easy to think of a relationship as a failure, especially if it ends badly, but even the most difficult relationship can teach you about yourself — about what you want (and don't want) in a partner, how you deal with conflict and communicate, where you might set boundaries in a future relationship, and so on. Ask yourself which values are important to you so that when you're ready to date you can look for someone whose values are similar.


For instance, maybe this past relationship taught you that it's very important that you and your partner have similar religious beliefs, or that you want to be with someone who makes family a priority. When you meet someone, use this new knowledge about what you want to decide if you are compatible.
 Take your time getting back into the dating world. Figure out how you want to start dating and how actively you want to look. Maybe ask friends to set you up, or join an online dating site. Or if you are not ready to be that active, just stay open to new possibilities. Go about it in whatever way makes you comfortable. Make decisions about dating using the knowledge you have gained from this break up about yourself, your worth, and what you want out of a true partner.


Take some time to think about if you've healed enough from your previous relationship to allow yourself to be vulnerable and open with someone new. If not, you might need a little more time before you're ready to date again.

