 Condoms are a thin sheath of latex (male) or plastic (female) that are either put on the penis or inserted into the vagina immediately before sexual intercourse. You don’t need to see a doctor to use this method and can start using it right away.


You can purchase male and female condoms over the counter at most drug stores and some grocery stores.
It’s important to make sure that you or your partner use the condom properly. This will help ensure that you don’t get pregnant or transmit any STDs.Condoms are the only type of birth control that come with the benefit of helping to prevent STDs if used properly., Spermicide and sponges are barrier methods that are inserted into the vagina up to 30 minutes before sex and left in place for 6-8 hours after sex.Like condoms, you don’t need to see a doctor to use spermicide and can start using it right away.


You can purchase spermicide and sponges at most drug stores and grocery stores, and it is not very expensive.Spermicide comes in different delivery methods such as foams, creams, jellies, thin films, and suppositories that melt when inserted into the vagina.Sponges are doughnut shaped devices coated with spermicide. You insert a sponge yourself and it covers the cervix., Diaphragms and cervical caps are barrier methods made of latex, silicone, or plastic. Both are used with spermicides and require a prescription from your doctor.Diaphragms are small dome-shaped devices that are inserted into the vagina to cover the cervix. They are made of latex or silicone and you must use it with a spermicide.Cervical caps are also small dome-shaped devices that tightly cover the cervix using suction. They are made of plastic and you must use it with a spermicide.Make an appointment with your doctor if you decide to get a diaphragm or cervical cap. She will fit you for a diaphragm and give you a prescription.To start using this method, have the prescription filled. Insert your diaphragm or cervical cap 2-6 hours before sex and reapply spermicide each time you have intercourse.