 Hair accumulates very quickly, and so do the dust and allergy-triggering particles that come with it. Even a home with a single, short-haired cat might need to be vacuumed at least once a day, and a home with more pets will likely need more thorough vacuuming to keep excess hair at bay.


When vacuuming your carpet, go over areas twice in different directions to loosen stubborn hairs.
Robotic room-cleaners can be a good choice for regular vacuuming when you don't have time to go over a carpet every single day. Consider a robot for the rooms your cat frequents.;
, Scrape a pumice stone gently along the surface of the carpet. Any hair on the surface will gather right up. Peel the hair off the stone and throw the hair away.


Commercial products like FURminator work well, too, but a pumice stone is cheaper and does the job.
 Put a Croc on your hand or foot. Sweep it across the carpet, then rub the bottom of the shoe, and the hair will easily come off in your hand.


Try spraying water onto the bottom of the croc, and go back over the area a second time. This should gather the last of the hair.
 On hardwood, laminate, or vinyl, use an electrostatic or microfiber dry mop to clean up hair. These tend to work better than vacuums on bare flooring. They're sold at home-goods stores.


Sweeping helps to keep cat hair under control, but it can also be hard to corral the hair this way. Dry mops tend to trap the hair and dust better than anything else.
 Another way to remove pet hair from fabric or upholstered furniture is to use a damp rubber glove. The yellow kind used for washing dishes are perfect for this purpose. Get the glove slightly wet, then run the gloves over the surface of the fabric. Rinse the hair off and repeat the process as needed. If you don't have gloves, a sponge can work in a pinch.
 A clean, soft cloth can be used on wooden furniture, along with some polish or anti-static spray, to help remove cat hair. The spray will eliminate the static charge in the fur, making it less likely that the fur will re-attach itself to the same surface.

