 If you aren't already logged into Facebook, you'll need click the Log In button in the top right corner of the page to enter your Facebook email address and password.
 This is at the top of the screen, directly beneath the search bar--you'll need to drag your mouse cursor over each option to view its subsections. Your options include the following:


Using Facebook - This section of the Help Center covers basic Facebook functionality, including how-tos on friending, messaging, and account creation.

Managing Your Account - Covers items such as your login and your profile settings.

Privacy and Safety - Addresses account security, unfriending people, and hacked/fake accounts.

Policies and Reporting - Covers basic reporting (abuse, spam, etc.) as well as handling a deceases person's Facebook account and reporting hacked or fake accounts.
You can also check out the "Questions You May Have" and "Popular Topics" sections on this page, since they cover common issues and complaints.
 For example, if you're having a problem with an impostor account, you'd select the "Privacy and Safety" section and then click Hacked and Fake Accounts., In keeping with the impostor account example, you might click the "How do I report an account that’s pretending to be me?" link. Doing so will bring up a series of steps that explain how to remedy your situation.

For example, Facebook recommends dealing with an impostor account by going to the account's profile page, clicking ..., and clicking Report, then following the on-screen instructions.
 To do this, simply click on the search bar at the top of the Help Center page--it will say something like "Hi (Your Name), how can we help?"--and type in a few words related to your complaint. You should see several suggestions pop up in a drop-down menu below the search bar.

For example, you might type in "impostor account", then click on the "How do I report an account for impersonation?" result.
The search bar here only links to Facebook's pre-written articles--if you're looking for an answer to a specific issue not covered in the Help Center, skip ahead to the Community page.
 If your business or page is having issues with ads, your questions are usually addressed in this section.

To delve into advertising, you'll want to click Creating Ads or Managing Ads.
For problems with advertising, you'll need to click Troubleshooting Your Ads and then select an issue on the subsequent menu.
 If you can't find your current problem listed anywhere in the Help Center, your best bet is to look for it in the community forums here.

You'll see a search bar at the top of this page--you can look up topics (e.g., disabled accounts) from here.

