 If you do not already have an email address, you will need to sign up with an email provider before proceeding. Thankfully, there are many free web-based email providers who you can get a free email address with for no cost. Some of the most popular ones include:


Gmail
Hotmail
Yahoo mail;
, Before you can write an email, you will need to open a new, blank message box to write your email in. The exact method varies depending on the service you use, but there will usually be a button toward the top of the page with a label like “Compose,” “New,” or “New Message.”


If you are uncertain about how to create a new message, check the help pages for your email service to learn more about it in greater detail.
 You do not need to list your own email address, but you do need to specify the email address of the person or people you intend to send the email to.


A space is often enough to separate multiple email addresses, but some services do request that you separate multiple addresses with a comma or some other form of punctuation. If this is the case, these instructions should be specified by your specific email provider.
Type the email address of the main receiver or receivers in the “To:” field. The main receiver usually refers to anyone whom the email is directly meant for or addressed to in the body of the email.
Type other email addresses in the “CC:” field. This is the “copy” field. A receiver should be listed in the “CC:” field if the email does not directly mention them but does refer to something that individual should be aware of.
Use the “BCC:” field to hide email addresses. If you do not want the receivers of an email to see a list of email addresses the message went to, you should type those email addresses in the “blind copy” field.
 Every email service will let you type a subject or title for your email in the “Subject” box.


The subject should be brief, but it should also give the recipient some idea of what the email is about.

For example, a casual email to a friend could simply say “What's Up?” If you are emailing with a question about an assignment, though, the subject line might read something like “Math homework.”
Similarly, a question to a supervisor or professor could be labeled with a subject line like “Question” or “Question about...” followed by a brief label describing the topic in question.


Note that a message without a subject will appear in a recipient's inbox with the label of “(no subject).”

, The body of your email should be written in the large text box below the subject line.


The body of each email should typically include a salutation, message, and closing.
The nature of email is fast, so you should generally keep the length of your message fairly short.
 After you finish typing your email, review it to verify that there are no spelling or grammar mistakes and that the message clearly addresses the matter you wanted to bring up. If the email is ready, hit the “Send” button on the message box in order to send it away to the listed recipients.
 Friendly emails should be reserved for loved ones, including friends, family, and romantic partners. If the message is casual in nature and you are sending it to someone you are on informal terms with, you can send a friendly email.


The only time you would not send a friendly email to a family or friend would be if you are sending a group email of an official nature, like a plea for donations or sale advertisement. Since these emails will likely be sent to people who you are not on casual terms with, as well, you must gear the email toward them.
 A subject line is not strictly essential, but it is still a good idea to include a subject. Keep it short, sweet, and to the point.


If you are just writing an email to catch up with a friend, you could include a humorous subject line or one as simple as "Long time no see!"
If you are writing with a purpose, mention what that purpose is. For example, if you decide to write an email about a group outing, label the email with a subject that specifically mentions that outing.
 For a friendly email, this is not strictly necessary, but it is still a polite way to begin the body of your message.


Your salutation can be as simple as stating the person's name:

"Bob,"


Alternatively, you can include a friendly greeting with that name, as well:

"Hey Bob!"
"Hi Bob,"
"Morning Bob!"



, The body of your message should be easy to understand, but the tone should be informal and conversational.


Read your email and ask yourself if the content of the email sounds like the way you speak in person. If so, then you've achieved a good tone for a friendly email.
Use contractions. Contractions are not a part of formal writing, but they are a common part of everyday conversation, making them appropriate for a friendly email.Feel free to use slang. If desired, you can include Internet slang: "thx" instead of "thanks," "4" instead of "for," "l8r" instead of "later," etc.
Also use emoticons when appropriate. :)

, Like salutations, a closing or signature is not strictly necessary for a friendly email, but it can be a good way to end the message.


Your closing can be as simple as your name:

"Jen"
"-Jen"


You can also get a little more creative with your closing:

"Later! Jen"
"This email will self-destruct in 3...2...1..."



, You should use a formal email when you are writing someone you are not on casual terms with. This includes, among others, supervisors, co-workers, clients and customers, instructors, and community or political officials.


Note that you may find that strict formal emails are not necessary with someone who falls into one of these categories once you build a working relationship with that person. When a "formal" email becomes a little too rigid, you should write a "semi-formal" email.

The tone of your message can be a little more conversational but you should stay away from Internet slang.
You should still include your signature, but you may not need to provide all of your contact information below your name.
 The subject should be brief but accurate. Get straight to the matter at hand.


Example:

"Essay question" (when writing an email to a professor asking for details about an essay assignment)
"Application for Management Job Ad" (when sending an email in response to a job ad)
"Problem with Part #00000" (when typing an email to request customer service or to report a technical problem)



, A formal salutation should include the word "Dear" followed by the receiver's name. Use the receiver's last name and an appropriate title, and follow the salutation with a colon.Example:

"Dear Mr. Smith:"
"Dear Ms. Jones:"
"Dear Dr. Evans:"



, Restrict the content of your email to a few paragraphs that directly address the subject of your email. Use formal language and make sure that your spelling and grammar are accurate.


Avoid the use of contractions.
Do not use Internet slang or emoticons.
 The most common closing is "Sincerely," but there are a few others that can work, as well. Keep the closing polite and follow it with a comma.


Other possible closings include:

Regards
Yours faithfully
Best regards
Thank you
Best wishes



, Include your full name below the closing of your email. Below your name, you may want to include your official title and any contact information that come in handy.


Your title, if you have one, should include your position and the name of the company or institution you are a part of.
Include your telephone number, fax number, and email address, at minimum. You may also wish to include your mailing address and website URL.
 If a friend, relative, or loved one has recently moved to a new location, write an email to check in by asking about how the move went, what the new neighborhood is like, and so on.
 If you got a casual friend's email address from a third party, it is important that you use your email to verify that the address is correct and that you quickly clarify who you are.
 If you're a girl writing an email to a guy for the first time, you might feel a little unnerved. This is especially true if the guy you're writing to is potential crush material. Try writing an email that seems casual yet intelligent and composed.


While it's a pretty risky move, you can also use email to tell a guy you like him.
 If you're a guy writing an email to a girl for the first time, the task may seem pretty daunting. Keep your cool and write a message that is both casual and well put together.
 If you want to be cute and playful with the recipient of your email, use the same sort of language you would use to flirt with that person in reality. Emoticons and “hugs and kisses” (xoxo) also come in handy.


Similarly, write a flirty email to someone on an dating website. For an email like this, though, you need to be both flirty and informative so that the recipient gets a good idea of who you are.
 In this digital age, the love email can be viewed as an equivalent of the love letter. If your romantic partner is away and you want to send a quick note expressing your love, email is the fastest way to do it.
 When sending in your resume and job application via email, you need to explain which job you are applying for, why you want it, and what qualifications you have that make you well-suited for the job. You should also include your resume as an attachment.


Similarly, you can also write an email applying for an internship. Describe what sort of internship you are looking for and how it will help you meet your career goals. Also provide reasons why you should be selected for the internship.

Send a follow-up email if you have not yet received a reply about the position you applied for.
 Emailing a professor may seem intimidating, but it is no more difficult than any other formal email. Your professor is likely a busy person, so keep your questions as concise as possible.


If your professor knows you well enough, you can also email your professor when asking for a letter of recommendation.
 A query letter is a letter asking an editor if he or she would consider accepting a work of writing for publication consideration. You need to describe the work in question well enough to give the editor a good idea of what it is about.
 If you have a human resources concern about your company, the fastest way to address it is by sending an email to the correct people in HR. Make sure that the email clearly addresses the issue.

