 Bring in a cup of your favorite tea and a book and kick back in those luxurious bubbles until you’re a certified prune. Keep the lavishness going by lighting a few candles and having big fluffy towels and a cozy robe ready for you when you step out of the tub.


The steam from a hot bath will open up your sinuses and act as a chest decongestant, so your extravagant tub time is therapeutic along with being a great pampering experience.
Add a cup of Epsom salt and a few drops of eucalyptus essential oil to your bath for even more restorative effects. The Epsom salt will ease muscle pains and aches while the eucalyptus oil aids in decongestion., Your feet are one of the easiest parts of your body to massage, yet they always seem to get the least amount of attention. Because of this, a simple foot massage can feel ultra pampering.


Start by soaking your feet in a warm bowl of water. Focus on indulging the soles of your feet with a deep massage using a circular motion with your thumbs.
Don’t forget your toes! Flex them back and forth and give each digit a little massage.Add Epsom salt to the warm water in your bowl to soothe aching feet. Sprinkle a few drops of lavender essential oil in the water for additional relaxation and pampering.
 There’s no need to go crazy and spend a ton of money, but set yourself a spending limit and indulge in a little retail therapy – without having to leave the comfort of your bed!


Browse Etsy, load up on books from Amazon, jump into a bidding war on eBay, or finally order that awesome jacket you’ve been eyeing for months. Give yourself a treat. You deserve it.
 This is very important. It’s easy to find yourself refreshing your Facebook page every 3 minutes when you’re bored and sick at home, but the best thing for you to do is disconnect from it completely. Focus on yourself instead.


Yes, social media interaction can be fun sometimes, but it’s also often filled with stressful news events and other kinds of negativity. You deserve a day just for you.
 Being lonely when you are sick is especially tough. Call your Mom, Dad, a good friend or anybody that you can talk to heart to heart. Even if they cannot come by, these people can give you emotional support and that will make you feel better.

