 Once your Town Hall is at level 8 and higher, you’ll have a lot of options for a variety of defense buildings. Spend your resources on upgrading your current defenses, especially your Clan Castle, but save enough to start adding a few new buildings as well.Don’t neglect to upgrade your walls which are still your best source of stopping power.
It’s also a great idea to focus on your dark elixir. Dark elixir is rare to win in battle and almost just as hard to mine. By adding and upgrading your dark elixir drills you can quickly produce enough to get the Barbarian King. The Barbarian King can be used to guard your village and attack enemy troops. This unit is great for defending your gold and elixir stores.
Build at least one more of each tower once you reach level 8. Keep your Town Hall and Clan Castle in the center surrounded by your strongest walls. Place your new towers in a square or circular formation as close to your Town Hall as possible, with the exception of your Archer towers, which should be lining your perimeter.
Keep your Air defense and Hidden Teslas relatively close to one another.
Get the Air Sweeper when it becomes available to blast airborne enemies back. Position your air sweepers away from other anti-air defenses. If you place your Air Sweeper too close to anti-air defense, it will blow the enemies out of range. Instead, try and place so it blows your enemies into an attack range.
 Once you’ve attended your existing defense building upgrades, upgrade the new towers you’ve added to provide better protection.


Upgrade these towers one at a time, and keep upgrading each one until it will take more than a day for the next upgrade.
Focus on upgrades that won’t keep your Builders busy for several days on one project. If you try to upgrade two Air Defense towers at once, you’ll use up your Builder’s time and won’t have time to attend to your other buildings before being attacked several times.
The same strategy applies to your mortars and Wizard towers. In addition, if too many of your defenses are being upgraded at once, you’ll have less defense units when you are being attacked.
Once you have tackled the larger projects, focus on upgrading your traps such as your bombs, balloons, and skeletons.
 Once you upgrade your Town Hall to level 9 you can get the Archer Queen. This unit is similar to the Barbarian King and will defend your village.You can place your Archer Queen next to your Barbarian King and have the two fight together, or spread the two units out to cover more ground.
 As you reach level 9 of your Town Hall you’ll also have access to a new X-Bow and more walls. Have one builder begin building new walls while another builder constructs the X-Bow.


Add any other defensive buildings that are available next. If you’ve been diligent about upgrading your existing defenses, you should be able to focus on adding new ones without much of an added attack threat to your existing structures.
 In order to hold enough resources for upgrading your new defenses, you may need to increase your resource storages. Before spending more resources on upgrading these new defenses, attend to your storage capacity.


As you continue to make upgrades you’ll need to be able to produce more gold, elixir, and dark elixir quickly.
Place your largest stores closer to the center of your village to protect your resources.
 As you slowly build all of your defenses and make upgrades on the new ones, you’ll need to make sure that your Barbarian King and Archer Queen are powerful enough to defend your village during upgrades.


You’ll also have to make more room for your new buildings following your previous strategy. Remember to keep mortars, Hidden Teslas, and Wizard towers to the center of your village. Place Archer towers, traps, and cannons closer to the perimeter.

