 If you run a full warm bath, add 1 cup of epsom salts. If you run only a few inches of water in a bathtub, add 2 to 3 tablespoons. Make sure the water is not too hot or it could make your hemorrhoid more painful. Soak in the bath for 10 to 15 minutes a few times a day.You can also use a sitz bath, a small tub that you place over the toilet so you can soak only your bottom.
This might be a good chance for you to relax while someone else takes care of the new baby. Or, use the time to nurse the baby.;
, Get a clean, cotton wash cloth and soak it in warm (not hot) water. Apply the compress directly to your hemorrhoid for about 10 to 15 minutes 3 times a day.


You can also try using ice packs to reduce the swelling but only use them for 5 to 10 minutes and make sure not to apply the pack directly to your skin. This can cause tissue damage.Try alternating a warm compress with cold packs.
 Apply aloe vera gel or an ointment that has phenylephrine. Phenylephrine acts as a decongestant which can help shrink the hemorrhoid. Aloe vera gel has been shown to prevent infection and help healing in minor wounds.You can also try applying a little baby teething gel on the area. This contains a local anesthetic that can relieve pain and discomfort.


Avoid applying steroid creams since these can damage the delicate tissue around a hemorrhoid.
 Take a cotton pad and soak it in witch hazel. Apply the pad to the hemorrhoid for several minutes. Repeat this as often as you like, especially after painful bowel movements, or at least 4 or 5 times a day.


Witch hazel acts as an astringent and can reduce the swelling.
 Avoid using toilet paper to clean yourself after toileting.Instead, fill a plastic peri-bottle with warm water and squirt the area. Gently pat the area dry with a soft cloth or use baby wipes. Choose unscented wipes to avoid ingredients that irritate.


You might have gotten a peri-bottle from the hospital or you can buy them at a drugstore or pharmacy.
 It's important to prevent straining and pressure when you have hemorrhoids. Fiber helps keep water in the stool and bulks it up so that it's easier to pass (and with less pain). Try to eat 21 to 25 grams of fiber a day. Good sources include:Whole grains: brown rice, barley, corn, rye, bulgur wheat, kasha (buckwheat) and oatmeal
Fruits (especially with the rinds or peels): apples, raspberries, pears
Vegetables: leafy vegetables like Swiss chard, collard and mustard greens, spinach, lettuces, beet greens
Beans and legumes (which may cause intestinal gas)

, The Institute of Medicine recommends that you drink 8 to 10 eight-ounce glasses of water a day.Not only will this help your body function normally, but hydration can help your hemorrhoids. Specifically, water can also help soften your stools making them easier to pass.


You can also drink juices or clear broths if you get tired of drinking water.
 There are several types of laxatives which can make toileting with hemorrhoids easier. Bulk laxatives often contain fiber to increase the mass or weight of the stool. This helps to pass the stool. Or, you could use stool softeners which also make stools soft and easy to pass. Lubricant laxatives can lubricate the walls of the intestines and rectum which makes the stool pass easier. Regardless of what you choose, use laxatives sparingly since they can be habit forming and can weaken the bowels (which leads to chronic constipation).If you're nursing, talk with a doctor before taking laxatives. Some ingredients may pass to the baby and cause diarrhea.You can try a natural softener like senna or psyllium. Senna is a gentle stimulant laxative that has been used for centuries to relieve constipation. You can take senna as tablets (follow manufacturer’s instructions) or as a nightly tea. Or you can try psyllium fiber which is a natural bulking agent.
 These stimulate the bowels to pass stools, but these are more likely to be habit forming than other laxatives. If you use stimulant laxatives, try to only use them once or twice, since they are the harshest and can cause dehydration.Instead of using stimulant laxatives, try to increase the fiber in your diet to improve your stools.
 Keep your body moving to keep your bowels moving. This essentially massages them. You can do any type of exercise: aerobic, endurance, cardiovascular or just walking. As your body moves, internal organs move and get massaged as well.


Be in the habit of exercising 20 to 30 minutes a day., Arrange regular times to use the bathroom without interruptions which can make bowel movements easier. But, if you feel the urge to have a bowel movement, don't wait. Go as soon as you can, but don’t sit for too long waiting. Sitting is associated with an increased risk of hemorrhoids.


Avoid straining which is one of the main causes of hemorrhoids. Let gravity help, but let your bowels do most of the work. If nothing happens, wait 30 minutes or so and try again., Your body just went through a lot of changes during and immediately following pregnancy. These physical, mental, and emotional changes can all cause strain. Your body is recovering from carrying a heavy growing fetus and your digestive system is recovering from the physical changes of pregnancy. These can increase the chance of constipation which aggravates hemorrhoids.


Hemorrhoids after pregnancy and delivery are commonly caused by pushing during labor., You may notice blood on the toilet paper or in the toilet after having a bowel movement. This is the most common symptom. Hemorrhoids can also be itchy and painful. You may feel an external hemorrhoid when cleaning yourself. It will be a tender swelling around the anal opening. You won’t usually feel internal hemorrhoids, but they can bulge through the anal opening.A physician can diagnose internal or external hemorrhoids by performing a rectal exam. If rectal bleeding is not caused by a hemorrhoid, your doctor will probably recommend a more extensive test called a sigmoidoscopy or a colonoscopy because one of the symptoms of colon cancer is rectal bleeding., Stand with your back facing a large floor length or bathroom mirror. Bend over slightly while turning your head to face the mirror. Look closely at your anus to see if there are any lumps or if there's a swollen mass. These may be hemorrhoids.


The lumps or mass may be the same color as your skin tone or they might appear darker red.
 If you're using home treatments, hemorrhoids will usually resolve within 2 to 5 days. If they don't, call your doctor or midwife. Occasionally for external hemorrhoids and more often for internal hemorrhoids, you may still need some medical intervention. The most common medical treatments are:Ligation: tying a rubber band around the base of the hemorrhoid to cut off blood flow
Injection of a chemical solution: to shrink the hemorrhoid
Cauterization: burning the hemorrhoid
Hemorrhoidectomy: surgical removal of the hemorrhoid

