 To prevent injury, you should always start any type of exercise, including the Hindu push-up, with stretching. Stretching will loosen your muscles and enable you to do this exercise more fluidly.Start stretching by standing up, with your feet spread shoulder length apart. Then, bend to touch your toes on each foot, and hold for 10 seconds.
Alternatively, you can stretch sitting down. Sit on the floor with your legs spread, similar to a V position. Reach for your toes on the left foot, right foot, and then reach as far as you can in the middle, and hold for 10 seconds.;
, To start the Hindu push-up, get into a normal, starting push-up position. With your knees bent and touching the ground, place your hands on the ground directly under your shoulders (your arms should be straight). Then, slowly remove your knees from the floor and dig your toes into the ground to stabilize the lower half of your body. You should be in a high plank position.For beginners, place your hands and feet a little farther than shoulder width.More advanced trainees can keep their hands and feet closer together for a more intense workout., Once you are in the starting push-up position, begin to raise your backside up into the air. As you raise your backside into the air, keep your arms, legs, and back straight. At this point, your eyes should be looking at your feet. In this position, you will look like an upside down V.This V position is essentially the starting position, and you will return to this position after you complete each push-up.
 Before you begin the next movements of the push-up, remember to breathe in deeply through your nose., While breathing in, begin to bend your elbows outward and lower your chest to the ground. Your backside should be more level to the ground, but still pointing slightly upward at this point. You will feel as if you are in a flexed push-up position with your backside slightly pointed upward.
 As your chest gets lower to the ground, in a scooping motion, scoop your head upward while arching your lower and upper back. Exhale through your mouth as you do this motion. At this point, you are essentially at the “bottom” of the push-up.
 After scooping your head in a round, upward motion and arching your back, straighten your arms, lift your torso, and look upwards.Your hips should be down towards the floor, but not touching the floor.


At this point, you have pretty much completed the Hindu push-up, but you still need to return to the starting position.
 To return to the starting position, lower your torso and lift your hips to return to the V position; use your abs and gluteus, i.e., your butt muscles, to bring your backside up into the air. As you push back to the starting position, inhale deeply through your nose, and exhale through your mouth as you reach the V position.To return to the starting position, you do not need to reverse back through the sweeping, arching motion. Simply push back into the starting position.
 If you are a beginner, it is recommended that you do as many push-ups or repetitions as you are able to, for example, three or five repetitions is fine. If you need to rest during the exercise, take a break in the starting V position. As you become better you can add more sets and repetitions. For example, you can do two sets of three repetitions or push-ups. If you are more advanced, you can do more sets with more repetitions. For example, three sets with eight to ten push-ups or repetitions.These push-ups should be done seamlessly in a sweeping motion without delay between each part.

