 How do you think about yourself and your job? Negative thoughts are probably not helping you enjoy yourself. Work on being conscious of what you're thinking and replacing negative thoughts with positive ones.For example, stop when you think things like, "This job is awful and I'll never get a better one." Instead, try to focus on the positive aspects of your job.
For example, instead think something like, "This job stresses me out because it's complicated, but I'm learning a lot. This will be beneficial for my career.";
, In every place of work, there are chronic complainers. There is no need to hang out with people who complain frequently as such people will only drag you down. Surround yourself with positive people at your office to avoid being weighed down by the negative.Don't engage in office gossip. Not only does this contribute to feelings of negativity, it could potentially get you in trouble with your boss or superiors.
 Have a place in your mind where you can take a mental vacation when you're feeling stressed. Close your eyes and imagine a relaxing scenario. Try to use all your senses to envision how this place feels, smells, tastes, and so on.For example, say you love camping. If you get stressed, close your eyes and imagine being in a tent in the woods. Think about how nature feels, sounds, tastes, and smell for a few moments. This should calm you down.
 Everyone works for a reason. Even if your job isn't something that's going to change the world, you need to work to afford basic necessities like food and shelter. If you find yourself stressed by work, think something like, "This job may be stressful, but I'm lucky to get a paycheck."It can help to think about buying small rewards every time you get paid. For example, order take out every payday. This way, you will keep the benefits of your job in mind.
Each time you make a necessary purchase, remember how your paycheck contributed to this. Think to yourself, "I'm lucky I'm able to work so I can buy these groceries."

, Think about the good things you do at your job, even small things. If you're working a dull data entry job at a non-profit, think about how data entry benefits the organization overall. Even if you're a tiny cog in the machine, you're keeping it going and you should be proud of that.Even if you're not passionate about your job, maybe you bring something to the office. If you're kind to your co-workers, you probably contribute to a positive work atmosphere.
Even low level jobs are important. Handing someone a latte at a coffee shop can make their day, even if you don't think much of the task.

