 Like every other add-on, Tidy Plates does not come with the game. You must download it to your computer before you can install it. Download Tidy Plates from Curse.com through this link: http://www.curse.com/addons/wow/tidy-plates;
, On the Tidy Plates page on Curse.com, click on the “Download Now” the button on the right. That should download a zip file with Tidy Plates to your computer.


The exact steps after clicking on the button will depend on your Internet browser, but you should be able to download the Tidy Plates zip file to your computer. Once you have downloaded the file, keep it handy for the next step.
 Before installing any add-on, make sure World of Warcraft is not currently running. If you are logged in, log out and then exit the game.
 Do this by unzipping and moving it into your World of Warcraft directory. #*Find the interface and add-ons folder for World of Warcraft.You can do this by going to the directory that you installed World of Warcraft. This is set when you install the game, but by default it is usually C:\Program Files\World of Warcraft.


Once you’re in the World of Warcraft directory, look for the Interface folder, inside which is the AddOns folder. To install any add-on, move the add-on files into the AddOns folder.
 You will need to extract the files from this zip file, and move them into the AddOns folder in your World of Warcraft directory.


The exact method to extract the files depends on your version of Windows or if you are using a Mac. You can find a specific guide on how to extract files here: https://www.wikihow.com/Extract-Files


, Once you have extracted the folders and files for Tidy Plates, make sure you have moved them into AddOns folder.


If you have installed World of Warcraft into the default directory of C:\Program Files\World of Warcraft, then your AddOns folder will be located at C:\Program Files\World of Warcraft\Interface\AddOns.
Make sure to move the folders/files from the zip file into the AddOns folder. You can move folders and files by highlighting them with your mouse, left-clicking once, and dragging them into the destination folder.
 Now that you have put Tidy Plates in your add-ons folder, you can start the game. Once you log in using your username and password, you will be taken the screen with a list of your characters.


In this screen you would usually select one of your characters, and log in as that character, but this time you need to make sure that you have enabled Tidy Plates before you log in.
 On the bottom left of the character selection screen, you should see three buttons, namely “Shop,” “AddOns,” and “Menu.” Click on the “AddOns” button to see a list of all of the add-ons in your AddOns folder.


On the left of each add-on on the list is a check box. You can check or uncheck any check box by clicking on it. If an add-on has a check mark, it will be enabled when you log in, and if it does not have a check mark it will be disabled.
 Make sure that Tidy Plates and all of the components such as TidyPlatesWidgets and TidyPlatesHub are enabled. After you have done this, click the “Okay” button to save your add-on settings, and then log in on your character as usual by hitting “Enter World.”

, Tidy Plates will be installed now if you have completed the steps above. Run around the world, and see how nameplates show up differently.


Aside from the change in colors, font, and the like, Tidy Plates also shows debuffs on a target’s nameplate.
A debuff is an effect that weakens or damages the target for a period of time until it expires. For example, warriors can apply a sunder armor effect to a target weakening their armor. If you are a warrior, and hit an enemy with sunder armor, you will now see the sunder armor icon on their nameplate with the number of seconds left until it expires.
 To change any settings in Tidy Plates, type /tidyplates to bring up the configuration window. In the configuration window, you can change basic settings like making the members of your guild have their nameplates show in green, while other players in your faction show up as blue. This can be useful in recognizing who is around you at a glance.


There are also more complex settings such as showing debuffs you can dispel on nameplates of friendly players. If you are a class that uses dispels, you may want to enable that setting to help you cleanse your allies. Every person is different and has different needs, so make sure to set whichever configurations you feel are necessary.

