 Regardless of what weight loss plan you follow, you'll inevitably need to cut out calories to lose weight. Decide what total calorie intake you should be eating each day to help you safely lose one to two pounds per week.


In general, you'll need to cut out, burn off or do a combination of cutting out and burning 500–750 calories each day to result in that one to two pound weight loss.You can start by calculating how many calories you typically eat on a "non-dieting" day. Use a food journal app or online calculators to help you figure out this total. Subtract 500–750 calories from this number to get an idea of what your total daily intake should be.
There are also some online calculators or apps that can figure out about how many calories you should eat daily for weight loss based on your age, gender, weight, and activity level.
 To help you maintain a lower calorie diet, it will be helpful to stick to appropriate portion sizes for your meals and snacks. Serving yourself or consuming portions that are too large may slow your weight loss.


Invest in a food scale or a set of measuring cups to help you stay on track. Measure each meal and snack to make sure you're on target.
Make life easier by finding tupperware, bowls, dishes and cups at home that are a certain portion size. For example, packing your lunch in a tupperware container that is one cup in size.
Appropriate serving sizes for most foods are as follows: Protein: three to four oz, Fruit: 1/2 cup chopped or one small piece, Vegetables: one cup or two cups leafy greens, and Grains: one oz or 1/2 cup.
 Depending on what you choose, you'll need to decide whether you're doing a higher protein diet or moderate protein diet. This is the key to creating a plan that you can stick to without being hungry.


Some studies have shown that higher protein diets help you lose weight a little faster and help keep it off long-term.Eating a source of lean protein at each meal and snack is great for any weight loss plan. You may need to eat more than one serving at each meal if you're following a higher protein diet.
If you typically feel hungry when you've dieted in the past, consider following a higher protein diet. Increased amounts of protein have been shown to help you stay satisfied longer throughout the day., Diets generally fall into either low-carb or moderate-carb groups. Both have their advantages; choose what will work best for your lifestyle.


Low-carb diets have been shown to produce quicker weight loss initially compared to a moderate-carb diet.However, in the long-term, both low- and moderate-carbohydrate diets showed very similar weight loss overall.
Low-carb diets are more restrictive. If this is easy for you to follow and you do not miss carbohydrates, following a low-carb diet might be appropriate for you.
Some people crave carbs or feel they do better with weight loss when they include a moderate amount of carbohydrates each day. Again, choose what works best for you.
If you're going to limit carbohydrates, restrict your choices from the grain group first (bread, rice, pasta, crackers, etc). Most of the nutrients from this food group can be consumed from other foods. You may also choose to limit starchy vegetables (legumes, potatoes, winter squash, and peas) if you're following a low-carb diet., There are a variety of diet styles to choose from. However, most will emphasize that you eat several servings of fruits and vegetables each day.


Both fruits and vegetables are low-calorie and very nutrient-dense. They contain a large variety of vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and a good amount of fiber.
Stick to one to two servings of fruit daily at a maximum. If you're choosing to follow a lower carb diet, you may choose to eat less.Aim for about five servings of vegetables each day. Again, if you're following a lower carb diet, you may choose to focus on non-starchy vegetables instead of higher carb vegetables (like potatoes, peas, or carrots).
 One very important component to all weight loss plans is adequate consumption of water and other hydrating fluids. This will help support general health, but may also help manage your appetite.


A good rule of thumb to begin with is to drink eight glass of water daily. However, you may need up to 13 glasses daily. This will depend on your gender, weight, and physical activity level.Consider purchasing a water bottle to help keep track of your total fluids throughout the day.
 If you're interested in losing weight, you may also want to consider including regular physical activity into your week. Keep in mind that changing your diet and also starting an exercise regimen all at once can be daunting. Try changing one thing at a time.


Studies have shown that regular activity will help support weight loss and long-term weight maintenance.It's recommended to include 150 minutes of aerobic activity each week and two days of about 20 minutes of strength training each week.If you haven't been participating in regular physical activity, start slowly. Work up to the recommended amounts of time over a few weeks or months.
 If you don't want to come up with a diet plan by yourself, you may choose to follow a commercially available or supervised diet program. Or you may choose to base your own diet off of one of these:


Try low-carb/high-protein diets. Some commercial programs focus on very low-carb and high-protein eating patterns. These may result in quicker weight loss, but are typically hard to follow long-term due to their overly restrictive nature.
Consider low-fat diets. This particular eating pattern focuses on limiting the fat content of your diet. Specifically, most low-fat diets limit trans and saturated fat but also give you limits for heart healthy fats.Follow a Mediterranean-style diet. The Mediterranean diet is an eating pattern that focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fish, and smaller amounts of animal protein (like beef or poultry). This diet has been shown to be a healthy option for those with cardiac health problems.Look into medical weight loss programs. Medically supervised diets are facilitated by doctors and dietitians. They may have you follow a restricted meal plan or use high-protein, low-calorie meal replacements for a short period of time. In addition, they may also use prescription medications and/or vitamin injections and supplements to help suppress appetite and increase energy.

