, So perhaps 400 degrees if you cook with a newer oven.



Slicing Against the Grain: use kitchen shears to slice the chicken to enable precision. Separate the two sides of the chicken breast by slicing just to either side of the tendon.
Find the chicken grain by looking closely (looks like the channels on a piece of broccoli). Slice the chicken into thin strips by cutting against the grain.
 pepper in a separate bowl. Use a fork to break apart and clumps of parmesan cheese that you will most likely see. Stir ingredients until consistency is uniform.
 of oil to the bowl of chicken. Mix until chicken is coated. I like to mix by hand to ensure that there are no dry pieces and so I can tell if it needs more oil. If some pieces of chicken are sticking to your hands then add another Tbs. or 2 of oil (You can also use less oil if the chicken is very juicy).
 Squeeze firm on the chicken so that the breadcrumbs stick.
, Depending on how thin you sliced the chicken, you may need to get out a second small pan.
 You’ve earned it!

,, (Put spaghetti noodles in when there are 10 minutes left on the kitchen timer for the chicken).
 I prefer my mozzarella underneath of my pasta & chicken (This makes it much easier to eat and more enjoyable as the noodles don’t get bound by the cheese and the cheese stays hot longer).
 If chicken is not crispy after 40 minutes, add an additional 4 to 8 minutes (oven temperatures may vary).
,,,, It is not only healthy but delicious too. It has a very thick texture and takes on flavors very well. I recently got a Magic Bullet as a Christmas gift and started messing around with different fruits and Greek yogurt. Surprisingly, because I don’t like eating them plain, blueberries made the best flavor when mixed with Greek yogurt. I tweaked it a bit more and found that adding in a few chunks of pineapple gives it a really nice tart taste to go along with the sweetness. This desert is healthy and has a soft-serve like consistency. Blueberries also contain antioxidants, a key ingredient to healthy living.

