 Cars and trucks vary greatly, depending on the engine and accessories it is equipped with. You should find the water pump, then look at how much equipment must be removed to access it. Here are some things to look at to help you identify your water pump.


Many water pumps have the cooling fan mounted on the front. They may also have a fan clutch attached to the fan itself.
Most water pumps are mounted on the drive belt end of the engine. For conventional engines, this would be the front most area, for transverse engines, it would be the left side, facing the engine compartment from the from of the vehicle.
The water pump will have at least two coolant hoses attached to it, usually between 1- 1/2 inch and 2 inch (5.1 cm) diameter, and may also have the heater core supply hoses (about 3/4 inch) attached as well.;
, These include the following.


Air conditioning compressor. This device shouldn't be removed by inexperienced individuals, since accidentally discharging it can cause serious problems. Compressors are often mounted above the water pump, and can be difficult to work around.
Power steering pump. This item should be located in a position that doesn't cause difficulty accessing the water pump.
Alternator. This device is often above the water pump and is usually fairly easy to navigate around while working, but it is also not too difficult to remove if needed.
Fan shrouds. This metal or plastic device funnels the air through the radiator to increase the efficiency of the cooling system, and must often be removed to access the water pump. It may be held in place with clips or machine screws, and shouldn't be too difficult to remove.
 If you are fairly sure you can get to all the bolts, both to remove and reinstall them, continue, but if you have doubts, you may want to reconsider this project.
 Cooling systems can fail to perform properly for a number of reasons, including leaking hoses, clogged radiator vents, and low coolant levels caused by other factors. The following are common symptoms of potential or present water pump failure.


Water dripping from the weep hole in the water pump shaft.
Grinding or screeching sounds coming from the water pump indicating a bearing failure.
Wobble or loose play in the front shaft of the water pump.
 Auto parts stores sell rebuilt or new replacement parts, but some may require special order and may take several days for the part to arrive. Some exotic vehicles may require purchasing or ordering a dealer only replacement part. BMW(s), Jaguars, MG(s), and other cars are examples of this.
 Basic wrenches, included end wrenches, sockets, and ratchets are a must have, and you may find you also need screw drivers, nut drivers, pliers or other tools for removing compression clamps, and a gasket scraper. You may also find a torque wrench is needed to properly tighten the bolts when you reinstall them.
 You will need:


A water/oil proof gasket sealant suitable for moderate high temperature use. Aviation Form-a-Gasket or RTV Silicon are examples.
Gasket material if the pump doesn't come with a replacement gasket set.
Antifreeze/coolant suitable for your vehicle.
Replacement parts like radiator hoses, clamps, and belts if you want to replace these while you have them off.
Hand cleaner, rags for cleaning parts, and other sundry items.
 Unexpected delays may mean the care will be in one place for several days, so make sure you are not blocking your driveway or garage doors.
,,,, Loosening the radiator cap will speed this step up considerably.
, Some hoses are attached with spring type compression clamps, others are held on with high-gear screw type clamps. Use a screwdriver to pry off stubborn hoses.
 Notice if the threads of these bolts have a blue or red plastic-like material on the threads, and if so, make a note of their position since they may require thread sealant when they are reinstalled. Also note, often there are different length bolts on water pumps, and using a bolt that is too long for the hole may result in damaging your engine.
 If the water pump refuses to budge, recheck to make sure all bolts have been removed, then use a screwdriver or pry bar to break it loose. Often, a water pump installed with sealant can be stuck fast and require substantial force to break it loose.
, Leaving even a small amount of debris will cause the new assembly to leak, requiring a complete disassemble to correct this problem.
 Also, apply a similar coat to the water pump base.
, Install a couple of bolts (again, making sure any bolts that require thread sealant are coated before proceeding) to hold the water pump in place. When all the bolts are started in the water pump, tighten them in a criss-cross pattern so the gasket seats properly. Note that many service manuals call for specific torque requirements for the installation of your water pump, so if you are in doubt of your ability to properly tighten the bolts, invest in a good torque wrench for this step.
 You may want to replace these items, as noted earlier, if they appear to be deteriorated or damaged.
 Make sure all belts are tensioned properly and the drain plug is reinstalled or tightened as required.
, You will want to top off the coolant after you have determined you don't have any leaks and the engine has heated up to normal operating temperature, since the engine block cooling channels will have to fill when the thermostat opens.

