 You may be at higher risk for developing fibromyalgia if you are a woman, have a family history of fibromyalgia, are middled-aged, or suffer from a rheumatic disease such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus., Widespread muscle pain is often characterized as a constant dull ache that lasts for at least three months on both sides of your body, and above and below your waist., Fibromyalgia is often accompanied by fatigue and decreased energy levels all day long, even if you’ve had a full night’s sleep.
 Feelings of mental fogginess, also known as “fibro fog,” can indicate you have fibromyalgia.
 Stiffness and soreness are signs of fibromyalgia.
 Having adverse reactions to the above factors can indicate you have fibromyalgia.
, Feelings of tingling and numbness, along with feelings of phantom swelling in limbs are common signs of fibromyalgia.
, Common abdominal symptoms associated with fibromyalgia include bloating, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and frequent, urgent bouts of urination., Factors that commonly trigger fibromyalgia symptoms include sudden changes in the weather, too little or too much exercise or inactivity, depression, stress, and anxiety., The best time to contact your doctor is immediately upon verifying whether you’ve been suffering from chronic muscle pain and overwhelming fatigue that interferes with everyday life.
 Conditions that exhibit symptoms similar to those of fibromyalgia are HIV, hypothyroidism, Lyme disease, degenerative diseases of the spine, and some cancers. Your doctor can perform a series of tests to rule out these other conditions, such as blood tests, X-rays, and biopsies.
 According to rules put in place by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) in 2010, fibromyalgia can be diagnosed by determining whether you experience constant pain on the left and right sides of your body, and above and below the waist for at least three consecutive months.
 This test is also part of diagnosing fibromyalgia per the ACR, and involves placing pressure on areas such as between your shoulder blades, the back of your head, the front of your neck, outer elbows, upper hips, inner knees, and more. If you experience tenderness in at least 11 of the 18 tender spots associated with fibromyalgia, you may be suffering from this condition.