 When you have low self-esteem, your thoughts about yourself are often of what you can't do or the things you think are wrong with you. These negative thoughts can prevent you from being as social as you would like. Replacing these negative thoughts with positive self-talk can help you feel more confident and help you feel more comfortable socializing.For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I’m so weird and uncool,” you can replace it with, “I am different and unique and that's what makes me cool.”
Or, for instance, if you were thinking about the reasons no one would want to be your friend, stop yourself. Try making a list of reasons others would want to be your friend as a means of counteracting your negative thought.;
, Keeping a journal is one way you can work through some of the negative feelings you have about yourself so that you feel more comfortable socializing. It gives you a safe space to explore how you feel, why you feel that way, and what you can do the next time you have similar feelings.It’s also a great way to document and remind yourself of all the things you do right and your positive qualities.


Write down your negative thoughts and feelings along with what was happening when you started feeling that way.
Make a journal entry or list of the things that make you great and refer to it often. Be sure to include your talents, skills, and personality traits.
Write it down every time you do something right, someone pays you a compliment, or you have a positive social interaction.
 Sometimes low self-esteem can cause serious problems in your life. You may start withdrawing from the things that you normally enjoy and isolating yourself. It may even develop into anxiety or depression. If your low self-esteem is preventing you from living a fulfilling life, you may want to consider therapy. Therapists, counselors, and other similar professionals can teach you techniques and strategies to help boost your self-esteem, as well as help you socialize more.Ask your physician, school counselor, human resources representative, or someone else you trust for help finding a therapist. You might say, “I’m having self-esteem issues lately. Could you recommend someone I could talk to?
Let your therapist know you want to work on improving your confidence so you can socialize more. For example, you might say, “Could we talk about how I can feel more comfortable around people and participate in things?”

, Often when you have low self-confidence you have concerns about your appearance and image. You don’t have to have a complete makeover, however, updating a few small things about yourself can help give you the self-esteem boost you need to socialize more.Try out a new hairstyle or add a fun accessory to your outfit.
You can look through a magazine or check some of the fashion blogs and websites for ideas.
Think small. Remember that the idea is to update your image, not change it completely.

