 Search the Internet for base ideas and designs that you may use. Pick one and try to use it to see how well it works out. Some good base design choices include well balanced resource and defense buildings to defend well against attacks. Loot is also kept safe as well as the town hall. Go to websites such as the Clash of Clans wiki, forums, or other websites, and find ideas from there.;
, Surround a building with upgraded walls. Add another building after those walls and surround that building with walls as well. Adding multiple buildings and surrounding them all at once in a large compartment is also a good idea. Place any extra walls you have around walls against the most important defenses, resources, etc. This will ensure the best defense so that you do not lose all your loot when you get attacked.


At some town hall levels, you will not be able to fit some buildings because you do not have enough walls. Remove any extra walls in between compartments and just merging the buildings together into one large compartment. Otherwise, only place your most important buildings inside compartments, and be sure to protect your town hall as well if you are not farming.
 Add compartments, and place your resources and town hall in the middle, surrounding them with walls. Add defenses all around the resources and town hall, adding walls to protect those as well. Balance out your collectors and mines as well as other buildings until it matches up to look like a diamond. Builder huts can be placed at the corners of the entire grass field so that enemies will take more time to attack them and lose.


If you have unlocked Dark Elixir, you might want to think of dropping trophies and placing your Dark Elixir in the middle instead, since starting at town hall 7, Dark Elixir is scarce, and people will always try to steal it. Place traps such as giant bombs and flying troop traps around the dark elixir, but traps can also be used in sneaky places, such as in a small space where you didn't add a wall, or all around an important building.
 Rearrange your base into a diamond shape, but leave out all the army camps you have. Place one army camp at each of the four corners of the base. Surround them with walls, but be sure that there is at least a whole line of space between the building and the walls when you surround the front of the camp.


When troops attack your base and they should go for the army camp as the last building to win the attack, the extra space causes the troop to be farther out of range, with causes the troop to go off into another building, moving farther and farther away so that it is more harder to win. With ground troops, this base can be effective.
 This type of base sort of looks like square compartments as well as other shaped compartments to look like a star that has several points. Start with a triangle or square compartment and work your way using other shaped compartments all around that one compartment. Place your town hall or resources right in the middle for best protection.
 You can always make your own base if none of these designs work out for your base. Include strong defenses and walls, as well as some traps to prevent enemies from coming through. Use any of the tricks that were shown above, such as the double layered wall trick, or the spaced walls. Make sure your base is as effective enough to defend against a decent amount of attacks.

