 Lifestyle modification is recommended for any abnormality in cholesterol or triglyceride levels. To help increase your good cholesterol levels, you need to work out regularly.The American Heart Association recommends that adults should do at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity cardiovascular activity for at least five days per week. This can include running, hiking, swimming, or bike riding. In addition to this, the AHA also recommends two days of moderate to high-intensity muscle-strengthening activity, such as weight training or circuit training with weights.


You can substitute the cardiovascular workouts for at least three 25 minutes exercise sessions a week of vigorous aerobic activity. This includes activities such as high intensity interval training, spinning, and aerobics classes.
If this is too much for you at first, start with small workouts before you work up to the intensity level the AHA recommends. Start by walking or using an elliptical machine a few times a week. Then you can work your way to more and more activity each week until you can meet the guidelines.It can take up to six to 12 months for the benefits of lifestyle modification to become evident. ;
, Diet modification is crucial for helping with cholesterol levels. Reduce your intake of carbohydrates, especially those with a high glycemic and high fructose content. These are often referred to as bad or simple carbs because they have a high calorie content but create very little energy during metabolism. They are processed and used by your body extremely fast, plus they cause fat deposits and spikes in bad sugars and fats, which are metabolized into bad cholesterol.


Simple carbs include sugary and refined foods such as candy, cakes, white rice, processed cereals, cookies, white bread, sodas, alcohol, chips, and juices.Have a diet that is balanced. This means you have an equal amount of vegetables, whole grains, fruits, and low fat dairy. Try to avoid any products with added sugars and high levels of fat, especially saturated and trans fat. Eat plenty poultry, fish, and beans.
Always avoid butter, fried foods, high fat cheese, and foods high in sodium.Mix a healthy diet and exercise to help you lower your bad cholesterol and increase your good cholesterol.
 If you are overweight or obese, lose weight to help with your cholesterol. In order to find out if you are considered overweight or obese, calculate your body mass index (BMI). This scale estimates the weight range that is right for you according to your height and sex. If you follow a balanced diet plan and exercise, you should start to lose weight. If you are not losing any weight despite this, you might need to be more diligent and start counting your calories. This can be an easy and efficient way to lose weight. Cut your calories to an amount lower than what your body uses per day, which will help you lose weight.


The number of calories you need a day to changes depending on your sex, age, and daily activity level. Consult your doctor to see how many calories you need to eat to stay healthy but that will help you lose weight.
A normal BMI is 18.5 to 24.9. BMIs below 18.5 are underweight, from 25.0 to 29.9 are overweight, and above 30.0 is defined as obese. There are multiple BMI calculators and charts online that you can use to find your correct BMI.To stay healthy while you lose weight, only lose about a pound a week.
 Smoking puts you at serious risk for cardiovascular disease. An individual who stops smoking can expect to increase HDL about 10%. Quitting smoking is an extremely hard undertaking. It is recommended that you discuss your options for quitting with your healthcare professional.


There are many ways you can quit, including a nicotine patch, nicotine gum, counseling, support groups, medication, and quitting on your own.

