 If you are an overweight girl, you might be experiencing some frustrating emotions. Sixth grade is full of a lot of changes, and such as having to change clothes for gym class and not knowing where to sit at lunch. Stick with your friends--they can make you smile and feel much better about the day!Make plans to see your friends throughout the day. Meet at your locker between classes, or figure out ahead of time where to sit at lunch. Having a plan can give you something to look forward to and make the day easier.
Do something fun with your friends after school. Go for a bike ride or practice learning some new dance moves. These activities will help you forget any of the stress from the day!;
, If you are having a tough time at school, your family can provide a lot of comfort. Even when your friends are making fun of you, tell your family so that they can support you. Make sure to get in lots of quality time with your favorite family members.Ask your parents if you can go on a fun field trip this weekend. Maybe there's a nearby wildlife area where you could all take a hike together. Or, schedule a family movie night--and make sure you get to pick your favorite movie!

, Not only is it fun to be outside on a beautiful day, but it's really good for you! Spending time outdoors has a lot of mental health benefits and is good for your body, too. Being outside can actually lead to weight loss, as you're more likely to be active if you're outside.Play in the park. Don't worry, you're never too old to enjoy the swings. Grab some friends and revisit some of your old favorites.
Instead of asking mom for a ride, walk to your best friends house. You'll get some important Vitamin D being outside in the sun.
 If you're having a tough time at school, try getting in some extra time with your dog or cat. Being around animals is an immediate mood booster. Pet your dog or cat to really feel the benefits.Take your dog for a long walk. You both will enjoy the outdoor time.
If you don't have a pet, ask your parents for one. Explain that you can learn a lot about responsibility by caring for a living creature. Bonus: they're super cute!

, Music is another proven mood booster. Listen to your headphones on the way to and from school. You'll feel good by the time you get there. Create a playlist of some feel good songs that are guaranteed to make you smile.Spend an afternoon with your friends making new playlists. Sharing your favorite music is a great way to bond.

