 Start off with the essentials:


clothing






bedding






and any other needs






When it comes to pleasure items, you will have to keep the list low. The more people who are trying to fit in the R.V., the less space you personally will have. Take the most special and most used toys. If you plan to take furniture, take smaller items and remember that they have to be secured or they will shift when driving. You can put extra items in storage units.





;
, If you have one or more siblings, try to convince your parents to let each of you have at least one cabinet to himself or herself; that way you have a sort of private storeroom.
 If it's just you and a parent or you and one sibling then it will be easy to decorate. Try to get a spot next to your bed. You can velcro up pictures or posters or other items you want on the wall space. Your bedding and choice in pillows can also be reflective, a rug can help. The curtains you choose for your window can also help. If you get a shelf you can tack or tape fake flowers or vines or pictures or hang a sign on the front and sides to give it a nice feel.
 That cabinet will work perfectly as a locker, you should do this even if you have a space you can decorate. In this "locker" you can velcro up small pictures or white erase boards. Taping colored paper on the sides also helps. If it doesn't already have a shelf get one of those cheap locker shelves. If it doesn't have a light you can put up a removable hook on the top and hang a book light from it for lighting.
 Look for someone who stops about the same time you do at a truck stop or other place every so often to empty the sewage and fill the water tank.
 It's a task that must be done and for the most part it's the same as cleaning any other house. Make your bed, pick up your toys, vacuum, scrub the toilet, wash the windows. Unless you're a teenager you probably won't have to take care of the car aspect of the R.V.



living room - this will probably be a little sofa, a t.v. and maybe a few other chairs. Most of the sofas fold out. There is less room to play in the living room but the amount varies by R.V.






Dining room - This is probably a booth seat with a table. It's only difference is the chairs






Kitchen - This room might be smaller then your used to but generally still has a sink, a fridge, a freezer, an oven, and a few cabinets






Bathroom - the bathroom is averagely a normal size maybe a little tighter squeeze but not necessarily much






Bedroom - there are very many types of bedrooms in R.V.s and for the most part they are all smaller than the normal bedroom







, can become a home.

