 Just as we respect bio-individuality of human beings, similarly diversity of culture should be respected. A better working relationship can be established out of the understanding that different behavior is because of the different culture and not because of the lack or insufficiency of desired attributes.;
, Prepare a mind set to accept what you get, and do without, what you won’t have. If you are going to the USA, it is better to habituate yourself with the American English. It can be done by being active and participating in discussions on the social media platforms.


Most of the discussions on the social media are in American English. You will find that most of the words are spelled differently in American English, when compared to what you must have learned in the Queen’s English. See a few Hollywood movies to perfect your English pronunciations. Many online interactive website are also of help, but they don’t teach you slang which is common place in the corporate world.
People use even four letter words without meaning any harm or ill will towards the other person. Please get used to them and take them normally to avoid concerned reactions. In case you are going to UK, you need to perfect the Queen’s English, the work etiquette, and even the dress codes. You also need to prepare yourself to put up with Color and Race discrimination at least in the initial stages.
 Once you join the organization, first thing you do is familiarize yourself with team norms. Ask the team lead about the norms; put your difficulty level before him. Confabulate with your colleagues. Put up patiently with their barbs and jabs. Your restraint will help convert these into an ocean of love and affection, and you will see helping hands all around.
 Having won the first battle of acclimatization, you need to observe and mimic the mannerism & the attitude. This will help to psych you into a position of equality and confidence with other team members. Now you should start participating in the inclusive participation in all the team activities.
 Now that, you are equal, or perhaps more equal than others in your team or even the blue eyed boy of the team, it is imperative that you devote extra time & effort to build your skills. You have the extra responsibility to make the management feel that your output is worth the investment made in you and it is prudent of them to invest in people with your culture background.
 Your adaptability, your sustainability, your delivery levels should convince people and the managements and help in building of cross culture teams everywhere.
 Be a friend philosopher and guide for the people from alien cultures. Be an incubator where new comers can find the initiation process healthy and enjoyable. Be charitable, and liberally spread your knowledge among the needy. Get on to the social media and help the people the world over in getting over the cross culture hiccups.
