 While normal dog shampoo and dish detergent usually kill fleas, if you need something more potent, you could try a special flea and tick shampoo. Read the shampoo label carefully to determine the proper way to use the shampoo for your dog.
Soak you dog with warm water and rub the flea shampoo into its fur.
Let the shampoo sit on the dog's coat for at least 10 minutes before rinsing it off with warm water.
Flea shampoos usually contain pyrethrins, a type of chemical used to kill fleas.
Flea shampoos kill fleas and ticks that are already on the dog.;
, Flea and tick sprays are available in both aerosol and pump bottle forms.


For best results, choose a spray that contains an adulticide and an insect growth regulator. Doing so will ensure that both adult fleas and their eggs are killed.
Follow your veterinarian's instructions and the instructions on the label for proper use.
Spray in a well-ventilated area and avoid getting the spray in your dog's eyes.
Wear gloves while administering the spray to protect yourself.
When spraying sensitive areas, such as the face, spray the product onto your glove and rub it on the dog rather than risking spraying in the dog’s eyes, mouth, or ears., A flea powder is can usually be purchase without a veterinarian's prescription and works in the same way that a spray works.Read the instructions on the label to determine proper use. If you are uncertain about anything, ask your veterinarian before applying the powder to your dog.
Usually, you apply a powder by dusting a fine layer over your dog's coat and letting it sit undisturbed. Note, however, that powders tend to make the coat feel gritty and need to be reapplied often.
Begin at the dog’s head and work back towards the tail, ensuring that the powder gets all the way to the dog’s skin.Also sprinkle the powder on the dog’s bedding.
Repeat once per week if necessary., Dips and rinses should be applied to your dog's coat after flea infestation has started.


Mix the dip or rinse as directed by the package label. Ask your veterinarian for further instructions.
A dip, also referred to as a flea bath, requires you to soak your dog in a diluted, medicated solution. A rinse is a medicated solution that you pour over your dog's coat until it is soaked. Apply both to the entire dog, and do not attempt to use as spot treatments.
Use dips and rinses in well-ventilated areas.
Most flea dips should be left on your dog, not rinsed away.These products usually contain chemicals known as pyrethrins, permethrins, and organophosphates.
 Flea collars vary greatly in quality, and many of them have a limited range of activity, only killing fleas that are near the collar (around the dog’s head and shoulders). However, high-quality flea collars can help repel or kill fleas when used properly. Be sure to select a collar that is appropriate for your dog’s age and weight.


Slip two fingers under the collar to determine if it is snug enough without being too tight.
Cut off any excess length from the collar after you put it around the dog's neck. Do not let the dog chew on the end of the collar.
Familiarize yourself with the label instructions so that you know how long the collar should last and what to avoid. Some collars become less effective when wet.
Monitor the dog's neck beneath the collar and remove the product if its skin becomes irritated.

