 Depression can be caused by a magnesium deficiency. Since this is an easily tested condition, ask your doctor for a blood test to check for a magnesium deficiency. Your doctor can provide guidelines on how to increase your intake of magnesium. Certain stomach and kidney disorders can affect how much magnesium your body absorbs. The majority of Americans are not ingesting enough magnesium, as per the recommended daily amounts.Symptoms of a magnesium deficiency include anxiety, insomnia, irritability, confusion, abnormal heart rhythms, hyperventilation, agitation, nausea, fatigue, muscle spasms, low blood pressure, vomiting, and seizures.Your magnesium levels may be depleted by too much coffee, soda, salt, alcohol, or diuretics. It can also be lowered by excessive sweating, heavy menstrual periods, and long-term stress., Magnesium is present in many foods, especially green, leafy vegetables. To help up your general levels of magnesium, you need to increase your daily intake of magnesium through foods. Foods that are rich sources of magnesium many different plant based foods that you can incorporate into recipes and you meals every day.


Foods that are rich in magnesium include tofu, legumes, whole grains, all-bran cereal, whole wheat flour, oat flour, brown rice, oatmeal, chocolate, and cocoa powder.
Leafy green vegetables to try include mustard greens, collard greens, beet and turnip greens, Swiss chard, and spinach.
Also try to eat more nuts such as Brazil nuts, pine nuts, black walnuts, peanuts, almonds, pistachios, and cashews. You can also include pumpkin seeds and squash seeds for more magnesium.
There are many herbs, spices, and seaweeds that supply magnesium, such as agar seaweed, dried mustard, dill, powdered celery, sage, basil, fennel seed, tarragon, poppy seed, coriander, marjoram, and cumin., Mineral water has many helpful ingredients that aren't available in normal water. If you drink at least two liters of mineral water a day, you will stay hydrated as well as get up to 25 percent of the daily recommended intake of magnesium. Look at the label of your mineral water to see how much it contains. It should have between 20 mg to 110 mg of magnesium per liter.


Studies have shown that magnesium absorption from natural mineral water is increased when drank with meals instead of between meals., Magnesium gluconate, magnesium lactate, and magnesium citrate are recommended forms of magnesium supplements. These forms of magnesium are absorbed easily by the body. On average, an adult should have at least 350 mg of magnesium per day. Children should only get between130 to 240 mg of magnesium per day.


Without your doctor's approval and guidance, never give magnesium supplements to a child, a person with kidney or heart problems, or people with gastrointestinal disorders.
If you are pregnant, your need for magnesium increases. Other situations where your magnesium intake should increase are surgery or illness recovery, and athletic training. If you want to take magnesium supplements, ask your doctor about the correct and recommended daily intake., Magnesium supplements can cause side effects when paired with certain medication. Consult your doctor before taking magnesium supplements if you are on any additional medicine. Typical side effects of increased magnesium intake include upset stomach, diarrhea, severely lowered blood pressure, nausea, cardiac arrhythmias, confusion, vomiting, respiratory paralysis, slowed heart rate, deficiencies of other minerals, coma, cardiac arrest, and, in some cases, death.