 Soul mates are a team. When you're with your soul mate, he’s got your back and you’ve got his. You know that when times get tough, you’ll face them together. Do you tell each other your problems? Does he listen when you’re upset and let you know that he’s there to help if you need it? Do you do the same for him?
When you need help does he do everything he can to help you? If you're with your soul mate, he’s not off with his friends while you build that new bookshelf alone. He’s right there next to you with a hammer. , When you're with your soul mate, you feel comfortable telling him things you wouldn’t tell other people, and he does so with you. You've seen each other’s vulnerable sides, and you’ve seen each other’s worst moments. You don’t worry that he’ll leave if he sees the real you, because he’s seen it—and he loves it. And you love him, too, flaws and all.


Do you feel comfortable telling him the things you’re ashamed or embarrassed of? Does he listen to you without judging? Does he open up to you? If you're soul mates, opening up should be easy because you're secure that you love and support each other, no matter what. , If you're with your soul mate, you should have plenty of similar interests. You don’t have to share every interest, but you should share at least some big ones. If you’re a major bookworm, your soul mate will probably enjoy reading, too. If you’re a nature-lover, your soul mate probably doesn’t hate being outside.


Don’t expect your soul mate to love everything that you do, or vice versa. You're both unique individuals, and that's part of why you love each other. But you should share at least a few major interests, and be willing to appreciate the rest. , Soul mates have a lot in common and support and listen to each other—but that doesn’t mean that they shy away from disagreements. If you're with your soul mate, you know that your love is stronger than any conflicts that arise between you. You both should feel comfortable facing your problems head on because you know that it makes your relationship stronger and helps you to be better people. Are you comfortable telling him when you think he’s wrong? Is he comfortable telling you? And when he calls you out, you should listen because you know that above all else, he supports you and wants you to be your best self. How do you argue? Soul mates don’t insult one another or hold onto ammunition from a fight they had six months ago. When you argue with your soul mate, it's with the goal of working out your problems and strengthening your relationship. The goal is never just winning the argument.
 Does he think you are interesting and exciting? Does he think your jokes are funny? Does he appreciate your intelligence? If you're with your soul mate, he should believe in you and encourage you to believe in yourself, and you should do the same for him.


This doesn’t mean you aren’t aware of each other’s flaws. But you should be able to accept those flaws as being part of what makes your partner who he is. , If you're soul mates you know more than just the big things; you also know the small details of each others’ daily lives, because you pay attention to each other and make each other a priority. Does he know how you like your eggs, or what your shoe size is? Do you know which train he takes to get home from work or which section of the newspaper he likes to read first? 