 Get four pieces of pipe cut at 12” long for the base or “feet” of the posts. Decide on the desired height for your barre and get two pieces of pipe at that measurement. You may want it cut to a slightly shorter length, as overall height will be added by the joint pieces and feet.


Note that these pieces will make a single barre. If you want to make a double barre with two different heights, you will need to have four different sections of pipe and two extra cross joints to make the posts, which will total to your desired height.
The ideal height of the barre is at the dancer’s waist level, or approximately 32-46” from the floor., Get PVC pipe, wooden dowel, or closet rods cut to your desired length for the barre.


Some of the length will be absorbed by the joints used to assemble the barre, so you might want to add a few inches to your length before cutting.
Remember that you’ll need two lengths if you’re making a double barre at two different heights.
 Buy PVC joint pieces at the same diameter as your pipe. You will need six 90-degree angle elbow joints and two T-shaped (3-holed) cross joints.


Remember that if you’re making a double barre, you’ll need two extra cross joint pieces.
 Assemble the pieces of your barre. Connect two 12” pieces of pipe with a cross joint in the middle and two elbow pieces on the opposite ends. Place the piece for the height of your barre into the same cross piece to finish your first post. Assemble the second post in the same way.For a single bar, attach your PVC or wooden dowel piece to the top of your posts with elbow joints at each end.
For a double barre, attach the PVC or wooden dowel for your lower bar to your posts with cross pieces. Then place the second piece of post into the cross pieces on both sides. Add the top bar using two elbow joints.
 If you don’t want your barre to move around or scratch floors, buy craft foam or rubber to stick to the bottom of the feet, where each elbow joint touches the floor.


Cut pieces of foam in squares or circles that will fit the bottom of the elbow joints. It doesn’t matter if the foam overlaps the edges slightly, as it will offer more protection.
You can use PVC glue to affix the foam to the PVC, or buy self-adhesive foam sheets.