 Pay compliments instead of offering critiques. Talk about the things your "love" instead of the things you "hate." Whenever possible, think of your words as an extension of your expression. Constantly saying negative or degrading words will make you appear much less happy and much more bitter.
 This takes some training, but is the instant hallmark of happy people. To appear, and feel, in control of sticky situations, start with all the positives you can find, making note of the good before the bad. This doesn't mean smiling disingenuously -- rather, it means avoiding the sink into sad, angry, or negative thoughts and expressions. Let these negative thoughts drift off by replacing them with positive ones.


Pepper your conversation with more words like "do-able," "silver-lining," and "challenging," instead of "too hard," "painful," or "unfortunate obligations." The way you frame arguments is important.
When faced with tough decisions or moments, talk more about possible solutions and less about causes. Happy-looking people aim for the future instead of dwelling on the past., If you are making yourself feel unhappy on the inside, then you're going to show it on the out. Happy-looking people don't dwell on self-doubt and criticism, instead replacing these thoughts with more realistic thoughts. This, of course, is easier said than done. But the first step -- simply noting these critical thoughts and ignoring them -- is a powerful first step to looking happier.


Remember that people pay less attention to you than you think. If you believe, "everyone thinks I'm dumb," or "everyone is looking at me," you'll look stressed. But the honest truth is "everyone" is not even thinking about you. Like yourself, they are only thinking of them!
Harping past mistakes doesn't change them. Laughing about the mistake and thinking about how not to repeat it will help you appear happier., Talking about your accomplishments a little bit, or your moments of pride, is not being a braggart. Some people only feel comfortable making mean comments about themselves or diminishing their successes, thinking it makes the modest. What it really does is make you feel insecure, and let's other people know that you don't value your own deeds.


Happy people take compliments with a smile and sincere thank you, not a deflected put-down.
Happy people mention their successes when appropriate, keeping it short without glossing over the personal pride in their work.