 On the homepage, you'll see the "home," "features," "support," "blog" and "contacts" buttons, as well as the "login" and "Sign up" buttons.
 You'll need to provide a username, password, as well as your first name, last name and email address.


If you already have an account, click on the login button and enter your login information (e-mail and password).
You'll also need to take a read at the terms and conditions, as well as the privacy policy, on Freedcamp, and check the box "I agree to the terms and conditions & privacy policy of Freedcamp" to have your account created.
 When you are done, click on "Next.";
, Click on the green "install" button next to one of them to install it (this only takes a few seconds), then decide who has permission to use it. There are three boxes: "Admin," "User" and "Client"; check all of them that apply.


If you want to uninstall an application, just click on the red "uninstall" button next to it, and the application will be uninstalled. As such, the "install" button will appear again in case you want to re-install it.
 For this process, you'll need to enter one or more email addresses to send the invitation to, as well as as a custom invitation message.
 Enter your e-mail address and password to log in.
 Click on it to get started creating your new project.
 You will need to enter the following:


A project name (in the Project Name field). This is the title for your project, and should be related to its topic.
A project group (from the Project Group field/drop-down menu). You can select a group (a project you already have), or click on the + button to add a new group.
A project description (entered in the Project Description field). This describes your project and its topic. Remember to describe your project in as much detail as you can.
 Applications will help you manage your projects more easily, and they're extremely easy to add to the project, only taking a few seconds to download.


The applications are as follows: "To-dos," "Discussions," "Milestones" and "Time." To install an application, click on the green 'install' button and decide which users have permission to use it (Admins, Users and/or Clients).

To uninstall an application, click on the red 'uninstall' button and your app will be uninstalled.
 Enter one or more email addresses of recipients, and write a custom message for your invitation.
 You'll get a set of options for managing your project.



Manage the invitations; this can be easily done by clicking on "manage invitations."


Remove a user from the project by clicking on the blue "Remove" button next to the user's name, and email (if needed).
 Click on "install" to install an application. If an application is already installed but you want it uninstalled, click on "uninstall." Follow the same procedure as described above.
 Edit the name of the project in the Project Name field, description in the Project Description field, and choose a group ID from the Group ID drop-down.
 This is usually done with projects that are no longer active or canceled.


Once it has been deactivated, an "activate" button will appear, in case you need to activate the project again.
 Just click on "Reorder Projects" and drag projects and groups into what order you wish for them to be in.



Note: This option is for your account only.

