 It comes either first or second in the FNaF timeline.;
, Randomly appearing posters and newspapers clippings show that 5 children did indeed go missing at Freddy Fazbear's Pizza. The Phone Guy confirms that a suit was used to lure the children to their deaths (this suit is confirmed to be Springtrap, supposedly an original animatronic along with Golden Freddy).
 In the first three games, an intro of a newspaper clipping relays what's going on. In Five Nights at Freddy's 2, the letter shows that a new and improved Freddy Fazbear's Pizza is opening. At the end, it is closed, scheduled for a downsizing. In the first FNaF, it says that they are holding a grand-reopening (the Phone Guy lets slip that it is a smaller-scale version restaurant). In the third game, it is revealed that you are guarding a FNaF themed horror attraction, 30 years after the events of the first game. The ending newsletter reveals that Fazbear Fright burns down.
 In the second game, he volunteers to take your position, and you get moved to the day shift. In the first game, he mentions that he is on his final shift, but Night 4's recording implies that he is killed before he can retire.
 There are few definite clues as to who the killer is, why the hauntings are occurring, or if the killer was even really caught. The biggest bread crumb is the Purple Guy who killed the single crying child (which most likely possessed the Puppet) and set the whole thing in motion. There is a possibility that there are two Purple Guys, but only one is the murderer, William Afton. His son, Mike Afton, was killed and taken over by Ennard, eventually turning purple from the robot living inside the decaying corpse for so long. It was Mike that was crushed by the spring locks and became Springtrap, due to confusion with his father. According to Sister Location, this is a likely scenario, but it's all still speculation.
 A 6th animatronic is revealed, known as Springtrap. The other animatronics in the game are mere hallucinations (this is due to the animatronics most likely being scrapped/stored away at the end of 5 Nights at Freddy's).

