 Using a smartphone makes it very easy to take, edit, and upload a photo without any extra work.


Mobiles are particularly useful for selfies. Although you may be able to use a camera for selfies, it won't produce the best result because many phones have two cameras: one in the back, and one in the front.
If you're really interested in high quality results, instead of using the camera in the front to take selfies, use the one in the back. The back camera takes higher-resolution pictures. Thus, you may get more likes on the picture.;
, Selfies are obviously a popular choice, but they're not necessarily the most interesting to other Facebook users. You know your social media friends best; think about what they like. If a funny picture will go over well, find something amusing in your day to snap. If you're friends with a lot of outdoor lovers, take a photo of a beautiful scene in nature or of your latest hiking accomplishment. If you've recently been married or had a baby, take a picture that your loved ones will associate with your milestones.



When it comes to photos outdoors, make sure that the camera/mobile is facing opposite the sun. This way, the picture will be more clear.
If you're taking a photo indoors, make sure that the room has good lighting. For a better effect, there should be presence of natural sunlight in the room.
For more details about clicking better photos, learn how to Take Better Photographs

If you're taking a selfie, strike good poses. For more details, learn how to Take Good Selfies.
 Take a mobile/camera and click the same picture twice or thrice. This way, you can look at the 2-3 pictures of the same type, and upload the one that looks better. It is way better than to waste extra time in taking the same pose again while taking a better selfie, or adjusting the camera/mobile to click a better photo.
 If your photo is dark or unclear, adjust the brightness and color, and crop it so that the most interesting part of the image is central and well-framed.
 You don't have to transfer the mobile pictures to the computer to upload them on Facebook. The Facebook app is available in most mobiles. If the Facebook app is not available, then you can download it. Once you're done with downloading, launch the app and sign in. Read the points below and follow accordingly to upload mobile pictures.


Towards the top of the page, click on the 'Photo' option that you can see. Make sure that you're signed in.
Then, select 'Choose from gallery' for the picture you've taken.
Select the picture you'd like to upload.
Add description of the picture (optional).
Then select 'Upload' option.
Your photo will be posted on your Facebook page. If you've given description about the photo, it will appear right beneath the photo!

, You'll have to first transfer the picture in the computer for that. If you don't know how to transfer camera pictures to the computer, you can refer to How to Transfer Images from a Digital Camera to a Computer. When you're done with transferring camera pictures to computer, read the points below to upload them to Facebook through your regular browser:


Sign in into your Facebook account.
At the top of the"What's on your mind" bar of your Facebook page, click 'Photo/Video' to upload pictures to your Timeline Photos album.
Select the pictures you want to add to Facebook.
Add description to the picture (optional).
Click Post.
 Like your friends' pictures so that your name will pop up with the 'like'. Plus, if you like their pictures, they'll feel more inclined to like yours too. Just like you, your friends need likes too!

, When others like your posts, respond to them. Engaging with your friends will leads to more likes.


Add more friends that will lead to more engagement with more people, thus giving you even more likes! Also, the simple logic that's true: More friends leads to more likes!

, Writing an engaging or amusing caption to go with your photo often attracts more attention and gets people reacting to the image more than they otherwise would.
 Unless it is extremely important to fool a majority of people, there is no reason whatsoever to do this. Anything that doesn't guarantee a true fan of your picture isn't worth it and won't last for long.

