 An autistic child is ill-equipped to handle environments and activities that are intensive and overly stimulating.


Too much of activity or too much noise in the child’s environment can overwhelm the child.
The child then finds it difficult to handle the excessive stimulation, triggering a meltdown.
 Autistic children may struggle to communicate well, or struggle to communicate in ways that others can understand. This can feel incredibly frustrating.


The child, finding no other way to handle the bottled-up emotions, finally loses control.
Honor all forms of communication—spoken words, written words, body language, and behavior. Children are more likely to melt down if they think it is the only way that you will listen to them.Try to avoid overwhelming a child with information (especially spoken information). The child may be unable to process so many words, panic, and melt down. It is best to give pauses, break things into steps, or use visual aids (e.g. lists) to help them keep track of things.
 This will help them voice their needs, and prevent emotions from bottling up so much. Listening carefully to the child's communication will tell them that you care about what they have to say, and it will encourage them to talk to you more.


Consider developing a "secret signal" for the child to use when feeling stressed or overwhelmed. At the signal, you will help your child disengage from the situation.
Praise them when they exhibit good communication skills: asking for help, asserting their needs, setting boundaries, et cetera.
 Ask questions such as "How are you doing?" and "How did you feel about that?" Seek first to understand, and worry about judgment later. This will help your child trust you and feel that they can seek you out whenever they feel upset.


To teach them that no means no, listen when they tell you no. If a child knows that "concerts scare me" is a valid reason not to go to a concert, they are more likely to think that "you wandering off scares Daddy" is a valid reason not to wander off.
If you can't honor a no, try to compromise, and offer a clear explanation. For example, if your son doesn't like his carseat, find out why, and if there's a way to fix it (e.g. letting him sit on a pillow to make the car seat's bottom more comfortable). Offer an explanation of why something must be done—carseats are necessary for safety. This tells them that no means no unless there is a very good reason otherwise.
Never punish them for coming to you with a problem, even if they did something bad. (Instead, help them fix it, and explain what they could have done instead. If reparations must be made, ask them what they think would be fair.) This makes it clear that they can talk to you no matter what.
 Autistic children rely on routines to give them a sense of security and stability. Changing a routine feels like upsetting the order of the universe to them, and they may become confused and panic.


When there is a change in routine, it helps to explain it as early as possible. For example, if you are going to the airport tomorrow to pick up his aunt, tell him the day before, the morning before, and before you get into the car. This gives him a chance to emotionally prepare.
Try using daily and weekly schedules. Laminate them so you can write changes with a dry-erase marker. Illustrate them if need be. This helps the child visualize what will happen.
 Sometimes certain kinds or amounts of involvement which the child does not expect or appreciate can cause a meltdown. This can be especially true when it involves their food.They expect people around them to respect their need to be independent and do things on their own.


For example: your daughter might want to apply butter to her bread by herself. If you take the knife from her hands, she may feel that you are undermining her, and begin to cry.
Outwardly, it might look a trivial issue, but it holds enormous significance for the child. It might start as a tantrum and lead to a meltdown. Therefore, the best thing would be to let the child try it themselves.
Many parents find it useful to let the child try to do a specific task, and ask "Would you like help?" if the child appears to be struggling. This allows the child to choose for themselves, and learn how to ask for help when they need it.

