 A classic British dish called "toad in the hole" is a perfect option if you have a good amount of leftover batter. After adding an egg, add either flour or milk to the batter until is has the consistency of heavy cream. Pierce some sausages with a knife, toothpick, skewer, or fork, and roast them in a large pan until the sausages are fully cooked.If there is not a thick layer of fat in the bottom of the pan after cooking, add oil or lard until there is.
Heat the pan on an oven burner set to high. Wearing arm and eye protection, pour the batter directly on top of the sausages quickly and carefully. Be aware that oil will likely pop out of the pan and may burn you if you're not protected.
Put the pan back in the oven and bake at about 220 degrees F (105 degrees C) until the batter rises and the top becomes crispy.
Serve with gravy and caramelized onions.
 Add your preference of flour, milk, and/or egg until your pancake batter has the consistency of a thick custard. Grate potato and onion into the batter and stir periodically until the consistency is similar to that of cole slaw. Try to use three times as much potato as onion.The precise consistency doesn’t matter as long as there is enough batter to coat the pieces of potato and onion.
Add small amounts of salt, pepper, and garlic to taste.
Shape the mixture into patties that have roughly the same diameter as a softball.
Fry your patties in a well oiled pan, flipping periodically until they’re crispy and golden brown.
 Especially if you made pancake batter with buckwheat or another heavier type of flour, it can be used to make great tortillas. The batter should be the consistency of heavy cream, so add milk or flour as necessary. Add salt and pepper to taste, and put the batter in a receptacle you can pour from.Put enough olive oil on a non-stick pan to coat the entire surface and warm the pan over high heat. When the oil begins to smoke, pour in enough batter to cover half of the pan's base.
Immediately begin swirling the batter in the pan until the entire base is evenly coated with a thin layer of batter.
Cook your tortilla for about 45 seconds and flip it over. Cook another 45 seconds and place the tortilla on wax paper to cool.
Use these as you would any other type of tortilla. Make as many as your leftover batter allows.

