 If you read them, you'll know how to write notes down when spying. Also, go to your library and check out other books that might help you on how to be a great spy!;
, There is only one movie, which is called, "Harriet the Spy," and it is in movie style of one of the books. You learn about the things she does, and you can get a good glimpse of the spy gadgets Harriet wears on her spy belt!

, What is important to you will help you more than someone else telling you how to do something! You can then study how the spy acts and does things. This will help you become better.
 Don't wear a dress or skirt. You'll just ruin it, and look weird when spying. No frilly clothes or shiny jewelry, or regular jewelry, because it can make noise, and if you have bright sliver and gold colors, the sun reflects, and it gives away your hiding and where you are.
 Harriet M. Welsh has a green composition notebook, but you can use any color or notebook (see below for ideas,). What kind of a notebook should you get? Not a very fancy one, and one that the paper doesn't come out, and that sticks. It also shouldn't have to be that fancy on the top. You could have a plain notebook with your favorite color on it and you can call it good.
 Then you can know what you found on that day, when spying. When you fill up your notebook, you might have enough information on some people to make a file on them. Just don't let anyone see your notebook.
 Having a gadget belt is great to have! Why? It carries your things in a manner that no one will notice. But having an oversize coat that covers your gadget belt would be great, because people won't suspect there is your spy notebook and gadgets underneath your oversize coat.
 That way, you can see around corners without peaking your head, so nobody knows that your still there.
 Pencils are more recommend, because ink can squirt out, and wash from rain, but Pencils can have the led come out, and ink used up from pens. That's why you should keep a set of them in your gadget belt.
 A yo-yo or some kind of distracting toy, to distract other people to think your doing something else when you're actually spying. This is recommend, for Harriet M. (M stands for middle name) Welsh has it, and if you watch the movie, she uses a ping pong paddle toy, or similar one.
 Then you can see straight and clear ahead. Especially if your spying from a tree.
 You'll need them so you can climb trees and ropes, just like Harriet did in the movie. Then you won't be crying, or get hurt, because you'll be caught. Also, when climbing trees be careful not to fall. Learn how to climb like a pro, but with Safety First!

, Just in case you have to go in a dark street, or something. You might also use it to look at something with dim light.
 Then you won't stop and get blisters. Flip flops and high heel shoes are instantly off limits, and so are dressy shoes. Boots are okay, but loud, and hard to run in, because you might fall.
 Sometimes dog bones are great on hand for a barking dog that won't stop barking. A dog that barks non stop, is like an alarm, and will make people become suspicious, and your cover will be over.
 The number one rule. "Good spies never get caught," ~ Harriet M. Welsh. Try not to get caught, or your spy career, might be just over with your notebook caught, and your identity that was secret.

