 Vitamin, mineral and herbal supplements are sold at a variety of stores and locations (you can even buy them online); however, since these (along with all other supplements) are not regulated by the FDA, you need to be careful where you buy them.Avoid purchasing supplements online. You may not be familiar with the company and cannot physically pick up the supplement and review all the information on the packaging. Many websites can provide deceiving information and it's best to choose a store instead.
You can purchase cranberry supplements at pharmacies, grocery stores and health food stores. It might be beneficial to purchase a supplement from a pharmacy or grocery store that has a pharmacy. You can ask the pharmacist whether or not that particular supplement is appropriate for you given your current health conditions and medications.
Look for supplements that have been evaluated by an outside company. Supplements that are verified by U.S. Pharmacopeia, NSF International, and ConsumerLab.com have been tested to prove that they contain the amount of the ingredient as advertised on the label and that they are free of harmful substances.;
, With any medication or supplement, it's essential to the read the label. This is where you will find the ingredients, dosage and instructions for consumption.


First look at the ingredients. Is it truly a cranberry supplement? Or are there other ingredients included?
Look for a supplement, ideally, that's made from the cranberry juice, not the skins. This has more of the antioxidants (known as proanthocyanidins) needed to prevent bacteria growth.Depending on what your goal is, there are varying levels of recommended doses. Make sure you purchase a cranberry supplement in the right dose for your needs.
Review the serving size and how to take your cranberry supplement. You might need to take one tablet or a few tablets to meet the recommended dose. Also note whether you should take the supplement with or without food.
 A very common form of cranberry supplement is in a tablet form.These can be found at most pharmacies and health food stores.


Many health professionals recommend this form as they do not have as much sugar or as many calories as regular cranberry juice or the powdered supplements. This is helpful if you need to watch your overall calorie or sugar intake.
Make sure to read the label to see whether or not the supplement uses the extract from the skins or the juice.
A 1 gram tablet of concentrated cranberry extract may help prevent UTIs. 240 mg may help reduce lipid levels and prevent H. Pylori.
 In addition to tablets, another common form of cranberry supplements is in a powdered form. It mixes into beverages easily and gives them a little bit of flavor.Like a cranberry tablet, the powder can provide all the same benefits. This can be even more useful as you need to add it to liquid which can help you drink more fluid during the day.
Again, make sure the the supplement uses extracts from the juice, not the skins.
Some powders may have some added sugar to them. Read the label to make sure they fit within your dietary guidelines.
 Although cranberry juice isn't necessarily a supplement (as a pill or powder form is), it can be used as an alternative to taking a pill or powdered cranberry supplement. Drinking cranberry juice generally results in similar benefits to taking a supplement.To help prevent UTIs, drink about 3 – 6 oz of pure cranberry juice or 10 oz of cranberry juice cocktail daily. For other health issues like preventing H. Pylori or lowering your cholesterol, you may only need about 2 oz of cranberry juice daily, however a higher volume like 6 oz is acceptable.Be careful with cranberry juices. 100% cranberry juice is quite sour, so most food manufacturers add sweeteners (like sugar) which can increase the sugar and calorie content. Look for either 100% juice or diet cranberry which may add a no-calorie sweetener instead of sugar.
Cranberry juice is also a little more cost effective and easy to find compared to cranberry supplements.
 When you purchase a cranberry supplement, you'll most likely notice there are a variety of brands available. In addition to reviewing the dosing amount and ingredients, it's also important to look where the supplement was actually manufactured.


Some studies have shown that supplements manufactured outside of the US may contain some toxic or harmful ingredients. Other countries do not have the same manufacturing laws and regulations as the US and you may end up ingesting something that is banned or prohibited in the US.Look for the "Country of Origin" label or "Manufactured In" label. This will tell you exactly where the supplement was made. You may want to avoid products made in China or Mexico; however, supplements made in Canada, the US or even the EU may be appropriate.
 Any time you want to start taking a dietary supplement, it's essential to speak to your doctor first. You want them to be informed of what you're taking and make sure he thinks it's safe for you.


Talk to your doctor about the safety of adding a cranberry supplement to your weekly routine. It's best to bring the supplement with you so your doctor can see the dosage, form and other ingredients in the supplement.
Talk to your doctor about why you want to take this supplement. For example, is it for UTI prevention? Your doctor may also give you other tips to prevent UTIs as well.
Make sure to inform you doctor of any other medications or health conditions you have. Cranberry juice and supplements can interact with certain medications.
 There have been many, many studies done on cranberry juice supplements on a wide variety of health conditions. The dosage and type of supplement you take may vary based on the benefit you need.Cranberry supplements and juice are most commonly used to prevent or treat UTIs. There is good evidence to support the prevention of UTIs with cranberry supplements. However, there is little evidence supporting the treatment of UTIs with supplements.
One popular use for cranberry supplements is to lower lipid or cholesterol levels. There is very minimal evidence supporting this.
You may also consider using cranberry supplements to prevent stomach ulcer formation from the H. Pylori bacteria. There is moderate evidence to support this.
There is very little evidence to support the use of cranberry supplements for the following: diabetes management, oral health management, prevention of metabolic syndrome and prostate health.
 Each type of supplement will come with specific dosing instructions. It's important to read the label thoroughly and figure out how much to take of your cranberry supplement.


On the supplement fact panel (found on the bottle or box) you'll find the serving size information. If it's a capsule or tablet, it may say something like "1 tablet per serving" or "2 capsules per serving."
Make sure you take the amount recommended to help you either prevent a UTI, reduce the likelihood of having an H. Pylori infection or lower your cholesterol levels.
Do not take more than the recommended serving daily. A higher dose won't necessarily provide any additional benefits. It may also cause more side effects or interfere with other medications you're taking.
 All supplements have the potential to cause unwanted side effects. You could experience mild headaches or nausea. However, they may also interfere with other medications to cause side effects. Monitor for any changes while you take cranberry supplements.


Most health professionals find cranberry supplements to be safe for most healthy adults. In addition, many studies have shown little to few side effects associated with supplements.High doses of either cranberry supplements or cranberry juice have been associated with an increased risk of developing kidney stones due to the oxalate content.
Large quantities of cranberry juice, especially 100% cranberry juice, have been occasionally associated with stomach upset and diarrhea.
If you notice any of these symptoms, stop your cranberry supplements and talk to your doctor.
 Although cranberry supplements may help prevent a UTI from forming, it should not be used to treat a current UTI. Do not take it if you feel you have a current infection.


Cranberry supplements have been thought to acidify the urine which was thought to prevent UTIs from forming; however, recent research shows that its the components of cranberry juice that help prevent the bacteria from sticking to cell surfaces and causing an infection.There is no research or evidence supporting that cranberry supplements help treat a current UTI. It should not be taken if you already have been diagnosed with an infection.
If you think you have a UTI, talk to your doctor immediately and set up an appointment to do a urine test. If you test positive for a UTI, the only treatment is antibiotics.
 Taking cranberry supplements may help prevent a UTI from forming, but so can other dietary habits. One in particular is drinking adequate fluids. Make sure to drink consistently throughout the day if you're susceptible to getting UTIs.


Most health professionals recommend drinking at least 64 oz (2 liters) of clear, hydrating fluids each day; however, if you're susceptible to UTIs, you may want to consider aiming for 80 – 100 oz (2.3 — 3 liters) of fluids daily.
The more water you drink, the more diluted your urine will be. In addition, it'll ensure that you urinate more frequently which helps flush the bacteria from your urinary tract.Do not drink sugary or sweetened beverages. Stick to clear, no calorie fluids like: water, sparkling water, flavored water or decaf coffee and tea.
 In addition to taking cranberry supplements or drinking cranberry juice, you can also get some of the same health benefits from cranberries themselves. Try incorporating cranberries into your diet as an additional source of healthful antioxidants.


Cranberries can be purchased in fresh, frozen or dried form. All of these forms will have those health-boosting and UTI preventing antioxidants and vitamins.
If you choose dried cranberries, try to find those that do not have added sugar to them. You can sprinkle them on yogurt, oatmeal, or salad, or mix them into a homemade trail mix.
Fresh and frozen cranberries can be used interchangeably. You can eat them raw, but they are quite tart. Cooked down and added to desserts or made into a sauce works well.
 Another supplement that could help aid in the prevention of UTIs is a probiotic. These "good bacteria" have been shown to not only help aid with stomach issues, but may also be beneficial to the urinary tract.Health professionals note that there are bacteria in the urinary tract (like the urethra) and generally they are the "good" bacteria; however, these areas can contain unhealthy and infection-causing bacteria which end up causing a UTI.
An increased amount of the healthy or good bacteria can help prevent the overgrowth of the UTI-causing bacteria.
You can take a probiotic supplement or consider purchasing yogurt or kefir that also contain a high quantity of probiotics.
 In addition to diet and supplements, there are some good hygiene habits that can help prevent UTIs from forming. Make sure you practice good hygiene to help UTIs from recurring.


Have good bowel habits. Fecal material can contaminate your urethra easily as these two areas are quite close physically. Women need to take care to wipe front to back. Preventing constipation or diarrhea is another way to prevent contamination from fecal material.Avoid potentially irritating feminine products. Women also need to avoid using harmful or irritating products like deodorant sprays, douches, harsh cleansers or powders. These can irritate the urethra easily and cause a UTI.