 Some apples come with a waxy coating, which can keep the candy coating from sticking. You can get rid of this waxy coating by boiling 6 cups (1.4 liters) of water with 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of white vinegar. Dip each apple into the vinegar water for 5 seconds, then pat dry.If you find the sticks difficult to insert, make a shallow slit in the top of the apple with a sharp knife first. Make sure that the apples are secure on the sticks, or they'll fall into the candy mixture.
 The apples will chill as you prepare the candy mixture. Melted candy will harden a lot faster on cold apples than on room temperature ones.
 If you don't have any wax paper, lightly coat the baking sheet with cooking spray instead. This will keep the candy apples from sticking to the sheet while they harden.


The baking sheet needs to be large enough to hold all of the apples without them touching. If you need to, use two baking sheets.
 During this time, you will want to clip a candy thermometer to the side of the saucepan. Don't let the bottom of the thermometer touch the bottom of the saucepan, however. If you don't have a candy thermometer, don't worry; there are other ways to test the temperature of the candy.
 Don't stir the candy during this time. If you don't have a candy thermometer, you can test whether or not the candy is ready by putting a drop into a cup of cold water. If the candy hardens and cracks easily, it's ready. If it sinks to the bottom and stays gooey, it is not ready., If you want it to be opaque, add 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of white gel food coloring. The more gel food coloring you use, the brighter the color will be.Avoid over-stirring the mixture. You don't want any air bubbles. Stir just enough to mix in the flavoring, but not so much that you get air bubbles. You are mixing the extract in now, because otherwise the high heat will kill the flavor.
If you aren't a fan of vanilla, you can omit it, or use another flavor, such as cinnamon.
 Twirl the stick in your hand to help the candy coat the apple more evenly, and the excess to drip off.


For a smoother finish, let the candy cool on the apple for 30 seconds, then dip again., This will allow any excess candy to drip towards the stick, and prevent any puddles from forming., As you continue to work, tip the saucepan towards you, so that the candy mixture gathers in the corner. This will make the candy mixture "deeper" and make it easier to coat the apples., It will take about 1 hour for the candy to harden.Don't get impatient and stick the candy apples into the fridge, or they may turn sticky.
 Candy-coated apples are best eaten the same day.

