 For your child’s first six months, when either breastfeeding or formula should be their only source of food, maintaining a standard balanced diet will help you produce nutritious milk for the baby. Emphasize green leafy vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and lean proteins such as fish and poultry. Continue this regimen as you combine breastfeeding or formula with baby food up to the child’s second year.In addition, a daily vitamin D supplement of 10 mcg/400 IU is advised while breastfeeding.
Breastfeeding is strongly recommended as the exclusive source of nutrition for your child up to six months.It provides the best source of nutrition for healthy growth, aids in reducing the risk of infection, and prevents overweight., An infant’s natural supply of iron is typically depleted at six months, therefore it is necessary to begin adding solid foods to the diet while breastfeeding or giving formula.Fully cooked meat, fish, poultry, and meat alternatives (tofu, eggs, legumes) should be served in small, easily digestible quantities. Try for two to three servings per day from six to eight months, then three to four servings from nine to 13 months.Be patient when trying to get your baby to accept solid foods for the first time. It can take up to 10 to 15 tries before they get used to the change in feeding., At two years of age, your baby should be ready for exclusively solid foods. At least half of each meal should consist of fruits and vegetables, and the other half whole grains and protein. Try for at least five servings of fruits and vegetables per day.Diets that favor fruits and vegetables offer a number of long-term health benefits:


For one, they help control blood sugar, which in turn moderates appetite.
They also lessen the risk of stroke and heart disease, lower blood pressure, prevent certain types of cancer, and reduce the risk of digestive and eye complications.
 Whole grains contain vital minerals and B vitamins for energy, and dietary fiber for healthy digestion. At least half the grains should be whole grain, and should be listed first (or second after water) on the ingredients list. Mix in other whole grains such as wild rice, quinoa, oats, millet, sorghum, and buckwheat., Cut down on red meats (beef, lamb, pork) and especially processed meats such as bacon, salami, ham, hot dogs, and sausages — all of which have been linked to an increased risk of cancer, heart disease, stroke, and type 2 diabetes.Protein helps to form healthy body tissues, and is the building block for hemoglobin and enzymes.Experts recommend 8g of daily protein consumption for every 20 pounds of body weight. For a 70-pound child, that calculates to 28g of protein per day., Recommended servings are as follows: 2 cups at Two to three years, 2 1/2 cups from four to eight years, and 3 cups from nine to 18 years (1 cup of milk or yogurt = 1 1/2 ounces of unprocessed cheese). Emphasize low-fat milk, cheese, and yogurt. Foods sometimes considered as dairy, such as cream cheese, cream, and butter, are high in saturated fats and should not be eaten.Dairy products are an excellent source of calcium, which helps bone growth. You can also substitute non-dairy calcium sources such as fortified soy milk, collards, bok choy, kale, and white and navy beans.