 Glucose gives the body energy. If your puppy is hypoglycemic, you'll first notice it moving more slowly and becoming restless. As the hypoglycemia worsens and your puppy’s brain is starved for glucose, your puppy will tremble, have a blank stare, and fall on its side.Other signs of hypoglycemia include:Wobbly walking
Shivering
Head tilt;
, As soon as you notice your young puppy looking restless, try feeding it some food.Eating a little bit of food may be enough to raise your puppy’s blood glucose back to normal levels.If your puppy does not want to eat, then you will need to feed it some sugar.


If your young puppy is still nursing, you may need to bottle feed it.
 A small dose of sugar will help to quickly raise your puppy’s blood glucose levels. Rather than giving your puppy sugar crystals, give it a liquid sugar source:Nutri-Cal® (available at your local pet store)
Maple syrup
Karo syrup
Molasses

, Give your puppy the sugar source by either rubbing a small amount on the gums with your finger or placing a few drops under your puppy’s tongue.Placing the sugar source on the gums or under the tongue will help it be absorbed more quickly by the body.One to two tablespoons of a sugar source is usually enough to revive a small dog with hypoglycemia.If your young puppy is really tiny, ask your vet about how much you should give.
You can also place a few drops of the sugar source on your puppy’s tongue.If you’re going to give drops of the sugar source, use a medicine dropper.
To prevent your puppy from choking, do not put the sugar source directly down its throat., In many instances of puppy hypoglycemia, just a small amount of sugar will be enough to revive the puppy.If the hypoglycemia is not severe, your puppy should perk back up in one to two minutes.If your puppy does not respond, contact your vet immediately.


Be aware that the sugar source is just a quick fix. Your puppy’s blood glucose levels may drop again, causing another episode of hypoglycemia.If your puppy becomes hypoglycemic again, give it more of the sugar source and contact your vet.
 If you needed to give your puppy a sugar source to handle its hypoglycemia, feed it a small amount of high-quality canned puppy food once it perks up.The food will give your puppy more glucose and help it recover.


If your puppy refuses the canned food, try feeding it some tasty treats., Even if your puppy looks fine after getting a little bit of sugar, your vet should still examine your puppy to determine if a health problem has caused the hypoglycemia. If your puppy did not respond at all to the sugar, then a vet visit is essential to get your puppy the intensive care it will need to recover.


Your puppy will also need to see your vet if it responded to the sugar, but became hypoglycemic again., Your vet will need to confirm that your young puppy has hypoglycemia. They will first perform a physical exam of your puppy. Then, they will take a small blood sample to measure your puppy’s blood glucose levels.Intestinal parasites can rob your young puppy’s body of important nutrients like glucose. Your vet may also perform a fecal exam to look for intestinal parasites., If your puppy has severe hypoglycemia, it will need immediate and intensive treatment by your vet. To administer this treatment, your vet will need to hospitalize your puppy for at least one day. Examples of intensive treatment for young puppies with hypoglycemia are:Intravenous dextrose (a type of sugar)
Deworming (kills intestinal parasites)
Heat therapy
Fluids

, A young puppy’s body cannot regulate its blood glucose levels very well. Feeding your young puppy multiple times a day, at the same times each day, can help prevent hypoglycemia.Puppies should eat three to four times a day.Leave the food out for 10 to 20 minutes. This will help prevent your puppy from becoming a picky eater—it will learn that it should eat right away, rather than pick at the food for a long time., A healthy puppy diet, when fed multiple times a day, will help keep your young puppy’s blood glucose levels from dropping too low. Also, high-quality puppy food will give your puppy the nutrients it needs to grow into a healthy adult dog.Many types of puppy diets are available. If you are unsure which one is right for your puppy, talk with your breeder or vet for guidance.
Puppies have specific nutritional needs. Do not feed your puppy an adult dog diet.
Canned foods tend to be tastier than dry foods.Your puppy may prefer canned food.
Realize that the feeding guidelines on the food label may not work for your young puppy. Talk with your vet to determine how much you should feed your puppy at each meal.
 A puppy should gain a little bit of weight every day. Daily weight gain means it’s eating enough food and getting enough nutrients, including glucose. Try weighing your puppy using a gram scale, which you can purchase a kitchen supply store. Record the weight on a piece of paper.If your young puppy is too big or wiggly for a gram scale, try this: Weigh yourself on a regular scale, then hold your puppy in your arms. To get your puppy’s weight, subtract your weight from the weight of you and your puppy.
If your puppy is not gaining weight, or is losing weight, it could be sick. Take your puppy to your vet.
 A cold puppy will use up extra glucose to stay warm, causing a condition called juvenile hypoglycemia. To prevent this type of hypoglycemia, wrap your young puppy in extra blankets to keep it warm. Also, keep your home at a warm temperature., Stress can cause a young puppy to become hypoglycemic. Examples of stressful events are vaccinations (or vet visits in general), over-handling, illness, and changes in a puppy’s environment.Minimizing your puppy’s stress can help prevent hypoglycemia.


Give your puppy treats when it behaves well at the vet’s office. That way, it may not get so stressed when it’s there.
Do not try to handle your puppy all the time. Give it some alone time so it can rest.
Keep your puppy’s routine the same from day to day.

