 Slice off the broad green leaves and the ends of the stalks. Place the rhubarb stalks in a colander or grip a bunch loosely in one hand and run them under a stream of cool water. Scrub off any visible dirt and remove damaged or discolored spots with a paring knife.Fresh rhubarb can be found seasonally (late spring to early summer) at most supermarkets and specialty food stores.Because they grow in the ground, it’s necessary to give rhubarb stalks a thorough cleaning before adding them to the food you eat.;
, Go down the length of each stalk using a sharp kitchen knife and cut the rhubarb into large pieces. If you wish, you can then coarsely chop the pieces into a more manageable size. This will help the fibrous stalks cook down faster and result in a smoother butter.Larger pieces can be strained to eliminate stringy pulp, whereas utilizing a fine chop or running the rhubarb through a food processor will save you an added step but may let some of the plant fiber get through.
 Gather whatever flavor additives you prefer to use for your rhubarb butter. For a simple sweet butter that highlights the tart flavors of the plant, some sugar and a dash of cinnamon, ginger and vanilla will do nicely. For a more richly spiced butter, try a couple teaspoons of ground cardamom, nutmeg, cloves or anise.Go easy on the spices—there aren’t many foods that taste quite like rhubarb, and you want the vegetable to speak for itself.
Use brown sugar, palm sugar, honey or agave in place of granulated white sugar to change the profile of the sweetness and tailor your rhubarb butter for special dietary needs., Drop the sliced rhubarb pieces into the bottom of the saucepan, along with 2 (60 ml) cups of water, 2 ½ cups of sugar (480 g), ½ teaspoon ground cinnamon, ¼ teaspoon freshly grated ginger and a splash of fresh lemon juice. Give everything a stir so that it’s evenly distributed before you begin cooking.The pot or saucepan you use should be large enough to comfortably hold several cups of liquid.
For bigger batches of butter, add to the recipe as you see fit and use cookware of a suitable size.
 Turn on the cooktop to high heat and bring the ingredients to a boil gradually. As the mixture boils, the heat will break down the rhubarb, releasing its tangy, bitter flavors and mingling them with the sweetness of the sugar and spices.Stir every 5 minutes with a rubber spatula.
Keep an eye on the heat—it needs to be hot enough to cook down the ingredients, but not so hot that it scorches the sugar or boils over.
 Stir the mixture frequently as it simmers. Lowering the heat will allow the mixture to continue cooking down without burning. By the time it’s finished simmering, the rhubarb butter will have reduced to the consistency of applesauce.There will naturally be a little variation in cook times, depending on the type of rhubarb you use, your individual cookware and the intensity of the heating element. Set a kitchen timer and use your best judgment to determine when the butter has cooked down sufficiently.
For an extra smooth finish, press the butter through a strainer or food mill to trap stringy pulp and excess moisture., Turn off the cooktop and remove the saucepan from the heat. Have a pint jar or tupperware container nearby that you can pour the hot rhubarb butter into and give it a chance to cool and thicken. Once it’s set up, the butter will have a perfect spreadable texture, and will make a great addition to toast, waffles, roasted chicken, biscuits and countless other dishes!Allow the rhubarb butter to cool to room temperature before placing it in the refrigerator or freezer. Changing temperatures too suddenly may cause the jar to crack or alter the flavor of the finished product.
Rhubarb butter will stay fresh in the refrigerator for 6-8 weeks, and a year or longer when frozen.
Freeze unused rhubarb butter and thaw it out whenever you want to use it as a topping or ingredient., Fill a canning bath or stockpot with enough water to hold multiple cans. Let it heat up gradually until it just comes to a boil. Look for small, consistent bubbling rather than deep swells from the center of the pot. This will indicate that the water is the right temperature.If you don’t plan on using all of your rhubarb butter right away, or you’re preparing a large batch to freeze and store, canning will be the most useful solution.
Use a separate pot from the one you used to cook the butter, and make sure it’s clean.
 After you’ve finished cooking the rhubarb butter, pour it into an 8 oz. wide-mouthed jar. This should be done while the butter is still warm, prior to any chilling or refrigeration.The recipe outlined here will produce about 1 cup of rhubarb butter, which will be just enough to fill an 8 oz. jar.
Leave the lid off of the jar for a minute or two to let most of the steam escape.
 Fit the lid onto the rim of the jar and press it firmly into place. Then, set the ring down over the top of the jar, twisting it until it’s secure. Once it’s heated in the water bath for a few minutes, the increased pressure will cause the lid to seal, preserving the fresh rhubarb butter.It’s important to ensure that the jar is tightly closed in order for it to seal properly.
Poorly enclosed jars run the risk of breaking or filling with water.
 Carefully lower each jar into the boiling water, making sure that there’s enough water to completely submerge them. Set a timer for 10 minutes. You should be able to hear a faint audible popping sound as the jars seal. Carefully remove the jars using a jar lifter or metal tongs and let them rest before storing them in a cool, dry place.Canning will preserve both the flavor and the texture, making it a superior alternative to freezing.
After the jars are sealed, the rhubarb butter will stay good for months or even years.

