 Different versions of the Wheel of Fortune games have different minimum jackpots. Some gamblers believe that smaller jackpots are easier to win.Even if this isn’t the case, machines with smaller jackpots have smaller maximum bets, which will allow you to stretch your money further. Note that the $25 and $100 Wheels have fixed jackpots that are not progressive.


For example, lower maximum bet games often have a minimum jackpot of $200,000, while the higher maximum bet games usually have a minimum jackpot of $1,000,000.
 Over two dozen kinds of Wheel of Fortune slot machines exist.These games will have different winning combinations and symbols, but they’ll all include a bonus "spin" option that lets you spin the Wheel of Fortune. Almost all of the versions have the same odds, so choose one that looks fun to you.


You can identify these games by the large spinning wheel over the main part of the machine.
All of these machines use random number generators to determine outcomes.
 Many professional gamblers avoid slot machines because the chance of winning your money back is low.Furthermore, no matter how high the jackpot gets, slot machines aren’t required to pay out. A larger jackpot doesn’t give you a better chance of winning.


Because the machines use random number generators to decide outcomes, your odds won’t ever change no matter what time of day you play.



Slot machines are built to take daily use. They are armor-plated, have tempered glass, and are equipped with sensors that detect tampering and abuse. They are tested against various types of behavior before leaving the factory, including zapping it with a Tazer. You cannot affect the outcome by slamming it, banging it, hudging it, lifting it off its foundation, or other forms of physicality. What will happen is much like the pinball machines of old: the machine will detect the abuse and shut itself down, which also voids any credits you have left. You will then find yourself surrounded by security or police, who may arrest you but will more likely escort you off the premises.
Remember, cameras are everywhere, so whatever bad behavior you exhibit is recorded and can be used against you in court. Those of us who play regularly have had our bad days and our good days; if you arent having a good day, there is always tomorrow. Walk away, go have a meal, or a massage, or a swim, or go shopping.

