 If you're a human being, chances are you have had a bad day and been in a bad mood, lost your temper, needed alone time, told a lie, and been selfish. Try to keep in mind that people don't always live up to their ideals. So, just as you might cut yourself some slack when you make a mistake, try cutting those you know some slack, too.Instead of making harsh judgments based on single instances of behavior, instead look for patterns that may better reflect the kind of person the individual is.
 Ever receive a thank you card from someone? For some reason it feels way better than if the person merely thanked you in person. This suggests that when others go to extra effort, these efforts are appreciated and make the recipient feel grateful and happy.


When you treat a friend well, she will be more likely to return the favor. This will help the relationship thrive and help you to have a better life., Communication is difficult as it entails you translating your feelings and thoughts into a format that you think the listener will understand exactly as intended. But how can you be sure your words were taken as meant?


One way to increase your changes is to take more time before you speak, so as to communicate more effectively. If your thoughts aren’t worked out yet, sort them out in your head before you say them out loud., Concentrate and focus on the person who is speaking. Value her words even if you disagree with her perspective or opinion.Do your best to remove distractions from your mind. You can do this in part by watching the speaker's mouth. Studies show that visual information from the lips facilitates language processing., Do your best to consider her perspective. Put yourself in her shoes before you evaluate her. Does it seem like she is being short with you? Why might that be? Rather than assuming that she is a mean or bad person, consider that perhaps she had a tough day at work, or other people were rude to her before., Studies show that spending money on others makes us happier, even more so than spending money on ourselves.This is the idea of "paying it forward" – doing kind acts for others who (in theory) go out and do kind acts for others still.


Examples of random acts of kindness include paying for the people behind you in line at the movies, buying a warm meal or blanket for a homeless person, or cleaning your parents’ house.

