 Think about how big you want your sign to be. This can be only in theory or it can be based on some materials you have already purchased. Once you know the size, think about how much space needs to be around the text. Then divide up that space to determine how big your letters will be.;
, You can, of course, use the fonts that come with programs like Microsoft word if you want to, but many look very cliche after so many years of being the most accessible fonts. If you want to find more original fonts to use, download some new ones.


If you're making this sign for a business, it may be a good idea to pay for some especially nice fonts.
If you're wanting to get fonts for free, there are a number of resources on the web. The easiest will probably be the website DeviantArt.
If you decide to have your sign made professionally, you will want to let them pick out the fonts, as they will probably not have access to the fonts that you find, though you can certainly discuss that with them.
 Once you've got your fonts installed (usually all you need to do is put them in the Fonts folder), you can start designing your sign. A program like Photoshop would be the most preferable, but you can also use programs like Microsoft Publisher or even Microsoft Word.
 Type out your text and set the font to the right size, so that when it prints out it will be the exact size that you want on your sign. You'll probably need to do some test printing, and if you're doing a very large sign, you might need to print out only one letter per page.
 Print the text out onto regular paper first. You will have several options after that.
 This printed text will be used as a stencil. Now, how you turn this text into a stencil is entirely up to you. Some methods may be easier or harder for different people. Your main options are to keep the paper as it is, to cut the letters out, or to trace them onto something more sturdy and turn that into a stencil.


If you leave the paper as it is, you have two roads you can take. You can cover the backside in chalk and then draw the outline of the letters onto you final surface, giving you an outline, or you can get some carbon paper from your local office supply or art store and transfer the outline of the letters that way.
If you cut out the letters you will simply use them as a stencil just like that. However, the paper may be too flimsy. You'll have to experiment and find out if this works for you.
Trace the outline of the letters with the paper on a piece of cardboard. This will emboss the outline on the cardboard. Redrawn the lines on the cardboard so that they are clean and then cut the letters out using an x-acto knife.
 Once you know what your text should look like, you'll need to create a physical sign to put it on to. Read the methods below for a sign which requires minimal skills and tools (Chalkboard, which can be made permanent), beginner skills and tools (wood board), or intermediate skills and tools (wood-carved).

