 Itching is commonly caused by skin irritations due to dog food allergies or intolerances. Regular, commercial dog food is full of food additives like preservatives, by-products, and food coloring, as well as cheap ingredients like low quality meat, corn, rice and soy. Look for minimally processed dog food with few or no chemical additives and fillers., As an alternative to commercial dog foods, try feeding your dog whole foods to improve its health. Be sure to maintain an omnivorous diet for your dog, and be careful with raw foods, which are safe for dogs to eat but can spread harmful bacteria to you. Try feeding your dog whole foods that offer a lot of nutritional value, such as:Canned fish (e.g. sardines), for omega-3 fatty acids
Eggs, which provide high quality protein and fat
Leafy greens

, Start introducing new kinds of food to your dog’s diet by adding portions to its regular kibble. Reduce the amount of kibble you add to accommodate the new foods that you’re adding. As a regular addition to a regular kibble diet, or as a start to an entirely new diet, new ingredients should make up approximately a quarter of your dog’s meals.For instance, you can start by feeding your dog 3/4 of its normal portion of kibble, and add as much new food as you omitted from the kibble (e.g.better quality dog food, or half a boiled egg, cut into pieces). Do so for 3-4 days while monitoring your dog for digestive upset, skin irritations, or changes in behavior. If no health issues occur, you can change the ratio of old to new food (e.g. 50/50), continue monitoring your dog for a few days, then alter the ratio again.
 If you suspect that your dog suffers from food allergies, consider using a home test for food sensitivities. Data collected from the saliva-based home test kits can isolate intolerances to specific foods such as corn, peanuts, salmon, and pork. Samples are usually mailed in and analyzed by a lab, and the results are sent to you.Nutriscan, for example, is a test which identifies food intolerances within 2-3 weeks after your sample is received by mail. The home test kit is available online at http://www.nutriscan.org/order/order-online.html for approximately $300.

