 Any organic and edible food-grade seeds would be perfect for sprouting. The soaking process opens up the hulls to activation the germination process, resulting in a nutritional snack that's not that different from the original seed, but loaded with nutrients.


Edible seeds like pumpkin, sunflower, and sesame are commonly-sprouted. They're quick-working and delicious as a highly-nutritious snack.
Vegetable seeds like clover, alfalfa, radish, cabbage, fenugreek, or kale make soft and tender sprouts loaded with micronutrients. These are the kind of sprouts most commonly served on sandwiches, small and light wisps of vegetable.
 Measure the seeds into your sprouting jar and then cover them with cool filtered water, covering them by about an inch or so. If the seeds are particularly dusty, or covered in other sediment, give them a rinse first before adding the water.


Let soak for 4 hours at room temperature. Leaving them directly on the counter top in your kitchen is fine. Then drain the water thoroughly and let the seeds start sprouting., After you've drained the water off, do nothing for about a day. The seeds will start activating as if they were preparing to grow, and you'll be well on your way to producing sprouts. After a day, they're ready to eat!


After a day, remove the seeds from the jar and lay them out on a paper towel to dry thoroughly. Return them to a bowl or other container and keep them in the refrigerator. They should be good for several days, and ready to eat.
Sesame seeds, in general, become quite bitter if left for longer than six hours. Try to catch them ahead of time, then dry them thoroughly.
 Vegetable seeds will take a little longer to fully sprout to their desired length, as long as 5 or six days. While they're edible at any stage in the process, the resulting sprouts will usually be more tender and nutritious after a few days. Maintain regular rinsing and thorough drying, preferably storing the jar upside down so excess moisture can drain out and keep the sprouts fresh.


Use your eyes and nose to check on the freshness of vegetable sprouts. They'll start to turn brown and smell slightly chlorinated when they turn.
 Nuts like almonds, hazelnuts, and other oilseeds are commonly soaked for a few hours to "activate" their enzymes and make them more nutritious.The nutritional benefit of soaking nuts to activate the germination before eating them is somewhat unconfirmed, but if you're interested in trying, it's an easy project.


Only raw nuts will benefit from soaking. This will not work with roasted nuts.

