 Cutting your hair, updating your makeup, trying out a new wardrobe are all ways that you can reinvent yourself. If you're making a change in your life, try changing your appearance to fit the new you.Most of us need a new look every five years or so. The clothes that you wore in high school might be outdated in college. If you're a young professional, it's time to trade in your college duds for more professional outfits.
Look around at pictures of people who are living the life you'd like to be living to get some ideas of changes you can make in your own look.
Even though hair, makeup and clothing might seem to be a superficial approach to changing who you are, these things reflect your idea of yourself. The way you appear to be affects the way you are treated by the world, and the way you think of yourself.
 Many people find themselves stuck in a rut of wearing the same colors again and again. If you've been wearing an all-black wardrobe since you were a teen, it's time to add some color. Adding new colors to your outfits creates a whole new look.Get rid of any clothes you no longer want to wear. Going through your closet and donating the old clothes to charity will make space for your new self.
Don't forget about accessories. Adding new belts, scarves, and jewelry to old outfits can update them and make them new for you.
 Nothing makes a statement about your new change more than changing your hair. Whether you dye it, cut it, add extensions, or shave it off, making a dramatic change in your hairstyle will have an impact on your appearance.The right hairstyle can make you appear thinner, younger, and healthier.
Try getting a hairstyle you've never considered before, and find out how it affects who you are.
 If you're changing who you are, you'll want to develop a new basic wardrobe. If you have a clear idea of who you want to be, make sure that everything in your wardrobe backs up this basic look.Have at least 10 pieces of clothing that fit your new style, and make sure they all go together.
These 10 pieces of clothes will be different for every person. An investment banker's core essentials will look different from a Soho artist's essentials. Pick the clothing that's right for your new look.
 Getting a new tattoo or piercing doesn't have to be a rebellious act. Instead, this might be a good way for you to establish that you're changing who you are. What tattoo might symbolize this for you? People often use symbols like a butterfly, mermaid, or other abstract symbols to recognize their transformation.Make sure you go to clean, professional tattoo and piercing locations.
Realize that any tattoo is permanent. Before committing, make sure it's something you want to keep forever.

