 Many publishers such as Travel Guide, Teach Yourself, and Assimil offer an array of phrase books, textbooks, tapes, CDs, and other learning materials to get you started learning Punjabi. Do your homework on what's available and invest in what works for you.


Don't forget a dictionary. A dictionary can help you when your language materials are short on expressions, words, or other language tid bits. In general, dictionaries may be difficult to find because Punjabi is not as common a language to learn as say Italian, Hindi, or Chinese, but they do exist if you know where to look/shop. Try Amazon.com;
, Many people feel more confident being taught their target language by a native speaker. If you have access to a local Indian community, ask around and check out their community centres and Sikh temples regarding available classes and tutors. Verbalplanet.com has available Punjabi tutors you can Skype at times that suit your lifestyle.
 Language and culture are inseparable elements; you need to know both in order to understand the nuances of the people behind the language, and language behind the people. Attend Sikh religious and cultural events, shop at Punjabi stores, eat Punjabi cuisine, make Punjabi-speaking friends, etc.
 This is important for getting a feel for the ebb and flow of the language. Listen to as much of the language as you can---eavesdrop on conversations, listen to Punjabi music and radio programs, watch Punjabi television. You don't have to understand a single word, just absorb the language like a baby.
 Presuming that you're studying outside India or Pakistan, the Punjabi diaspora is a very literate one rich in community newspapers, bilingual signage, and small libraries filled with books for both children and adults. Learn how to read Punjabi and then start reading whatever you can get your hands on, first for pronunciation and later for comprehension. Reading opens your doors into new culture and new thinking, it builds vocabulary and language skills, and it teaches you how native speakers use their own language naturally and creatively.


Punjabi uses any one of three writing systems: Gurmukhī, Shahmukhī, and Devanagari. Gurmukhi is the official script used in India's Punjab state as well as both the most commonly used script in the Punjabi diaspora and the script in which the Sikh holy scriptures are written in. Shahmukhi is an Arabic-based script and is used officially in Pakistan and among Punjabi-speaking Muslims. Devanagari is used by Punjabi-speaking Hindus and is the same script used in writing Hindi and Sanskrit.
 Try not to be intimidated if your grammar is broken, your vocabulary is limited, or your comprehension is poor. It will come with time and practice. People learn best from their mistakes and native speakers will be more than happy to correct you.

