 There is a saying that goes, “Always be extra nice to your enemies. Nothing annoys them more.” Try to be as polite as possible in class, and don't take the bait if your teacher tries to get a rise out of you.Eventually, this may wear them down and they'll start treating you like one of their favorites.
And if not – well, it will really annoy them that you don't seem to be upset by them anymore.
 Pay special attention to the kids that the teacher treats best. Try to act like they do, and use the same tone of voice. If you find yourself in an uncomfortable situation, ask yourself, “How would (your teacher's favorite) handle this? What would they probably say?”, The number one pet peeve of most teachers is being ignored in class. Think how it would feel if you read a report in class, and the kids started talking to each other like you weren't there – no fun, right?


Pretend you're taking notes. Work on homework for a different class, write a poem or story, or make “to-do” lists.
Avoid drawing or doodling, because most teachers can see that it isn't writing from across the room.
 If you're too shy to hand it to your teacher, leave it on their desk at the end of the day with a little note just saying the gift is from you and you hope they enjoy it.


If you get juice or a candy bar between classes, buy two and bring one to your teacher.
Pay attention to which topics your teacher seems to be most excited about, then print out a funny or interesting article about it.
Bake cookies or brownies, and wrap up a few little bundles of 2-3 cookies each. Hand them out to all your friends and teachers. This way it won't look like you specifically brought them to kiss up to your annoying teacher.
 If on assignment they give numbers 1-20 plus a bonus problem, always answer the bonus question. If your grades aren't the best, ask if you can do an additional project to improve your grade. Your teacher will be impressed by your initiative, and may treat you better as well.
 Although it's difficult to get past your own feelings sometimes, it's important to see if there is anything you can change. Are you late all the time? Do you forget to do your homework? Do you interrupt her when she is giving a lecture? Correct your behavior and your teacher will probably treat you better., If your teacher keeps calling on you and embarrassing you with difficult questions, try rephrasing the question before you answer it. She may not realize you don't understand the material – she might just think you haven't been doing the work.

