 Good student discounts reward you for doing well in school. The assumption is that a driver who performs well in school is more responsible, more cautious, and less likely to get into an accident. Not all insurers offer good student discounts, so it may be worth shopping around for a provider that does offer it. Though requirements may vary depending on the insurer you choose, you can generally qualify for this discount if you:


are under 25 years of age
are enrolled as a full-time student in high school or college
have maintained a B average or higher (3.0 grade point average), or maintained a place on your school's honor roll or dean's list
are otherwise able to prove good grades, either by a report card or a letter signed by an academic administrator;
, Some insurers offer resident student discounts, also called distant student discounts. These rate discounts are generally available if you are a student attending college over 100 miles from your parents' home and will not be driving while you are away at school.Though not convenient for students hoping to drive while away at school, it can be very useful for some students.
If you are attending school in a big metropolitan area like New York City (and won't need a car there because of public transit options), a resident student discount can maintain your coverage so that you're insured to drive when you're back home during school breaks or on vacation.
 This discount is similar to the resident student discount, only it applies to students who leave their cars behind at their parents' home. It's also called an "occasional/pleasure-only driver discount," and it basically offers you coverage only while you are visiting/staying with your parents.If you don't own your own car and share a vehicle with your parents, you may also qualify for occasional driver discounts.Ask an insurer you're considering about this (and other) discounts, or talk to a representative from your state's Department of Insurance.
 Because car insurance premiums tend to be high for younger drivers, you might be better off joining your parents' policy (if you're eligible to).This can help save you money while ensuring that your car is covered with the best policy for your family. You can generally remain on your parents' policy if one or more of the following applies to your situation:


the title for your vehicle is not in your name, or you do not have a title for the vehicle
you live with your parents in their home
you maintain your parents' address as your primary residence (on your driver's license, etc.) while enrolled as a full-time college student, If you're thinking about going with a new company that neither you nor your parents have ever been insured with, it's best to do your homework. Many insurance companies offer subpar coverage, or make it difficult for you to collect on an insurance claim, so it's important that you research the company so you know what to expect.Check with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners for the company you're considering. You can find your state's information by clicking on their interactive map at http://www.naic.org/state_web_map.htm.
You can also check an insurance company by directly visiting your state's Department of Insurance. Search online for a link to your state's insurance office website and look up claims/complaints against each insurer you're considering.
 It's important to know the minimum required coverage in your state. Each state determines the minimum required coverage for residents of that state, so there may be a good deal of variance from one state to the next.


Most insurance coverage includes liability, personal injury, comprehensive and collision, medical payments, and uninsured/underinsured drivers. Some states may require additional coverage.If you're going to college out of state, you may be required to meet that state's minimum requirements, either in addition to or instead of your home state's requirements.
To find out what you're required to have in your state, contact your state's Department of Insurance.
 There are three primary types of insurers available to drivers: captive agents, brokers, and direct providers. Though you'll probably need to focus more on coverage and costs as a college student, some drivers do have preferences with regards to what type of insurer they work with, and some providers are more capable of saving you money or getting you a customized policy that works best for you.Captive agents - these agents develop a more personal relationship with customers. They come to know your specific situation, recommend policies that might work best for you, and provide a personal touch when it comes to professional interactions.
Brokers - brokers tend to work with a number of insurance organizations, and therefore are less likely to have any bias in which insurer you sign up with. Brokers can be helpful at finding the best policy and insurer to fit your needs without any company loyalty.
Direct providers - direct providers reduce or eliminate the fees you would otherwise pay for a middleman (agent or broker), and instead work with you through the internet, the telephone, or through the US Postal Service.
 There are a number of ways to compare rates once you've narrowed down the list of potential insurers. You can submit your information individually to insurance companies (usually through their websites) for a rate quote, or you can use a website that publishes quotes from many providers and input your information to be applied to all possible insurers.Compare rates from at least three different insurance companies. If you can compare more companies (and their policies) than that, even better.Some insurers will give you an instant quote, while others will put you in touch with an agent in your region or otherwise contact you with a quote.
If any agents call you to give you a quote, ask them for written documentation that backs up the quotes you were offered over the phone.
Don't go by discounts alone. You should also look at the rates that are being discounted to get a better sense of what that insurer typically charges.
If you're having a hard time comparing policy rates, contact your state's Department of Insurance for assistance.
 The deductible on your insurance policy is the amount of money you would have to pay out of pocket for repairs before your insurer pays the rest of your claim's expenses. Your premium, on the other hand, is the amount you pay every month to maintain your coverage. A good way to save money is to adjust your deductible in relation to your premium.Generally speaking, your deductible and your premium are inversely proportional. A higher deductible means lower monthly premiums, while a high premium means a lower deductible.
Unless you foresee a need for frequent repairs, your premium (which you pay each month) is what will rack up the most expenses.
Many drivers find it worthwhile to agree to a higher deductible (which you'll only need to pay in case of an accident or damage) in exchange for lower monthly premiums.
 Depending on whom you're insured with, there may be other discount options available based on the car you're currently driving.Common options for auto insurance discounts include:


having anti-theft devices (like an alarm system) that deter potential car thieves
having anti-lock brakes
driving a car that has running daytime lights
having safety features like air bags and motorized seat belts
owning a newer vehicle (within a predetermined number of years, set by the insurer)
driving a hybrid or alternative-fuel ("green") vehicle

, In addition to discounts based on your car's safety features, you may be eligible for additional discounts based on your driving record, insurance history, and personal history.Ask the insurers you're evaluating if you would be eligible for a discount based on:


bundling your auto insurance with other policies (home insurance, renters insurance, etc.)
having a clean driving record
taking defensive driving courses
keeping your mileage low
being a member of the military
paying your premium up front, all at once
staying with a single insurer for a long period of time (often called a loyalty discount)

, Some smaller insurance companies might only operate out of a select region. However, depending on where you live, you may be eligible for an insurance policy from other agencies outside your town or county.


In some states, like Michigan, you do not have to reside in the area where a given agent is located to sign up for a policy from that agent. You only have to be a resident of that state.Check with your state's Department of Insurance to see what the residency restrictions for insurance are in your region.
If you're able to sign up with an insurer from a larger region (like a metropolitan area), you might be able to get a better deal there. Insurance companies typically compete against one another to offer the lowest rates for the best coverage, and where there are more people there's likely to be more competition.

