 If there is any paper still sticking to it, carefully tear it off. You should have a bare toilet paper roll now.;
, Put a small glue dot, and then place one cotton ball on it. Cover your entire toilet paper roll. Let the glue dry completely before you begin the next step.
 This part is a bit tricky! Let the glue dry completely before you begin the next step.
 This is quite tricky, so you need to be careful! Let the glue dry completely before you begin the next step.
 Then, cut out a skinny rectangle that is 3 inches (7.6 cm) by 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm).
 Center the skinny rectangle so you have 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) sticking out from either side of the fat rectangle. Glue the skinny rectangle to the fat rectangle in this shape. It should look like a top hat. Let the glue dry before you begin the next step.
 Glue it on the fat rectangle so it fits above (not on top of) the skinny rectangle on the hat. Let the glue dry before you begin the next step.
 It can go on the cotton balls. Let the glue dry before you begin the next step.
 Place them a little under the top hat. These are the eyes. If you do not have googly eyes, small black construction paper circles will work. Let the glue dry before you begin the next step.
 Make it about 1 inch (2.5 cm) long and 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) wide. Put a small line of glue on the back of the triangle, and place it on the cotton balls, the short end centered beneath the eyes, and the point going horizontally. Let the glue dry before you begin the next step.
 Make them the same size as the googly-eyes. Place them in a semi-circle beneath the nose for a smiley face! Let the glue dry before you being the next step.
 The arms should be no more than 2 1⁄2 inches (6.4 cm) long.
 Stick a small dot of glue to the back of it, and the connect the arm to the side of the middle part of the body. Do the same for the other arm. Let the glue dry completely before beginning the next step.
 Put a small dot of glue on each of them, and put them in a vertical row on the middle part of the body, centered between the eyes. Let the glue dry completely before beginning the next step.
 Put on end on one side, and put the other end across from the first end. The ribbon should be about six (6) inches long.
