 Asphyxiation by CO2 is the only method approved by the American Veterinary Medical Association which uses common household materials.These guidelines are meant for vets not ordinary people, so think about whether you are qualified to carry this out without causing undue pain and suffering for the rodent.It is not easy or straight-forward, but when done well it is the most humane.
As a rule, it is best to take the rodent to your vet.;
, This method involves mixing baking soda with white vinegar to create the gas that will asphyxiate the rodent. As well as the vinegar and baking soda, you will need to prepare a sealable plastic container, a sealable plastic bag, a hose to connect the two, and a separate container to mix the vinegar and baking soda, such as a glass or jug.


Fasteners, ties and clothes will be needed to secure the different containers.
The plastic container is the euthanasia chamber for the rodent
The plastic bag is the CO2 chamber where the gas is produced.
 Put the baking soda into the bottom of the bag, and then place the separate container with the vinegar into the bag, without spilling it. When you combine the baking soda and vinegar later, the reaction produces the gas carbon dioxide (CO2), which the rodent can't breathe.


The ratio of vinegar to baking soda will vary by the size of the container you are using.Getting the correct concentration of CO2 is key to its humaneness. You want to create a 30%-40% concentration of CO2 in the euthanasia container to cause the rodent to lose consciousness., Taking care when you handle the rodent, place it into the airtight plastic container. Tupperware containers work well. Adding some nesting material can make it a little more comfortable and perhaps put the rodent somewhat more at ease.
 Affix the hose to the top of the bag, and secure it with a rubber band or tie and then put the other end in the plastic container with the rodent. Use a cloth or towel to block of the area around where the hose enters the container to make it airtight.
 Once it is all secured you should begin carefully pouring the white vinegar over the baking soda, to create the CO2 which will then travel through the short hose to the plastic container. Pour around half of the vinegar, and then observe the rodent. The rodent should quickly pass out and die. Once it becomes unresponsive, pour the rest of vinegar over.


Carbon dioxide exposure that uses a gradual fill method like this is less likely to cause pain.