 These usually last from one week to three months, and almost everyone is invited to apply. These positions often charge a fee for the trip.Short-term programs usually attack one specific project, so you will get to see the results of your labors when you leave.;
, Consider your background and education, and the sort of things you enjoy doing. Choose a program that matches your particular skills and abilities.


Earthwatch organizes scientific expeditions to help scientists collect measurements and other vital data.United Planet has programs in Peru involving healthcare and childcare.
Organizations such as EarthWatch and GVI (Global Vision International) offer opportunities to connect with nature.
Many programs offer experience teaching English as a second language. Some programs require a college degree or teaching experience; others will allow any native speaker to teach.
In the aftermath of a natural disaster, volunteer organizations like the Red Cross and Relief International send workers to help rebuild communities.
Because of the nature of these assignments, the work can be extremely stressful and emotionally taxing.
WIDECAST has programs in Latin America involving environmental conservation, farming, and monitoring endangered sea turtles.
 Most short-term overseas volunteer programs charge a fee to cover administrative costs, food, lodging, and ground transportation. The costs of different programs can vary greatly. For example:The WIDECAST Latin America Program charges $315 for one week, or $430 for two weeks. This covers your in-country costs and training.
Global Volunteer Network has programs starting at $797 for two weeks, plus a $350 application fee. This covers Spanish lessons, internet access, airport pick-up, food, and lodging.
The Costa Rica projects at i-to-i will cost you $1,299 for two weeks. This covers food, lodging, airport shuttle, orientation, and training.
 Nearly all programs require you to pay for your own airfare. How much this costs depends on where you live, and where you are going. For example, airfare from the US to Australia will run about $1,500; airfare from the US to Costa Rica will cost $500-700., If you are applying to a program that allows you to bring your children, you'll need to arrange the trip to fit in with your kids' summer or winter breaks. A number of programs will allow you to bring your children for an additional fee.International Volunteer HQ allows children under 18 to volunteer when accompanied by their legal guardian. Children under 15 are allowed to join programs with in-home (non-communal) accommodations.
 If you are having trouble finding the right overseas volunteer program, sign up with a recruitment or placement agency. You tell them what kind of work you want to do, and where you want to go, and they will find a good fit for you.These agencies almost always charge a fee.
Because they are not directly affiliated with the organizations they work with, they may not know much about the work you'll be doing.
 Do you agree with their philosophies and overall objectives? How effective are their volunteer projects in making real changes?Ask to talk to other volunteers. Do they feel the project is making a difference? Does the organization treat its workers well?

