 You can use this exercise to help you generate content for your new poem. This exercise is ideal for the challenge of writing a new poem a day as it is quick to do and can yield some interesting results.Alliteration is a literary device where words in close proximity to each other start with or contain the same consonant sound. For example, “a pretty picture” or “a scary scene.”
Assonance is a literary device where words in close proximity to each other have a similar vowel sound. For example, “a bent pen” or “a wise guise”.
Make a list of word pairs and phrases that include alliteration or assonance. For example, you may have one word pair that includes alliteration, such as “a pig pen”, and one word pair that includes assonance, such as “a wise guise.” Come up with ten word pairs that contain alliteration and ten word pairs that contain assonance.
Use these word pairs to create a poem. Play with the ordering of the word pairs and try to place them in an order that create an interesting image or an interesting series of sounds when read out loud.
 Choose a theme or idea that interests you, such as “birth”, “grief” or “friendship.” You can then do a writing exercise where you take two common literary devices, metaphors and similes, and center them around the theme or idea. Make a list of metaphors and similes that focus on the theme or idea. Then, order them to form a poem.Metaphors compare one object or subject with another object or subject. For example, “My love is an empty field.”
Similes use “like” or “as” to compare on object or subject to another. For example, “She was as fierce as a tiger on the hunt.”
For example, you may decide to do this writing exercise around the theme of “grief.” You will them make a list of metaphors and similes that focus on “grief.” Write a poem using this list and avoid naming the theme in the poem. The resulting poem should be ambiguous and intriguing for your reader.
 Look to the writing of others to motivate yourself to write a new poem once a day. You may find inspiration in the poems of your favorite poet or you may read published poems written about a certain theme or idea that you find fascinating. Try to expose yourself to the writing of others and use their work as a model for your own writing.For example, you may look up poems written in a certain poetic form, such as the sonnets of Shakespeare or the free verse poetry of Walt Whitman. You could then use their approach in your writing exercises as a model for your own sonnets or free verse poetry.
 As a fun writing exercise, you may also try writing a poem about a song or a movie. You may select your favorite song as inspiration for a new poem or a movie you saw recently. Consider how the song or movie touched you as a viewer and channel these emotions in your poems.For example, you may be inspired by a contemporary movie and write a poem from the perspective of one of the characters in the movie. You may use dialogue from the movie in your poem and describe a scene in the movie.
 You can also come up with new poems by playing around with different poetic forms. You may do a writing exercise where you tackle a new poetic form each day, resulting in a new poem. This may help you feel inspired and challenged as a poet.For example, perhaps you want to try writing a short poem once a day. You may try the haiku form, the cinquain form, or make a short shape poem.
You may also challenge yourself by writing a poem using a more complex poetic form, such as the sonnet form or the villanelle form.

