 You will need to choose a program which allows you to create "Tables" and enter desired information. Some common computer programs which serve this function great are Microsoft Word (and its derivatives), Print Shop, and Google Docs. The first two are traditionally found on PC computers. If you have a Mac, you should look into getting Google Docs or other online word processing programs., There should be a button that says "Create," "New Document," or some variation of those two. If it does not, go to "File." Some variation of those terms should be listed there. You will then add a table to this new blank word document. First click "Insert," and then "Table" from the drop-down menu. A blank standard table should appear on your word document., Depending on how large/small you want your bingo card to be will determine how you shift the table. After the standard table appears on your blank document, a dialog-box should appear on your screen. Enter in the number of columns you want heightwise, and the number of rows lengthwise. You can then click and drag the sides of the table card to give you more space to write in words., Click on one square at a time. Write in one term in each square. Terms may be words, letters, symbols and/or clipart. You may also wish to include a "Free Space" on the card. You can place it anywhere (traditionally placed in the middle) and title it whatever you like., Click on "File" then "Print" from the drop-down menu. Change the setting of your printer to "Landscape Style." The bingo card should be printed on heavy card stock rather than plain printer paper. Make sure this bingo card is only printed once, as you will change the words around in later steps., Go back to the original table and change around the terms. Click and highlight a term. Click either "Cut" or "Copy." Transfer the term to another box. Use your already printed card to make sure the term does not appear in the same box., Continue changing the order and printing until you have enough cards for each of the players. You may wish to print a few extra cards just in case you lose a card, or you have more players than expected. Look into getting the cards laminated as well at companies such as FedEx, UPS, or your local printing shop. This will increase the durability of your cards.