 Although U.S. law doesn't require airlines to compensate travelers for canceled domestic flights, you may be entitled to compensation for international flights.For example, Article 19 of an international treaty called the Warsaw Convention requires airlines to compensate passengers for any direct costs caused by a delay or cancellation, such as transportation, food, and accommodations.
The European Union also has regulations regarding airline compensation for cancelled flights, provided the cancellation was due to something within the carrier's flight such as overbooking.;
, Even if compensation isn't required by law, many airlines have their own corporate policies allowing some manner of compensation for canceled flights.Keep in mind that full-service airlines are more likely to offer compensation for canceled flights than their no-frills, budget counterparts.
Typically, the airline will offer to rebook you on the next available flight. However, this may cause complications if the flight doesn't leave for several hours or even days after the flight on which you were initially scheduled – particularly if you have an appointment at your destination or need to catch a connecting flight.
Some airlines have a policy of reimbursing you for expenses you incurred for food or lodging as a result of a flight cancellation, but you must submit receipts and other information to the airline after the fact.
 You should be able to find a phone number or website for customer service issues on your purchase confirmation, ticket, or boarding pass.


You may get a more favorable response from the customer service line than you do from the employee at the ticket counter in the airport. That employee has to deal with potentially every person on your flight, while the customer service representative likely is working under less stressful conditions.
Use facts to back up your argument that the canceled flight is more than a mere inconvenience for you, but avoid exaggerating or making something up to make your situation sound more dire.
Keep in mind that if the airline does agree to compensate you, it likely will ask for proof of whatever loss you claim to have suffered.
Take detailed notes during your phone call, including the date and time of your call and the names of any representatives with whom you speak.
 Conducting your negotiations in writing provides you with proof of any promises that are made on the airline's behalf.


If you are offered compensation by a telephone representative, write a letter as soon as possible detailing the conversation and the compensation offered. Include copies of any documents, receipts, or other information you were told to provide.
Many airlines such as United also will provide a verification letter for you upon your request, which you can use as proof your flight was canceled.This letter may help you mitigate damages suffered as a result of any appointments or reservations you have to postpone or change as a result of your canceled flight.
 Even if the airline has no corporate policy or legal requirement to compensate you for a canceled flight, persistence can pay off.


If a reasonable amount of time has passed and the airline has refused your request for compensation or hasn't responded, look for the name of a director or manager to whom you can direct your future correspondence.
You might also consider filing a complaint with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). Since U.S. law doesn't require airline compensation for canceled flights, this likely won't get you much further, but the complaint will be passed on to the airline.To record a complaint about airline service with the DOT, you can call 202-366-2220. A DOT agent will return your call during regular business hours. You also can use the DOT's web form or write a letter and send it to Aviation Consumer Protection Division, C-75, U.S. Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Ave, S.E., Washington, DC 20590.

