 Is your goal to sway the other person to change their vote? Is it to illuminate them about issues they might have missed? Or do you simply think they are wrong, and you are right? If you really want to change someone's mind, then yelling and arguing will simply separate you more. People change their minds when they feel respected and heard -- not when they feel attacked.


Presumably, you believe a political stance because you think it will make the whole country better-- including for your friend/partner. Never forget that your goals are the same, even if the political methods you support aren't., Your favorite politician, more often than not, spends a lot of time bashing on their opponents. Attacks on screen are a great way to rile up supporters, but they don't point to the whole truth. Those same politicians must work together, and likely spend more time finding common ground than fighting. Don't forget that Hillary Clinton attended Donald Trump's wedding,or that climate change denier Jim Inhofe is best friends with the progressive Bernie Sanders.If "mortal enemy" politicians can put their work behind them to keep friendships alive, you can too.
The angry rhetoric on TV is used to get votes, not build relationships or accomplish goals. Remember this before replicating it.
 A great way to avoid debates without avoiding politics completely is to become more inquisitive. Instead of always saying your view, your points, and your evidence, just ask questions. This can skillfully turn a budding fight at the dinner table into a more reasonable discussion.


"What do you think we can do about _____ problem?"
"I haven't had time to look at all the politicians this election. Why do you support ________?"
"I've never heard that argument for _____. Could you explain it a little more?", The voting booths close up for a reason. Your vote is yours and yours alone, and there is no reason why you need to tell anyone if you don't want to argue. The best way to avoid letting politics ruin a relationship? Don't bring up politics.


There may be certain issues that you feel deeply about and need to share, but that doesn't mean every view you have needs to be validated by others.
Think about what you actually "gain" by sharing your political views with everyone. Are you looking for an argument, looking to meet other supports to share ideas with, or are you accidentally distancing yourself from friends who might not agree?

, The internet is rarely the place for civilized talks or arguments, as it is almost impossible for confusion and anger. Because you can't actually show your face, or use your tone of voice to control your points, it is incredibly easy for someone to read your comments with more anger than you intended. Furthermore, studies show that humans are much more likely to be mean or cruel when they can't see the other person's face, leading to arguments online that ruin friendship in real life., If you feel extremely strongly about something, you don't have to hide it. You simply need to judge if that belief is central enough that you couldn't live with or be friends with someone who has it. This bar is usually very high, as it should be -- politics are just a small part of each person's personality. However, if you know you will always fight and argue, and never agree, then you should know this about yourself.


For example, a gay man might struggle to maintain relationships with people who disagree with gay marriage, and vice versa. While some people might put this disagreement past them, you cannot fault someone for sticking to their convictions, either.