 This type of hernia protrudes from the abdominal area into the groin area. It is one of the most common types of hernias and demands immediate attention.


In girls, inguinal hernias occur when a piece of the intestine, abdominal membrane, or a part of the ovary or fallopian protrudes into the groin area.
In boys, inguinal hernias occur when a piece of the intestine or abdominal membrane protrudes into the groin area.
Inguinal hernias affect boys much more than girls.
Groups at high risk are infants with undescended testicles and children with cystic fibrosis., The symptoms of inguinal hernias vary from that of other hernias. Without paying attention, and looking for the unique signs of an inguinal hernia, the problem may go undiagnosed until the condition worsens.


Inguinal hernias commonly appear as a bulge in the groin or scrotum, that may develop over several months.
Inguinal hernias may appear and disappear depending on the child's physical activity or position.
Bulges are often painless, but can occasionally become very painful. Any pain should be evaluated right away.
The child may experience a burning feeling around the hernia.
A child might suffer from nausea and vomiting, a symptom which indicates that the hernia needs immediate medical attention.
Inguinal hernias tend to appear on the right side., The clear majority of inguinal hernias are treated surgically. Without surgical intervention, a child’s condition can deteriorate and even become life-threatening.


The child should not eat for at least six hours before surgery.
The surgeon will move the protrusion back into position. Most often, this means moving the intestines back behind the abdominal muscle wall.
The surgeon will place stitches to lessen the chance of future hernias., After care is essential in making sure children recover quickly from surgery to treat inguinal hernias. There are a number of things to consider when doing so:


Many children will be discharged from the hospital several hours after surgery. However, infants and children with other medical conditions might stay a night or two.
Avoid pulling any tape (steri-strips) off the site of incision. They will fall off on their own, or your physician will remove them between 1 and 2 weeks after surgery.
Keep the site of incision clean and dry.
Follow all of the instructions of your physician.
Watch the site of incision for signs of bleeding or infection. If you notice any signs, contact your physician.