 Bring the right edge to meet the left edge.


The width will be halved while the height will remain unchanged.
 Bring the upper left corner diagonally down and to the right so that the edge of the folded triangle is flush to the edge of the main body. Fold the lower right corner diagonally up and to the left in the same manner.


Crease well, then unfold.
 Bring the upper right corner diagonally down and to the left and the lower left corner diagonally up and to the right.


The edges of both triangles should be flush to the edge of the main body of the note.
Crease well before unfolding.
 Bring the top edge down so that it meets with the bottom of the upper crease marks made by your triangle folds. Do likewise with the bottom edge by bringing it up to meet its corresponding crease marks.
 Push in on each corner, reversing its direction so that the corner is tucked in between the top and bottom layers of the note.


From the front, the resulting shape should look like a short rectangle with a triangle on the top and triangle on the bottom.
When viewed from the bottom of the fold, each tucked corner should form an "M" shape.
 From the back of the paper, fold the bottom triangle in and up.


The base of the triangle should line up with the new bottom of the paper.
 From the back, bring the point of the upper triangle down so that it meets the base of the lower triangle.


Crease well and unfold temporarily.
Note that the base of the upper triangle does not need to line up with the top of the paper. It is more important that the point of the upper triangle meets the base of the lower triangle.
 Take the top layer of the bottom right corner and fold it up so that it meets the point of the bottom triangle. Repeat with the bottom left corner.
 Repeat the fold needed to overlap the top and bottom triangles. Fold the top layer of the right and left corners down to meet the tip of the upper triangle.
 You will need to create a horizontal crease across the left and right sides of the newly-created top diamond.


Take the bottom tip of the left half of the newly-created top diamond. Bend the tip inward, toward the top tip of the diamond. Crease well before unfolding it back into its previous shape.
Repeat with the right half.
 Bring the right half of the bottom diamond out so that it crosses the base layer of the paper but rests behind the right half of the top diamond.


Repeat with the left half of the bottom diamond so that it rests beneath the left half of the top diamond.
 This action will create a secure diamond on the front.


Carefully unfold the right flap. Fold the right flap in the opposite direction, tucking it into the top-most pocket.
Repeat this action with the left flap.
 Turn the note over to the back and fold the right vertical edge to the left. Fold the left vertical edge to the right.


Only fold the edges as far as they will go comfortably and withing ripping.
The left side should slightly overlap the right.
 Slip the points of the left side into the corners of the right side to secure the shape. Turn the note over to the front once more.


This completes the diamond note fold.

