 Stand up straight and tall. Even if you don’t feel confident, you can fake it. No one will be able to tell the difference, and pretty soon, you will start feeling more confident, too!


Use confident body language. Shake hands, smile, and avoid fidgeting or playing with your hair, which makes you appear uncomfortable.Make eye contact. Look at the person you are talking to. You do not need to stare at them intently (to do so would be rather off-putting to the other person). It’s okay to break eye contact every once in a while. But make sure you are primarily looking the person in the eyes, or at least looking somewhere on their face if direct eye contact makes you too uncomfortable.;
, Wear clothes you feel confident, comfortable, or sexy in. Wearing something that makes you feel and look good will give your self-confidence a little boost.Make sure you are dressed appropriately for the occasion. You will feel less confident if you are wearing the “wrong” clothing. If you are unsure what to wear to an event, check with a friend or colleague about what might be appropriate.
Learn more about dress codes and what you might be expected to wear for certain events. For example, jeans and a cute top are appropriate for a casual party, a party dress might work for a more formal social event, and understand your employer’s dress code to make sure what you wear to work fits within its parameters. You’ll feel more confident if your look “fits” the vibe of the environment.
You could ask, “Do you know what the dress code is for this event? What are you going to be wearing?”

, Don’t pretend to be someone you’re not just to be attractive to men. While you may need to “fake” being confident to understand how confidence feels, this doesn’t mean you should change other aspects of your personality just to attract someone to you. The men you want in your life will appreciate you for who you are, not someone you ought to be.Let your unique, interesting personality shine through. Are you funny? Show off your sense of humor! Are you involved in your community or a live music aficionado? Talk about your interests proudly. If someone doesn’t like you for you, they are not worth your time!
Stay relaxed when talking to men and don’t feel like you need to prove something. If you are having a difficult time, you could pretend that you are talking to your brother or cousin.
Smile your genuine, beautiful smile. It helps others find you more approachable, and it has the added bonus of decreasing your stress level, even if you are nervous!, Try not to be so hard on yourself. Realize that other people are probably not thinking about you or judging you nearly as much as you believe them to be.Keep a positive attitude. Don’t worry if you make a mistake or say something dumb. Laugh it off and move on. People are more attracted to others who convey confidence and who don’t seem concerned with what others think about them.
Consider the following scenario: Say you are at a party and you spill something all over yourself that leaves an obvious stain. What conveys more confidence, pointing out the mess and saying how clumsy you are, or laughing it off and forgetting about it? Staying positive and not beating yourself up will help you have more fun!
While alcohol and drugs can make you feel disinhibited, do not resort to using substances to make you feel this way., Take a look at confident women around your workplace or at a social event. They will radiate confidence throughout the room, and project a sense of feeling comfortable in their own skin. Watch what they do, and what makes them so at ease. Try to mimic their behavior.Remember, fake it ‘til you make it. Trying out new behaviors can feel uncomfortable and awkward for a while, but if you are consistent in your practice, you may soon feel like they’re a part of who you are.
Consider asking a friend whose confidence you admire what she does to make herself appear so confident. For example, you could say, “I’m always so impressed by how confident you appear in social situations. What’s your secret?”

, Eat well and exercise. Feeling healthy is a great confidence boost.Eating healthy can help you feel better about yourself, knowing that you are making good choices for your body. Sometimes the food we eat impacts our moods as well. Eating better may help you maintain a more elevated mood: reducing sugar consumption may help you avoid blood sugar crashes, for example.If you want to get in shape, it will give you more self-confidence to train for an event and accomplish something, rather than reach a number on a scale. Consider signing up for a race or a long-distance cycling event, for example. When you cross the finish line, you will feel proud of yourself for achieving something awesome!

, Don’t base your self-esteem on others’ opinion of you or on the things that you have. Don’t think more or less of yourself if you have a significant other or you don’t.Value the character of your heart over external factors that are easily taken away, like romantic relationships, or how much is in your bank account. Embrace your integrity, compassion, and generosity instead.
You may find volunteering, attending religious services, or meditation helpful to improve your self-worth.

