 You can look locally or online. Either way, your commodity broker should have experience selling on the corn market. They’ll be able to offer advice based on recent trends in corn futures.Look in trading magazines or the phone book to find a local broker. Many periodicals like Futures Magazine, Stocks and Commodities Magazine and Stocks, Futures and Options Magazine will contain advertisements for various firms around the country and the world.
Look online. Websites like commoditybrokersonline.com lists over 700 online reputable brokers and provides their contact information.
Make sure he is not a “high pressure” broker. You want someone who won’t push you beyond your comfort zone. Many brokers push your finances to the brink to ensure that they’ll take home higher commissions. Remember, in the end, it is your money, so you are assuming most, if not all, of the risk. Look for a broker who will give advice, but not push too hard., This is a simple step. Most commodity brokerage firms provide some online account services. Fill out the form online or on the premises. Most online trading accounts are free to start and free to use. If you are asked to pay a fee prior to use, consider another brokerage firm.
 The way you purchase commodities is through futures contracts. Futures contracts are agreements between buyers and sellers. They list a price at which the commodity has been purchased and a date by which the goods must be delivered. You will either sell or transfer futures so that you’ll never actually receive these goods. You are purchasing a contract, not the actual goods.


Big companies buy and sell futures on a regular basis. For example, if corn is at a cheap premium early in the year, a company like Kellogg will pay the going market price for the commodity to be delivered months later. If it turns out that the price of corn futures goes down weeks later, then Kellogg made a poor decision. If the price goes up, then they saved a lot of money by buying corn commodities ahead of time at a cheaper price., Margin refers to a loan that your broker provides you so you can have more buying power in the market. As you can imagine, this can dramatically increase profits, but can also place you at a greater risk of losing money.


For example, if you wanted to buy $100 in corn commodities, you could purchase it on margin and decide how much the broker would lend you for the purchase. If the broker matched your $100, you would have bought $200 in corn commodities. If the market price of corn rose by 25%, then your futures would be worth $250. If you decide to sell at that point, you’d take your $250 and pay your broker $100 plus a small interest rate. You would have made close to $50 on your investment. If you did not buy on margin, you’d only have made 25% of $100 ($25). Similarly, if the price plummets and is only worth $100 and you decided to sell, you’d have to still pay back the broker their original $100 plus a small interest rate, leaving you in the negative. If you hadn’t bought the corn commodity on margins in this scenario, you’d have just lost your money., Purchase commodities by buying shares of ETFs (exchange-traded funds). ETFs are funds that follow indices, such as the S&P 500.


This is an easier way to trade in commodities. You don’t have to spend a lot of time researching commodities or deciding which ones to buy. Instead, the investment management team that manages the fund will do this work.
ETFs are good too if you want to buy other commodities besides corn. This is called diversification. If for some reason the entire USA corn yield succumbs to bacteria or is damaged by severe storms, you’ll lose your commodity investment because there will be no crop yield to sell when it actually makes it to the market. If you diversify, one rampant corn plague or freak disaster won’t ruin your portfolio. , Many investment management groups also manage mutual funds in addition to ETFs. Mutual funds will not only consist of commodities, but other securities, such as bonds or stocks.


Mutual funds help to diversify your portfolio like ETFs. In general, ETFs are more popular than mutual funds. They are taxed less frequently and trade like stocks. Mutual funds buy and sell at the end of a day when market prices are set.