 Writing style matters long term because you develop your own voice or group of voices, depending on whether you're writing an individual or group blog. This voice should remain consistent and like a personal friend for your readers over time, allowing them to feel they've come to know you almost as a friend, and definitely as someone who can be trusted on the information imparted. Keep in mind that readers get used to your way of writing and do not appreciate it when it changes.


If it's a group blog, each relevant person should maintain their posts on their interests instead of too many contributing to it.
If there is to be more than one writer, then categorize the posts as per the writer. So that the reader knows who is responsible for writing each post.;
, Don't range too widely outside of what you know. be realistic and write about what you know so that it comes across as authoritative, erudite and authentic. If you want to bring in topics you're not so knowledgeable about but have a passion for, get some guest bloggers in from those areas, and ensure that they're people you admire and trust.


If you're a Renaissance person, that's great, you can range further but even then, keep it real.
 This is a bit of a balancing act. Frequent posts are important to keep your blog fresh, interesting and alive. On the other hand, too many updates can cause readers to feel overwhelmed in their busy lives. Decide how often you feel capable of posting, then match that to a regular rhythm that works for you. Try for at least one post a week, and no more than three. More than three will exhaust your readers and can drive them to abandon your blog–-remember that there is a lot going on in every person's life and you'd like your blog to be a tiny but high quality part of it.


If you have various bloggers contributing to the one blog, work out when each one is going to blog so that there is a good spacing between their posts, or so that they're reaching a different audience at different times.
Don't be afraid to ask readers how much posting is good for them. They'll give you an indication if you ask politely and seriously.
Focus on regular intervals of high quality content.
 Readers like to find topics of interest with ease, and sometimes they'll want to come back to favorites that you've written in the past. Using good categorization can help make this a lot easier for your readers. Use tags and categories to keep things easy-to-find and well ordered.


Categories provide a sense of flow, depth and reliability to your blog. They give readers a sense that something is happening as the posts fill up categories and show that your blog is continuous and expert.
Categories ensure neatness and are simply attractive to look at. Readers like the idea of containment and organization that the categories bring.
 Ensure that the blog has good textual content above all. Images and videos are the icing on the cake––it is still the writing that attracts readers and search engines. More important than an insane obsession with keywords is fresh, well written and useful content. Content that people like and share. Focus on that rather than sprinkling search or click bait throughout the text.


Ensure that the text is accessible, easy to read and of high quality. If you haven't already, do a free online course in writing for websites and blogs. There are plenty on offer through reputable universities on free course sites. There is no excuse for not learning these basics.
 Images enhance the content, help it to pop and really draw in the readers. They're also the thing many people love to share, on Pinterest, Facebook, Twitter, etc., so be liberal with them. Also ensure they're of a decent enough size that they take up a lot of the screen and really draw the eyes in.


Match the images to the text. The images still must have meaning and not be placed randomly.
Avoid ripping off images from places that you don't have rights to. Readers are savvy and someone, somewhere, will know it's copied. Use on that which fits the rights you're using on your blog, public domain and self-owned images.
Over time, keep an image bank, and categorize the images as well. This helps your readers to find your posts through images as well as continuing to share the images and potentially draw more readers back to your blog.
 Readers don't make comments on posts out of self-amusement. Most people genuinely seek interaction with you, to provide feedback, to give encouragement, to point out errors, and yes, even to vent. It's your responsibility to always answer these politely and as fully as possible. Your readers care about your content, so care about your readers. Even if you think sometimes that they're being a challenge or even trying to trick you, stay level-headed, stick to the facts and be kind.


Clean out spam and nasty comments regularly. Your readers don't deserve to see that sort of content on the blog. You have every right to remove comments that are not constructive feedback but are just plain vitriol. The world will be a better place for that.
 It's probable that you spent a lot of energies to get your blog known at the beginning. Don't become lax about this over time, as you gain more readers. The aim is to keep getting more and more readers, to get your material out there and really well known. Continue to promote the site through social media related to your blog and have your readers, your friends and those who love your work spread the news too.


Publicize your each and every blog post on all our social media platforms. This will fuel the number of hits on your blog.
 People love novel content. They also love posts that they can get a lot of of without having to squint, spend too long reading or jump to other sites to get the information needed. This means use a good sized font, keep posts to a decent length that is neither overly long nor too short and explain yourself before sending readers to other posts or places.


Keep the formatting consistent in all posts and keep it neat, easy to read and use plenty of spacing for ease of reading.

