 Have your toothbrush and toothpaste, face soap, deodorant, comb and brush, body soap, shampoo and conditioner, hair dryer, and extra underwear ready.


For surgery, although most hospitals want you to wear a gown, you can often bring slippers and a dressing gown to wear as you walk up to the surgery. Many gowns don't actually have a back, so it's worth asking a nurse if you can have two and wear one facing forwards and one facing backwards, to reduce the risk of mooning someone in the corridors. However, if you've been admitted in an emergency, ask a family member or friend to bring your bag to you at the hospital.;
, Bring any pre-surgery hospital paperwork, your health insurance card, your driver's license, and your list of medications, both prescription and over the counter. You'll be given an ID Bracelet, and you'll need to sign consent forms. At this point, nurses will usually take your vital information, such as blood pressure, blood oxygen levels and so on. Usually, you'll be asked to wait on your bed on the ward.


You might be given a hospital bag for your personal belongings, the hospital gown, and socks for your feet.
The hospital staff will ask you questions about your health and your surgery, and you might have an IV or cannula placed in your arm or on the back of your hand. A surgeon or anesthetist will usually visit the ward to see you and talk about any concerns you have, as well as make sure you're sure about what the surgery/ procedure is.
Normally, you can walk up to the surgery room, with a nurse or aide and they'll get you to lie down on a bed-trolley. If you're having a general anesthetic, then they'll get you ready by checking your ID bracelets and asking you a few obvious questions, like "What is your date of birth?" before administering the anesthetic. Children are sometimes given this as a gas, but most adults receive it through the IV/ cannula. Then, the anesthetist will talk to you until you lose consciousness. If you're having a local anesthetic, then you'll probably be made ready and asked a few questions, before being taken into the main room with all of the surgical staff.
After your procedure or surgery, you'll be taken into the recovery room and monitored until you're ready to return to your hospital room/ ward. If you're lucky you'll have a TV and remote, bed-adjustment controls, lights for your room and for reading, and a "Call Nurse Button." You may even wear "sleeves" on your lower legs to avoid blood clots.
 Your room/ward may have a board on the wall with a washable ink pen. If so, one of the things you have to write is the type of diet you're on to avoid allergies and/or foods you simply can't eat.
 If you're religious, tell the hospital staff to call the hospital chaplain or your own priest, minister, or rabbi to come visit you. All you've got to do now is stay calm and entertain yourself until you're discharged.

