 Regardless of what you are confronting someone about, it is important to learn to try and remove your emotions from the situation as much as possible. This doesn’t mean you need to talk in a mono-tone voice, but rather that you should recognize what parts of an argument are based on emotion, and which are based on logical reasoning or fact.For example, if you feel you need to confront a work colleague about a decision they made without first getting your input, try to think about why it matters that they didn’t get your input. You might be feeling a lot of emotions about this situation. You might feel left out or angry. However, these emotions won’t be useful in the confrontation. Instead, they will make the conversation more aggressive than it needs to be.
Instead, stick to the facts. Why is it important that your colleague makes decisions together with you? Explaining your side of the conversation in terms of objective reasons will help keep the other person from coming defensive, and it will also help keep the confrontation from becoming aggressive.;
, Like separating your emotions, you should also try to keep the conversation focused on the matter at hand. Sometimes, when we get into a confrontation, there is a temptation to bring up other issues. While these issues might be important, it makes the point of the conversation less clear. It can also cause the confrontation to drag on far longer than it needs to. Know what you want to talk with someone about, and stay focused on that topic.


If the person you are talking to tries to bring up another issue, don’t interrupt them. Let them finish what they are saying, and respond with something like, “I see what you’re saying, and I think that we should talk about that at some point. However, right now, I think it’s important that we deal with this issue.” By doing this, you show them that you have heard what they are saying and that you aren’t trying to dismiss them.
 When confronting someone, there is often a tendency to start talking and then keep going, trying to explain your point or rationalize the situation. This is a natural response, especially if you are feeling nervous about what they may say. However, this can be frustrating for the other person and may cause more tension than is necessary. Therefore, you should state what’s on your mind as a logical or factual statement, and then stop talking. This will give the other person time to think and respond accordingly.For example, don’t say, “Hey Kathy, I wanted to ask why you didn’t come into work on time yesterday. I know that you have a lot going on in your life and that you’ve got two kids you have to get to school, but it’s really important that you come in on time. When you don’t come in on time then other people have to stay later…” In this example, you are making assumptions and excuses for her that might not have anything to do with what happened. You are also telling her something she likely already knows (e.g. that it’s important to get to work on time), and some people may feel degraded by statements such as this.
Instead, try saying something like this: “Hi Kathy, now that we have a minute to chat, I wanted to ask about what happened yesterday. You were supposed to be here at 8:00am, but you didn’t get here until 8:30. Is everything alright?” Saying it like this shows that you are not necessarily accusing her of anything, but that you did notice that she was late. Stopping at that will give her a chance to tell you what happened.
 Come to a confrontation with at least one possible solution to the problem, but also be prepared to listen to suggestions the other person may have, and to ultimately work together towards an optimal solution.This creates a collaborative and open conversation.


For example, if you are talking with a colleague about a proposal that they wrote because you are concerned that they misinterpreted something important, don’t simply say, “You did this totally wrong, and if we hand it in like this, we’re never going to get that grant we need.” Instead, try proposing a positive solution to the matter, “Your proposal looks great, but there are a couple areas that I’d like to look over with you because I understood the points differently. Can we sit down together tomorrow?”

, You will get a lot more out of your conversation if you are gentle and respectful. If a person feels disrespected, they are more likely to shut down and/or become defensive. Speak respectfully and with a sense of compassion rather than putting the other person down or trying to make them feel stupid. Demonstrate to the other person that you are trying to understand the situation, not blame them for the situation.For example, if your friend has done something that made you feel bad, don’t just walk up to them and say, “Hey! What you did was really messed up! I know you were trying to hurt me, and I’m gonna get you for it!” Not only is this aggressive, it’s also disrespectful. You’re telling your friend that you don’t trust in your friendship with each other, and whatever it is they did, they did it intentionally to hurt you.
Instead, try something like this, “Hey Jane, I feel hurt by your actions the other day. I don’t understand why you did what you did, could we talk about it over coffee?” This shows the other person that while you feel hurt, you are also not accusing them of anything and that you really just want to understand.
 Many of us have the false belief that a confrontation has to be a negative event, but this is not true. Often, we confront people because we care about them and our relationship with them. Try to change your thinking about confrontation. View it as a chance to discuss your differences with someone you care about, and to listen to what they have to say in order to try and find a common ground.It is also important to remember that a confrontation may not always lead to an agreement, and that it doesn’t always have to either. Sometimes it can be satisfying for both people just to talk about something together in an understanding and compassionate way.
 There are lots of ways to improve the chance of having a productive confrontation, but there are also some important things to avoid. Some things to avoid include:Overreacting or blowing up.
Making vague or general complaints.
Raising lots of issues all at once and/or bringing up old issues.
Hitting below the belt, such as by making insults or saying things with the intention to hurt the other person.
Making accusations.
Exaggerating or inventing complaints.
Shutting down and refusing to speak or acknowledge the other person.
 If you are feeling angry, sad, or worried about the topic you need to confront someone about, it is important to spend some time trying to tease apart what matter should be discussed. This can be difficult if you haven’t spent much time reflecting on your emotions, but with practice, you will learn to identify what issue is causing a particular emotion. Think about what happened, and when and why you started feeling the negative emotion.For example, let’s say that you are really angry at your partner because they said they would be home at 7:00pm each night, but they usually don’t show up until 7:45pm or even later. Your first reaction might simply be to yell at them about always being late but try to remember that your partner may not understand why this matters. Think about why it upsets you. Does it make you feel like they don’t respect you? Maybe you want to have dinner ready at a certain time that you coordinate with their arrival.
When reflecting upon the situation, you may sometimes find that your emotions aren’t very rational. In some cases, sitting down to think through a situation can eliminate the need for a confrontation in the first place. In some cases, our pride is simply hurt by something, but this is something that we have to deal with on our own, not something that another person is responsible for.
 This doesn’t mean you have to write a script for the conversation, but it’s helpful to get a general idea about what you want to say. Run through a few possible ways of saying exactly what the problem is in a logical, non-emotional way. It can be nerve-wracking to confront someone, so practicing the conversation in your head can help you get what you want to say out as you intended.Remember to practice saying what you want in a compassionate way. If you walk up to someone and confront them with an angry or accusing tone of voice they will get defensive.
Take a break from the conversation if needed. If you start to become emotional and you are on the verge of saying something hurtful that you might regret, then remember that it is okay to ask for a break. Try saying something like, “Can we take a break and come back to this conversation a little later?” Or, “I have to run. Can we finish this conversation later tonight/in the morning/Friday?”

, A confrontation with someone is best handled in a private manner, at a time that is convenient for all the relevant people. Therefore, you shouldn’t walk up to someone that you want to confront while they’re at lunch with their friends, or in a meeting with a lot of other people. Instead, approach the person you need to talk with discretely. Tell them that there is something you’d like to speak with them about and ask them when a convenient time to meet privately might be.A person in a group is more likely to react defensively to anything you say. This is because they are likely worried about what everyone around them is thinking, in addition to trying to respond to what you have said. No one wants to feel stupid in front of people whose opinions are important to them.
 In some cases, no matter how hard you try, you will come across people who won’t react maturely to confrontation. This is not in your control. Do what you can to manage the situation, and learn from it. If you confront someone and they blow up at you, now you know that direct confrontation is not something that will work with that person.

However, remember that this also can mean that you might think you understand a situation, but that when you confront someone about the situation, you figure out that you got it all wrong. Don’t beat yourself up. Instead, explain to the person that you completely misunderstood and apologize.
As an example, say that your colleague failed to turn in a project that you worked on together on time. When you confront that colleague you find out that they didn’t submit the project because they had a family emergency but that they cleared the issue with your boss. In this situation, all you need to say is, “Oh, ok. Please forgive me. I didn’t get that piece of information, and I was worried that we might both get in trouble.” You might still be frustrated that they didn’t notify you, but that is not the issue at hand.

