 Box cakes are very often simple vanilla or chocolate cakes with a simple topping. Th easiest way to spiff up such a boring cake is to throw some candy into the batter before you bake it. By dropping some candy into the batter, you’ll transform your cake into a unique surprise for the whole family.


Add popular chocolate candies to your batter. For instance, consider throwing in pieces of Snickers, Baby Ruth, Heath Bar, or other chocolate candies.
Drop sugar candies into the batter. Consider dropping gummy worms or peppermint pieces into your batter.
If you want something simple, add chocolate or butterscotch chips to your batter.
Try to tailor your creation to the season.;
, There are a wide variety of things you can add to your batter to improve it. Ultimately, flavor combinations you can create are almost impossible to quantify. Consider adding:


Half of a cup of sour cream to make your vanilla boxed cake richer
A couple of tablespoons of peanut butter
Pumpkin puree
Nuts
Coconut flakes or even coconut milk
Fruits like strawberries, bananas, blueberries, raspberries, or even pineapple., By adding spices and extracts, you'll be able to personalize your boxed cake. Ultimately, spices enable you to experiment with making a wide range of cakes.


Add an extra teaspoon of vanilla extract to your batter.
Think about adding some lemon extract to a yellow boxed cake to turn it into a lemon cake. Start with a couple of teaspoons and add more based on your preference.
Add between two and three teaspoons of spices for one boxed cake.
Some popular spices include: cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, and cloves.
Adjust your ingredients appropriately. For instance, if you are adding pieces of candy to your boxed cake, you may want to add less spices.
Start with a smaller amount of spices, and taste the batter to see if it needs more., While adding candy might improve the overall taste of your cake, adding color will give it a truly unique character. Thus, think about different colors you may want to turn your batter.


Coloring your batter works best with vanilla cakes.
Use food coloring to transform your batter. Think of blue, red, yellow, green, or other colors.
Dye your batter based on the holiday. Try dying your batter green for St. Patrick’s Day, red for Valentine’s Day, or even green and red for Christmas., Most box cakes come with a simple frosting as a topping. However, you can spoof this up by applying the frosting and then adding a variety of ingredients on top. Some possibilities include:


Breaking up Oreos and sprinkling them on top of the frosting.
Putting whip cream on top of the frosting.
Adding blueberries or another type of berry to the top of a boxed cake., Homemade frostings often take simple boxed cakes to a whole new level. By creating your favorite frosting, you’ll add your own unique character to a generic cake. Consider:


Adding several tablespoons of cream cheese to the pre-packaged frosting and putting it on top of the cake.
Whipping up a chocolate frosting (or applying store-bought pre-prepared chocolate frosting) and topping your boxed vanilla cake with it.
Substituting frosting for whip cream and adding strawberries or another fruit to the top of the cake., While baking a double layered cake might seem very complicated, you can easily turn a single-storied cake into a layered cake. To create your layer cake:


Bake your cake as the box instructs.
Slice the cake into two layers. Do this by cutting the cake halfway up. For instance, if the cake is two inches tall, cut it at one inch.
Remove the top layer.
Add your frosting and toppings to the bottom layer.
Place the top layer back on the cake and add frosting to it., Boxed cake mix often calls for minimum or low grade ingredients. Thus, one of the east ways to improve your cake mix is by substituting certain ingredients for others. The box cake will wind up tasting richer and homemade.


Substitute milk for water.
Switch out low fat milk for cream or whole milk
Use coffee instead of water in chocolate cakes. This will add a richer and more complex flavor to your cake., Perhaps the easiest way to improve your boxed cake mix is to add more called-for ingredients. By adding ingredients, you’ll make the cake richer and have better flavor. In the end, your cake will seem more like a homemade cake than a store-bought box cake.


Add more eggs. For instance, if the box calls for two eggs, add a third. This will make the cake taste richer.
Increase the amount of sugar. Do this carefully, though. Consider adding maybe 10% or 20% more than the box calls for.
Pour in more vanilla. More vanilla may add more flavor and enrich your boxed cake. Like with sugar, only add 10% or 20% more., By expanding the recipe, you’ll not only enlarge your end product, but create the opportunity to use new and better ingredients. In the end, you’ll have more cake to share with your family.


Double the ingredients. For instance, if it calls for two eggs, use four.
You may need to add extra ingredients like flour, sugar, baking powder, and more.
Make sure you adjust all your ingredients proportionately. For example, don’t add more flour unless you add more sugar, eggs, milk, and everything else.