 If the piercing needle doesn't come in sterile packaging, or you're using a safety pin or needle, you will need to sterilize them thoroughly before use. Take a match or lighter and hold the piercing end of the needle over the open flame for about ten seconds. Allow the needle to cool slightly, then wipe it down with the rubbing alcohol or hydrogen peroxide. Leave it on a piece of tissue to dry and make sure not to touch the piercing end after this point.









You will also need to sterilize the earrings by submerging them in the rubbing alcohol or hydrogen peroxide if they do not come in sterilized packaging. Let them sit in the sterilization fluid for a minute or two, before removing and setting on a clean piece of tissue to dry.
Make sure to separate the front and backs of the earrings. This will make them easier to insert when the time comes.
Understand that this method will not sterilize the earrings or needle 100%, there will still be a certain amount of bacteria left. The only way to guarantee complete sterilization is to buy the products pre-sterilized, or use an autoclave (sterilization device).;
, The next thing you need to do is thoroughly clean the ear to remove any bacteria from the surface of the skin. You can do this by dipping a cotton ball into the rubbing alcohol or hydrogen peroxide and using it to wipe the front and back of the earlobe. Allow the ear to dry completely before proceeding with the piercing.









It is also possible to buy antibacterial gel (such as Bactine) designed especially for use with piercings. This is available for purchase at most tattoo and piercing parlors, or online.
 If you like, you can use a felt tip marker to indicate the spot where you want the piercing to go. This will help you to center the needle on the earlobe and prevent a crooked piercing. However some people prefer not to mark the spot, as they don't like the idea of getting ink in their fresh piercing. Whether you decide to mark the spot or not is up to you, it's a matter of personal preference.
 At this point, some people choose to numb their ear. This can be done by holding an ice cube or ice pack against the ear for a minute or two before piercing. This will effectively numb the ear, but the cold will also cause the skin on the ear to tighten, making it tougher and harder to pierce. For this reason, many people choose to skip this step.


Alternatively, you can rub a little numbing gel onto the earlobe using a q-tip. Wait for it to dry before proceeding.
 Before going any further, make sure to wash your hands thoroughly with anti-bacterial soap. After sterilizing your tools, earrings and ears so carefully, you don't want to have dirty hands! If you like, you can also wear latex gloves while you pierce, though this may feel a little awkward.
 Hold it firmly in place with one hand, while you pick up the needle with another. Alternatively, have a (non-squeamish) friend help you out by holding the cork in place while you do the piercing.
 Pick up the piercing needle (or safety pin or needle) and position it against your ear, centered at a 90 degree angle from the earlobe. If you have marked the spot, place it directly above the ink dot.
 In one smooth, fluid movement, push the needle through the earlobe and into the cork on the other side. You will feel a sharp pinch, and your ear may feel hot and flushed, but it will not be painful. Hold the needle in the ear for about 30 seconds and wiggle it around slightly. This will help to widen the hole.
 If you have used a piercing needle, inserting the earring will be easy. Simply slide the pin into the hollow center of the needle, then pull the needle out, leaving the earring in the ear. Wipe away any blood with a cotton ball, then secure the back.


If you have used a safety pin or a regular needle, you will need to work quickly, as it can be difficult to get the earring through a fresh piercing.
Remove the needle from the ear and, holding the earlobe slightly taut, push the pin of the earring through the hole as fast as you can.
 If you are piercing both ears, go through the whole preparation procedure again (including sterilizing the needle) and repeat on the other side. Now grab a mirror and admire your handiwork!








, A sterile piercing needle is the best instrument to use when piercing your ears. This is because it has a hollow center which will allow you to easily insert the earring once the ear has been pierced. Sterile piercing needles are available at beauty supply stores and from online vendors. You should never borrow or share a needle with anyone else, as this can easily lead to infection.


Some people use regular needles or large safety pins to pierce their ears. Between these two options, the safety pin is the better choice as it provides better grip, whereas the needle can easily slip through your fingers.
If using a needle or safety pin, it is imperative that you completely sterilize them before using, otherwise they can cause an infection.
The last option is to buy a set of self-piercing earrings, which come pre-sterilized in a loaded spring puncher, at a beauty supply store. If you choose this option, follow the directions on the packaging.
 The next thing you'll need is a set of starter earrings. These are specially designed for newly pierced ears, with a pointed tip and a wider gauge. This makes them easier to insert and also allows them to stretch out the holes, so that they heal to the right size.


If possible, opt for medical grade titanium or surgical steel earrings -- these contain the least amount of nickel, which is a common allergen. Pure gold or silver earrings are also good options.
Avoid cheap earrings, as these usually contain high quantities of nickel and can cause allergic reactions and infections.
 These substances are necessary to sterilize the ear and the piercing tools before use. It is essential to sterilize everything thoroughly, in order to avoid infections, which are painful, look unpleasant and may force you to remove the piercing.
 This will be necessary to hold behind your ear so that the needle has something to push against as it pierces your ear. If there was nothing behind your ear, the needle would tug your skin and you would find it much harder to get the needle through.


A piece of cork or a dry bar of soap are the best options, though a piece of cut apple will also do the trick.
Some people recommend using bits of potato or an eraser, but these can be dirty or harbor bacteria, so it is better to stick with one of the other options if possible.
 The cotton balls will be necessary to clean the ear and to wipe away any blood after piercing, while the tissues will provide a clean place for the sterilized needle and earrings to rest until you are ready to use them.
 Although having your ear pierced is not very painful (it just feels like a firm pinch) some people prefer to numb their ear before going through with it. This can be done with an ice cube, an ice pack, or some tooth numbing gel.
 You should aim to leave the starter earring in for 4 to 6 weeks after the piercing. This will give the piercing adequate time to heal. If you change your earrings before the piercing has fully healed, you run the risk of introducing bacteria to the ear and causing an infection.
 A freshly pierced ear is essentially like an open wound, so it is important that you clean it every day to avoid infection. You can clean the piercings using a special antiseptic cleanser designed specifically for new piercings, or you can simply use a solution of sea salt dissolved in hot water. Whichever you're using, dip a q-tip in the solution and clean around the piercing gently, but thoroughly. Make sure to clean around the front and the back of the earring and remember to use a fresh q-tip for each ear.
 Although conventional ear piercing advice recommended twisting the studs daily to prevent them from becoming embedded in the ears, this is no longer advised. Twist the hearing everyday otherwise it will be stuck in your ear forever and get infected and rip out. In addition, constantly handling the earrings significantly increases the risk of infection. As for the risk of embedding; as long as you use good quality earrings which are skin friendly, you don't need to worry about it., If you do develop an infection (which is much more likely with home piercing) it is essential that you take care of it immediately, to prevent it from becoming worse, or spreading. Leave the earring in and apply a warm compress to the ear four times a day, for three minutes each time. After each compress, clean the ear with an antiseptic cleanser, then apply a topical antibiotic cream. If you don't see an improvement within 24 hours, you should visit your doctor.