 If your eyes are itchy and irritated, try putting a cold compress over your eyes. This can also help if they are swollen and red. Grab a soft washcloth or towel. Soak it in cool water and wring it out. Close your eyes and lean your head back, placing the compress on your face. Remove after about 20 minutes. Repeat as many times as necessary to prevent further itching.You can also lie down if holding your head back for that long hurts your neck.;
, If your eyes are itchy and irritated, you may need to flush them out. This can also be necessary if you get an allergen, such as dust, in your eye. To start this, lean over a sink and turn on lukewarm water. Lean down slowly under a lightly running but not too harsh stream of water from the faucet. Let it run over your eyes for a few minutes, or until you think you removed all the allergens.


You can also do this in the shower if leaning over a sink is too hard. Just make sure the water isn't too hot. You don't want to injure your eyes with too much heat., There are two different kinds of over-the-counter eye drops you can use. You can use antihistamine eye drops, which have allergy fighting medications in them that should relieve itching and redness. You can also use lubricating eye drops, also known as artificial tears. These help relieve itchiness by adding more moisture into your eyes and allowing them wash away allergens.


Popular brands of antihistamine eye drops include Alaway or Zaditor. Brands of artificial tears include Clear Eyes, Artificial Tears, and Visine Tears.
You can also get prescription antihistamine eye drops from your doctor, such as Patanol. However, many experts believe that over-the-counter options work just as well for mild to moderate cases.Try placing artificial tears in the fridge — cool drops feel better and can soothe burning itchy eyes.
 When you are suffering from itchy eyes, rubbing them is one of the worst things you can do. This most likely will just make symptoms worse. It puts pressure and rubs against the already irritated surface of your eyes. It can also spread allergens to your eyes through your hands, which will just make the itching worse.


Avoid touching your eyes at all. This means you should steer clear of wearing eye makeup when you are having an eye allergy attack., If you are bothered by outside allergens, wear sunglasses when you go outside. This will add an extra layer of protection on your eyes that will keep out these allergens more than leaving your eyes exposed.


You can also do this when you are cleaning. If you know that dust or pet dander bother your allergies, wear protective eye wear in the house when you clean.
Also avoid touching your eyes right after you pet an animal if pet dander irritates your allergies., When your eyes are irritated, keeping your contacts in will only make them worse. They rub against your eyes, which are already irritated. They can also collect allergens, which will make your symptoms worse. Instead, switch out your contacts for glasses. This will give your eyes a break and has the added bonus of protecting your eyes for possible allergens as well.


If you don't have glasses, switch to single use disposable contacts. This will help prevent any possible allergen build up on your contacts.
Remember to wash your hands well before putting your contacts in or taking them out. You don't want to spread allergens unnecessarily., Eye allergies are caused by mostly the same allergens as nose allergies. This includes dust, mold, pet dander, grass, and pollen. Because they are the same, over the counter antihistamines can help relieve your eye symptoms.


For non-drowsy antihistamines you can take during the day, you can try loratadine (Claritin), fexofenadine (Allegra), or cetirizine (Zyrtec).
Benadryl is also effective, but it can make you drowsy.