 This could be either a cover or an original song of your choice in any any genre and on any instrument or voice. It is best to have the song well practiced and ready to be recorded.;
, all you need in order to record audio is a microphone. Some microphones can connect to your computer via a USB cable, and others need to be hooked up to an audio interface. Do not forget that most smart phones are also able to record audio, yet the quality is usually lower than using an external microphone. Most digital cameras also have microphones built in, but if you are looking for higher end quality, this is not the best way to go. An external microphone can be added onto your camera for superior quality, or you can record the video and audio separate.
 It is common for many people to record a video in addition to the audio. This can be achieved by using a a high quality digital camera, a computer webcam which is convenient because it connects to your computer, or even your smart phone. Usually, the camera is directed to you and your instrument, but the video can be about anything you desire.
 Have an audio and video program on your computer ready to edit and enhance your video.


In regards to audio, many programs and software are available to use. If you are recording your audio alongside your video with a video camera or smart phone, you can use a video program to process both, but if you are choosing to record your audio separability, you can utilize your computer's ability to process audio and create a home studio. You can use programs such as Garage Band, Pro Tools, and Reason to record your audio, and if you have a midi controller or keyboard, you can add sounds and effects onto your audio such as drums, guitars, organs, strings, or even sound effects. The possibilities are limitless.
For the final video, basic iMovie or Movie Maker will be able to create a clean cut movie. If you are using Linux, or you do not want to use the other programs, free alternatives are available, including Lightworks and Avidemux. Other programs such as Final Cut Pro offer more features and options, but are not absolutely necessary.
 Once you have your song ready and equipment to use, you can now begin to record yourself. Don't worry if you need to multiple takes, you can edit everything out later. Be sure that your camera lens is focused and that you have proper lighting. If you are using an external microphone, make sure your audio program is on and recording.
 Now that you have everything recorded, you need to upload it to your computer. Cameras and phones can usually connect via USB, while webcam footage and audio software can save directly to your computer.
 The difficulty of this step varies depending on the equipment you used. If you used a smart phone or digital camera with a microphone built in, the audio and video will already match up and you can easily edit out unwanted segments. If you used audio separate of your video, you will need to align both together. Various effects can also be added. Once you are done you need to export the video to a location on your computer.
 Now that you have the video, you can go ahead and publish it onto YouTube. If you don't have an account, create one and click the “Upload” button on the upper right hand side. From there you can select your video from your computer to upload. You can then title your video, add tags, and create a description. Larger videos might take longer to process. Once you click “Publish,” your video is then uploaded.
 If desired, don't forget to share the video with friends on social media sites.

