 Within 24 hours of an orthopedic injury, a dog starts losing muscle mass in the injured area.Even though it will be important to start the rehabilitation process as soon as possible, talk with your vet first. They will recommend a rehabilitation program for your dog. Ask questions when discussing rehabilitation:


How long will rehabilitation take?
What rehabilitation exercises can I perform at home?
Will I need to purchase rehabilitation equipment?
How will I know the rehabilitation is working?
When will my dog need to come back and see you?;
, Cold therapy is most effective within three days of an orthopedic injury. Its benefits include reduction of pain and inflammation.There are several ways you can use cold therapy at home:Prepare a cold pack by placing crushed ice in a plastic bag and wrapping the bag in a thin material, like a pillowcase. Place the cold pack on the injured area for 15–20 minutes.
Apply a cold compress, which you can purchase at your local pharmacy. Cold compresses sometimes contain gel.
Use the cold therapy several times a day, or as directed by your vet.
 Heat therapy is effective starting three days after the orthopedic injury. In addition to reducing pain, heat decreases muscle spasms and improves blood circulation.Hot packs, which contain gel and can be warmed up in the microwave, are a popular choice for heat therapy. Wrap the hot pack in a cloth to prevent burning your dog’s skin.Your vet will prescribe how often to apply the hot pack to the injured area.
Stay with your dog during hot or cold therapy sessions. Remove the hot or cold pack if your dog becomes uncomfortable (whining, trying to move away from the heat or cold).
 When a dog has an orthopedic injury, the joint in the affected area probably won’t be able to move very well. PROM exercises improve joint function, relieve pain, and prevent the affected joints and muscles from contracting (getting smaller).However, make sure that your dog's veterinarian approves of ROM exercises first. Moving a joint with a broken bone or damaged cartilage could cause further harm.


The specific PROM exercises you perform will depend on which joint (elbow, hip, shoulder, knee) is affected by the orthopedic injury.
In general, PROM exercises involve slowly and gently moving a joint through its natural range of motion of flexing (bending), extending (straightening out), or rotating.
PROM exercises are passive, meaning your dog is resting while you do the work. Position a pillow between your dog’s legs to ensure your dog’s body is properly aligned., A massage for your dog may sound luxurious, but it actually has real therapeutic benefit after an injury. Not only will a massage help your dog feel better overall, but it will also improve its blood circulation and flexibility.Follow a few tips to make the massage positive experience:Massage your dog after it’s gone to the bathroom and eaten.
Create a quiet, comfortable massage area. Have your dog rest on a few layers of thick blankets and play soft, soothing background music.
Speak to your dog softly to help it feel at ease.
 Your dog will probably be in pain after its orthopedic injury. Therefore, controlling pain with medication is an important aspect of rehabilitation.Your vet will prescribe an oral pain medication, such as carprofen, for your dog.


Do not give human medication to dogs unless you have been instructed to do so by the vet.
Not all dogs like taking pills. If that describes your dog, consider putting the pill in a tasty pill pocket. You can purchase packs of pill pockets at your local pet store.
 After you have rehabilitated your dog at home for a few weeks, your vet will want to see your dog again. They will examine the injured area, assess your dog's pain, and determine how well your dog can move. During this appointment, your vet may recommend more extensive rehabilitation at a veterinary rehabilitation center.


Your vet can refer you to veterinary rehabilitation centers in your area.

