 Investment choices should be based upon how much risk you can afford, what you want to get out of the investment, and how long you want to invest. These factors will determine whether a high-risk, high return investment or low-risk, low-return investment is better for you.


If you have a small amount of debt and a good volume of cash, you could invest in a more traditional mixture of some high-risk investments, while devoting a more substantial portion of capital to low-risk investments.
If you are only planning on investing for a short period of time, such as a year, you may want to consider lower risk investments, as high risk investments can fluctuate rapidly within a short period of time., Avoid investing if you don’t have an emergency cash fund to fall back on. You should have enough money in the bank to cover at least six months of unemployment. You should also have enough money to cover you in the event of a medical emergency., Cash equivalents – also known as money market funds – have very low risk, but also very low returns. Cash equivalents are easier to access and exchange for cash than any other type of investment, so if you appreciate accessibility and flexible investments, this might be the way to go., They can be risky, but also profitable. Stocks, business investments, real estate, and precious objects are all ownership investments.


Stocks grants you a small portion of the ownership of the company. The value of your stock generally depends on how well the company is performing. If the company increases their profits, their stock price goes up, but if they have had losses, the stock price will decrease. Stocks are considered to be very liquid; this means that you can cash them out when you need to by selling the stock.
Investing in a business can pose high risks and high rewards. Many businesses fail within the first year of start-up, but those that make a profit can post high rewards for early investors. Keep in mind that business risks tend to be difficult to predict. To invest in businesses, locate venture capital firms.
Investing in precious objects is tricky. You or another expert should know which objects have value and whether or not the value is expected to rise. Artistic or cultural objects whose value is likely to rise make good precious object investments. If the item is damaged, it may lose value. It may only be able to be sold to collectors or hobbyists, so you may have difficulty liquidating the asset as well.
Real estate is any investment into land, housing, buildings, or rentals. While real estate does typically appreciate, if the market is down, it may take you a while to sell a property. If you need to liquidate the property quickly, you may find yourself taking a loss. It is therefore not a very liquid investment., Lending investments are lower risk than ownership investments, but also carry a lower opportunity to gain. Unless you have much money in the bank, though, you won’t be able to earn much from your savings account because the interest rates tend to be rather low. The other type of lending investment is the bond. Bonds are debt instruments issued by a government or corporation to help them raise money. Over time, your bond grows in value and you can cash it in at a profit. These bonds tend to have higher interest rates than savings accounts, which can result in a higher profit for you.Treasury notes and CDs are the most common type of bonds.
Savings accounts are the most common sort of lending investments.

