 To do restorative yoga, find a spot where you can relax and where there are few distractions. You can choose a place indoors or outdoors, but take care that you are in a safe place where you're unlikely to be interrupted.You'll probably want to close your eyes while you're in many of these poses, so find a place where you can do this without fear. For example, a public park might not be the best place to do restorative yoga if you feel you will not be able to fully relax there.;
, Restorative yoga should be an entirely supported and comfortable experience that allows you to relax fully. A number of props are necessary to ensure this, but you don't necessarily have to buy any fancy yoga props.If you already have yoga props such as a yoga mat and yoga blocks, you will find them beneficial when doing restorative yoga. You'll also want several large blankets or towels, as well as a few pillows.
If you don't have any yoga props, choose a thick blanket to lay on the floor and several pillows of varying degrees of firmness. Rolled blankets or towels also can be used.
Since most of these poses are timed, you'll want to have a timer nearby so that you will be alerted when the time is up. The timer should have a soothing tone when it alerts, not something shocking or jarring.
 Relaxing music can help you get into a calm, restorative state. Typically the music that works best is classical or instrumental music. You can also find meditation mixes through online music services for this purpose.You don't want anything too fast or complex. Choose slower music without lyrics.
 Begin your restorative yoga session by coming to a comfortable seat, supported by blankets and pillows as necessary. You may want to wrap a blanket around your shoulders and torso for additional warmth.Typically yogis will sit cross-legged, but if this position isn't comfortable for you, choose something else.
The most important part of how you sit is to make sure that your spine is straight and neutral so that you are sitting up straight without arching your spine. Your chest and heart should be directly over your pelvis.
 As you begin your restorative yoga practice, clear your mind and bring your focus to your breath as you breathe slowly and deeply. On each inhale, expand your belly and lift your chest. With each exhale, pull your navel towards your spine to squeeze the air out.If you're just starting out, breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth. Open your throat so as you exhale you're making a "ha" sound in the back of your throat. With practice, you'll be able to keep your throat open while your mouth is closed and make this sound as you exhale through your nose.
A deep meditation isn't necessary to connect with your breath, but you do need to take a few minutes to sit and connect your mind and body before you begin your restorative yoga practice.
 The supported heart opener will help create space in your chest and allow you to relax and release tension in your chest, shoulders, and back. This pose is good if you've been sitting at a desk hunched over a computer for a long period of time.To start, use a bolster or rolled towels and pillows. Lay them out on the floor so that they will extend the length of your spine, then place another folded blanket or pillow where your head and neck will be.
Lay down on your back on top of this support, allowing your shoulder blades to roll down your back and draw in towards each other. Spread your feet about hip-width apart and relax your legs. Rest your arms on the floor along your sides, palms facing upwards.
Relax in this position for two to three minutes, breathing deeply and allowing your chest to open.
 If your hips are tight or sore, this pose will help you loosen up. Supported pigeon is especially beneficial if you've spent long hours sitting at a desk at work, or while traveling.Get on the floor on your knees, and set a bolster or rolled blanket or towel crossways in front of you. Move your right knee, hip, and shin onto the bolster, then extend your left leg out behind you. Make sure the support is even – you may want an additional folded towel or blanket under your left shin for padding.
Slowly hinge forward from the hips over your right knee. If you can't comfortably lower to the floor, use a pillow or bolster to rest your head. Reach your arms forward over your head and cross them.
Make sure your shoulders are neutral, with your shoulder blades flowing down your spine, and your neck isn't crunched. Use support where needed to ensure this.
Remain in this position for about five minutes, relaxing and breathing deeply. Then slowly roll back up to a seated position and repeat on the other side.
 The supported bridge pose requires a yoga block for support. If you don't have a yoga block, you may want to skip this pose. A rolled towel or blanket won't provide enough lift, and other objects may not be stable enough to allow you to relax into the pose.To get into this pose, lie on your back with your knees bent so that the soles of your feet are flat on the floor. Stretch your arms along your sides, shoulder blades tucked down your back. Walk your feet so that your heels are just at your fingertips.
Slowly lift your hips toward the ceiling, placing the yoga block just under your sacrum. Relax with your arms by your side. You also may want to extend your arms straight out from your shoulders. Relax into the pose and hold it for two to three minutes.
Press down into your feet and lift your hips a little higher so you can remove the block, then slowly lower your body to the floor.
 This pose requires the use of a bolster or rolled blanket, and will help open up and create space between your shoulder blades and loosen your upper back.To get in position for this pose, put the rolled blanket on the floor horizontally, then lie on your stomach across it. The blanket should be positioned under your lower ribs. Extend your arms in front of you.
Cross your right arm over your left, both palms facing up. Reach your arms away from each other as far as you comfortably can, feeling the stretch in your back and shoulders. Hold this pose for one minute, then repeat with your left arm crossed over your left.
 The corpse pose may not look like a yoga pose at all. In fact, you may feel as though you're simply lying on the floor. The key to the corpse pose is relaxation and focus on your deep breathing.You can slide a blanket or rolled towel under your knees for support, or under your neck. Do this as necessary to keep your spine in alignment and ease any tension.
Come to a comfortable seat on the floor with your legs extended. Slowly lower your torso to the floor, starting with your lower back and gradually rolling up your spine. Your head should be the last thing to touch the floor.
Rest your arms along your sides, palms facing upward. Breathe deeply, allowing every muscle in your body to relax as you slowly melt into the floor. Stay in this pose for two to three minutes, then roll to the side to slowly come back up to a sit.
 Legs-up-the-wall pose is a go-to yoga pose to relieve stress and anxiety. It also has restorative properties for you if you've been sitting in the same position for a long time, such as on a long car ride or after a long flight.Move a mat or blanket close to a wall to cushion yourself. You can also use a bolster or rolled blanket to support your pelvis and hips if they are tight. You may want another blanket or pillow for your head as well.
Lay on your back with your pelvis next to the wall, or resting on the bolster, and swing your legs up to rest against the wall. Allow your heels to rest against the wall. You can keep your feet together or allow them to separate slightly. Relax your feet.
Extend your arms out from your shoulders with your elbows at right angles and rest them on the floor, palms facing upward. Relax your fingers. Your shoulders should be neutral, with your shoulder blades melting down your back.
Hold this position for five minutes, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.
 After legs-up-the-wall, you can go directly into the diamond legs pose to open up your hips and further relax. The diamond legs pose also is a good tension reliever for your lower back.With your legs still up the wall, rotate them outward and bend your knees to bring the soles of your feet together. Your legs will form a diamond shape on the wall.
Lower your feet towards your hips as far as is comfortable, pressing your knees toward the wall gently. Don't force any movement, and return your legs to the fully extended position if you feel pain or discomfort.
Hold the position for five minutes, breathing deeply.
 Straddle legs pose provides a supported way to get a deeper stretch in your legs and hips. When moving into this pose, it's important to keep your movements natural. Go slow, and don't force anything.From diamond legs pose, extend your legs straight up the wall again. Then, on an exhale, simply allow them to open naturally until you end in a wide V-shape. Engage your core to protect your lower back.
Hold this position for between one and three minutes, then reach up and grab your knees to bend your legs slightly and move them back together. You may want to hug your legs to your chest for a few breath cycles.
 This pose is a modification of the thread-the-needle pose in which your body is fully supported by the floor and the wall. You'll further open each of your hips with this pose.From the legs-up-the-wall position, cross your left ankle so that it sits just above your right knee and flex your left foot.
Slowly draft your right foot down the wall, bending your knee as you rotate your left hip outward. Slide down as low as you comfortably can, then hold the position for one to three minutes before returning to legs-up-the-wall position and switching sides.
 Downward-facing rest is a soothing, relaxing pose that will naturally calm you and relieve stress. For this pose you will need a mat, a blanket and a bolster, or two towels or blankets.Put the short end of your mat against a wall, with the bolster or a rolled blanket at the end of the mat next to the wall. Take your other towel or blanket and fold it over itself three times, placing it in the middle of your mat.
Lie down on your stomach with the tops of your feet resting against the bolster and your pelvis on the folded blanket. Drop your tailbone towards the floor. Turn your head to the right and rest your cheek against the floor.
Extend your right arm out from your shoulder, your elbow bent at a right angle so your palm is across from your face. Let your left arm fall straight down your side.
Hold this position for about five minutes, then switch sides, turning your head to the left and adjusting your arms accordingly.
 With this restorative yoga position, you can gently twist your spine while remaining entirely supported and comfortable. You still should not attempt this pose if you are recovering from a recent back injury.Gather a bolster and a blanket for your head. Lie on your back with your head on the blanket, setting the bolster beside your legs. Bend your knees so that the soles of your feet are resting flat on the floor.
Extend your arms out comfortably to either side of your body – they can be straight out from your shoulders, or more upward, whichever feels more comfortable. Keep your spine pressed neutrally against the floor, and draw your shoulder blades down along your spine.
Let your knees drift toward the bolster, keeping your shoulders anchored to the floor. Allow your knees to rest on the bolster. Maintain this twist for about five minutes, then do the other side.
To draw yourself out of this pose, pull your knees back to center on an exhale and wrap your arms around your shins, giving yourself a hug. Drop your feet down to the floor, spread wide apart so that your knees fall together. Place your hands on your belly and breathe deeply several times.
 Child's pose is perhaps the ultimate calming and relaxing yoga pose. As such, it's ideal to reduce stress and a good final pose for any yoga session. Use pillows or rolled blankets to support your head and neck so that you can fully relax in this position.To enter the pose, sit on your heels with your knees spread hip-width apart or wider, big toes touching. Hinge forward from your hips, extending your arms out in front of you.
Fold forward as far as you comfortably can. If you cannot fold all the way to the floor, use blankets or pillows to make up the difference. Rest your head comfortably, keeping your shoulders neutral and your neck long and relaxed.
A good way to make sure your shoulders are in correct position is to check your inner elbows. When your palms are faced downward toward the floor, your inner elbow creases should be facing upward.
Relax completely and breathe deeply. Hold this pose for at least five minutes, or as long as you want.

