 Apart from the space required to install game files on a computer, each version of Need for Speed requires a certain amount of hard disk space to be available to properly run all the features of the game.


For example, while Need for Speed Most Wanted 2012 requires only about 6 GB to install game files, it requires at least 20 GB of free space to run properly.
Freeing up space is important even if you already have the minimum required free hard disk space for your game. This is because low space increases the chances of file fragmentation occurring, and this would further cause the game to lag.
 This info may be displayed on the game’s CD case or saved on the CD itself in the form of digital help files (for disk versions of NFS).


If not, browse EA Online Help (https://help.ea.com/en/) and select your game to view its requirements.
 Compare this against the game’s requirement. For Windows 7, follow these steps:


Open the Start menu and go to Computer.
Right-click the icon of the hard drive or partition on which your game is installed.
Select “Properties.” This will bring up a dialog box showing the amount of used and free space on the hard drive or partition.
 Do this if you find that you need more space for the game.


Open the Start menu and go to Computer.
Double-click the icon of the hard drive or partition containing the game installation. This will allow you to view the contents.
Highlight the files or folders you do not need by clicking them with the mouse and then pressing Shift + Delete on your keyboard. This key combination will ensure the files and folders are completely deleted rather than stored in the Windows Recycle Bin.
 This is an option to free space on the partition containing the game if you don’t want to delete files.


Open the Start menu and go to Computer.
Double-click the icon of the hard drive or partition containing the game installation. This will allow you to view the contents.
To move a file/folder, right click it and select “Cut.”
Open Computer again (Start >> Computer).
Double-click the icon of the hard drive or partition where you wish to move the file/folder.
Press Control+V. This will paste the file/folder.

