 You can use tacky glue, a glue stick, or even hot glue. Leave some gaps between the leaves, but glue them down at different angles. Only put the glue to one side of the crease, so that your leaf still sticks up. If you over the entire back of the leaf with glue, it won't be three-dimensional anymore.


Consider starting with your larger, darker-colored leaves. This will lay down the foundation for your wreath, and give you more surface area to work with.If you made any leaves out of gold or sparkly paper, consider gluing those down first., Use smaller and smaller leaves as you go, and don't forget to overlap some of them. Also, try to place different shapes and colors together. This will make your wreath look more realistic and interesting.


If you have scraps of paper left over and some gaps that are too small to fill with leaves, consider cutting some other nature shapes, such as seed pods, pinecones, acorns, and berries. Use these to fill in any tiny gaps.
 How long you wait will depend on what type of glue you used. If you used hot glue, this will only take a few seconds to a few minutes. If you used tacky glue, this could take a few hours.
 How long you cut the string will depend on where you plan on hanging the wreath, and how low you want it to droop down. Choose a string that matches your wreath. For example, if your wreath looks rustic, a piece of yarn or jute cord would look great. If your wreath looks fancy or elegant, consider some satin or velvet ribbon instead.
 There are lots of ways you can do this, and it all depends on what sort of look you want in the end. For example:


If your wreath is thin, simply bring one end of the string through the center hole of the wreath, then tie both ends together to create a loop.
If your wreath is thick, turn the wreath over, then hot glue both ends of the string to the back of the wreath; keep the ends a few inches/centimeters apart.
 Because this wreath is made out of paper, it would not be a good idea to hang it over a fireplace mantle. Also, if it snows or rains a lot where you live, remember to take the wreath inside, or the paper will warp.

