 Onsra is pronounced uhns-’rah. It is a word from the Boro language of India, and it describes the sad and sweet feelings that you get when you realize that your love is coming to an end.This word is a noun because it is a feeling. You could say something like, “I get this bittersweet feeling of onsra, that what we have is coming to a close.” Then explain the origin of the word and its definition. This can help you explain a feeling you both might feel without saying it.
Telling someone you feel this way may open up the door for talking about the end of the relationship. You can talk about the good things you have shared together. Acknowledging the feeling of onsra could end up making your goodbye more meaningful.
Consider whether the other person agrees that the relationship is coming to an end before you use the word. You might not want to surprise them with your feelings when you are using a new word.;
, Retrouvailles is pronounced ruh-trooh-vahy. It is a French word, and it means the great happiness you feel when you see someone you love after you have been apart for a long time. This word translates as “rediscovery” in French.


This word can help you share the sense of rediscovery you feel seeing the person you love again. This word doesn’t have to be used only for lovers, you can also tell your friends that you feel this sense of rediscovery in your friendship.
You can say, “Seeing you again feels like retrouvailles; a rediscovery of all the reasons I already love you and more.”

, Tuqburni is pronounced ‘tooq-bur-nah. Tuqburni is an Arabic word, and it translates directly to “you bury me”. It describes the incredible and intense feeling of a love for a person that you can’t imagine your life without.


You would use this expression with someone whom you have a serious, committed or deep romantic relationship with. For example, “I have waited so long to feel deep love like tuqburni for someone. Finally, I have you and I have found tuqburni.”
Be careful not to overwhelm a new relationship with this kind of intense emotion. Save this phrase for a relationship where your intense love is shared.
You can also playfully joke with your friends about tuqburni for them.
 Saudade is pronounced saw-’dah-djee. This is a Portuguese word that means being overcome by the feeling of missing a person you love.


If you want a new way to tell someone you love how much you miss them, try using the word saudade. For example, send them a text message that says “I can’t stand this saudade anymore. When do I get to see you again?”

, Koi No Yokan is pronounced ‘koy-noh-yo-kin. It is a Japanese word, and it describes the feeling that you get that you and another person who you have just met will end up falling in love with each other.


For example, if you want to be playful you can tell someone “When I first met you and you were talking about your wine of the month club, I just knew Koi No Yokan. I was sure that we were destined to fall deeply in love.”
This is a cute way to express your delight at getting together. Telling him or her that you knew that it would be love from the start is a sweet way to flatter the person you have started something romantic with.
You can also use this expression if your romantic relationship was slow in the making. This expression doesn’t mean love at first sight, but instead, it is a knowing sense that things are going to happen eventually.
 Mamihlapinatapai is pronounced ‘mah-mih-lah-pee-nah-tah-pay. This is a word from the language of Tierra del Fuego called Fuegian. It refers to that particular look or feeling that is exchanged between two people who desire each other but are for some reason either unwilling or unable to make the first move.


After you are together you can ask him or her, “Was it just me or did we have a mamihlapinatapai moment in the cab we shared when we were just friends?”
Tell your friends about an exciting mamihlapinatapai moment you had with someone. These stories are always fun to hear.
 Kilig is from the language Tagalog and it refers to that ridiculous rush feeling you get when something good has happened for you in love. You are walking on cloud nine when you experience kilig.


For example, you might tell your friends about how you accidently squealed in the library when you read a message someone you like sent you.
 The word for forelsket is Norwegian, and it refers to the feeling of pure excitement and anticipation you have when you are first falling in love with someone. Others may be sick of hearing you talk about that person all of the time, but you can’t help yourself; you’re forelsket!


You might want to thank your best friend after your forelsket is over. You could say, “You really stayed with me through my forelsket!”
If you are in a relationship with the person you love then you can tell them, “You are making me totally forelsket!”

