 At the basin or in the shower, you must cleanse your face with a facial wash to remove any dirt, bacteria and excess make up that may be on your skin. Immediately after you wake up and before going to sleep are good times to start.
 Lightly pat your face dry so that your skin retains moisture and suppleness.
 Your hands are not enough -- you need to scrub away dead skin cells and dirt to make room for new, healthy skin cells to grow in every day. Using light pressure, mix some soap and water on a washcloth and scrub your entire body. It shouldn't hurt, but it also should feel a little rough.
 Toner is sold in the skincare aisle, and is applied to the face with a tissue or cotton ball. Toner removes minerals, such as chlorine, iron, or magnesium, which are found in pool or tap water. Buildup of these minerals will cause blemishes by blocking pores. Your pores may have expanded while washing your face, and toner additionally causes your pores to close and return to their normal size. This prevents excessive amounts of dirt, oil, makeup, or bacteria from causing blockage or creating pimples or blackheads.
 Wind and heat strips your skin of essential hydration, so adding a moisturizer to your routine can combat the effects of weather. Find one that is not oil based, as this can leave your skin looking shiny and oily. The correct way to apply cream or moisturizer is to pat the cream in an upward movement, starting from the base of the neck, up through your cheeks, stopping just below the eyes. Using an outward stroke, apply the cream on your forehead.
 Your skin needs air to truly thrive, so give it oxygen. Avoid spandex whenever possible and wear light, breathable clothing, especially in hot or moist environments.
 Exfoliating the skin is essential for keeping it happy and healthy. Exfoliating helps to remove a build up of dead skin cells, dirt, and oils, all of which can make your complexion appear dreary. Exfoliating helps to renew the skin making it look more youthful and radiant.

