 In addition to having limited nutritional value, junk food often contains too much fat and too many calories, sodium, and sugar.If you’re not the primary grocery shopper, you may want to consider temporarily taking over the responsibility. It’s important to get your husband into healthy eating habits by steering him away from junk food. Doing so, begins at the grocery store with the choices you make. If you’re not buying it and bringing it into the home, then your husband won’t have junk food readily available!


If there’s already junk food in the home, consider bringing it into work or hiding it until your husband can manage his portions better. Don’t forget to raid your freezer for things such as ice cream and frozen pizzas.
Remember that beverages can be junk food as well. Soda or other beverages high in sugar shouldn’t be brought into the home.
Your first few trips to the grocery store might take a bit longer than usual, as you should familiarize yourself with ingredients before adding items to your cart.;
, Inevitably, your husband will notice that the junk food is gone. You’ll want to have some healthy snacking options available to him instead. Replacing junk food with healthier alternatives that still satisfy your taste buds is key to making the switch.If your husband likes the crunch of chips, try purchasing apples or snap peas. Maybe he has a sweet tooth and tends to snack on ice cream. Replace it with frozen yogurt. Think of what it is he likes about junk food and try to consider that when you’re buying alternative snacks.
Frozen grapes, baby carrots and plain almonds are quick and easy snacks to stock up on. The more readily available the snack is, the better. If you buy fresh fruit, cut it up and place it in a bowl in the fridge.
Get creative with meal substitutions. For example, if your husband enjoys mashed potatoes, try substituting them with mashed cauliflower. Pork and beef can be substituted for turkey products and scrambled eggs can become scrambled egg whites.
 While you may not be in the habit of doing so, making meals for your husband is extremely important. By preparing a healthy breakfast, packing his lunch and putting dinner on the table when he gets home, you’re helping to improve his diet. This will prevent him from making unhealthy choices throughout the day, such as eating fast food or stopping for a donut on the way to work.


If making lunch for your husband doesn’t fit into your busy schedule, consider giving him leftovers. It’s easy to throw last night’s dinner into a container, along with a few pieces of fruit and a handful of almonds. This will provide him with the nourishment he needs throughout the day.
For breakfast, try having yogurt or oatmeal on hand. Cereal that isn’t high in sugar is fine as well. You don’t necessarily need to make your husband breakfast, unless you notice that he is skipping your healthy alternatives, in favor of a trip to the bakery. If that happens, try making him a smoothie to go or have a homemade yogurt parfait ready to eat in the fridge.
 People who cook at home tend to consume fewer calories, carbohydrates, sugar and fat than those who rarely or never cook.While you can find healthy options at most restaurants, nothing beats a home cooked meal. Save your money and the calories and choose to dine in more often!


Portion control is an important aspect of eating at home. Preparing meals at home not only encourages portion control, but is helpful in combatting overeating,as restaurants typically serve large portions and multiple sides.
Try coming up with a meal plan at the beginning of the week and shop accordingly. If you’re pressed for time, having a plan in place for the week will help make dinner preparation a breeze.
If you need recipe ideas, try searching on websites such as Pinterest.
 Start small in introducing your husband to exercise by asking him to take a walk with you. Walking after dinner can do wonders for your health.It will also give you both the chance to talk and unwind after a busy day.


Try going for a short walk at first and work your way up to longer walks.
You don’t have to power walk in order to enjoy the benefits of an after dinner stroll.
 Though he may not be inclined to do yoga or Zumba, find a fitness class that the two of you can do together. It might even be an activity such as tennis that finally gets him excited about exercising. One piece of advice is to have him think back to something he loved as a kid and to try it again.Choose activities your husband enjoyed when he was younger and try to incorporate that into your fitness plan.


To avoid giving yourself away, tell your husband how much you’d like to play doubles tennis, but haven’t been able to find a partner. Or ask him to teach you to do something he used to love such as basketball.
Get certified in wall climbing and try something new together!

, Although it may not seem like the obvious exercise choice, on average you can burn between 175 and 250 calories for every 30 minutes of Latin/Salsa dancing.In addition to the health benefits, you will bond as a couple in attempting to learn the moves.
 The decisions you make directly impacts your spouse. If you opt to turn the TV off at night and go for a walk or play with the dog, your husband will follow suit. In addition to being a passive activity, marketing/advertising on the TV features a range of unhealthy food products, which negatively impacts a person's purchasing habits.Start small by creating a “no TV” rule one night a week. Choose a night and stick with it. Gradually work your way up to two or three nights a week.
Try playing a game instead.
 If either you or your spouse smokes, take the lead and quit! Not only is smoking bad for your overall health, but it affects your ability to absorb crucial vitamins and minerals such as calcium and vitamins C and D.In short, smoking effects a person’s diet and nutrition as well.


In case you need more convincing, heavy smokers are often heavier than light smokers or nonsmokers., Drinking and snacking go hand in hand. Whether it’s a handful of peanuts at the bar or a piece of pizza later in the night; drinking promotes unhealthy eating habits. Then there’s the unnecessary calories to consider when drinking. If you use only four ounces of a sweetened mixer, it can contain up to 25 grams of carbs. Richer drinks, such as a mudslide, can contain over 500 calories.Buy light beer instead. Ultra, low carb beer contains about 3-4 grams of carbs per bottle/can, compared to the 10 grams found in a regular version.If you do plan on having a cocktail, order a water as well. A good rule of thumb is to alternate water and your cocktail to ensure you've drank 12 ounces of water for every alcoholic beverage consumed. This may help to reduce your alcohol consumption by half., At the end of the day, you can do everything for your husband - meal preparation, grocery shopping, etc.; however, he still has to commit to putting in work as well. Be a good teacher and show him how to do things, whether it's meal substitutions or buying healthier options at the grocery store, make sure your husband can support his new lifestyle on his own.


Have him help with meal preparation and choosing recipes for the week.
Be a good support system for him, but remember that he is the one who ultimately needs to do the work!

