 The base of your wings will consist of coffee filters and cardboard. Use cheap coffee filters or whatever you have in your home. No need to buy specialty coffee filters for your angel wings. Purchase a full package of coffee filters in case you need additional filters. You'll also need:


Scrap cardboard
Pen or pencil
Scissors
Crafting glue
Ribbon or shoelaces

, The cardboard can be any size you want, but a good size to consider will span the distance between the wearer's chin and lower back. Look at pictures online for inspiration and draw your outline on the cardboard. Make both wings as symmetrical as possible.
 The cut should be straight and run cleanly from the center dip to the bottom point. This will form the frame of your wings. Spend time creating clean cuts.


Ultimately you will cover the edges of the cardboard with coffee filters. Don’t restart if you cut an extra line in the cardboard or make a minor mistake.
 You may need to experiment with where the holes should be by holding the wings up to the back of the wearer. One hole should go roughly 2 inches (5 cm) below the top point of one wing. The second should extend down about 4 inches (10 cm) from the first hole created. The other two holes for the second wing should be in the same place.
 You will need four ribbons, but it’s also doable using two. The first ribbon will create an arm strap, securing the ribbon to both holes of one wing. The second ribbon should connect both holes on the other wing and create a second arm strap. Tie the ribbons in place to ensure that there is enough room for the wearer's arm to go through.


Two ribbons will secure the wings to your back. The third and fourth ribbons are used to secure the wings together.
The third ribbon will connect the top holes of both wings and the final ribbon should connect the bottom holes of both wings. The last two ribbons will be considerably shorter than the arm straps.
Tie the ribbons in place to make sure that the wings can be slipped over the wearer's shoulders.
Make sure the cardboard can be seen from the wearer's front.
 The number of coffee filters you need will vary depending on the size of your wings You will need enough to cover the entire front and back with folded filters.


Arrange the folded filters onto the cardboard and play with the design until you find a good fit.
Experiment by folding multiple coffee into one fold.
 Glue a line of coffee filters along the inside of each wing.Glue the coffee filters to the front and back of the cardboard. This will make the rounded edges hang over the cardboard on both sides.
 Starting at the bottom inside corner, slide a coffee filter over the edge of cardboard. Position it in a way that one half covers the front and the other half covers the back. Continue lining the coffee filters along the outer edge of the wing in this manner, overlapping them slightly, until you reach the top inside corner.
 Each layer should slightly overlap the layer before it. The entire front and back should be covered with halved filters, but do not worry if you can see a little cardboard at the outer edge of the wings.
 Wait about thirty minutes for the glue to dry. Try the wings on once the glue dries. As soon as the glue dries, the wings are ready to wear.

