 These items are the heaviest, and you definitely don’t take them on the plane. Most diving centers include this equipment in the price of the organized dives. If you go diving on your own, you should definitely rent these. Consider also renting the other equipment - just take a mask and a snorkel. There can also be a big difference in the quality of the equipment the different diving centers offer. Make sure you are informed before you arrive. However most divers prefer using their own equipment.;
, You can also rent these. There are also soft foldable snorkels that even fit in the pocket of the jacket. Take a low-volume mask that fits in the foot pocket of you fins. It protects the mask and you don't have to bring a box. Replace the silicon strap with a neoprene Velcro adjustable strap, which is lighter and more comfortable. But make sure the strap is tight so water doesn't go into your mask.
 If you need foot protection, you may take a pair of neoprene socks with a larger sized fins. Carbon fins are an option, but most of them are the long type that free divers use. If you can’t do without your open heel fins, don’t use the metal spring straps. Normally, those are preferable, but the conventional ones are lighter. Don’t pull them too tight.
 Plastic is recommended, although small light weighted metal second stages do exist. The first stage is always metal. Inform what valve system they use where you go diving - DIN or yoke. It avoids having to bring an adapter. The pressure gauge can be plastic. Use the modern braided hoses - they are half the weight of the normal type and more flexible.
 The back plate has to be small. Plastic D-rings and buckles are recommended instead of metal. Take the buckle of the weight belt in plastic.
 This depends on the water temperature. If the water temperature is below 18 °C (64 °F), consider a lightweight trilaminate drysuit. Take under-protection that you can also use as “normal” clothing. Use a full wetsuit about 2 mm thinner if you use a sleeveless 3 mm vest with hood under it.
 If you don't dive too deep, you don't need it. If you do, you can buy one that is integrated in your wrist watch. Make sure the batteries are full and bring an extra pair of batteries with you. It can be expensive or impossible to change them on your destination.
 For sure no hard case. Consider taking the trolley type with you - it is handy.
 Some models are bigger than a day-to-day office agenda. Pack your license and a few empty logbook sheets.

