 Nothing can be more relaxing than having a lazy day at the house with your dog. Take a nap, lounge around, and catch up on your rest. This is especially good if you and your dog are typically very active. It’s important to maintain an adequate amount of quality sleep time, and snuggling up with your dog for a nap or a few extra hours of sleep in the morning is a great bonding opportunity., Just like outside, this is a fun way to keep your pet busy without having to overly exert yourself. Show the dog a treat or toy. Then, keep the dog in another area until you’ve hidden it, and tell your dog to find the toy. If it can't find the hidden object after a while, give it a clue or show your dog where it is. Your dog will get better at this with practice.


If you have a dog that stays inside during the day, hide some treats or toys around the house. This will keep the dog occupied while it is not being directly observed., Training is a great way to spend time with your pet. Dogs like to learn and make their owners happy. Take time to teach your dog tricks that are just for fun like shaking hands and rolling over, but devote the bulk of your training time to helping your dog learn how to ask for your help or get your attention.


Reinforce with treats, but remember the goal of training for your pet shouldn’t be getting food. It should be discovering how to get positive responses from you, so a simple, “Good job!” and a pat on the head are just as important.
For instance, dogs who jump on people when they come to the door can be trained to stay calm. Go outside and wait a few moments. Knock on the door. Let yourself in. If the dog jumps, stand there until it returns to the ground, pet your dog, and tell it good job., This is another game that’s easy to play inside because it doesn’t involve a lot of movement that could potentially break or damage your furniture or other items in the home. You can buy special tug of war ropes and toys for your pet, or tie a knot in an old gym sock. As you hold one end, let your pup pull the other. After a few seconds, give the toy to your dog, and tell it, “Good job!”