 Either PVC or cardboard works well. If you're using PVC, smooth the entire PVC pipe using a fine sanding sponge.
 These will mark the places where you'll create holes to build your rainstick. Start about two inches from the end of the tube and draw dots all the way up. These dots should be spaced apart evenly (one half inch up and one inch across) and arranged helically (spiraling).
 Drilling directly through the center of the pipe each time will produce a double-helix arrangement of holes.


If you don't have a drill, you can use long nails instead. Place a long nail at each dot and use a hammer to hammer them in. Make sure the nails aren't long enough to pierce the other side.
 Dab the end of a wooden skewer with Gorilla glue or another sturdy glue and insert it into a hole. Cut the end so that its flush with the outside of the tube. Continue inserting the wooden skewers in the holes and cutting them to an appropriate length.


This step isn't necessary if you used nails instead of skewers.
You can get super glue designed for PVC pipe. In the pictures, Gorilla PVC Cement is used.
 Wait about an hour before finishing your rainstick.
 Sand off the nubs left from the skewers with a flat file or some sandpaper.
 Cover one end of the tube with a plastic, PVC or cardboard cap, so that the pebbles and other materials don't fall out.
 Pour in pebbles, dried rice, dried beans, beads, and other materials of your choice. Place your hand over the open end of the tube and tilt it to test the sound. You can add or remove material to fine-tune the sound.
 After the desired sound is found, glue the other cap onto the end of the rainstick. Allow time for the glue to set.
 Use ModPodge (or an equivalent decoupage substance) to paint the rainstick evenly. Working with a small portion at a time, place decorative tissue paper over the glue, pressing it down against the tube. After covering the pipe with decorative paper, go over it with more coats of Mod Podge until it isn't papery to the touch. Let it dry completely.
