 Misdiagnosis is common among people who have bipolar disorder, in part because of the high rates of comorbidity (having another disorder along with bipolar disorder). Individuals who have bipolar disorder may also suffer from substance abuse problems, ADHD, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and social phobia. Also, sometimes only the depressive symptoms of bipolar disorder may be noticed and treated.If you believe that your husband has been misdiagnosed, then encourage him to talk to his psychiatrist about the full range of his symptoms.
 If your husband has been diagnosed with bipolar in the past but isn’t being treated by a psychiatrist, you should help him get the help he needs. This can ensure both of you stay safe and healthy while having a loving, satisfying marriage. Make sure to bring up the topic when you both are comfortable and calm, not when you are upset or emotional.The first time you bring it up may not be successful. Your husband may get angry or upset if you bring it up. He may think he doesn't need help for his bipolar because he's been managing fine without any help. If this happens, leave it for now and bring it up again in the future.
 You should be very careful with how you speak with your husband when you bring up his bipolar disorder. Make sure to talk to him in a calm and loving manner, keeping all accusations out of your voice. Don’t let yourself get emotional or angry because it will cause distress in your husband.Try not to phrase things using “you.” Instead, phrase your sentences with the word “I.” For example, you may say, “I love you, and I’ve noticed you’ve seemed down lately. I want to help you if I can.” You may also say, “I see how much you struggle every day. I love you very much, so I did some research, and I think you may have bipolar disorder.”

, You may find yourself in a situation where your husband has never been diagnosed with bipolar. If your husband has never realized he has bipolar disorder, he may not know that he has it or even what the symptoms are. You should be prepared to share information about the disorder with your husband. Offer to read the information with him or give him time to look over them himself.You may want to print out articles about how to identify the symptoms of bipolar disorder or about treating bipolar disorder. You can include information about how bipolar disorder affects the brain, along with common symptoms of the different types of bipolar. You should also include treatment options.
 Though you can build a loving, healthy relationship with your husband, this takes dedication to treatment and management on both spouses’ parts. Sometimes, however, this may not be the case. If your husband ignores his bipolar diagnosis or refuses to get treatment, you may be subject to abuse.Abuse can take various forms. Bipolar people may verbally abuse you by blaming you for things. You may face emotional abuse due to cruel or controlling behavior. A person with bipolar may perform physical abuse if his irritability or anger gets too much. You may also be subject to financial abuse due to manic spending sprees that cause debt.