 Some people with ADHD have a hard time staying organized at home, at work, and in other areas as well. A professional organizer can help you to develop strategies for staying organized.An organizer can visit you at home and help you develop strategies for dealing with clutter.
An organizer can also help you learn how to manage your time better and stay on top of important dates and responsibilities.
 Writing things down can also be a great way to keep track of important dates and things you need to do. Try recording the things that you need to do each day in a planner, notepad, or even just on a sticky note. Keep the list someplace where you can see it and check off items as you complete them.Learn to prioritize. People with ADHD sometimes struggle to prioritize tasks, so learning how to prioritize might help. Every Prioritize your “to-do” items so that the most important or pressing things come first. Consider which items are time sensitive and which ones are not.
If you have trouble managing your money or keeping track of when bills are due, then writing bill due dates on a calendar or setting up bill-pay reminders on your phone may help you to stay on top of your bills., If you have trouble concentrating because of your surroundings, then making some simple changes may help you to stay focused. Some good ways to minimize your distractions include:sitting in the front of the room during lectures or meetings
wearing noise canceling headphones when you are working or studying in a noisy place
facing a wall rather than a window when you are working or studying
choosing the work environments that are most comfortable for you, such as in a coffee shop, at home, or the library, If you have something big to accomplish, then you may find it hard to know where to start. Instead of looking at the big picture, try to break the job down into a series of smaller tasks that you can work on one at a time.For example, if you need to develop a presentation, you might feel overwhelmed by the task. To make it more manageable, you might break it into small tasks such as 1) brainstorm 2) research and take notes 3) make an outline 4) create a PowerPoint 5) practice the presentation.
 People with ADHD tend to benefit from color coding because it makes ordinary text more interesting. You can also use color coding to help you separate different types of information.For example, when reading a textbook, you could use a red pen or pink highlighter to help you identify really important information. Or, you could color code information by subject and use a different highlighter for each subject to help you keep track of it all.

