 If your baby has bloody stools, gastrointestinal problems (like nausea, vomiting or diarrhea), or seems extremely fussy or irritable, get them examined by their pediatrician. The pediatrician may diagnose your baby with mild to moderate or severe allergic colitis, a reaction to an allergen that the baby is getting through their diet. You'll need to talk about changes to your diet so you're not passing any allergens through your breast milk., If you're breastfeeding your baby, talk with the doctor about your baby's feeding schedule. You'll also need to inform the doctor about your own diet since the baby may be reacting to an allergen that's passing through breast milk. The doctor will talk with you about starting an elimination diet, where you remove the allergic food from your diet so your breast milk doesn't contain the allergen.

The doctor will probably ask if you're on any special diet or if you're consuming cow's milk.
 Since cow's milk is the most common allergen, you'll most likely need to eliminate it from your diet immediately. You'll need to stop drinking cow's milk and avoid eating products made with cow's milk. Instead, try to substitute dairy free products (like hemp or nut-based milks and products). Avoid products that contain:Cow's milk or cream
Cheese
Butter
Ice cream
Sour cream
Cottage cheese

, Since you won't be getting as much calcium in your diet from dairy sources, you'll need to take a daily calcium supplement. Look for a daily supplement that contains 1000 mg of calcium. Take the supplement as long as you're on the elimination diet.You can also get calcium from non-dairy foods. For example, eat more broccoli, dark leafy greens, beans, fish with bones (like canned salmon or sardines).
 If your baby is allergic to the protein in cow's milk, you should notice an improvement within 72 to 96 hours of removing cow's milk from your diet. Many notice the allergic reactions clear up within a few weeks. Check back with the doctor after two weeks of the elimination diet.

The doctor can also give you advice about gradually reintroducing the allergenic food back into your diet after a few months., If your baby's symptoms do not improve after eliminating cow's milk from your diet, you can slowly begin eating it again. Eliminate one more allergenic food for at least two weeks to see if your baby improves. Talk with the doctor about removing these allergenic foods one at a time:

Soy
Citrus fruits
Eggs
Nuts (especially peanuts)
Wheat
Corn
Strawberries
Chocolate

, If the doctor diagnoses your baby with severe allergic colitis, you'll probably be told to start the elimination diet and make an appointment with a pediatric subspecialist. A pediatric allergist or gastroenterologist will examine your baby to make a more specific diagnosis and treatment plan.The subspecialist may want you to switch from breastfeeding to a hypoallergenic formula depending on results of blood tests.

