 It is important that you find a school that is a good fit for your child. Talk to your child about interests and future goals. Is your child into the arts or music? Is your child striving to get into a top college? Does your child love science? Identifying your child's interest will help you choose a school that matches those interests.Private schools often emphasize certain programs or activities.
Begin to look for schools that cater to and nurture your child's interests. This will increase your child's chances of getting into the school.;
, A good picture of your child's academic standing will help the private school process. Look at your child's past report cards and progress reports. Speak with current and past teachers. What areas does your child excel in? How does your child learn? What areas does your child need help in?


Private schools have different structures. Some schools may be traditional and very structured, while other schools allow children to learn at their own pace.Match your school choice to the academic needs of your child.
 Before you get started, let your child know that you are looking at some great new schools for them. Tell your child that you will be visiting some potential schools and speaking with some teachers.


Be upbeat and positive when you discuss this change. Make it sound exciting and fun.
 Depending on the school and your child's grade level, your child may be required to take an admissions test. The test is one component of the application packet. If you know your child struggles with standardized testing, have them take a test-prep course or hire a private tutor. If you are unable to pay for outside help, work through a test-prep book with your child.Check the websites of private schools in your area to see which standardized tests are required.
High schools are more likely to require standardized testing than elementary and middle schools.
Starting test prep before you plan to apply can reduce any nervousness or anxiety your child may feel about taking the test.

