 There are a variety of ways you can pebble your garden. Check out local gardens to see ways in which landscapers have pebbles in public spaces.


You can also go visit some gardens in person. If your city has a community garden or other green spaces, see if you can get any inspiration from those places.
You can also check online to to view pebbled gardens from around the world.;
, Carefully plan out your pebbled space. This area should be blocked off from the rest of the garden to heighten the effect of the pebbles.Use a tape measure to get the exact measurements you need to pebble your garden. This will help you know exactly how many pounds of pebbles you need. In general, one ton of pebbles will cover about 100 square feet at 3/4 to 1 inch thickness.It may be useful to have extra pebbles around when you need to fill in your pebble garden, so make sure to have more than you need for the space you have.
 Clear out any brush or weeds in areas where pebbles will be used. Wear gloves and protective gear so you don't cut your hands or injure your eyes.


Tear out weeds, flowers, or any other plants in the space that will be pebbled. This makes sure they don’t grow underneath your pebbles.
Have gloves and protective goggles when tearing out weeds or flowers. This is especially important if you are using a weed wacker or electric hedge trimmers.
 Precipitation can build up in the pebble garden if you do not have good drainage in your garden.If water is building up when it rains, you may have a drainage problem.
You can create a French drain, which is a trench next to the garden filled with gravel. This may help to keep your garden free from overflow water.
Another option to improve drainage is burying a pipe underneath a trench. The pipe should send the run off water to an area that won't be flooded when it's raining., This should be placed over the dirt or other base material that will be covered with pebbles. The weed mat covers the cleared area for the pebble garden and makes sure little will grow underneath the weed mat.The base covering that will be covered by the weed mat can be soil, sand, grass, pavement or other natural material.
The weed mat will limit the growth of weeds coming up through the pebbles. It will also keep the soil or other base material from mixing with the pebbles.
Weed mats can be purchased in a garden or landscaping store. They are made from a variety of materials including plastic.
Get a weed mat that's safe for the environment and will only affect the area you want it to for your pebble garden. If you can get a biodegradable weed mat, that will guarantee your weed mat only affects your garden area and will decompose after you're finished using it in your pebble garden.