 Make something old new again by reviving a nickname that used to be popular, but has since fallen out of use. For example, “Slick”, “Skippy”, or “Biff” for boys and “Dottie”, or “Kittie” for girls were popular in the 1940s and 1950s. During the Victorian Era, examples of popular nicknames for girls include “Josie”, “Millie”, and “Maisie”, and for boys “Fritz”, “Augie”, and “Zeb”.Look for inspiration from old TV shows or movies. For example, character nicknames on the “The Little Rascals”(1922-1944) include Alfalfa, Junior, Froggy, Pineapple, and Buckwheat.The popular musical and movie “Grease” (1978) includes members of the “Pink Ladies” (Rizzo, Frenchy, and Marty) and the “T-Birds” (Doody and Kenickie)., Find inspiration from where you’re from or what you do.For example, people from Indiana are often called “Hoosiers” and “Yinzer” is a nickname for people from Pittsburgh, PA.If you like to cook, you can go by “Chef”, “Mustang” if you like cars (you can use any type of car, this is just an example), or “Owl” if they like to read (or really like owls).


Use sports references. Think of a nickname associated with your favorite player. If you play a sport, think of cool nicknames for everyone on the team based on their strengths. See if any of the names stick.
 You can also think of a unique or uncommon way of creating a nickname from someone’s name, such as “Resa” from Theresa, “Elle” from Michelle, or “Ober” from Robert. Also, consider pronouncing someone’s name backwards, such as calling Katie “Eitak” or Brian “Nairb”. Finally, you can call someone by their middle name.


Famous celebrities, such as Katy Perry, Demi Moore, and Reese Witherspoon go by their middle name or mother’s maiden name., If you are, or want to become a musician, it is important to have a memorable nickname.Having a stage name is important if you want to protect your identity, or your name is difficult to pronounce.Unlike other types of nicknames, a stage name is your specific brand.


A good stage name is short, easy to pronounce, and represents who your are.Find inspiration from famous stage names. Look up your favorite musician and see how they chose their stage name.

