 Learn first hand what it's like to be a Halliwell. Observe their lives from a non-based perspective and mentally take notes of the sisters and their attitudes towards what's happening around them.;
, Study your family tree, observe which parent you get your specific qualities from, know your hometown, etc.
 Take into consideration what you think of yourself as well as what others think of you. Draw out your habits/quirks, likes and dislikes, and what makes you unique. Take all of these qualities and embrace them enthusiastically.
 Each Halliwell has to have their own battle. It could be love, friendship, family, work, school, even yourself. Remember that these battles are not permanent, the goal is to overcome them and become a better person. For example, in Charmed, Phoebe's battle was love.
 Look deep within yourself and feel what your power may be. Pick a supernatural power you feel is right for you and give it a real-world emphasis. Examples of powers can be mental persuasion (implicating ideas in others' heads), weather control (changing the mood of a room), telekinesis (getting things done without the usual effort), shape shifting (channeling different traits and/or attitudes willingly), or premonition (choosing the right choice or path to follow). Look at your life and determine what your good at. Be creative. Remember, powers can grow, so it's possible to have more than one power. Three is the usual limit.
 This can be a talent, an addiction, a belief or all of the above. Find something that makes you, you. This should be so individualistic that when others are reminded of this certain "thing" the first thing they think of is you. For example, Piper's thing was cooking and cleaning.
 When you are out and just happen to witness someone get hurt or someone crying, don't ignore it. These are innocents and you must try to help as many as possible. This includes teachers, co-workers, and in some cases evil bosses. Helping others helps yourself. The goal is to overcome your selfishness and at the same time make the world a better place even if it means sacrifice. For example, the sisters would rather save five strangers than one sibling.
 Give everything negative in life a name...a demonic name, such as the Demon of Laziness, the Demon of Bad Credit, the Demon of Backstabbing, or the Demon of Uncooperative Households. As a Halliwell, it's your duty to get rid of the evil in the world. If your a humanitarian, more power to you. Don't pick your battles, simply tackle them one at a time, you have to vanquish as many demons as possible to live that life you dream of living one day.
 Personal gain is a no-no. Refrain from stealing, cheating, and hurting other people. Remember these essential quotes: "Everything happens for a reason", "It's our job to protect the innocent, not to punish the guilty", and remember to "Treat others as you'd like to be treated" and that "Everything that goes around, comes around."

, You're a Halliwell now! Celebrate by having a little party for yourself or create a Charmed Ego for yourself. You can also start a diary which can be like your real-world book of shadows, change your facebook/IM/E-mail last name to Halliwell, or even legally change your name.

