 Know exactly what you're going to care for. Especially do a little bit of research on the lifespan of a fly, since most will not live over a month, even in captivity.;
, Make sure the habitat is exactly as you'd like it, as you won't be able to transfer the fly out of the jar or container once it is inside.

Choosing the right container is quite simple. A small, thoroughly cleaned pickle jar will do fine, but small pet carriers can be more pleasing to the eye, more fun to decorate, more comfortable for your fly, and even provide better ventilation.






While the flooring of your habitat won't hinder the health of your fly, it does make it more appealing to the eye. Dirt from the back yard is always an option, but some clay-based dirt may clump and make it difficult for your fly to move around. Aquarium gravel, washed thoroughly, works well in all cases. Store-purchased biome dirt for reptiles could work so long as you're not keeping larvae, as it may hinder the larva's ability to move around.






Add sticks, leaves, and other decorations. If your keeping a dirt-based flooring, add leaves over the top of it, and then add in a small twig or stick to give something for your fly to climb on. The twig can be stripped of its leaves or they may be left on.






Add food. Most flies will thrive if given a non-citrus fruit. Apples of any color will do well. A few small cubes, 2 for adults, 3 for larvae, will last their lifetime. They also eat rotting meat, but this may cause the biome to smell and possibly harbor diseases.






For jars, find a very thin cotton material and rubber band. This will work as your lid. A metal lid with holes causes poor ventilation and may cause the biome to become too hot or humid. A very thin t-shirt material will work fine.
 There are numerous ways to do it, but all are somewhat tricky. If you've got flies in your house, it would be easier, otherwise, it could take a while.

If you have flies in your house, just keep the jar open until a fly finds the fruit. Then cover the biome with the lid.






If you don't have flies in your house, you'll need to catch them outside. Leave a half of an apple out for a day, and then come back. Ants as well as flies will be eating it. Leave the open jar out until a fly lands inside. Cover the lid.






If you want larvae, that way you can raise the fly over the course of their lifetime, you'll need to do a little extra work. If they're in your house, go searching for the breeding grounds. Rotten meat or fruit, even open bottle of Yoo-Hoo or coke, are wonderful breeding grounds. If you can't find it, cut an apple in half and then make a small dip in the cut, like a cradle. Leave it out with the cradle face up. Flies will lay eggs here. You can collect the eggs or wait until they hatch into maggots or larvae. Use paper or a leaf to transport them. Do not use your hands, as it may crush them.






If you prefer not to make your house a breeding ground, cut an apple in half, and cut a cradle where the stem is. Skewer the apple with a knife from the top down. The handle of the knife should be on the same side of the apple as the cradle. Tie a string to the knife and hang it outside. This will keep the ants from eating, making perfect breeding grounds for flies. Collect the eggs or wait until they hatch into maggots or larvae. Use paper or a leaf to transport them. Do not use your hands, as it may crush them.






If all else fails, you can use flypaper and scrape the fly off with cardboard paper, but note, this may cause legs or even wings to be pulled off and the fly will take a very long time to remove the glue from itself. This method is only suggested for last-resorts. The fly will be immobile temporarily and can be transported to the jar by paper or leaf.
 Make sure your fly seems healthy and happy inside its new home. Once the fruit begins to really rot, it's a good idea to sprinkle a little bit of water through the cotton lid to give the fly a little moisture every day or so. Make sure it isn't excessive, however.

