 When you ask the price of the item and think "WHAT?!" when they give you a price 10 times more than you're willing to pay, you need to try not to look too shocked. If you go for the whole "That's ridiculous!" approach, you won't get anywhere; you need to make the seller feel guilty, not angry.


If you make this mistake, apologize and move on. You've already shown your darker side, and the seller is likely to be somewhat wary of you.;
, You don't want the seller to see the cogs turning in your mind as you try to think of the best haggling approach. Try to widen your eyes very slightly as you feign slight shock at the price. Turn your mouth into either a small 'O' or a pursed line. Both of these show that you're uncomfortable with the price. The idea of wide eyes makes the seller feel slightly guilty, and if you even add a little "uh?" like a child having their toy taken away, you will seem like the innocent one and they will be squirming in their skin.
 If you have a child with you at the time, use this to your advantage. If it's the child that wants the item, then this is even better. Place a hand on the child's shoulder and say something similar to the following things:


"S/he only has £10 pocket money...!"
"But s/he doesn't have that much money left!"
"Honey, daddy doesn't have that much money... I'm sorry hun, the man won't go any cheaper..."
"Look at her/him....are you sure you won't do £5?".
 Make up a quick story of what you would use the item for and all of the plans you had for it, and then say something along the lines of "It's a bit expensive though...a shame really...". You don't have to tell a real story; exaggerate and make it sound as if you are very keen to buy it but would never pay that much.
 Mention: "I've seen cheaper elsewhere." This can make them panic and think "Oh no! I must lower the price, quickly!" However, it can backfire if they're well aware that their competitors are closely aligning prices with theirs, and they'll smirk and wave you off in that direction.
 Get out a handful of cash. Make sure that you get out less than they are wanting, and flick through it as if counting.This has two benefits:


It makes the seller's mouth start watering for the money now that they can see it, and they will be more willing to take it at a lower price.
It shows them that you don't have as much as they want but are willing to pay money still. (Remember, a little white lie doesn't hurt anyone!).

