 Dog parks with shallow pools for your dog to wade in are extra great. If not, a regular dog park will do. At the dog park, your dog will be able to run around and meet and play with other dogs. You can also take a ball with you to play fetch with your dog.If your dog does not get along with other dogs, then play fetch in the backyard, or simply walk your dog in the neighborhood.
 Use a toy that your dog likes and is willing to put in its mouth. For some dogs it could be plush toy, while for others it could be a ball. Allow your dog to sniff and mouth the toy, and reward it for doing so. Then place the toy on the ground. Encourage your dog to pick up the toy. Place your hand under the toy in your dog's mouth and wait for it to drop the toy in your hand. Reward your dog for the correct behavior.Gradually increase the distance from where you place the toy on the ground and yourself. Make sure to reward your dog each time it displays the correct behavior.
 You should generally walk adult dogs for at least 30 minutes a day. However, the actual amount of time you spend walking your dog can vary, and is dependent on breed, age, and size. When walking your dog, do not let your dog walk in front of you. You need to establish that you are the pack leader by walking in front of your dog.By establishing that you are pack leader, this will allow your dog to relax and enjoy the walk.
Take your dog for a walk around the block, to the dog park, or to a regular park.
 Think about scheduling a play date with your dog’s favorite friends. Plan to meet at the dog park, or have your dog’s friends come over to play in the backyard., If your dog requires more rigorous exercise, then perhaps you should sign it up for an agility class. The high-energy jumping and running that is done in these classes is not only great exercise, but it will also develop your dog’s confidence and skill set.Sign your dog up for an agility class at your local pet store or dog training school.
If your dog has never had any training before, then you will need to place your dog in an obedience class, first, and then work your way up to the agility class.
 Pool exercise is a great way to improve your dog's muscle strength and tone, promote cardiovascular health, and improve your dog's metabolic rate. Swimming is also a low impact exercise that is easy on your dog's joints. Bring your dog to a dog park that contains pools, or a swimming center that caters to dogs.


Throw a ball or toy into the pool for your dog to fetch.You can also walk or trot your dog in a shallow pool, one where the water is at or below knee level. The resistance created by the water will strengthen your dog's muscles.

