 The Declaration of Independence, the Bill of Rights, notes from runaways, notes written in school, essays, stories, poems, last wills, wedding vows, grocery lists, music, songs, and many more.;
, Handwriting can be as unique as fingerprints. Look at all the things in someone's writing that makes you realize who it belongs to.


Analyze Handwriting (Graphology)

, If you think it's too sloppy or indifferent, then work on improving it.


Improve Your Handwriting
Write Neatly
Practice Your Handwriting Daily

, Cursive is a faster way of writing, and looks prettier than normal handwriting. Some people prefer to just write their name in cursive, while others use cursive all the time.
 Not everyone has the privilege of having a teacher or parent to teach them how to write.
 Letters are much more personal than a simple email. Don't make them all say the same thing; say different things to different people, and even try to reminisce about fun things you did in the past.
 Send it anonymously to a crush, or make your boy/girlfriend's day by sending them one.
 This is one of the best things to write, because you can make your writing reflect what's happening in the story (i.e. when writing the word "wave", you make the word wavy, or when writing the word "falling" you make the word progressively fall off the page).
 Why type in them on the computer when you can just write them out?


Write Olde English Letters
Write Classic Font
Draw Bubble Letters
Write in Different Styles
Draw 3D Letters
Draw Ancient Letters
Write in Gothic Calligraphy

, Look at other famous signatures for inspiration (such as the birthday boy of this holiday, John Hancock). For your signature, try making just one letter stand out or emphasize all the other letters.
 This should be simple and innocent, such as writing, "I think, therefore I am." on a random rock on the sidewalk, or writing an encouraging message on a piece of paper and taping it to the ceiling somewhere. If you're writing on public things, make sure that it's not permanent or inappropriate. Remember to write nice things, not gossip and sarcastic comments.
 Those who write out their goals, dreams, and hopes are 33% more likely to achieve them due to the more personal nature of handwriting.
 Wouldn't it be nice to wake up and sleepily write down what you dreamt about?

, If you are a teacher or professor, then consider making up an assignment.

