 Before you sit down to write an email to the customer service department of any company, you should make sure that the answer to your question isn’t already on their website. Many companies have answers to common questions on various pages of their website, usually FAQs and support pages.


You can usually find access to these sections of a company website by scrolling all the way to the bottom of any page and clicking a link that says “Contact Us” or “Help” or “Customer Service.”

, If you don’t see a link for customer service at the bottom of their website, you may be able to use the search box. There is often either a field you can type into or the icon of a magnifying glass in the upper right hand corner of a company’s homepage. Type in search terms like “customer service” or “contact” and hit enter.


Often the “Contact Us” page is where companies will provide an email field for customers to submit their comments or complaints.

Check this page to make sure that you will be emailed a copy; if not, search the website for an email address to use in your personal email account so that you can keep a record of your correspondence.
 Search for the item you have a question about in the same search bar that you used to find the customer service email address. Searching for your issue or question this way can reveal the answer without having to send an email at all.This is essential to appearing intelligent and garnering respect when you do send an email. If you write about something that already appears on the website, the customer service team may see you as a demanding and lazy customer, and therefore not profitable.
Check the FAQs as well. Many times the answer to your question has already been asked and published in the form of a Frequently Asked Question. That’s why many websites have such a page: to keep customer service emails to a minimum.
 If you don’t find an answer to your question in the search bar or under the FAQs, you may be able to find it in the “About Us” or return policy pages. Again, scroll to the very bottom of the website and look at the links available. Search for any link that might contain the answer to your question: About Us, Index, Credit Card, Product Availability, Return Policy, Privacy Policy, Terms of Use, and so on.


Even if you don’t find an answer under one of these links, it is useful to look through them because you can use your extra knowledge of the company to get what you need from them in your email.
 Not all email communications with customer support have to be complaints or questions. You may simply want to thank them for their good customer service. Positive emails like this are welcomed by most companies just as much as emails posing questions.


The truth is that sometimes, registering a complaint by phone call is faster and more direct than an email. Email is great for submitting your gratitude or asking a question that doesn’t need an immediate answer, but if you want an issue resolved instantly, the best way is to call.
 Make your subject line meaningful and to the point. You want the customer service rep who looks at their inbox to notice yours first so that you get a faster response. Make the subject short, contain a summary of your email, and beg to be opened.For example: “Dog Chewed My Lifetime Warranty Chacos—Need Replacement”

, Once you’ve nailed down a solid subject line, the next step is to greet the customer service rep. Don’t just launch into your problem. You wouldn’t skip the greeting on a phone call or in person, would you? It can be as simple as “Dear Customer Service Team.”Try to find a name to insert in your greeting. Some smaller companies may list the names of their customer service reps, and utilizing this can make you seem more personable and desirable to work with.
You can end this greeting with a comma or colon. Dear Customer Service, OR Dear Customer Service:

, Maintain the rep’s respect by using standard type. Don’t use all caps, a mix of uppercase and lowercase caps, or script fonts. Just type using standard punctuation, spelling, and capitalization. This will help your email to be taken seriously., Keep a courteous tone, even if you are registering a complaint or expressing your frustration. You will be more valued as a customer and probably given more courteous treatment in return., After your greeting to the rep, introduce yourself. Offer your name and explain what type of customer you are, whether a first-time or repeat. In both cases, the rep will want to keep your business. If it is relevant, mention your geographic location (such as for an outdoors product or service).
 Use specific language in your email. Avoid using generic terms, like “my product;” instead, describe in detail what the product or service is and why this item is worth emailing about. Describe any relevant events associated with it so that the rep knows exactly what the problem is. Offering this information in the initial email prevents a long email conversation.


Use the URL of the product, if available, so that the rep has an immediate reference for your description.Include your order ID in the email as well, since most reps are going to ask you for it anyway. This ID number is how your order is tracked and maintained in their system., Get right to the point in your email. Don’t beat around the bush. Once you have greeted the rep and introduced yourself, start a new paragraph that tells the rep exactly what is going on, using the specific language mentioned in the previous step.


Directly ask for any concessions you want. You may feel shy about asking for them, but set that aside in your email. If you want something in exchange for a defective product, say so.
 Make sure your paragraphs are short. Keeping them to one, two, or at the most three sentences is easier on the eyes. It also allows the rep to quickly scan the email for how to prioritize it, and if your email is a block of text, they will likely lower it to the bottom of the list just because they don’t have time to figure out what you’re saying.
 End the email with a final sentence to summarize your request or compliment, followed by a salutation. Signing off as “Sincerely” works fine, but you can also leave off a salutation and just insert your email signature. You can also indicate your urgency by signing off with “Eagerly awaiting your reply,” or something along those lines.


An email signature is a short block of text that includes your name, occupation, and contact info. You can format an email signature in your email provider’s settings and set it to automatically appear in new messages.
 Try not to attach any documents to an email you are sending to someone for the first time. Many websites have spam filters that target emails with attachments, making it likely that your email will get moved to the trash before it is ever read.You should of course include an attachment if you are submitting an email application to a job and are asked to attach your resume as a Word document.
Don’t include any usernames, passwords, or credit card/payment information either.
 After your email is complete, don’t get excited and hit the submit button quite yet. You need to proofread this email, making sure no careless typos interfere with the excellence of your words. Even if you typed the email using your smartphone, the automatic “sent from my iPhone” tag does not excuse errors in grammar and punctuation that make you look less than professional., If you haven’t heard a reply to your email after a few days, it is likely that the email was caught in a spam filter or moved to the bottom of the stack. Send an email noting your previous email and asking if your first one has been received.
 You may not realize it, but part of maintaining a polite tone includes using good grammar and spelling. Taking care to communicate yourself clearly shows that you respect the other party, as well as demonstrates that you are generally a polite person.
 Don’t be pretentious, but do allow your education to shine through by using good vocabulary. Also, if you have scoured the company website and learned a bit about their policies, mention that you have read them and still can’t find an answer to your problem.
 Witty remarks and joking have their place, and that place is not in an email that you want to be taken seriously, at least not in the first correspondence. Such language can be interpreted as inappropriate, something you want to avoid when dealing with any business.


Once you build a rapport with a rep through a series of emails, joking will more readily be accepted and understood.
 Even though you may be angry at how a product or service has been handled, expressing this in an email will not get you the results you need. Communicating your issue with respect and courtesy will go much further than a mean or aggressive email.


Keep in mind that you can’t properly express emotion through text. If you are upset enough about your issue to want immediate attention, resorting to a phone call might be more effective., Finally, mentioning how loyal you are to a company and how grateful you have always been for their service in the past makes it easier for reps to appreciate your email and respond more quickly.

