 It’s easier to compare portion sizes to everyday objects, especially for foods that are measured by mass or volume instead of by count. Doing so will help you teach your child how to choose the best portion sizes for themselves.For example, bread can be counted by the slice, and one slice is one portion.
Think of a two to three ounce (57 to 85 g) portion size of beef or poultry as a deck of cards. A portion of fish is the size of a checkbook.
For most foods measured by volume, a baseball-sized amount equals one cup (240 mL).
Fruits and veggies can vary: one apple might be larger than another or you might serve veggies chopped up or in a salad. Think of one portion of fruit as the size of a tennis ball. Think of a portion of veggies as the size of a baseball.
A portion of fats and oils, like butter, is the size of a postage stamp.;
, Do your best to serve meals that are not only well portioned, but that have the healthiest proportions of each food group. In general, half of each meal should consist of fruits or veggies, a quarter should be grains, and the last quarter should be lean protein.For example, a well-proportioned lunch for a ten year old could be a baseball-sized serving of mixed greens, a piece of grilled chicken breast the size of a deck of cards, and a serving of brown rice half the size of a baseball.
 You should serve smaller-sized portions over the course of three meals and a couple snacks instead of trying to pack nutritional requirements into larger portions. Regular meals and snacks distributed throughout the day will help your child maintain their energy level. Healthy portion sizes are also easier on their developing digestive systems.A healthy snack could be a small piece of fruit, 12 unsalted almonds, or a few whole wheat crackers with a ping pong ball-sized portion of peanut butter.
If your child gets full easily, breaking up their nutritional requirements into smaller meals and snacks will help you make sure they meet their daily needs.
 When you and your family are out to eat, be on the lookout for massive portions. In the last few decades, portion sizes at restaurants in the United States have doubled in size.Try sharing meals or packing up half of a meal to take home.Visualizing healthy portion sizes as everyday objects will help you and your child stick to your nutritional goals even when you’re out to eat.
 Following basic guidelines will help you plan your child’s meals, but don’t hesitate to get help from their pediatrician. They can help you determine if your child has specific dietary needs or deficiencies. In addition, they can help you tailor your child’s meal plan to their activity level.Tell the pediatrician about your child's diet and ask if they have any specific recommendations. You could ask, "Do you see any signs that my child isn't getting enough of any particular nutrients? Is their BMI (body mass index) on track for their age, height, and sex?"
Be sure to mention any upcoming changes in activity level. You might, for example, ask the pediatrician, "Sam is starting soccer in a few weeks. Do you recommend that I serve meals with more calories, bigger portion sizes, or any particular nutrients?"

