 Financing, menu options, operating hours and employment considerations should be fully explained, along with details about the name of the business and anything else that will help prove that the coffee house will be a viable business opportunity. If this step proves to be troublesome for you, contact the Small Business Administration. Their experts can help you draft your business plan and find financial support.;
, The location should have plenty of parking available and be energy efficient. You will want to be located where there is either a lot of drive-by traffic or foot traffic in order to increase your visibility to potential customers. If you are considering offering a drive-through window, your location should either already have this option or be located where a drive-through window would be accessible to drivers.
 Build your kitchen, keeping in mind what you plan to offer on your menu. Purchase dishes, glasses, silverware and mugs for serving. Basics such as a cash register, napkin holders and other restaurant staples are part of this step.
 Maybe you just plan on offering coffee with various options. Or, you might like to offer muffins or pastries along with coffee. Some coffee houses offer sandwiches and soup. Determine ahead of time what your basic menu will include. Set prices accordingly.
 Do your homework to learn which vendors offer more economical prices and delivery options that best fit your needs. These requirements may change as your business evolves and grows, but this is one of the most important initial steps that will help you succeed in your business. By ordering from well-researched vendors, you may save a substantial amount of money.
 High school or college students often make excellent employees, depending on the hours they can work. In the beginning, your coffee house will need fewer employees. But, just because you may need fewer employees at the on-set, do not settle for employees who do not meet your standards of excellence.
 Invite a small group of people for a free sample during a pre-determined time. For instance, a soft opening event might occur on a Saturday from 1 to 3 p.m. Offer a free coffee or tea (or other sample from the menu).

