 If your issue with your teeth is that they aren't white enough, you can use whitening products to make them whiter. This may help you feel more confident about your smile, even if you have other dental issues.There are many whitening products you can try. The cheapest and best to start with is whitening toothpastes. These are easy to use because you use them just like any other toothpaste.


Also try whitening gels. These come with trays to hold the gel against your teeth. These can be more expensive, especially if you get custom trays from a dentist shaped to your teeth.
You may also want to try whitening strips. These stick onto your teeth to whiten them. These are quite expensive and you will likely have to use these repeatedly, so the cost can add up.
If you want extreme whitening, you can also get professional whitening treatments done by your dentist., Something as simple as brushing your teeth twice a day can help your overall teeth health and make you more confident about your teeth. Brushing can improve the way your teeth look even if they are not straight. Brushing will keep teeth healthy and make it easier to get dental work to fix more complex problems.


Choose a fluoride toothpaste. It will do a better job of preventing cavities and tooth decay than a non-fluoride toothpaste., Brushing is not the only maintenance that you should perform on your teeth everyday. Floss daily using either normal floss or floss toothpicks. This will help remove bacteria, plaque, and food from your teeth that is missed by your toothbrush. It will also keep your teeth healthier and looking better.Mouthwash will also help maintain your teeth and make you feel more confident about your smile. Plus, it has the added bonus of killing bacteria and giving you fresh breath.
 Excessive sugar in the diet is a leading cause of tooth decay. Each time you eat sugar, an acid is created that starts to deteriorate your teeth. Instead of eating multiple sweets really close together, try limiting the amount you intake to one sweet every 4-5 hours. This will give your teeth time to stabilize before you add any more sugar to your mouth.


Be aware of hidden sugars in sodas, juices, and products labeled "no sugar added". These all have sugar in them that can harm your teeth. Try diet sodas, sugar free products, or natural sweeteners. These have no effect on your teeth and will help you preserve your teeth.
You don't have to cut sweets out all together, just reduce the amount of sugar you eat each day.
Try eating sugar-free sweets if you are having a hard time reducing the amount of sugar in your diet., There are other activities and habits that can make your teeth worse. You should stop smoking because cigarettes stain your teeth. Coffee, dark colored soda, tea, and red wine can stain your teeth, so try to drink less of them on a daily basis.If you really like dark liquids, try drinking them through a straw to reduce staining.
Dry mouth can also lead to tooth decay, so try to keep your mouth moist by drinking more water or chewing sugar free gum.