 It doesn't need to be a fancy one like the hotel, a little one like Daisy cottage will do. If you can`t buy a house, use a cardboard box and make a bit of furniture for it. Now you can start playing!;
, If you have more than one house they can go to each others for sleepovers, lunch or dinner, to play, to camp together, etc. They can also sit next to each other at school.
 The mums can go on shopping sprees while the dads go round each others and watch the football. The same for uncles, aunts, grandmothers and grandfathers.
 They can go camping, go to the seaside, the farm, on the boat, the Grand Hotel even! You can get cases for them in certain sets like the hotel, the family cars and the guest room furniture set. If not, you can make them or buy them at a doll house store like the Doll House Emporium.
 The most recent one is Berry Grove. It comes with 12 chairs so 6 can go on the ground floor and 6 can go on the top floor. Buy one of the lesson packs if you have more than 12 children or you get given Sylvanians often as the school fills up very quickly! Here is everything you can buy for the school: the school sports day set, the dinner lady and lollipop man, the school pupils set. The school dinners set, the school nurse and accessory set, the school play set and the music lesson set with the teacher. You can also buy some other sets online. You can have children pack their backpacks and go to school on the bus or have them walk. They can have their lessons and play outside. Don`t let them forget their pack lunches or dinner money!

, You can buy a bus, a playground and the toilets for them. Send them to school on the bus with their pack lunches, they can read books, build with blocks, learn their A B Cs and have music lessons once they get there. They can eat their lunch and play in the playground too!

, Try to give them jobs that they do if you can(this can be found on the back of the boxes that the families come in or on the website). Like Matilda Billabong works in the nursery, so Try to give her that job. Daisy Buttercup is very chatty, so a shop job would work well. The Buckley parents are school teachers, etc.
 Good food packs are the breakfast set, the scrumptious sandwiches set, the dinner for 2 set, the kitchen cookery set and the lunch set. You can also buy the Blackcurrant Cafe and the Courtyard Restaurant and shops like the cake or sweet shop.
 You can buy bedroom sets like the children`s bedroom set, the triple baby bunk beds and the master bedroom set.
,