 Why do you want to stay up late? You want to because one of your friends dared you to do so? You want to because you just want to be able to tell people that you stayed up all night? Once you find your answer, be determined to stay up all night.;
, Do you want to do this with someone or just by yourself? If you want to do it with someone, do it with somebody you can trust, like a close friend. Some people do this at sleepovers. If you want to do it alone, that's fine.
 Like your phone, iPod, laptop, notebook and a pencil, or some books and hide them. Keep them in a drawer or under your bed so if your parents come to check up on you before they go to bed, your parents won't be able to identify the items/technology. If you are at a sleepover, depending on how strict the adults are and how late it is, you might not do it.
 This is especially important if you know your parents normally check up on you before they go to sleep. You can tell if they're coming if you hear their footsteps on the stairs or in the hallway. Pretend to be asleep, because if people are sleeping, the person looking at them usually won't disturb them. Move around a bit while you're pretend sleeping and snore if you are known to snore in your sleep and if you drool, open your mouth a bit.
 Once your parents are in their room/rooms, stop pretend sleeping and try to identify their voices. If you know your parents watch TV before they go to sleep, wait for about 1 or 2 hours before taking out your things and playing with them. If you want to know right away that your parents are asleep, after waiting for 1 hour, quietly and quickly go to their room/rooms and check on them to see if they're sleeping. If they're not, and they ask you why you're up, say that you had heard a noise. Your parents lock their door? Try to hear their voice/voices through the door. If you hear them, quietly and quickly go back to your room and wait for 30-45 minutes.
 If your parents are finally asleep, reach under your bed and grab your things. If you put it in a desk drawer, crawl gently across the floor and open the desk drawer, take some of the things you want to play with out and crawl gently across the floor back to your bed. If your parents hear you and come to your room, quickly put your item/items in the closest place possible and do Step 4 again. If they shake you to wake up, groggily open your eyes and say "What?" with a touch of grouchy tone in your voice, to make it seem as if you really were sleeping.
 Ask your parents what time they wake up on a specific day. If you're doing this on a weekend, ask your parents what time they wake up on the weekends. If you are doing this on a weekday, ask your parents what time they wake up on a weekday. That way, you know when to stop the all-nighter. Because if you don't know when your parents wake up and when to stop playing with your things, it's going to be awkward when your parents wake you up for school or something and your iPod is right next to your face.
 While on your technology, if you plan to play an app that has a lot of noise, like the Temple Run games or the Sims FreePlay, either put earbuds on or mute the game's sound effects, so that way, your parents won't come into your room, take away your technology and probably go through it to find out what you do on your technology.
 If you have school or church the next day, 5 hours before you have to get up, put away your technology and go to sleep, since 5 hours of sleep is better than having absolutely no hours of sleep at night.
 At breakfast the next day, have an energy bar, a 1-hour nap in the afternoon and a good night's sleep the next night. Going too long without sleep with become a habit and is bad for your health. It's also dangerous.
 If you are a teenager and you're allowed to wear makeup, if you have dark circles under your eyes, use concealer/foundation to cover it up. If you aren't allowed to wear makeup and in the morning you realize you have dark circles, the night before, get a paper towel, drench it with cold water, squeeze out excess water, put it in a freezer and in the morning, put the paper towel under your eyes. Don't use ice because ice can kill blood vessels.

