 To make a new slide without a title, simple hit "enter" to create a new line above your side text. Hit the space bar once, then highlight that space with your mouse. Format the space as "Heading One" in the Styles toolbar. This helps if you want to make continuing slides, don't want titles, or want to make blank slides for pictures.


In the Outlines view, simply leave the lines labeled "Level 1" blank and hit "enter"

, Click on the "View" tab at the top of Word and choose "Outline View" from the upper left corner. This does not actually change your document at all, but it shows it to you in order. Each "Level," which you can change with the green arrows at the top of the screen, corresponds to a different part of you PowerPoint:



Level 1 = Slide Titles

Level 2 = Slide Text

Level 3 and up = Sub-Bullets

Body Text will not appear in your PowerPoint.
 If you simply want to add in a few slides from a Word document, you can have PowerPoint create new slides based on Word. To do so, navigate to the point you want to insert the slides. Click on the small downward ARROW button underneath "Create New Slide" and choose "Create slide from outline."


To put the slides in the right place, click on the slide you want to come before your Word document before "Create New Slides."
Powerpoint will automatically create every slide from your document in order, not just the first one.
 Microsoft allows you to open Word documents right from a PowerPoint if you do not want to convert the entire thing into a presentation. This allows you to reference your Word document without actually making a bunch of new slides. When you play your slideshow, you can click on the link to open your document. When you close it, PowerPoint will automatically resume where you left off.


Right click on the text or image your want to link.
Choose the option "Hyperlink..."
Select the file you want to open from the menu and hit "okay."
Now you can click on your image or text during the slideshow to bring up your Word document.
 Unfortunately, PowerPoint cannot convert your pictures from Word. To put them back in, simply right click on the picture in Word and choose "Copy." Then, navigate to the slide where you want your picture in PowerPoint, right click, and select "Paste." You will be able to move it, resize it, or crop it in PowerPoint.


You can also use the "Insert" button on PowerPoint to search your computer for pictures and add them.
 If you cannot convert your documents, despite correctly formatting and opening everything, you likely have an older version of Microsoft Office. If this is the case, download the newest version online at Microsoft's website.


You can also sign up for a if you only need to convert a few documents.

