 Or, try to convince them. You don't want to end up giving an amazing makeover on someone, only to find out they don't really care! You can ask the person what they're interested in- like the natural, smoky, exotic, etc. look.;
, When the skin has oils and dirt on it, the makeup will easily come off and it'll also cause more breakouts, which the person will most likely not enjoy. Use makeup remover or have them wash their face before you apply makeup on them.
 Don't pluck or anything- it's not a professional makeover. Just use a light eyebrow pencil and shade it lighter in the corner, darker going inwards. Create just a subtle arch.
 If they have wrinkles, concealer is pretty much a must. Don't conceal the whole face, just wrinkles, bags, and dark circles- and blend it. Use foundation for the oily spots, like the T-zone. (Forehead, nose.)


This is the natural look. (Think Lauren Conrad. Bronzed- Adriana Lima.)

, But if they don't mind a tan or blush, just add a touch a bronzer and blend. For blush, ask them to do the "fish" face, pouting their lips, and use a soft brush to sweep a skin color-suited shade along the cheekbones.
 (In other words, liquid liner isn't exactly subtle, but it can do if you're skilled at it.) Don't layer it on, just kind of sketch it on. When you sketch, you gently move the pencil back and forth. It may take a few tries to get it perfect, but being beautiful has it's flaws- remember that.
 Have the person TRY to keep their eyes open and not blink. Many people make the mistake of accidentally shoving the brush in someone's eye. This is NOT mandatory.
 Use a berry lip tint, a nude or light pink color, or light lipstick for the final touch. Lip liner isn't required for any look, really.


This is for the smoky/seductive look. Think Megan Fox.
 Adding more doesn't matter because it's the eyes that are the main attraction for this makeover. Don't do too much- save it for the eyes.
 Use a dark shade- purple, blue, or black works best. Use a soft, small brush to contour. Sweep it below the browbone (just the lid) and extend into a cat-eye angle if you wish- but don't go to far, and make sure it goes upward, not downward. It'll make the person look sad if you do.
 Black is the best color for the smoky eye. Thickly apply it with the person's lids closed and think scene kid. (The raccoon/panda eyes. JUST ON TOP.) For the bottom lashes, run it smoothly a few times so it looks noticeable, but still subtle and sexy.
 Sweep two coats on and when it's dry, (optional) comb the lashes so they don't clump and make the eyes more open.
 Use a little bit of concealer or pale foundation to cover the lips to make them paler. If you want color, use a light color. If you use a dark color, the person will look like Elvira, in other words a goth. The focus is the eyes!!!


Let the person enjoy their makeover- don't keep tracking them down to fix mistakes. This was just for fun, and maybe if you did it to their liking, they'll do it on a daily basis!

