 To do so, multiply your weight by 10. This is, roughly, how many calories you burn in a day just by existing (a 20lb man burns roughly 2000 lbs). Many websites offer BMR calculators that will get you a more accurate number, as well. Knowing your BMR is essential to determining how many additional calories you need to burn through exercise. For example:


You've cut your diet to a measly 1,200 calories a day for the week.
Your BMR is 2,200 calories a day. This means that, if you didn't move all day, you'd burn that many calories.
You have a 1,000 calorie deficit. This means you need to burn an additional 2,500 calories each day to lose a pound each day., You want to be moving as frequently as possible. This includes small moments, such as taking your business call out for a walk around the block or standing on the subway. Take advantage of every chance you get to burn calories.


Do sit-ups or push-ups while watching TV, especially during commercials.
If you can, work standing up, or bring a set of small weights with you to "lift" during downtime at your desk.
Take a short walk around the office every hour at work.
 This is absolutely necessary to burn calories, and the longer you can make yourself exercise, the better your results will be. Aerobic exercise is any work-out that raises your heart-rate, like running, biking, swimming, or spinning. Some suggestions, which each burn 500-1000 calories, depending on intensity, include:


1-hour cycling.
90 minute Pilates class.
1-hour dancing.
2 hour hike., This is easier than ever in the information age, as there is a litany of apps and programs that help you track your calorie expenditure. Check your smartphone's app library for a calorie tracker, or go online at the end of the day search for "exercise calorie counter" and input all of your day's activity. This step is crucial to ensure that you get the right amount of weight off, each day.
 Getting to bed early is proven to help with weight loss. It helps prevent overeating, and it lets your body do what it does best in rest -- digest. Try to get to bed early enough to ensure 8 hours of sleep each night.


Regular sleep gives you the energy to exercise.
Sleep-deprived individuals are clinically proven to have higher cravings for junk-food.