 If you have multiple transactions, always have it ready and available. You can also easily organize them using paper clips or sticky notes at home. Be sure to have the proper picture identification card and bank card in your hand, so that you're not fidgeting in your wallet when you are asked for it at the last minute.


If you're planning to open a new account, research on the specific documents you will need beforehand. They will require a valid picture identification card (that includes a date of birth and current address) and a social security card. New accounts are created in a different section of the bank (such as Customer Service), not with the bank teller, so be sure to find the correct signs.
Be sure to thoroughly read any fine print before selecting a specific bank account, especially concerning the interest rates, overdrawn fee penalties, if one needs to use their credit/debit card (usually "X" times in a month), etc.;
, It's wise to get the full information, instead of being in a situation where something happens and you get penalized for it out of nowhere.
 Some banks offer the convenient option of drive-through banking, however, they may be limited on what they can do, versus banking inside.
 While most metro and big banks have five to seven tellers assisting clients, especially at rush or high volume hours, smaller local ones typically have one to two at any time. Please do not question tellers in the middle of a transaction, as this is not only rude and disrespectful, but it is a breach of privacy with the other person.
 This fluctuates and is different from bank to bank. Most to all banks are open from Monday through Friday (non holidays), with the option of Saturday. Selective locations may be open on Sunday, usually if the bank is located in a supermarket.


Friday afternoon is the busiest time for a bank, as many people are coming off work to deposit their paycheck before the weekend. Mondays are also typically busy, especially when the bank is closed on the weekend.
ATMs (automated teller machines) allow the clients to do limited banking at any hour of the day. ATMs can be used by anyone with a regular bank account to withdraw money from, however, they may find having to pay a fee if the ATM is not associated with their specific bank branch.
 Some banks, such as Bank of America, automatically deposits a certain amount (depending on your current available balance), but the remaining would be cleared the next business day of the bank. So for example, if you deposited a check on a Friday and if the bank is closed on the weekends, with Monday as a federal holiday, the entire check would appear on your bank statement on Tuesday. The clearance of deposits differentiate from bank to bank, so please be aware of this information to avoid disputes with tellers and other bank associates.

