 A notice or advertisement for a job may not require or prefer any age or age range for qualified applicants. The only exception to this rule occurs if the employer can show that age is a bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ).An example of a BFOQ that would be allowable is an early retirement requirement for police officers and firefighters who are on active duty. Some courts, however, have limited the exception, so that a fire chief, for example, who does mostly administrative work, could not be forced to retire.;
, The law does not prohibit employers from asking your age or birthdate as part of an interview. However, if the employer seems to focus on your age in the interview, and then you do not get hired, you may have evidence of age discrimination.Some topics in the interview that could provide evidence of age discrimination would be:


asking your age or birthdate
focusing on the ages of your children
commenting on the length of your marriage
asking about the year of your graduation from high school or college

, Coworkers and employers may not harass someone in the workplace based on that person’s age. Prohibited behavior would include any derogatory comments, jokes, posted flyers that make age-related jokes, or any other activity that makes the employee uncomfortable.If you believe this type of behavior is occurring at your workplace, you should keep a journal of comments or keep photos or copies of any flyers or other materials.
 It is a form of age discrimination to make training programs or apprenticeships available only to younger workers in similar positions. If you want to apply to a training program or apprenticeship program, and you get denied because of age, this is reportable as discriminatory., Approximately 30% of Americans over age 50 reported in a study that they experience age discrimination in health care. Although there is no law in the U.S. that explicitly prohibits this sort of discrimination, it can be very serious. Older adults are not included as much in clinical trials, so data for new medicines and new procedures may not accurately represent older people. Patients report that doctors seem less attentive to the special problems of aging bodies., It only takes a few minutes of watching television or viewing advertisements to recognize that marketers are focused on younger audiences. Most products aim for younger demographics. The few times that you will see older actors or actresses in commercials are for specific medical products.
 Particularly in movies, lead roles are primarily written for or filled by younger actors. This is especially worse for female actors.Male actors seem to last a bit longer in the spotlight (Connery, Stallone, Ford), but by the time women reach the ages of 40 or even 30, they are already being passed over for younger actresses.
 Any form of discrimination at work should be reported right away. If your company has a Human Resources director, you should speak with him or her as soon as you have concerns. If not, then you should speak with your immediate supervisor. If your employer is the individual who is committing the harassment, then you should contact local law enforcement or your state attorney general’s office. If the employer or human resources administrator does not take satisfactory action, you can then file a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission., If you believe you have been the victim of age-based discrimination in rental or housing, you should seek out a local housing discrimination board to file a report. Such agencies exist to help tenants or prospective tenants resolve problems with landlords.


For example, in the state of Oregon, you may contact the Fair Housing Council of Oregon at (800) 424-3247.In Massachusetts, you would report to the Civil Rights Division at (617) 727-2200 or the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination.If you experienced housing discrimination by a federally subsidized housing project or federal housing program, then notify the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to file a complaint.
 Places of public accommodation include hotels, restaurants, schools, offices, stores or other places that are generally open and serve the public. For most cases of age discrimination in places of public accommodation, you should contact your state Attorney General’s office. The Attorney General’s role is to enforce all laws within the state. Each state’s Attorney General may have a different subdivision dedicated to responding to discrimination claims, but the end result of all is to help protect your rights.


For example, the Attorney General of Arizona has a Civil Rights Division that accepts claims, as long as they are filed within 180 days.In Vermont, you can report claims of discrimination by places of public accommodation to the Vermont Human Rights Commission by calling (800) 416-2000., The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), a branch of the federal U.S. government, is charged with investigating reports of discrimination in the workplace. The EEOC will receive reports, investigate the facts, and attempt to resolve any problems. The resolution may be helping the parties reach a compromise. The EEOC also has the power to impose fines against employers who commit serious infractions.The EEOC may also initiate litigation against employers for violations. Their jurisdiction includes actions against both private or public employers.
 Under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, you must first file your claim with the EEOC. After that, however, you do have the right to file a private lawsuit against an employer for age discrimination. You must give the EEOC some time to undertake its own investigation first.


Your right to file a personal lawsuit begins 60 days after you file your initial complaint with the EEOC. After the EEOC conducts its investigation, it will issue you a “right to sue” letter. You must file your own lawsuit, if you wish, within 90 days after receiving that letter., Watch television and movies with a critical eye. Notice which shows or movies involve older characters and which ones focus only on the younger audience. Write to the producers and let them know your thoughts. When you see a story that involves an older character in a positive way, write directly to the producer or production company and praise them. When you see stories that completely ignore the older sector of the population, write and let the producers know that you want a change.
 Advertisers want to sell their products. That's why they are in business. If advertising campaigns that focus on younger demographics bring about negative results, they may change their approach. Stop buying products that only advertise to younger audiences. Talk with friends and neighbors about doing the same. If enough people take action with their spending habits, the advertisers may begin to listen.
 A quick search for #agediscrimination on Twitter brings up hundreds of messages from people commenting on this problem.Use outlets like Twitter and Facebook to gather support for your concerns against age discrimination.
 The ADEA was passed in 1967. It protects individuals who are 40 or older from any discrimination in the workplace. It applies to both employees as well as applicants. The ADEA begins by stating its primary purpose:to promote employment of older persons based on their ability rather than age;
to prohibit arbitrary age discrimination in employment;
to help employers and workers find ways of meeting problems arising from the impact of age on employment.
 This federal law prohibits any discrimination in housing based on a number of factors, including age. The Federal Fair Housing Act was enacted in 1968 and then amended in 1988. Specifically, the Fair Housing Act prohibits the following forms of discrimination:advertisement for rental properties to younger age groups only
falsely denying that a rental unit is unavailable
setting restrictive standards or refusing to rent to certain groups
terminating tenancy for a discriminatory reason

, Every state in the U.S. has adopted some state version of age discrimination laws. In many cases, these laws existed prior to the federal ADEA. Some state laws merely mirror the ADEA, while many provide additional protections.


You can find a useful summary of all 50 states’ anti-discrimination statutes in this handy document compiled by the National Conference of State Legislatures, available at http://www.ncsl.org/documents/employ/Discrimination-Chart-2015.pdf.