 Unlike other fowl, quail cannot eat low-quality feed without sacrificing quality. This is especially important when it comes to quail being raised for breeding and laying eggs. If you can't find high-quality quail feed, try a another type of game bird feed. You can also try turkey feed, which is usually higher in protein than chicken feed, making it more suitable for quail.


Chicken feed can make a decent substitute for meat quail.
If you choose to go with turkey feed, make sure that it is non-medicated.Always refer to a qualified nutritionist before you make any substitutions.
About 80% of a quail's diet will consist of grains. Most quail or game bird feeds will consist of: cracked corn, grains (barley, oats, rye, and wheat), millet, milo, oat grouts, popcorn, safflower seed, sunflower kernels, and sunflower seeds.;
, Quail are easy to feed in that you do not have to worry about over-feeding them. They will stop eating once they feel full. However, quail are picky when it comes to the size of their food. If the grains or pellets are too small or too big, they won't eat it. It has to be just right.


If the feed comes in pellet form, try breaking it up into (quail) bite-sized pieces. Make sure that the pieces are consistent, or the quail will just pick out the pieces they like best and leave the rest. This can result in an in-balanced diet.
Avoid mashed feed, if you can. If you must use mash feed, make sure that it is not too powdery. The powder can easily get in between the quail's toes and cause infections.
Adult quail will eat about 20 to 25 grams of food a day., Make sure that you place the troughs in a dry place, away from rain, snow, sunlight, and wind. You might want to place the food further away from the water troughs as well. If the feed gets wet, it can grow mold, which can kill quail.Also, you should empty the feed troughs often. Only wash the troughs when they become dirty from waste, or if the feed itself gets wet.


Make sure that the food trough is level with the quail's crop area.
Try to use linear troughs, with enough space for the quail to eat comfortably without competing for food.
Depending on how many quail you have, you may need to empty the troughs as little as two to three times a week, to as often as once a day.
Quail can be messy eaters. Consider keeping the feed in a hopper with "anti-spill fingers.", As a general rule, the water trough should be no higher than the bird's back.Many quail breeders also recommend keeping marbles in the bottom of the trough. This not only makes the water more attractive to the quail, but it also gives quail chicks an escape route in case they fall in.Quail are guzzlers. Consider making your own guzzler by digging a shallow hole in the ground, lining it with plastic, and then adding a ramp into the hole., Clean the trough three times a week with a commercial, nontoxic disinfectant. Don't pour the old water out inside the pen. The pen must be kept as dry as possible.Pay special attention to the water during the winter time. Don't let it freeze.
Add a little bit of apple cider vinegar to the water from time to time. This kills parasites and makes the feathers look nicer., If you don't store the food properly, it can get moldy, which is deadly for quail. It can also become food for other critters, such as insects and rats.


Use the feed before it expires—usually 3 weeks after the manufacturing date. You may need to use it even sooner if you live some place hot and humid.
Throw away stale or foul-smelling feed. This indicates that the feed has either expired or gone moldy.
Rats can not only eat all of the quails' feed, but also contaminate it.