 Positive affirmations are when you say something nice about yourself. The goal of affirmations is to change your thinking so that you see yourself in a more positive light.Teaching your child how to use positive affirmations can be a great way to help them think more positively about themselves.

Try teaching your child to say things like, “I love my curly hair!” or “I am looking so cool in my new outfit!” Affirmations should always be in the first person (using "I").
Model positive affirmations for your child as well. Allow your child to see and hear you saying nice things to yourself to provide them with a model for positive self-talk.
Have your child stand in front of a mirror when they use positive affirmations and make sure that you model this behavior for your child as well.
Encourage your child to use an affirmation every day, such as while they are getting ready in the morning or before heading off to school.
 To help support your child’s body image, you should set an example by making healthy choices for your family. Model healthy eating and include physical activity into your life. This helps create healthy habits that lead to a healthy body image.


Encourage your child to choose healthy foods and activities for the family. This helps them be an active part of the family’s healthy living.
For example, cook balanced meals with multiple vegetables, healthy grains, and lean cuts of meat.
Set aside time each week for physical activity. Go for hikes or bike rides on the weekend together, and ask your child to choose physical activities they want to do with the family.
 If you are talking negatively about yourself or others, you are not supporting a healthy body image for yourself or your child. Watch what you say around your child so you don’t inadvertently teach them negative habits or bad body image patterns.Talk about yourself in positive terms. Refrain from things like, “I’m so fat” or “I hate everything about myself.”
Don’t talk negatively about others, either. Avoid saying, “She’s let herself go” or “She looks so fat.”

, You can support your child’s body image by using positive language and eliminating certain language from your home. When you talk about other people, don’t use words like “fat” or “skinny,” which can lead to issues with your child’s body image. Focus on healthy instead of skinny, fat, or diets.Talking about people based on their size or looks just teaches your child that looks are the most important thing about a person. It also teaches them to do the same thing to other people and themselves.
 Your children will feel more positive about their bodies if they are involved in making the choices. This helps give them some control over their nutrition and teaches them how to make their own healthy choices later.


Take your child with you to the grocery store. Encourage them to choose vegetables, fruits, healthy grains, and lean cuts of meat they like.
Remind your child that they don't have to like every vegetable and fruit. Try new things together to find vegetables and fruits you both like.

