 Double-click the icon of your preferred web browser on your desktop to launch it.;
, Once the browser is open, type in www.couchsurfing.org on the address bar at the top of the screen and hit Enter. You’ll be directed to the website’s home page.
 Click the “Log In” button, and enter your Couchsurfing account credentials on the text field provided.


If you’re using your Facebook to sign in, click the “Log in with Facebook” button instead.
 Click the couch icon on the top-right corner of your account dashboard to access the Couchrequest page.
 On the left-hand side of Couchrequest page, you’ll see the Request and Invites panel. This is your Couch Manager Inbox.
 Whenever a Couchsurfing member sends out a request to stay at your home, you’ll receive a Hosting request. Click “Pending” under “Hosting” to view all new requests you have received.
 Click the subject line of the request you want to open to view its details.
 Scroll down the Request Details page and click the corresponding buttons: “Accept,” “Maybe,” or “Decline.”


Each requests that gets accepted, declined, or set to “Maybe” are transferred to the Accepted, Declined, or Maybe folder in the Couch Manager Inbox.
 Whenever you send out a request to stay at another member’s home, it will appear under the Surfing section. Click “Pending” under “Surfing” to view all new requests that you’ve sent.
 The user you sent an invite to has the option to mark your request as “Accepted,” “Declined,” or “Maybe.”


Requests you’ve sent that have already been answered will go to corresponding folders (Accepted, Decline, and Maybe) under the Surfing section.
 You can click this tab on either the Hosting or Surfing section of the Couch Manager Inbox.
 An itinerary window labeled “Where are you going” will appear.
 Type in the city you’re going to visit, your arrival and departure date, and the number of surfers joining with the trip.
 Do this on the Description text field provided. This is a required field, and you must put at least a 160 character description here.
 This will finalize and create your Open Couch request.
, Click the subject line of the request you want to cancel to view its details.
 Scroll down the Request Details page and click the “Cancel this Request” button.

