 In what area do you want to take the picture? Behind a frosty bush of pink flowers, or near the frozen stream behind your house? Make sure that the area you have chosen has enough sunlight to see the person's face, but also make sure there are no trees blocking the free falling snow.;
, Do you want the person to hold a snowball, or have a rainbow scarf on? Inside, get all the props you need. If the prop is made out of snow, make it outside instead. Also, you may need to have more than one of an object in case one breaks or doesn't work out.
 In the snow, light blues, whites, and grays look very cool and stand for winter. if you are going for a more dramatic look, use a bold color such as black, red, or green. Wear the color you chose in a shirt or jacket. Layer up your clothes for warmth in the chilly air and for a more capturing look. Jeans work best for pants, mostly dark denim will be eye-catching in the photo. Fashion boots or warm moccasins give the outfit a bold look also, if you're planning on taking a picture that is including the feet.
 For a girl, have her wear her hair in loose curls, as curls give off the impression of mystery and cuteness. For guys, have them wet their hair and let it air dry, as this style give soft the impression of being relaxed and happy. Take a snowball and crush it gently over the hairstyle to get the snow caught in the hair for a sweet but dramatic look and feel.
 Use light silvers and blues to create a smokey winter look. To finish off the eyes, add light glitter. Use a dark pink to swirl around on the cheekbones to make them look flushed. Add a light pink glittery lip gloss.
 Make sure that the camera can zoom in and out, and capture the person face. Clean the lens though thoroughly with lens cleaner. Take some test photos and make sure the battery is fully charged.
 Have him or her turn and face different sides, doing different things with the arms and hands. Figure out which hand should hold the snowball and how you should pose off the rainbow scarf, etc.
 Try zooming in and out with the camera and capture the pose at different and unique angles.
 Once you find one that you really like, take many shots of that same pose. Hold the camera still when taking the shots. Also, another pose tip, a picture can change the whole impression by having their eyes look another way. Up, down, or to the sides give of some mystery. You will have to wipe off lens from snow frequently to get a clear picture.
 Print it out on glossy photo paper and frame if desired.

