 When considering buying a house with water damage, there are some questions you should ask going in. Ask the following questions when talking to the seller about the home:


Is the water damage from flooding?
How long was the water been sitting in the home? How much damage was done, what kind, and how was it fixed?
Was the home stripped down or were walls simply washed or bleached?
Has the wiring been checked for salt infiltration? Have the wires been examined for rot?;
, Once you've asked preliminary questions, it's important to have the home inspected. Even if repairs were attempted, there may be underlying damage that went unnoticed.


Hire a reputable home inspector in the area. Have the home carefully inspected for any existing damage.
As water damaged homes may have a lot of issues, it might not be a bad idea to conduct more than one inspection just to be sure you've gotten the full sense of the damage., While a good house inspector can assess for a lot of damage, mold is not easily detectable. You will need to have a second inspector come in and specifically check for mold.


Mold is a scary problem as it can be toxic to breathe. You do not want to be living in a water mold damaged home as it can seriously affect your health. Have a mold inspection conducted before making any offers on the house.Go for an industrial hygienist over a run-of-the-mill mold inspector. A more thorough examination will be conducted., Dry rot is another major problem for water damaged homes. It can spread throughout the home, causing damage to framework. Make sure you have both the home inspector and industrial hygienist check for dry rot., As the home was water damaged once, it's likely in a region where it's susceptible to water damage. It's vital to get flood insurance if your'e planning on buying a water damaged home.


Ask the agent you're working with for a list of insurance agencies that provide flood insurance. Look at their reviews online and reach out to past clients. You can also ask for recommendations from other homeowners in the area who likely have flood insurance.Determine about how much insurance companies cover in the event of a flood. If coverage is minimal, the house may not be a wise investment., You need to determine how much repairs will cost. This is a major factor of whether or not you can afford a flood damaged home.


A contractor will assess the damages on the home and provide several reports. These reports will overview the various types of necessary repairs and include an estimated cost., Review all the reports carefully to determine how much you will bid. Consult a real estate agent and real estate attorney during this process. They can help you determine what a fair offer to make to the seller is based on the severity of the damage. You also may be able to request the seller make certain repairs before the offer is accepted and finalized., Once you've determined the amount you're willing to pay, submit your bid to the seller. You can also have your real estate agent submit the bid for you.


If the seller accepts the bid, and agrees to have any requested repairs done, you can move forward with signing the necessary paperwork.
If your bid is not expected, you'll have to negotiate with the buyer. Be prepared for this. Know ahead of time what conditions of your bid you're willing to negotiate on and which you're not willing to compromise., Many water-damaged home can be paid for out of pocket. If you cannot afford to do so, however, you'll need to apply for a mortgage.


The type of mortgage you can apply for depends on your current income, savings, and how much of a down payment you can afford. You can talk to a banking agent and an accountant about the best type of mortgage for you.When you apply for a mortgage, you'll need to submit a great deal of paperwork to the bank. This includes information on current savings, your credit report, available funds, and income. You'll also need to provide copies of things like your birth certificate, driver's license, and social security card., Once you've procured the funds and made an offer, you can close the deal. You do this by signing all necessary paperwork. However, be careful. Make sure to have an attorney review all documents before you sign to assure all of the terms you agreed upon are in writing in the final document.

