 Like in the previous series, you're able to pick a maiden as your character's lover then start a family of their own in the later part of the game. Of course, this includes courting and impressing them.


Each characters have different likes and dislike—If you have already picked one, best to refer to this guide to know what gifts you should give them in order to increase their affection.
Giving gifts every day helps increase the relationship, triggering events and new quest until you're able to upgrade your house and have bigger room to start a family.

Sonja is the default female in Tides of Destiny; she's stuck in your character's body until you're able to finish the game. Although you can't really interact too much with her until the game is beaten, nevertheless, she’s still a candidate. She's a bit airheaded, but she's very understanding and cares deeply for your character.

Birthday: Spring 13
Loves: Fruit tart
Likes: Candies, sweets, and any similar sugary items
Hates: Wakame seaweed.



Lili is evidently older than your character but still a candidate. She's a musician with a lute, and is extremely clumsy and terrible in the kitchen. However, she always wears a smile on her face and gives her all.

Birthday: Spring 26
Loves: Parfait
Likes: Apple, orange, and cherry
Dislikes: Baked apples



Odette is the middle of the three sisters and the one that helps you settle into the Island. She's a renown cook on the island and is always ready to help those she cares about, even if it means getting hurt herself.

Birthday: Summer 8
Loves: Ratatouille
Likes: Salad, pickles, risotto, fried veggies, boiled pumpkin, boiled spinach, and sauteed spinach
Dislikes: Fish fossil



Violet is the youngest of the three sisters and studies as the island's only nurse. Violet has an obvious crush on the male main character.

Birthday: Winter 3
Loves: Emery flower
Likes: Pickles, medicinal herb, flowers, and colored grass.
Hates: Insect skin



Electra is the daughter of a rich family but, for unfortunate reason, became poor. She does her own housework and has part-time job at most of the shops on the island. Electra is a very devoted lady.

Birthday: Spring 6
Loves: Teardrop
Likes: Material for accessories such as yarn, cheap cloth, etc.
Hates: Receiving jewels, such as ruby, sapphire, and many more



Maerwen is the last maid of Electra. She's cruel, mean, and entirely uninterested with your character. Despite her cold treatment toward you, she will soon loosen up as time passes.

Birthday: Winter 1
Loves: Pom-pom flower
Likes: Cheap cloth and other kinds of flowers
Hates: Spinach



Elena is the self-proclaimed genius that runs the local blacksmith. She loves golems so much. She spend most of her time building or studying about golems. She’s also the only one that sleeps during the day, since she's apparently up all night building.

Birthday: Fall 8
Loves: Small crystal
Likes: Ore, scrap iron, bronze, etc.
Hates: Milk



Sierra is the sister of the local general store owner. She’s supposed to help her brother, but she tends to slack off and play all day.

Birthday: Spring 3
Loves: Sun pendant
Likes: All kinds of accessories
Hates: Salad



Pandora is the evil arch-sorceress who attempted to conquer the world hundreds of years ago but was finally subdued by a legion of the world's armies—No, actually she accidentally turned herself to stone before she could even attempt to conquer the world when her own petrification spell rebounded.

Birthday: Winter 24
Loves: Rune crystal
Likes: Jewels, such as ruby, sapphire, etc.
Hates: Rosary



Mikoto is a maiden candidate, which is quite surprising since she dresses up like a male samurai and talks like one. She practices her katana in the morning and patrols during the day.

Birthday: Spring 1
Loves: Tempura bowl
Likes: Fried fish like mackerel, shrimp, etc.
Hates: Knife piece

;
, Tides of Destiny introduces something new: the ability to play as a female. Although the female main character has less than half the choices the male main character has, it's better than none.


Just like interacting with maidens, you have to offer gifts to the bachelor to get their attention and increase their affection towards your character.

Joe is the grandson of Bacchus and plans to surpass him in every way. Their rivalry tends to bring some nasty words out, but they're family through and through.

Birthday:Winter 13
Loves: Protein
Likes: Recovery potions and courage badge
Hates: Cucumber



James is mature and cares a lot for his younger sister, Elena, and even has a girlfriend—well, used to.

Birthday: Fall 6
Loves: Chocolate pudding
Likes: Puddings and cakes.
Hates: Mushroom



Bismarck is the owner of Gemini general store. He's very outgoing when it comes to his line of work, but he's very shy. At least until Aden shows him some lessons in manliness.

Birthday:Spring 3
Loves: Seafood pizza
Likes: Pizza, popcorn, cornflakes, and french fries.
Hates: Insect jaw]



, The controls in this game are pretty simple:


Use the control stick for walking, running, climbing, dodging, and moving the cursor (during purchasing or navigating your inventory.).
C button is for jump, double-jump.
Use Z button to re-center the camera.
Use the D-pad for eating and drinking.
The A button is to confirm, talk, investigate, and attack.
The Minus button accesses the quick equip menu.
The plus button access the pause menu.
Use 1 Button to view the map.
Use 2 button to teleport.
The B button is to pick up items or cancel.
Shaking the Wii remote calls your monsters to you.
 As you progress your game, you will discover that you will have your very own giant golem. Ymir can be used to navigate across the water to search for new islands. While using Ymir, you have different controls:


The control stick is still for moving around.
The C button is for blocking.
The Z button is to re-center the camera.
Pressing the D-Pad down enters or exit overhead view.
Pressing the D-Pad up stops controlling Ymir.
Use the A button to dash, go ashore, or punch.
Use the A button + B button to pound the ocean to reveal what's underneath.
The 1 Button is to view the sea chart.
The B button is to pick up islands or rocks; press it again to throw islands or rocks.
 The focus of the game is to find the solution on how to split your male character's body and Sonja's soul. You need to complete quests in order to progress; these you can obtain from the tavern's bulletin board.


People on the island will also give you tasks, such as clearing monsters, gathering items, crafting, and even cooking.
You spend most of your time conquering dungeons because nearly all the items you need for your crafting, and even cooking, can be found in dungeon chests and monster drops.
 As mentioned, taking quests from the bulletin board makes you progress to the next part of the game. The more you do quest, the more places you will discover and new islands will be available for you to conquer and farm for materials.


Monsters will get stronger as well, so make sure to level up and upgrade your weapon and armor.
 If you're wondering how to upgrade your equipments, you simply have to craft a new one or do quests with weapon or armor rewards.


Some of the NPCs in the town will also sell powerful weapons, giving you offers, and it depends on you if you want to buy it or decline.
Sometimes weapons sold by NPCs have satisfying bonuses and effects; sometimes they don't. If you have extra money, it’s best to take the gamble than regret in the end.
Crafting can be done in your home. If you haven't unlocked the smithing or tailoring area, talk to James during the bazaar. As mentioned, you will be needing materials in order to craft items, and a certain level of crafting skills is needed as well in order to create a higher level of equipment.
To make it simple, begin crafting at the start of the game so you won't have to worry about it in the later part of the game.
 In the later part of the game, you will discover how to tame monsters and let them take care of the islands you have unearthed. Some of the monsters can plant flowers, crops, and even trees while other monsters can mine ores for you.


These material islands are useful for gathering items, aside from conquering dungeons, and monsters you tamed can work as your assistant and will tend the plants and ores for you.
Monsters are not just for gathering and taking care of your islands, they can also join you during your dungeon conquering. Each of them has the ability to fight and cast magic.
The more you let them join you in your exploring, the more they level and grow stronger.
 Gold is important in the game especially when you need to buy food to regenerate your health or buy raw materials from the shop. To easily get money, buy milk from the inn and then cook it into hot milk. You can sell it back to them for an easy profit.


You can do this repeatedly.
It is most ideal to buy hundreds of milk when it's on sale.
 If you're still low in gold, another method to earn quick money is to buy yard balls from the general store and then craft them into hand-knit scarves. Sell it back for even more profit.


Repeat this until you're happy with the amount of money you have.
Crafting handknit scarves can help you level your crafting skills!

, If you have a higher level of cooking and crafting skill, you can make items that can be sold for a higher price.


Before crafting high-priced items, make sure that the materials can be bought from shops at low prices.
Add the price of each materials needed and then compare it to your income off the item you're going to sell. If you're earning 1 to 100, don't bother; it will be a waste of stamina and time.

