 Once you have outlined your goals, create an actionable plan. Get a planner or a calendar application and begin scheduling your strategy for meeting your short-term benchmarks and your long-term goals. Set aside time for achieving your goals each week and make sure that there are not any distractions or time conflicts.For example, if your goal is to exercise more, schedule your workouts in advance so that you do not have any reasons to avoid exercising.
 Once you recommit to your new goals, try to take small steps. Be realistic about your ability to meet your goals and take the appropriate steps to meet them. Overdoing it at the beginning can cause you to feel overwhelmed and lead to burn out.For example, if you are trying to quit smoking, you might want to cut back gradually instead of going cold turkey. Although that strategy works for some people, it can be hard to stick with.
 Having someone join you in the journey will help keep you accountable and motivated. Whether it is a friend, a family member, or a co-worker, find someone who you enjoy spending time with and shares your goals. Having someone to participate with you and talk with about achieving your goals may reignite your excitement.For example, if you trying to walk more, find a co-worker to go one walks with you during work breaks.
 In addition to a goal buddy, you might also consider joining a support group. Much like a buddy, a support group will help keep you accountable and provide you with a group of people who can relate to your struggle. Finding a group of like-minded individuals may help you get back into the groove and work towards your goals.Depending on your goals, there are often support groups for a variety of different concerns, such as weight loss and limiting or ending addictive behaviors. Check online for local groups.
 If you are feeling particularly overwhelmed with your goals, a psychologist or other mental health professional might be able to help you meet your objectives. Through regular meetings, they may be able to help you address any emotional issues that are holding you back. They may also help you reevaluate your objectives and set more realistic goals.You should talk to your doctor or go online to find a mental health professional in your area.

