 If you’re a licensed driver, have your own vehicle, and want to make your own hours, sign up to be a ride-share driver. Companies like Lyft or Uber let you sign into their app at any time of the day, receive notifications about nearby clients looking for a lift, pick up them up and drop them off, and continue working as long as you wish before signing out of the app. Transactions are handled over the app so you don’t have to worry about collecting fares.To sign up to drive for Uber, visit their website at https://get.uber.com/go/ and apply.
To sign up to drive for Lyft, visit their website at https://www.lyft.com/drive-with-lyft?lyft4_source=navbar to apply.
 If you have a strong educational background and an aptitude for instructing others, tutoring might be an ideal job for you. Advertise in classified ads, local businesses or online (e.g. in Facebook groups), or apply to work for a tutoring website like Tutor.com. If you opt to work on your own, you can make your own hours and set your own rates.Tutoring can be a work at home position if you choose to operate from your home, or work via webcam conferencing.
 If you have a skill that lends to you being an instructor (e.g. playing guitar), consider giving one-on-one lessons as a career and make your own hours. Advertise in classified ads, online listings (e.g. Craigslist), or put up flyers locally. As your enterprise grows, look into ordering business cards and building your brand.
 For flexible work, find opportunities to participate in focus groups. Companies will pay anywhere from 25$ (U.S.) and up for your feedback and participation in studies, which vary in length and focus. To browse opportunities in the U.S., visit www.findfocusgroups.com.
 If you have extra cash, an excellent credit score, and a decent knowledge of the real estate market, consider flipping houses as a way to make money on your own schedule. Look for homes in good areas (e.g. near good schools), in good condition (i.e. not requiring gutting and rebuilding), and with good kitchens and bathrooms, which are big selling points for potential buyers. Make sure the price you pay is below the value of the house on the market so that you can turn a profit.Choose places not too far from you, given that you will have to work on the house frequently to renovate and re-sell quickly.
 If you are skilled at house painting, consider doing it as a job. Invest in the necessary equipment (e.g. paint brushes and rollers, a ladder, tape, trays, plastic sheeting) and employees, if necessary. Advertise in local newspapers, hardware stores, and other businesses in your area. Ask satisfied customers to recommend you to friends, or create a website or facebook page where they can leave positive reviews.
 Ask your current employer (or a prospective employer) about the possibility of schedule flexibility. Be polite, direct, and specific about what you're asking for. Assure them that your professionalism and motivation will remain high despite your suggested changes to the standard work schedule, which could include:Working from home
Staggered hours
Part-time work
Compressed hours
Sharing work

