 For dishes that involve a greased pan or oil for cooking simply to ease the transfer of the food from dish to plate or to facilitate stirring or flipping in the pan, try reducing the amount of butter or oil by half.


In most cases, two tablespoons of butter or oil will provide enough grease to prevent a whole pan of vegetables from sticking to a frying pan.
If necessary, additional butter or oil can be added if stirring or flipping becomes difficult.;
,


In many cases, using water or juice in the place of butter or grease can remove a significant amount of fat from a recipe.
Even meat dishes can taste great when fried or baked in a bit of juice and spices instead of in oil.
If the preparation requires oil for proper frying, try using olive oil, vegetable oil, sunflower oil, or other healthy oils in place of butter, and use only the minimum amount necessary to brown or sear the food.
Other creative mixtures containing common ingredients like honey, mustard, vinegar or wine may enhance flavor and add nutrients while reducing fat.
 Dried or fresh herbs and spices can add considerable flavor to any recipe, allowing a major reduction in added salt, butter, or sugar in sauces, toppings, dressings, and other ingredients that aren’t essential to the preparation of the recipe.


Herbs go well with poultry, seafood, meats, eggs, vegetables, and pastas.
Spices pair well with fruit dishes or sauces, some meats, desserts, and many baked goods.
Experiment with herbs and spices to find flavors that appeal to every family member if necessary, and only season with salt or sugar after serving if necessary.



Try replacing chocolate chips with raisins in cookies.
Add pureed cauliflower to cheesy mashed potatoes.
Sneak shredded carrots and zucchini into meatloaf.
Mix canned corn into cornbread.
If a beef stew only calls for onions and potatoes, try adding carrots, corn, crushed canned tomatoes, peas, parsnip, spinach, cabbage, or other vegetables to bulk up the recipe.
For pancake mixtures, add bananas, berries, mandarin oranges, or pre-cooked apples to up the fiber and nutrient content, and top them off with a fruit topping seasoned with cinnamon or allspice and a dash of brown sugar.
Even boxed, canned, or frozen dishes can improve in both nutritional value and flavor when chopped fruits or vegetables are added to them.



In some recipes, applesauce can substitute for eggs or low-cholesterol items can replace meat.
Try eggplant Parmesan instead of chicken, or make a beef and broccoli dish into a tofu or shrimp and broccoli dish.
Experimenting with hearty vegetables, seafood, or soy products as meat replacements can not only reduce dietary intake of cholesterol, it can also add important vitamins, minerals, proteins, and fatty acids only available in other food sources.
If family members balk at tofu, try bean or salmon burgers as an occasional change-up for hamburgers as a start.
 For many people, flavorings, dressings, condiments, and sauces can be the black sheep in an otherwise healthy diet. Because they add so much flavor but take up very little actual volume on the plate, it is easy to go overboard.


When out and about, opt for mustard instead of mayonnaise, vinegar and oil instead of ranch, or ketchup instead of cheese sauce.
At home, dressings and sauces are easy to make; many have very few ingredients and by mixing them up with fresh ingredients, taste and nutritional value improve as well.
Try a citrus vinaigrette with three parts orange juice to one part olive oil, a squirt of brown mustard, a clove of minced garlic, and a dash of salt, pepper, and sugar.

