 You can either use Roman chamomile (Chamaemelum nobile) or German chamomile (Matricaria recutita), though the German version may be easier to find. You can buy chamomile dried at natural health food stores or online. You can also buy pure chamomile teas from most grocery stores, as teas are usually made from Roman or German chamomile. You can also dry your own flowers for use as a tea.If you want to dry your own, you'd do best to grow it from seed, so you know that you're getting the right flower and that it doesn't have pesticide on it. To dry your own flowers, pull off just the flower heads in the morning. Wash them in a bowl filled with water, letting any bugs and dirt float off. Lay them out on parchment paper on a baking sheet, shaking off water as you go. Spread them apart.
Heat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit, but once it comes up to temperature, turn it off. Put the flowers in, leaving the door open slightly. Leave them there for several hours. You can always add a bit more heat later if they don't dry. You can save the dried flowers in a jar for about half a year.You can also dry them in the sun, spread out inside, or use a dehydrator. Make sure to check the jar you put the dried flowers in to see if it is gathering moisture at the top inside. If it does, lay the flowers out for drying again.Some people believe this treatment helps with internal yeast infections.;
, Use 2 to 3 teaspoons for each cup of tea you want to make. If you're using ready-made tea, add one teabag per cup of tea. Measure it out into a heat-safe teapot or tea cup. You can use a metal tea ball if you prefer.You can crush the flowers or leave the whole.
 Pour boiling water over the tea or tea bags. You'll need a cup of water for each serving of tea you're making. Once you've poured the water over, cover the tea (so it stays warm), and leave it to steep for 10 minutes or a bit longer., If you didn't use a tea ball, you'll need to strain out the herbs. Pour the tea through a mesh strainer into another container or teapot, straining out the herbs as you go. Pour out the tea and drink it. You can drink the tea three or four times a day. It's best to drink it when you're not eating., You don't have to drink the tea to take chamomile internally. For example, you can take 400 milligram chamomile capsules up to 3 times daily. You can find capsules at health food stores.You can also add a drop or two of essential oil to a full glass of water. Drink the whole glass.