 Like medications, different herbs can have various possible side effects and interact with medications you are taking or exacerbate certain medical conditions. Always discuss using herbs or herbal supplements with your doctor first to make sure the possible benefits outweigh any possible risks., This herb is derived from a type of buttercup plant and is used to treat hot flashes and night sweats. It is the most studied herb used for these purposes, although results are inconsistent. Some women find relief using it.It can be taken as capsules, tablets, or a powder mixed with water.Research results are mixed as to effectiveness, but this herb has fewer side effects than others.
Don’t use it if you have or have had liver problems., Flax has lignans, substances that moderate hormone metabolism and are similar to plant estrogens. Some women find relief from hot flashes.Grind seeds in a coffee grinder and add 1-2 tablespoons to food each day.If you are avoiding taking estrogen for medical reasons, consult your doctor about whether phytoestrogens are safe for you to take.Do not ingest whole flaxseeds because they are hard to digest., This oil includes an essential fatty acid (gamma-linolenic acid) that may help level out some symptoms of menopause.While some women have positive results, no wide-spread studies have been able to back up its effectiveness. It is available in oil form and capsules, and should be taken for at least 6-8 weeks before results are likely.There is at least one respected study that does not show positive effects for menopausal users.Look for primrose oil that is certified as organic and packaged in dark containers or one that resists light., On average they had one less hot flash a day.A topical treatment with this vitamin as an ingredient can help alleviate vaginal dryness.Take 400 IUs a day. Choose natural vitamin E, which is mixed tocopherols and tocotrienols).Do not take vitamin E supplements if you are taking blood-thinning medications. Higher doses found in supplements may increase risk of bleeding internally., Used in traditional Chinese medicine, this herb is used often to alleviate symptoms of menopause. It is thought to help regulate female hormones without any estrogenic activity.It can be taken in the form of tablets, capsules, powders and tinctures.Since little research has been completed on the herb for these purposes, medical professionals cannot say for certain that it is effective.
Do not take if you are on blood-thinning medications or if you are experiencing heavy bleeding. , Dioscorea villosa, or extract of wild yam, is a type of phytoestrogen, and some creams have synthetic progesterone added to them. There is little evidence that applying these creams eases menopausal symptoms like hot flashes and night sweats, but some women had found relief from them.Wild yam does not contain natural progesterone. It must be converted to progesterone in a lab.