 Do not invest your money in banks. Credit unions tend to have lower fees, higher savings rates, and lower loan rates than banks, which cater more toward businesses.Credit unions are also more likely to have lower minimum account balance requirements than banks.
 These places offer you your cash instantly, but take a percentage out of your total check. This will leave you with significantly less income over time. For instance, assume you cash a $100 check each week, and the check cashing service takes 5% of the check. It doesn’t seem like much, but it adds up quickly.At that rate, it translates to five dollars each week; by year’s end, that’s $260.
 Overdrawn accounts are more likely to happen when you are financially on the edge. This leads to late fees and charges. Ending automatic debit for utilities, rent, and other regular costs might take more time out of your schedule each month, but you will have financial control returned to you.
 Don’t take out new credit cards; work instead on paying off the balance on your current credit cards and loans.


Draw up a household budget. In one column, calculate your household’s total income. This includes revenue coming in not only from you, but from everyone in your house. Then calculate your household’s total expenses. Think about the costs accumulated by children and pets as well as by you and any other adults in the house. Subtract the expenses from the income total. If the expenses exceed the income, try to find where you can cut some expenses, or figure a way to increase your income streams.
Before buying anything, always ask yourself this question: "Is this really necessary?" If not, put it back on the shelf for another day when you are not so poor.
 Full-time jobs are exceedingly rare. You’ll likely have to cobble together a work schedule consisting of multiple part-time jobs to make ends meet.While it can be inconvenient to juggle two or even three work schedules, such an arrangement will ensure you always have some source of income. If one job fails to provide an adequate amount of hours in a given week or month, you’ll already have your other job(s) to fall back on.


Don’t be afraid to request working more hours if you think you can take them on. Employers like seeing helpful employees who are eager to work.
If you have trouble finding additional time in your schedule to work due to the presence of small children, ask a trusted relative or neighbor to tend to them while you go to work.
If you have a hard time locating transportation to get to or from a place of work, ask coworkers, friends, or family to give you a ride. Check local public transit options as well.
If it is impossible to take on extra work, ask for a raise at your current place of employment. You are more likely to get a raise if you’ve been on the job for at least a year.
 If the restaurant you work at pays 10 bucks an hour and the restaurant up the street pays 11 bucks an hour, you should think about jumping ship. Don’t feel bad about leaving a job. It’s nothing personal, you’re just looking out for your own economic interests.
 If you are in debt, you might consider speaking with a debt counselor. Debt counselors can help you consolidate your debt or construct a repayment plan to get your debt under control.You could also seek assistance from a financial advisor, a specially trained economic expert who helps individuals utilize and save their money in the most efficient way possible. Financial advisors can educate and train you on how to budget your money. They are often available over the phone or online, as well as in person.
Be on the lookout for credit counseling scams. Some organizations purport to be debt counseling agencies but are in fact in the business of preying on economically vulnerable individuals, and charge lots of fees Do not allow any agency to add you as an authorized user on another bank account, or obtain an Employer Identification Number for you.