 You can use completely bleached shorts, ombre bleached shorts, or even tie die bleached shorts. If you wish to learn how to bleach your shorts, refer to one of the sections in this article on bleaching your yours, ombre bleaching your shorts, or reverse tie dying your shorts.
 You will be dyeing your shorts in this, so make sure that you do not mind if it gets stained. You need 3 gallons (11.35 liters) of very hot water.
 You can use liquid fabric dye or powder fabric dye. If you are using liquid dye, shake the bottle, and pour ½ of the liquid dye into the hot water. If you are using powdered fabric dye, empty the packet into 2 cups (473.18 milliliters) of very hot water, then add the water to the bucket.Stir the dye with a long stick or spoon (that you will not be using for cooking purposes again) to mix everything.
 Measure out 1 cup (280 grams) of salt and add it to 2 cups (473.18 milliliters) of very hot water. Mix with a spoon until everything is combined, and then pour the salt water into the dye bath. Stir again until everything is mixed together. The salt will help the dye stick to the jean fabric better.
 You can do this by dipping a piece of white, cotton fabric into the dye bath and then taking it out. If the color is too dark, add more hot water. If the color is too light, add more dye. Once you have achieved the color you want, you are ready to dye your shorts.Keep in mind that the dyed item will be a little darker when it is wet than when it is dry.
Fabric dye is translucent, so the original color of the shorts will affect the new color. For example, if you choose to dye a pair of ombre shorts pink, the white part will end up pink, but the blue denim part will end up purple.
 Dip the shorts in warm water, then squeeze them to get the extra moisture out. Soak them in the dye bath for 10 to 30 minutes until you get the shade you want. Make sure to stir the shorts in the dye bath from time to time, or you may get splotches.
 Tie rubber bands around the shorts. You can tie the rubber bands in little nibs randomly for a starburst effect. You can also scrunch the shorts into a rope, and tie rubber bands around the "rope" at 3 to 4 inch (7.62 to 10.16 centimeters) intervals. Once you are done tying the shorts, soak them in warm water, then squeeze them to get the extra moisture out. Dunk them into the dye bath for 10 to 30 minutes, or until you have achieved the color you want.
 Dip the bottom part of your shorts into the dye bath and rest them against the wall of the bucket so that they don't slide down into the water. Leave them in the dye for 10 minutes. After about 10 minutes, dip the shorts further into the dye bath, and lean them against the side of the bucket. Leave the shorts in the dye for 5 minutes. Swish the shorts around to get an even coating of dye, then dip them the rest of the way into the dye bath (or as far as you want the ombre effect to go). Quickly pull the shorts out., Once you have finished dyeing your shorts using your chosen method, pull them out of the dye bath and gently squeeze them to get the extra moisture out. If you have chosen to tie dye your shorts, snip the rubber bands off using a pair of scissors. Be careful so as not to cut the actual fabric of the shorts.
 Keep rinsing your shorts until the water runs clear. If you have chosen to ombre dye your shorts, hold them by the lightest part and rinse them using cool water first; squeeze the extra moisture out and then rinse them out using warm water until the water runs clear.
 You can do this by leaving them out in the sun, or by tossing them into the dryer for a few minutes.

