 Your article should offer some new information or a unique perspective. Editors are looking for a fresh take on a topic that will excite or interest their readers. This is true for fiction and non-fiction.Make it clear why your article is original. For example, if you are writing an academic article, you can emphasize the new sources you've utilized.
In your introduction, highlight the unique aspects of your research. For example, you might say, "Based on newly declassified sources,..."
If you are submitting a personal essay, explain your point of view. Make it clear to the editor and the readers why your take on the topic is interesting. You could say, "My experience as a first time mother was different than most because..."

, No matter what type of article you are writing, it is important that you edit your piece very carefully. Editors will not be impressed if you submit an article that is full of errors. You also need to make sure that your article flows coherently.After you produce a first draft, go back and edit for content. Make sure that the points you are trying to make are clear.
Pay attention to organization. Do you make it clear at the beginning what the point of your article is? Is your conclusion thorough? Would reorganization help?
Edit for grammatical/stylistic errors. Make sure that your spell check is set to check style as well as just grammar. Spend time carefully reading each sentence to make sure your piece is error free.
 Sometimes it can be difficult to be objective about your own writing. Or maybe you are just feeling uncertain about your content and you could just use some advice. No matter what you are working on, it can be really useful to get a second opinion.Ask a friend to read your work. Try saying, "Do you have some time this week to read an article that I'm working on?"
Accept constructive criticism. Don't take it personally if your friend offers you some tips for improvement.
Choose a friend whose opinion you respect. This will make it easier to accept and utilize their feedback.
 During the editing process, it is important to make sure that you understand all of the submission guidelines. The guidelines should be clearly stated on the publication websites. Most journals, magazines, and papers will tell you the precise qualifications for an article.Pay close attention to the guidelines. They are not merely suggestions. Many publications will not read your work if it does not fit the parameters of the guidelines.
Adhere to the length requirements. Most journals will give you a word count for minimum and maximum length.
Format your citations as specified. Some publications prefer endnotes, some require footnotes. Make sure you use whichever system the journal uses.

