 Before contacting the EEOC, you should get a handle on what qualifies as discrimination. Federal statutes prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, disability, and genetic information. It is illegal to take an adverse employment action based on one of these prohibited classes.


Federal law also prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex (whether the person is male or female). Keep in mind that “sex” encompasses pregnancy; accordingly, it is against the law to fire a woman because she is pregnant.Age discrimination. Under federal law, it is illegal to fire someone who is over the age of 40 because of their age.Discrimination based on sexual orientation is currently only prohibited for federal employees. However, “sexual orientation” discrimination may also fall under “sex.” For example, it is currently illegal to fire a gay male because he is too “effeminate” or otherwise fails to conform to gender stereotyping.The law on sexual orientation is in flux. The EEOC has recently voted that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation will qualify as sex discrimination.However, the EEOC does not have the final say on this, as the federal courts will have to decide whether this interpretation is a valid one.
If you have been discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation, you should contact an attorney to discuss the validity of your claim under federal law.


It is also illegal to retaliate for the employee’s reporting of illegal discrimination.This prohibition applies even if the EEOC later finds that no discrimination occurred.;
, Not all employers are covered by federal anti-discrimination law. You should check to see that your employer is covered. An employer must have a certain number of employees in order to be covered by law. That number will depend on the type of employer (private or public, a union or government agency) and the type of discrimination alleged.For example, if you have a complaint against a private employer involving race or sex, then the business will be covered by federal law if it had 15 or more employees who worked for the employer for at least 20 calendar weeks in the past two years.If your complaint involves age discrimination, then the business is covered if it had 20 or more employees in the same time frame.To read up on requirements, visit this website.
 You will need documentation of the adverse employment action, as well as any evidence you have that the action was taken for an illegal discriminatory purpose. You should look through your emails, letters, and work papers to see if you can find anything that suggests discrimination. Other useful information includes:A copy of your personnel file. Employers may be reluctant to turn this over. However, know that if you bring a lawsuit then you can subpoena your employer to turn it over.
Your employee handbook or manual. These are helpful in establishing whether your employer had a well-defined grievance process for complaints about harassment and discrimination. If your employer did not, then the absence of a grievance process is some evidence that your employer doesn’t take anti-discrimination seriously.
Diary or journal. You should have written down any action or conversation you felt was motivated by bias. This written documentation can be handy to establish what happened.
Pay records. If you were fired, then your pay records are necessary to show how much money you have lost.
Witness information. If someone saw the discriminatory action, then you will want their name and contact information.
 You do not need an attorney to file an EEOC complaint.But talking to one can clarify whether or not you have a discrimination claim. If you are worried about costs, know that attorneys now provide "unbundled" services. Under this arrangement, the attorney performs a discrete task (such as coaching or reviewing documents) often for a flat fee.


You may also seek out legal aid organizations that can provide free legal assistance for employment issues. The Legal Aid Society Employment Law Center is one such organization.To find a local legal aid organization near you, visit this website.
 In general, you have 180 calendar days to file your claim.Some circumstances will extend the deadline. For example, if you are a state of Georgia employee, then you have 300 days from the date of the alleged harm.Regardless of any available extension, you probably shouldn’t rely on them. Instead, bring your claim once you have gathered sufficient evidence of the discriminatory action.
 The EEOC has an online tool that will help you evaluate whether your claim is covered under federal anti-discrimination law. You can find the assessment tool here.


If the assessment tool finds that you have a qualifying claim, then you will be offered a form (Intake Questionnaire) to fill out to help you gather all of the information that you will need to file your complaint.
 You can file your complaint (called a “charge”) at any EEOC office, but the complaint will be investigated by the office closest to the location where the event occurred. You can also file your complaint by mail.


To find your nearest EEOC office, visit this page and enter your zip code.
Walk-in service is available.However, you should probably call the office and set up an appointment.
 If you file in person, you should bring the names and contact information of people who also saw or experienced the event.If you need language assistance, feel free to bring anyone with you who can help translate. You may also request a translator or sign language interpreter ahead of time.Be sure to bring a photo ID to present to the security desk., If you live too far away from an EEOC office to file in-person, then you may also file through the mail. You will begin this process by writing a letter and mailing it to 131 M Street, NE, Washington, DC 20507. The letter should include:Your name, address, and telephone number
The name, address, and telephone number of the employer against whom you are filing your complaint
The number of workers the employer employs (if known)
A short description of the events you believe were discriminatory
When the events took place
Why you believe you were discriminated against illegally (e.g., because of your race, sex, religion, etc.)
Your signature (required for EEOC to begin the investigation)

, Within 10 days, the EEOC will send a copy of your charge to the employer for a response. The agency will also send you a charge number. The number will be used to access your charge throughout the process.Cooperate in the investigation. If the EEOC investigates your charge, they may need to gather additional information from you, the employer, or witnesses. The length of the investigation will depend on a number of factors.
In 2004, the average length of the investigation was six months.
 The agency may recommend mediation. In mediation, a neutral third party attempts to bring the parties to an agreement on the issues. There is no need to bring any evidence because the mediator does not make a decision. The intent is for both parties to compromise a little so that the issues can be settled without need for a trial.


Mediation has many advantages. First, it takes less time to resolve a complaint. Although it takes six months for the EEOC to investigate, mediation can resolve a dispute in three months.There is no charge for mediation.For this reason, it is cheaper than bringing a lawsuit since you do not have to pay an attorney to represent you in court.
Mediation can also allow for an amicable resolution. This could be important if you plan on seeing your employer in the future because you both work in the same industry.
Mediation is completely voluntary. Each mediation session lasts around three to four hours., Once the investigation is completed, the EEOC will decide either to dismiss the case, attempt settlement, or file a lawsuit. The agency could dismiss the case for any number of reasons, including the fact that it was filed too late.If the agency dismisses the case, you will be given a Notice of Right to Sue, which will give you permission to file a lawsuit in court on your own behalf.If you receive a Right-to-Sue letter, you will need to file your lawsuit in 90 days.