 To buy an eBook from the eBookstore, you will need to create a Google account. Payments are made using the Google Checkout feature.;
, The eBookstore can be found at books.google.com/ebooks or by navigating to “Books” from your Google account and selecting the eBookstore.
 The eBookstore homepage is organized to display titles from "New arrivals," "Top rated," "best of the free," and "Books of interest" with a list of subjects located in a sidebar on the left-hand side. Click on an eBook to find information on the book, reviews from the web and users, view a sample from the book and make a purchase. You can also browse free books in the same way.
 Books are added to the library immediately after you purchase one or add a free one. Navigate to the “Books” category in your Google account and then select “My Library.” There you will find your purchased and free books displayed with the button “Read Now” underneath. Simply click on the button to open the book. If you leave the book part-way through reading, your spot will be saved automatically for when you return to it. You can also create “bookshelves” in your library to organize your eBooks.
 The Google eBooks and eBookstore can be accessed on mobile devices running Android 2.1or iOS 3.0 or later through a free application. This includes the iPhone, iPod touch, iPad, most HTC phones, Motorola Droid X and Droid 2, Samsung Galaxy A and Galaxy X among other phones. Download the app from the eBookstore itself, the Apple App store and the Android Market. The app is called "Google Books" in both the Apple App store and the Android Market. In addition to letting you purchase from your phone, the app will store an average of 16,000 eBooks on Android 2.1 and 8,000 on a 16GB iPhone. Other features include offline reading and a night-reading mode.

Android http://books.google.com/help/ebooks/android.html






iPhone/iPod/iPad http://books.google.com/help/ebooks/ios.html







, Google eBooks can be read on any reader that supports the Adobe eBook platform, which includes the Sony Reader and the Barnes & Noble Nook and more than 85 other devices. At this time, the Amazon Kindle is not supported. Google provides detailed information on transferring eBooks to a reader, but note that if you are not using a Sony Reader or Nook, you will have to first download Adobe Digital Editions from the Adobe website and then follow further instructions at the Google help center.
 Powell’s and Alibris are two online retailers that will be selling books in the Google eBook format. This gives you the option of buying your eBooks from places you may already use to buy print books. When searching for books on both websites, filter your search by selecting “eBooks” and you will be able to view find your title in its eBook format.

