 When you choose your flag, choose the biggest size. Put the flag directly at your waist and clip it together loosely. Have your flag in plain view. This way, someone can easily grab your flag and get you out of the game.;
, When you are running, go for the best player's flag. They will realize that you are trying to steal their flag and take yours.
 Preferably in the center where you can plainly be seen and have your flag stolen easily. Go near the weak players at times so it isn't obvious.
 If you are playing horribly one minute, then capturing ten flags the next then your teacher will know something's up.
 Make sure you are watching the game intently to make it seem like you want to play.
 You will only have to stand near the goalie and hit the puck away if it comes near you. If you cannot choose your position, then hang around the good players. They will hit the ball for you if it comes near because they know you aren't a strong player

,, Maybe hit someone else's stick "by accident" so it seems like you are trying hard.
 When it isn't your turn, watch the game. Don't zone out because it will be obvious that you don't want to play the game.
 Therefore when everyone is sweaty from doing thirty, you will have only done fifteen.
 When doing pull-ups, bend your elbows and jump. Maybe bend your legs too. This is the perfect time to use a fake injury to get out of exercising. Say you hurt your wrist or something like that. If they send you to the nurse, don't go to the nurse. Just go to the bathroom or take a walk around the school. Just make sure you have a pass to avoid unwanted detention!

, Then the next time don't do one. Then go halfway, then don't do one, and so on. Do a real sit-up for the last one they call. You don't want to seem like you aren't trying.
 There will probably be a selection of weights you can choose from. Choose the second to lightest one. You don't want your faking to be obvious.Then when lifting it, don't strain too much. Just lift. You don't even have to lift it all the way. Just make it seem like you are making an effort.
 When time is up, when you drop your weight, go "phew!" Then you can wipe the "sweat" from your forehead.

