 Exfoliation is the removal of dead skin. It can help minimize the appearance of acne scars and hyperpigmentation (red spots). It is also important to remove dead skin that can potentially clog the pores, causing acne to return. There are many products available for exfoliation.Before using any exfoliating products, speak with a dermatologist to determine what treatment is right for your skin type.
People with dry, sensitive skin should limit exfoliating to once or twice per week. People with oily, thicker skin can exfoliate once every day.
A soft microdermabrasion cloth is a great tool for exfoliation. These are made of microfibers that suck the dirt and oil from pores without any pressure or rubbing.
After rinsing with a cleanser, dry your face with a soft washcloth or towel. Then, gently massage onto your face for three to five minutes. After each use, make sure to wash it with soap and let it dry.
 You can make your own exfoliant from sugar. Sugar is one of the best natural beauty ingredients to exfoliate your skin. Sugar scrubs help remove dead skin and rejuvenate the inner layers of skin by cleaning all the dirt from the skin pores.Sugar also has a natural anti-aging effect on the skin. It helps remove harmful free radicals to slow down the aging process.
Regular granulated sugar, brown sugar or organic sugar all work well for sugar scrubs. Brown sugar is the finest and least abrasive. Regular granulated is only slightly coarser and works fine. Organic sugar is the coarsest.
To make your own scrub, combine ½ a cup of brown sugar with 2 tablespoons of glycerin, ⅓ cup of coconut oil and two tablespoons of sweet almond oil. You can also add a few drops of lemon or lavender essential oils for fragrance.Mix these ingredients in a small bowl, then transfer the mixture to a jar.
To use a sugar scrub, massage a small amount onto the affected area for three to five minutes. Rinse with warm water.
Store the scrub in a cool, dry place for no longer than two to three weeks.
 Oatmeal contains saponins, a natural plant-based cleanser. It also contains phenols with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and photoprotective properties. Its high concentration of starches helps the skin stay moisturized too, so it is safe to use for people with sensitive skin.For a natural exfoliant, boil one tablespoon of organic oatmeal in ¼ cup water. Once it cools, massage the mixture gently onto your face and leave it on for 10–15 minutes. Rinse with warm water.
 The fine particles in baking soda gently remove dead and damaged skin cells as well as washing away excess sebum. It is especially useful for people with sensitive skin, as it gradually dissolves into the skin.For a simple scrub, simply mix a teaspoon of baking soda with a little water and massage onto your skin for 5 minutes.
If you have thick, oily skin, add a few drops of lemon juice to act as an astringent to prevent future acne breakouts.
Do not use baking soda if you have inflamed or cystic acne.
Make a paste out of Turmeric Powder, neem leaves and honey. Apply it on your face, and wash it off after 15-20 mins.

