 There’s nothing that can fill your home with the scent of fall quite as well as a well-crafted simmer pot. Use aromatic herbs, spices, and fruit to create exactly the aroma - and atmosphere - you’re hoping for. For instance, mix 1 quart of water, 4 bay leaves, 1 thinly-sliced orange, a sprig of fresh rosemary, and a vanilla bean in a saucepan. Heat the concoction on medium high until it begins to simmer, and lower the heat so that it’s just hot enough to keep simmering.If you want the simmer pot to last more than 15-20 minutes, you’ll likely have to add a bit of water periodically.
Use 1 or two teaspoons instead of a vanilla bean, if necessary. If you do use a vanilla bean, you can dry it out and reuse it a few times.
If you want to keep a simmer pot going for more than an hour or two, use a crock pot. After achieving a simmer with a higher heat, reduce the crock pot’s heat to low.
Other great ingredients to include in a fall-themed simmer pot are sliced apples, cinnamon sticks, dry star anise, fresh or dry ginger, cardamom pods, coves, and/or dried orange peel.;
, If the scent of dried leaves isn't on your mind, you’re likely thinking about apple pie. Of course, there are a handful of equally enjoyable fall dishes, especially desserts, that will smell so good you’ll end up hungry. Anything with cinnamon, apple, and vanilla will smell especially seasonally appropriate.Don’t forget about pumpkin pie or pumpkin bread. In fact, baking with anything that has cloves, nutmeg, will fill your home with familiar fall scents as well.
 From pumpkin chocolate chip to pumpkin whoopie pies, there are plenty of different cookie recipes that are sure to get your house smelling like freshly-baked fall treats. Look online for hundreds of free recipe options. Pick one with with oatmeal and/or cranberry to increase the nutritional value of the cookie and provide a more complex aroma.Pumpkin spice cookies are another good option, and contain plenty of particularly potent fall aromatics, such as cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg.
 Candied apples will not only bring the scent of fall to mind, it may bring back childhood fall memories as well. To make your own caramel coating, cook 1 cup butter, 2 cups brown sugar, 1 cup light corn syrup, and 14 ounces of sweetened condensed milk on a stove at medium-high. Stirring non-stop, turn the heat down when the caramel boils, and use a candy thermometer to maintain a temperature of 250° F (120° C) for roughly 30 minutes.To test whether the coating is ready, drop a teaspoon into cold water. It should form a hard ball of caramel if it’s ready. Add 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract once cooking is complete.
Carefully dip apples previously pierced with craft sticks into the caramel. Allow them to cool on wax paper, but not before adorning with your favorite toppings, such as pecans or crushed pumpkin cookies.
If you struggling to choose between desserts, just bake caramel apple flavored cookies.