 Grief affects everyone differently, and there’s no set timeframe for when you should feel “okay.” Avoid putting pressure on yourself or your husband to recover sooner than you are ready.Be aware that your husband may recover faster than you, or vice versa. Don’t take it personally if he starts to feel better before you do – grieving is unique to each person.
Also, keep in mind that sometimes grief is delayed. It might not set in until months after the miscarriage.
 Ask your husband to go for a walk with you, help you with the grocery shopping, or just be present with you. Spending time with each other can strengthen your bond as a couple and help you support each other through the aftermath of a miscarriage.For example, you could watch a new series or read a new book together to give you something to preoccupy you, talk about, and connect over.
 After a miscarriage, you and your husband may have ambivalent or negative feelings about sex. Avoid rushing into physical intimacy again until you both are emotionally prepared.


Have an examination to make sure sex is safe for you, and communicate with each other about your feelings and fears. Once you are both ready, sex can be a powerful way to bring you closer together.In the meantime, you can trade massages, have a candlelight dinner, or cuddle on the sofa while watching Netflix to maintain intimacy and affection in your marriage. Physical affection is one of the most effective ways to feel better due to the release of Oxytocin in the brain. Exchange long hugs and make genuine eye contact with each other.
 Despite your attempts to establish intimacy with your husband after the miscarriage, he could push you away. Although this is hurtful, you should try your best not to take his withdrawal personally. Different people just grieve differently, and he may require more time.


However, if your husband continues to push you away or even blame you for the loss, you should openly discuss it with him. Find a time when both of you are in pleasant moods, and maybe at a neutral location outside of the home to start this conversation so that it's not threatening. You might say something like, "I feel like you have grown distant from me since we lost the baby. Can we please talk about that?"
Miscarriage can have a negative impact on your marriage if both partners are not willing to share their feelings.Consider marriage or grief counseling to discuss any unresolved guilt or blame in order to move forward.

