 Think about the things that you definitely want in a girlfriend. Perhaps you want to find someone who shares your religious views, or someone who definitely wants children. Identify your “must-haves” in a potential girlfriend.


Think about both major and minor criteria. Someone with the same life views as you is probably important. But you might also think about whether you want someone who will run marathons with you, or someone who will binge-watch TV with you, or someone who works in the same industry as you.
While you may want a girlfriend who you think is extremely physically attractive, avoid putting this at the top of your list. Your relationship should be based on something less superficial than good looks.;
, Chances are, you’re not going to meet anyone if you stay holed up in your house. Get out of your usual routines and hang out in public places where you might meet new people.Think about visiting these types of places frequently:


Grocery store
Bookstore or library
Coffee shop
Park
Hiking trail
Music shop

, If you’re having trouble finding potential women to date, you may need to try something new to open up your circle of acquaintances. Try a new hobby or join a club, such as skiing or hiking.


Try to have some level of interest in the activity. Don’t just pretend to like an activity because there are lots of girls doing it too. Otherwise, you will start off a potential relationship with falseness.
If you are in school, try taking a different type of class than what you normally take. Even if you don’t feel like you’re a creative person, you might take art or drama class. You can get to know this girl in one of her favorite classes.
 You may have a very particular idea about what kind of woman you’re attracted to. But there are all types of people with whom you can become very good friends and potentially romantic partners. Try not to judge a book by its cover.
 Expand your social circle by getting more women friends. You may have initially considered a woman as potential girlfriend material but then decided it wouldn’t work out. Don’t immediately write off this person. You two can still be friends. What’s more, she probably has lots of girlfriends.