 You might want to give yourself a more positive mental outlook. Maybe you just want to achieve overall good health. Whatever your reason(s), list them and be specific. Tack this list to your fridge or another visible location and consult it daily, especially when you feel tired from your exercise regimen.
 Ensure your fitness goals are achievable, realistic, and specific. For instance, do not make a goal like, “I want to get fit.” Instead, make a goal with quantifiable data, like, “I want to lose ten pounds,” or “I want to be able to do fifty pushups.”


A realistic weight loss goal is to lose two pounds each week. Use this baseline to determine how much you can lose.
Don’t schedule gym time for yourself every day if you cannot make it to the gym each day.
Getting fit will be hard.Expect to put in lots of work to get fit over the summer.
 Your plan should include both an exercise and nutrition aspect. Write the plan down.


Your nutrition aspect might be, for instance, “Consume no more than 1,800 calories each day.”
Your exercise aspect of the plan might read, “Exercise for one hour each day except Wednesday and Sunday.”
Feel free to modify your plan as the summer progresses. If you think your current plan is too rigorous -- or not rigorous enough -- add or remove steps and benchmarks as needed.
 Fitness tracking devices like FitBit can also be helpful in helping you monitor your progress and achieve your goals.


Yogaia is a mobile app that provides guidance and training for yoga moves. Using it to do yoga on your own can save money that would have been used for classes.
Lifesum is an app that provides a personalized nutrition plan based on how much you exercise and what your fitness goals are.
Use a health and fitness tracking device like FitBit to help you track your biometrics (the data of your body). FitBit can track how far you’ve run, how many steps you’ve taken, and what your heartbeat is during different times of day.
 If you are on track with your fitness goals, your body will become visibly toned and muscular. You can use these images to remind yourself how far you’ve come on your path to good health.


You could also post the pictures on social media to receive praise and positive feedback from friends and family. This feedback can also function as a great source of motivation.
 If you have friends who have also expressed interest in getting fit over the summer, propose a contest in which the individual who loses the most weight over the summer wins. A friendly contest among friends or coworkers can motivate all of you.Money is also a great motivator. For an added twist, you and your friends could put up some money as a prize for whoever loses the most weight. If you and five friends put in $20, the winner could get $100 at the end of the summer.
You could also make a rule that if someone doesn’t lose at least one pound by the end of each week (compared to their previous week’s weight), they must add $10 to the prize pot.
 Invite your friends to go walking or swimming with you. Get a gym buddy to accompany you on your workouts.


Exercise also produces endorphins, a kind of biological chemical that makes you feel good.
Thinking about your workouts as something other than drudgery can help you stay on track. Think of your workout sessions as personal time, or a personal reward or mini-vacation from your regular work life.