 Take five minutes to write down the names of friends and family members you trust who might be able to help you recover. You will need the help of people who care for you. Once you have written your list, phone the first person on your list and ask for help. Explain that they can help simply by listening to you on the phone or by offering more concrete assistance like a ride to the doctor.Be open to whatever help they can offer.


Remember that you may have to change your circle of friends. Being around people who use is a big reason for relapse.
 Start reaching out to more family members and friends. Ask if they would be able to support you in your recovery efforts. Eventually, you will have a network of supporters who can offer different kinds of help such as empathy, advice or practical assistance., Some psychologists offer a form of treatment called network therapy. This involves a close group of friends, family, and a therapist who are all committed to helping you recover from drug abuse.In this model, you have an entire social network supporting your recovery from drug abuse. Your friends, family, and therapist all play a role so that you have the right help and people when you need them. Simply ask your therapist or a potential therapist if they offer this treatment or similar approaches.
 It will be tough to lose these friends, but remember that being around certain people can be a trigger for your addiction.


Try using behavioral therapy to help you cope with triggers such as particular friend groups and places.Ask your therapist or potential therapist if they offer behavioural therapy and if it could help with your situation.
 You will need to create new social networks to support your recovery process. It can help to join new social groups or clubs that are not associated with your drug history.


Try joining a new social club or meetup. Meetups bring people together to share interests and hobbies. Find one in your area based on your interests.Try joining a sports team. A sports team can be a nice way to socialize with new friends around common interests that do not involve drugs.
 Relationships with loved ones are often put under a lot of strain by drug abuse. It takes time and effort to repair these relationships. You should acknowledge the impact of your drug use on your relationships and show that you are taking concrete steps to get better.Phone an addiction helpline counsellor for advice. Ask an addiction counsellor for advice about repairing relationships with loved ones. They have education and experience in these matters and will be able to offer specific advice for your situation.You should be able to find one by simply searching online or googling “addiction helpline” followed by the name of your city or town.
Tell your loved ones that you have a plan for recovery. Once you have figured out a detailed plan to stop using drugs, tell your loved ones about it.Make a list of the people who have been harmed by your drug addiction and consider how you will make amends to them. In many cases, you will need to go way beyond a simple apology. You will need to make direct amends, such as paying back money, and indirect amends such as changing the behaviours that caused harm to the relationship.