 There are many different credit card companies offering cash-back rewards cards. The best way to start when researching these offers is by searching online. There you'll get a comprehensive listing of every company offering cash-back credit cards, and you'll be able to read the specific terms and conditions of each card.


Search online for "cash back credit card" or "best cash back credit card offers" to see a comprehensive listing.;
, Before you sign up for a cash-back credit card (or any credit card, for that matter), you should look into the terms and conditions of that card. Many cards have offers that expire after several months to a year, while even otherwise good rewards cards have limits to what you can get cash back on.Some cards offering higher cash-back rates often have restrictions on where they can be used. For example, a card that offers 3% may only give that rate for groceries; all other purchases may be just 1% cash back.
There may be limits to how much you can reclaim on a cash-back rewards card. Once you pass that limit, your rewards percentage may lower considerably.Cards with specific business or category affiliations often get a higher percentage back from each purchase than a general cash-back card.Certain cards rotate out which category or categories they offer the highest rewards for, which may make it difficult to consistently get the best rewards.
 Stiff penalties and high fees can quickly outweigh the benefits you receive from a cash-back credit card. Before you commit to a given credit card, look at how much you'll have to pay in annual and monthly fees, as well as any potential penalties that are imposed for late payments or periods of inactivity.Some cards make you forfeit accumulated rewards and rebates if you miss consecutive payments or have a prolonged period of card inactivity.
Depending on the credit card company you're considering, you may have to agree to an inflated annual fee to get the most out of your cash-back card.
For example, one American Express card only charges annual fees for the "Preferred version," which doubles your rebate on certain items but charges a $75 annual fee. Depending on how often you make purchases and use rewards, this may or may not be worth it.
 The APR is the rate of interest charged each year on purchases you make with your card. Most cards have a fixed APR for the year, though you may be able to avoid paying that interest for many credit cards.Some credit card companies assign an APR to your card based on your credit score. There may be multiple tiers of percentage rates, depending on how well you score.
Many credit card companies do not impose interest on your purchases if you are consistently diligent in paying off your monthly balance, but not all cards. Ask about the APR for any card you're considering.
 Getting cash back for your purchases may sound like free and easy money. However, there can be significant out-of-pocket costs associated with your card, depending on what you qualify for. If you have good credit, use your card frequently, and pay off your bills on time each month, the rewards may outweigh the costs. If not, though, you may end up paying considerable fees.Foreign transaction fees are assessed when you use your card while traveling in a foreign country. Some cards charge a foreign transaction fee, while others do not. Those that do charge a fee often vary, but it's best to find a fee below 3%. There are also a number of "travel" credit cards that do not charge a foreign transaction fee.Many of the best rewards offers require excellent credit.Depending on your credit score, you may not be eligible for these deals, and you may have to settle for a less-rewarding card.
 Any time you apply for a credit card, the credit card company you apply with runs a credit check on you. Having outstanding debts can significantly lower your credit score and may even flag you as a high risk.Make sure you are in good standing with all of your creditors before you begin the credit card application process. That way your credit check will come back with a higher rating, and you may even be eligible for a better interest rate or card option.
 If a lender runs a comprehensive credit search, your credit may be affected in the future if that lender uncovers a bad credit history. When you pre-apply for a credit card, a "soft" credit search is run. Only you see your credit search, which means that your future credit won't be affected. This can give you the opportunity to put off applying and pay off your debts so that you will be approved when you do apply in the future.If you're approved, you can go ahead and apply. If not, you'll need to fix your credit before applying again.
 Once you've settled on a card and you've gotten your finances in order, you're ready to apply for your own cash-back credit card. The easiest way to apply is by going online and visiting that card company's website. From there you can fill out an online application form, and you'll typically find out if you're approved as soon as you submit your information.You'll need to enter some personal information, including your name, address, phone number, and social security number.
In order to check your credit, most card companies will also ask for your bank account information and details about your employment history and income.
If you're approved, your card will arrive in the mail shortly. If not, you should call the card company to find out why so that you can make any necessary arrangements.
 The easiest way to rack up rewards is by using your card consistently. You can use your card for everyday purchases, but if your card offers higher rewards through certain vendors or types of stores you should make a point of making purchases there.You can typically use your credit card anyplace that you would otherwise pay with cash, debit cards, or personal checks.
Check to see if most vendors accept your card. Some credit cards, like American Express, are not as widely accepted as some of their competitors, such as Visa or MasterCard., Most credit cards charge a fee for withdrawing cash. However, it's particularly ill-advised for a cash-back credit card. The fees and potential interest charged for getting cash back may end up outweighing the cash-back rewards you accrue., Cash-back credit cards can be a great perk for smart shoppers. If you're not careful, though, you could end up forfeiting a lot of the rebates you rack up. Canceling your card can also have negative repercussions for your overall credit score. If you want to maintain your credit and keep your rewards, you'll need to keep your card active and use it regularly.If you don't use your card frequently enough, you may end up losing your rebates. However, overspending just to get a rebate could deplete your savings.
Try to find a balance by using the card regularly without overspending. If you need help, you can contact a credit counseling agency to help you manage your finances.
Canceling a credit card may cause your credit score to go down. It's best to keep your card active and use it regularly, even if it's just for small purchases.
 Failing to pay off your bill for two or more consecutive months could cause you to lose your accrued rewards. Maintaining a debt for prolonged periods of time can also negatively affect your credit score. The best way to ensure that your bills get paid on time each month is to set up a direct debit payment through your bank.Most financial institutions that offer online banking give you the option of setting up automatic monthly payments for bills, utilities, or even rent payments.
Make sure your payment and billing information is up to date to ensure your monthly payments wipe out your bills.

