


You may also choose to add fennel, shallots or leaks into this mixture.;
, Add 2 tbsp. (30 ml) of oil to coat it.


If you plan to cook your stew in a Dutch oven, you may want to Sauté the aromatics before browning your meat and use the same pot.
,, If you plan to use seafood, it should be added near the end because it cooks more quickly.


Stew meats are generally less expensive, tougher cuts of meat. The braising process breaks down the fats in the meat, tenderizing them. Choose meats like pork shoulder, chicken thighs, chuck roast, bottom round, or even meats labeled "stew meat."

, Defrosting in the microwave right before can change some of the stew flavors because it may cook some of the meat too quickly.
 Cut 1 to 2-inch (2.5 to 5cm) pieces of meat. The size will depend upon your preference.


Generally, the longer the cooking time, the bigger your pieces of meat should be. You do not want your meat to overcook.
Not all meat needs to be cut before adding it to a stew. Chicken thighs, chicken wings and short ribs can be cooked with the bone in and removed while eating.
 Dredge your meat pieces in flour. This will give them a crispy edge and give the stew a more complex flavor.
 Pour 1 to 2 tbsp. (15 to 30ml) of oil into the bottom of the pan to coat it.
 Brown it on all sides. This should take approximately 5 to 8 minutes with 2 lbs. (0.9kg) of meat.
 Place a towel or foil over the top to keep it warm.
, Make sure it covers the entire bottom, adding more if necessary.
, Make sure you loosen and incorporate as many as possible of those bits. It will strengthen the flavor.



If you are using a slow cooker, you should add the deglazed sauce, meat and aromatics to the crock pot now.



If you are using a slow cooker, you should only cover approximately half of the volume of the ingredients with your liquid. The cooker will concentrate all the steam and juices inside the pot.
 Bay leaves, salt, pepper and thyme are frequently used with stews, but you should adjust your spices according to the flavors you prefer.
, You do not want to cook the meat too fast, just bring the temperature up so that it can stew.
 Simmer the ingredients for 1 to 4 hours, depending upon the volume of the stew and the amount of meat you have used.


If you are cooking a stew in a slow cooker, it will need to cook for 4 hours on the high setting or 6 to 8 hours on the low setting.
 Add them during the last 20 to 30 minutes of your simmering.


If you add the root vegetables too soon, they will be mushy.
 If they are tender enough to break away with only a fork, the stew is ready to serve.
,