 If desired, crease each of the walls out slightly to give the container a more rounded shape, and to allow for thicker ice formation. Be aware that while thicker ice will take longer to melt, thinner ice will be easier to see through.;
, Make sure that your bottle of vodka will fit in it with room to spare. You can use any vodka bottle that fits or looks best, and refill it or top it off from a different bottle if desired.
 The water level should come up to the base of the neck of the vodka bottle. It may be desirable to unscrew the very tip of the faucet (the faucet component that aerates the water) before filling the carton, as air that is trapped in the water will make the ice cloudier or more opaque.


To make the ice much clearer, use filtered water that has been boiled and cooled twice. The boiling removes air in the water as well as minerals, while the filtering removes various impurities, all of which cause the opaqueness of ice. Alternatively, buy distilled water and boil it once to remove the air, then cool it. Pour the water carefully and gently to minimize any splashing, as air will become trapped in the water when it is agitated. Gently tap the sides of the filled carton and the neck of the submerged bottle to release air bubbles that are stuck to surfaces. Also try gently rotating the submerged bottle back and forth several times to dislodge air bubbles. Be aware that the ice will still have a tendency to form cosmetic fractures that will make it less clear. Another possible way to make sure you have the clearest ice possible would be to use a small hose and syphon the water from one container into the milk carton, making sure the end of the hose which is in the milk carton is at the bottom of the carton. This will allow for fewer air bubbles to get into the water during the process of filling the milk carton.



Place flowers or other decorations in the water, wedging them between the bottle and the inner wall of the milk carton to keep them submerged.
 The bottom of the milk carton needs to be kept as flat as possible so that when the embedded bottle is removed, it can stand upright on its own. Allow the water to freeze totally solid overnight.
 This is done by first running cold or cool water over the carton for a short period of time. Try pulling the bottle from the carton. If the bottle can't be easily pulled from the carton, tear the carton away from the ice in sections.
•Be aware that the ice will fracture somewhat when it is run under the water due to the sudden temperature change, causing the ice to be less clear and uniform.
 Chip or scrape small amounts at a time, using a sturdy, pointed knife. Be careful not to fracture the ice or break the vodka bottle. Also take care not to cut yourself, and be aware that the ice may lose its transparency when it’s chipped, unless it’s run under water afterwards.
 The tray should be able to hold some water that will melt from the ice, and should keep the embedded bottle from sliding around too much. If the bottle is to be carried around on the tray, it can be kept in place by putting it on a folded cloth napkin. However, the ice may freeze to the napkin, so the napkin may need to be removed.
•The bottom of the ice may not be level enough to allow the embedded bottle to remain upright. The bottom may be leveled by standing the embedded bottle on a flat surface that has been heated in the oven or with hot water until the bottom melts somewhat and becomes flat.
 This will make it easier and safer to pick up the bottle.


To prepare the napkin, first fold it in half.
Fold the created edge over twice.
Tie the back into a knot to secure it.
 Reuse and refill the bottle with vodka as needed. Don’t leave a napkin under the bottle, as it will definitely freeze to the bottle and to the tray.

