 Make sure you actually listen to metal on a daily basis. Listening to a few metal songs at a friend's house or on a game doesn't make you a metalhead. If you use a software to play music, you can easily check what you’ve listened to by date and how many times you've listened to a song.


You should have at least a couple tracks from a metal band in your recently played playlist.;
, There are “godfathers” of metal that you should know, if you consider yourself a metalhead. There are also several bands that fall on the line of metal and classic rock. The reality of the situation is that genres are malleable and shouldn’t be taken as a strict label. Some of the classic rock/metal bands are Black Sabbath, Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin, AC/DC, Van Halen, and Iron Maiden. Other classic metal bands are:


Metallica
Megadeth
Slayer
Death
Judas Priest
Pantera, Make sure you know a few bands of every subgenre of metal. Just a few major metal subgenres are thrash metal, death metal, black metal, power metal and speed metal. Many metalheads consider adolescents who listen "metalcore" and claim to be metalheads to be posers.


Metalcore includes bands like Bring Me the Horizon, Of Mice and Men, and Escape the Fate.
A list of a few bands and their respective subgenres are in the tips section.
 Know random trivia about bands like Motorhead, Metallica, Pantera, Death, Iron Maiden, Children of Bodom, and any other band you like. Statements like "Slipknot Sucks!" or "Metallica is the only good metal band" are typical statements from a metalhead poser. If you only like one band, you don't like metal thus you're not qualified to be a "Metalhead" but rather, you are a "Bandhead".However, there is one exception to this rule. If a person likes Metallica and has only listened to Metallica, then he or she can still be considered a genuine metalhead, but an adolescent metalhead to say the least.
There are ways to learn metal information, for example, by watching episodes of “That Metal Show”
There is great information about metal music in various guitar player magazines and a select number of music/rock magazines.
 Being a metalhead does not mean you reject every other genre of music. A metalhead (as well as everyone else) should exercise an open mind and be reasonable. Metal in general may be considered good music, but not all good music is metal.


Being a metalhead is a matter of personal expression. If you are open to showing your passion, don’t make fun of others who wish to share what they love.There is also a growing community of electronic and experimental musicians that are inspired heavily from metal. Noise as a genre of music isn’t a genre of metal, but the music and musicians doing this are metal.

