 Be honest. You don't need to over-justify your decision; it is enough if you simply aren't attracted to this guy. You may be attracted to the guy, but you can't accept his offer for some reason – maybe your friend likes him, or your parents won't let you date, or you don't feel that you're ready for a relationship. No matter the situation, it's important that you are honest with this guy and with yourself.


If you aren't attracted to the guy, that's all you need to say. Don't be mean about it, and don't insult him. Say, "I like our friendship, but I'm not attracted to you in that way."
If your friend likes him, do not spill the secret – unless your friend says that it's okay. Just tell the guy that you aren't interested, and don't hint that there is any other reason behind your choice.
If your parents won't let you date, feel free to be honest with the guy. Be careful, however, about leading him on or giving him hope. If you tell him that you have a huge crush on him, but that you can't date him, you may not stop his advances.
If you don't feel that you're ready for a relationship, that's okay. You will find someone in your own time, and it will be so much better if your entire heart is in it. This guy might be the first one to ask you out, but he won't be the last.
 Don't make excuses, and don't agree to go on a date just to be nice. No doubt, he'd prefer a "yes" over a "no" – but odds are that he'd rather deal with an immediate rejection than force you to go on a pity-date.
 Say something simple like, "I'm sorry, but I don't like you in that way." You don't need to explain in great detail why you aren't interested; you just need to get the main idea across. Try not to humiliate him with a long, drawn-out speech.


If he asks for specific reasons, feel free to explain why you aren't interested. Make sure that you don't let it become a debate, and don't let him talk you into going out with him. Be firm and clear. Do not compromise.
If you are friends with the guy, you can cite this as a reason. Say, "I love our friendship, but I'm not romantically attracted to you. Can we keep our friendship how it is?"

