 Sodium, more commonly known as salt, can be very damaging if you have kidney failure. It's vital you trim down on your sodium intake throughout the day. Cutting down on salt will cause less fluid retention in your body, and also help control blood pressure, all of which can help improve kidney disease.Buy foods with labels that read "no salt added," "sodium-free," or "low-sodium."
Check product labels to see how much sodium a food contains. Go for foods with less than 100mg of sodium per serving.
Do not use when you're cooking and don’t add salt to your food. If you have a salt shaker, remove it from the table altogether to avoid the temptation to salt your food during meals. Avoid salt substitutes as well unless your doctor or dietitian has said it is okay.
Avoid salty foods like pretzels, potato chips, popcorn, bacon, deli meats, hot dogs, cured meats, and canned meats and fish.
Steer clear of foods that contain MSG.
Cut back on how often you eat out. Foods in restaurants often contain more sodium than foods you prepare at home.
 Phosphorus levels in your blood should remain low if you have chronic kidney disease. Dairy products, like milk and cheese, are generally high in phosphorus. It's best to cut back on dairy if you're struggling with chronic kidney disease.When it comes to dairy foods, stick with your diet plan and do not exceed the recommended number of servings per day. You can also stick to low phosphorous dairy choices. Go for cream cheese, ricotta cheese, margarine, butter, heavy cream, sherbet, brie cheese, and whipped toppings that do not contain dairy.
As you need calcium for strong bones, talk to your doctor about calcium supplements. Many people who have chronic kidney disease need to take calcium supplements for their health and well-being.
You should also limit your intake of nuts, peanut butter, seeds, lentils, beans, organ meats, sardines, and cured meats such as sausages, bologna, and hot dogs.
Avoid drinking colas and soft drinks with phosphate or phosphoric acid in them.
Steer clear of bran breads and bran cereals as well.
 Fried foods should be avoided if you have kidney disease. Frying foods adds a lot of unnecessary calories and fat to your diet.When you're eating out, stay away from deep fried foods on the menu. Ask the waiter or waitress about altering items. For example, see if you can substitute a grilled chicken breast for a fried one on a sandwich.
At family get togethers, like holidays, stay away from fried foods. Opt for vegetables and fruits over things like fried chicken.
When cooking meals at home, do not fry your foods. If you have a deep-fryer, it may be best to give it away.

