 Many larger banks have multiple locations. You can find these locations by checking your bank’s website, calling them on the phone, or searching online.
 When you cash a cheque in person, you will be required to show a valid photo I.D. Driver’s licenses and passports are usually the best choices. In some cases, military or school I.D.s may be accepted.


You may not be required to show a photo I.D. if you cash the cheque at an ATM or via your smartphone.
 Any teller can take the cheque and give you cash. Many banks will cash cheques without charging a fee if you are an account holder with them.


Some banks may require you to deposit the cheque to your account rather than cash it. This is particularly likely if the cheque you are trying to cash is written on an account from another bank.If the bank on which the cheque is drawn refuses to pay your bank -- in other words, the cheque “bounces” -- your bank will reimburse itself from your bank account. Banks will also usually charge a fee for the trouble of dealing with a returned cheque.
 The traditional way of cashing a cheque is to stand in line and wait for a bank teller to assist you. Make sure you have a valid form of photo identification with you.


Many banks prefer that you have your bank debit card with you as well. If you do not have your debit card, you may be required to fill in additional forms to cash your cheque.
 At many larger banks, you can cash a cheque at their ATMs (Automatic Teller Machines). The funds are usually available immediately.


In most cases, you will need your bank debit card to deposit or cash a cheque at an ATM. The debit card identifies your account so that you can deposit or cash your cheque.
Make sure you endorse the cheque before inserting it into the ATM.
 Many banks now allow you to deposit cheques into your account using a smartphone. The process may vary between banks, but it usually involves downloading the bank’s app and using your smartphone camera to take a photo of your cheque.


Make sure to follow all the directions in the app.
Take a clear, well-lighted photograph of the front and back sides of the cheque.

