 In order to fight off the gummy, sticky stains, you'll need something that cuts grease. You can use store-bought products like Goo-Gone, Dr. Bronner's, or Simple Green, or you can make your own.


For strong stains, use 1 cup vinegar mixed with 4 cups water. Let the vinegar solution sit on the stain for a few minutes before wiping. You can add 1-2 tablespoons of ammonia for even more powerful cleaning.
For smaller, gentler stains, mix 3 tablespoons baking soda with 1 cup water.;
, These surfaces are much more prone to staining and warping if you're not careful. Some cleaners can strip away sealants, coatings, and paints if you're not careful. Always read the label for suggested surfaces to clean with. When in doubt, dab a bit of cleaning solution on a small area and check back 10 minutes later. If it is not stained or warped, you should be good to go. Some cleaners to consider include:


Murphy's Oil Soap
Dr. Bronner's
Barkeep's Friend
Warm water and 1-2 tablespoons trisodium phosphate, Depending on the stain you can use different abrasives to remove the stain, from gentle sponges on walls to blades on glass and hard plastic. Don't dig into the stain. Simply work at the edges, trying to lift it from the surface, to prevent scratching.


For walls, use the rough side of a sponge, or another gentle scrubber.
For unpainted metal, a toothbrush or other hearty brush will work wonders.
For painted metal, you need to use a gentle towel or microfiber cloth.
Use the sharp side of a razor blade to scrape away the gummy residue from glass and plastic. With the blade at a roughly 45-degree angle to the surface, scrape away the loosened nicotine residue., If you're working on glass, use a glass cleaner like Windex to remove the last little bits of residue and wipe the surface clean. Otherwise, a few drops of dish soap and warm water should be fine.


For serious stains, repeat the process, letting your degreaser soak into the stain for an extra 5-6 minutes., If the same stain has been building up for years, leading to a yellow, brownish tint to your items, they may never return to their original color. You can make improvements with gentle scrubbing and cleaning, but it may be time to repaint the walls or get newer objects if you can't fight off the yellow tinge.

