 In most cases, your daily cleaning won’t require more than a simple wipe down with warm water. To do this, take a clean microfiber cloth, wet it with warm water, and systematically wipe the marble.


Switch out your cloth for a clean one when it gets dirty.;
, Some days you may need more than warm water to clean your marble. In this case, create a solution of water and dish detergent. Take several cups of warm water and add a couple teaspoons of detergent.


The amount of detergent/soap may vary based on the specific product.
Make sure your detergent/soap is not fat-based. This could alter the color of the marble.
You can consider buying a soap or cleaning product especially formulated for Carrara marble., After you’ve made your solution, dampen a clean cloth and wipe down the marble systematically. Make sure to push debris toward one end of the marble and then remove it. Make sure you don’t leave any debris or excess suds on the marble., After you’ve wiped down the marble with your detergent solution, take a wet a clean cloth and wipe down the marble again. This will help remove soap residue from the marble surface., There are a wide variety of poultice products you can use to remove stains from Carrara marble. Poultice will help draw out moisture and stains from the marble.


You can purchase poultices at a home improvement store in your community.
Some popular poultices for Carrara marble include: Fuller’s earth, whiting, diatomaceous earth, talc, and powdered chalk.
Most all poultices should work to effectively remove stains from your marble., Make sure the area is clean and dry before you apply any poultice. Use a plastic or wood putty knife or spatula to spread the poultice over the stained area. The poultice spread should be about 1/4 of an inch to ½ of an inch thick (6.35 ml to 12.7 ml)., After you've applied the poultice, you need to cover it with plastic wrap for one to two days. The plastic wrap will make sure the poultice doesn't make a mess or dry out. The one to two days will give the poultice time to draw out the stain.


Avoid letting the poultice sit for any longer than two days. This could damage your marble., After you’ve allowed it to sit for one to two days, use a putty knife or spatula to remove the poultice. It’s important to remove all the poultice after you’ve let it sit. If you don’t, you could wind up damaging your marble.


Use a rag dampened in a warm water and soap/detergent mixture to remove any residual poultice., Some stains may remain after your initial application of poultice. As a result, you may need to reapply it. Reapplying the poultice will very likely lighten or remove the stain that remained after you first applied it.


Avoid applying poultice to the same spot more than two or three times. This could permanently damage the marble.
Consult a professional if a repeat application of poultice does not remove a stain., Pick a hidden or inconspicuous spot on the marble and do a test clean. This is important, as some products may etch or discolor marble. In the end, it’s better to perform a test than to ruin your entire marble floor or countertop.


Wait at least 24 hours after testing. This will give you enough time to see if the product has harmed the marble.
Consider testing poultice or other cleaning products underneath the granite where it overhangs a cabinet., There are a wide variety of household products that could damage your marble simply by making contact. As a result, you need to avoid these products. They include:


Vinegar
Ammonia
Hydrogen peroxide
Lemon, orange, or other citrus cleaners
Cleaners that are acidic, While sealing your marble won’t protect it completely from staining, it will decrease the likelihood of some staining. As a result, you should have your Carrara marble sealed when installed and resealed regularly.


You may need to reseal your marble after three to five years.
Polished Carrara marble may not need to be sealed.
Honed Carrara marble should always be sealed. If it is not sealed, it will absorb any liquids that are spilled on it.