 Even if you have come up with the most brilliant sure-fire plan ever, put your pride aside and seal those lips. Avoid the risk of someone else spoiling your fun with their own loose lips. This goes for both before and after.


Telling someone else about what you’re going to do might inspire them to do the same. Trouble is, they might not have thought things out as much as you. Then, when they get caught, the adults know what to look for.
Bragging about it afterward is just as bad. Remember: gossip travels fast, and you could get busted. And even if the school can’t prove what you did, they now know to keep their eye on you in the future.
 Whatever you’re doing, if you can do it by yourself, then do it by yourself. Don’t run the risk of someone else getting caught and spilling the beans. Even if you trust them to not tattle, keep in mind that they still might brag to other kids about what you got away with. If you have to make it a team effort, then:Keep your numbers small. Only include your most trusted friends. Swear them to secrecy so no one outside your circle knows what you’re up to.
Keep your best tricks to yourself. Let’s say that hidey-hole at the back of your locker is key to your plan. But does anyone else need to know it’s there? Probably not.
 Just because you have a near-perfect plan, don’t put it into action willy-nilly. Keep in mind that even the best laid plans can fail. Understand that there is ALWAYS a chance of being caught, even if you pulled this off once before. With that in mind, ask yourself whether the risk is worth taking today or if your plan would be better saved for another time. For example:If you’re skipping school or cutting class, consider what’s being taught that day. Can you afford to miss this lesson, or will skipping it put you behind?
If you have a substitute teacher, does that improve your chances? Or does this unknown person make your plans less certain?
If you’re about to cheat on a test, ask yourself how badly you need this grade. Would it be smarter to settle for a C today and save your master plan for when you really, really need a better grade?

, One of the best ways to avoid getting caught is to look like you aren’t doing anything wrong, so don’t act guilty!Imagine yourself as an adult who is watching you. Check yourself for any little thing that might call attention to yourself or give away what you are doing. Change your behavior, appearance, or gear as needed.


Walk at a relaxed pace, like you own the place, with your chin up and your eyes straight ahead. Avoid slouching or rushing, which shows that you have something to hide.Take nice, deep breathes in through your nose and out through your mouth to stay relaxed.Come up with innocent-looking signals to communicate, like curling your hair in your finger or raising your chin and scratching your neck.
Use your pen or pencil to tap messages back and forth, like three quick taps followed by two slow taps to ask for help with question 32 on your test.
Use doodles as a written code to hide your cheat sheet’s meaning. For example, with “2 + 2 = 4,” use triangles for “2,” a square for “4,” a circle for “+,” and a slash for “=.”

, If getting away with your stunt means changing anything major in your appearance or behavior, don’t wait until the last minute. Ease into it instead. Remember that you want to come across as acting normal, so if you need to act differently in order to succeed, let everyone get used to your new "normal" before putting your plan into action.If you know you’re going to skip the next school day, start acting a little sluggish and under the weather the day before.If you plan on cutting class later on in the day, maybe use the early morning to make a lot of emergency runs to the bathroom so it seems less odd if you don’t show up for class later.
If you intend to use tissues or a beverage label as a cheat sheet, start bringing them to class each day, not just the day of the test.
If you use doodles as code for cheat sheets, make a habit of always doodling in your notebooks and on your book covers, so it just looks like something you do to pass the time.

