 Open as many windows as possible to increase the amount of airflow inside your home, pushing the smelly smoky air out of the house and bringing the fresh air inside.


It is best to do this on a slightly breezy day. In the absence of a natural breeze, however, you can run ceiling fans and other fans inside the house to keep the air moving.
 Take any piece of furniture that you can remove from your home and let it sit out in the sun for a day or two.


The fresh air helps reduce the smoke smell.
The sun's UV rays are also thought to help neutralize smoke smell.
 Air purifiers trap odor in filters or neutralize odors completely. There are multiple types you can use:Electronic air cleaners produce an electric field that ionizes odor particles, causing them to become trapped to a collection plate.
Ionizers also produce an electric field that ionizes odor particles, but these machines cause the particles to drop to the ground for later vacuuming or sweeping.
Mechanical High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) air filters trap pollutant particles on a charcoal filter. These filters are then cleaned or changed out, removing the smoke particles for good.
 Getting the odor out of the air and furniture may not be enough to remove smoke from your home, of course. There are other surfaces that need to be cleaned before the smell will go away for good.Wipe down the walls and ceilings. Look for a cleaner with glycol or ammonia. When you scrub down your walls and ceilings, keep the room well-ventilated and do not let kids or pets inside.
Clean the floors. Hard floors can often be cleaned with standard floor cleaners, but carpets will need to be shampooed and deep cleaned. Professional carpet cleaning is often necessary.
Wash your drapes and blinds. Soak your blinds in a bathtub full of water. Mix in 2 cups (500 ml) or more of white vinegar for a more thorough cleaning. Throw your drapes into the washing machine or have the material dry cleaned if the fabric is too delicate for a home washing cycle.
Wipe down windows and mirrors. Spray each surface with white vinegar and wipe them down with a clean, soft cloth.
Swap out your light bulbs. Smoke residue builds up on the exterior and interior of the bulbs. When the light warms up, the smell is released back into the air.
 Pour white distilled vinegar into small, shallow bowls and set a bowl in each smoke-infested room. Let the liquid evaporate.


This method is actually best to use after the windows and doors have all been closed. Minimize airflow so that the vinegar can have a stronger effect.
You can dampen a soft cloth with a little vinegar and use the cloth to wipe down your walls, as well.
 Sprinkle baking soda over your furniture, rugs, and other cloth or upholstery items. Let it sit overnight and vacuum it off the following day.


You an also set out bowls or open boxes of baking soda in each room instead of vinegar.
 Leave a bowl of activated charcoal in a smoky room to quickly absorb the odor.


Note that charcoal is also an active component of many HEPA air filters.

