 Learn from brewers or go to brewing school. Excellent brewing programs in the United States are offered by the University of California, Davis and the Siebel Institute of Technology. The Master Brewers Association of the Americas (MBAA) offers a 2 week Brewing & Malting course held in November each year at the University of Wisconsin in Madison (www.mbaa.com). Industry-standard textbooks written by the UC Davis instructors Michael J. Lewis and Charles W. Bamforth are readily available and easy to understand. Foreign textbooks such as Technology Brewing and Malting by Wolfgang Kunze are also highly informative and can be incredibly detailed, but may be difficult to obtain as well as expensive.;
, Choose a name, create a logo, and decide what type of beer your brewery should produce. Register your company with the appropriate local government agencies.
 Apply for and obtain a state-issued brewers license such as a small brewers license.
 Beer that is bottled and sold commercially must display approved labels. Make sure that you can wait for a few months or so before selling bottled beer while the labels are approved by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms or similar agency.
 Find a spot where lots of high-quality brewing water can be easily obtained. Well water is generally preferred to city water, especially if city water is from different, inconsistent sources. A high hardness to alkalinity ratio may be preferred for ales, while soft water is great for pilsners. Alkaline water must be avoided. Assure that your brewery is engineered properly and can pass health department inspections, and also that it is safe for workers and customers. Also ensure that the waste water from the brewery can be sent to a local waste water treatment facility.


Design your brewery so that it uses electronic control systems. Valves, pumps, brewing vessels, and so forth can be controlled from centralized locations and automated with the use of computers and sensors. This saves manpower and reduces worker error.


