 The quickest and easiest way to find out when somebody was married is to visit a website of a company that can search through marriage records for you. There are a number of these online agencies. You will find them by looking for “marriage record checks” or “background checks” in a search engine.Before employing any agency to find out information, be sure you do some research on the company.
Look for one that has positive feedback and a good reputation.;
, Online agencies will charge you for their services, but in some instances you may be able to utilise a free trial period, or have one free trial search. If you only want to look up the records for one marriage, you may be able to take up an offer and do the search for free.


Remember that results are not guaranteed, even if you pay. Using a free trial will give you an idea of the service you can expect.
Some of these databases will not go right up to the present day.
Make sure you know they cover the approximate year you think the wedding occurred in before proceeding.
 Few agencies will allow you to search without signing up for an account. You will need to provide your personal details and agree to a payment option. These agencies are often used by people such as private investigators, so membership is generally based on subscription. In some cases you will be able to pay on a pay-as-you-go basis.


In the UK, a subscription could cost you £15 a year, or 3 months for £5.
With deals like these, there will often be a limit to the number of searches you can perform., You may also be able to pay for a complete background check, through which you can learn other personal information in addition to the marriage date. To search for a marriage record online you will generally need the person’s full name, and the city and state the marriage was performed in.If possible, research the records that the database has before paying. Some sites will show you which years are available to be researched in that state.
 In some cases you may be able to bypass all of this just by typing someone’s name into a search engine. There may well be record of the wedding online that may include the place and date of the ceremony. This may only work with people who have a strong presence on social media, but it is certainly worth a try.

