 Gameshark codes change the way the game works on the programming level, and are not created by the developers. This means that codes will often have unintended consequences, and may even destroy your current saved game. Always exercise caution when using new codes and make sure that you have a backup of important save files.


To see how to disable specific codes after they've been enabled, click here.;
, VisualBoyAdvance is an emulator program that allows you to play copies (ROMs) of Game Boy Advance games on your computer. The emulator is free to download and install. If you don’t have it installed yet, read this guide to get set up.
 Browse to the ROM that you want to open. Open it and minimize VBA for the time being.


You must have a game running in order to enter Gameshark cheat codes.
 There are several sites that list available codes, and many sites will have different code selections.


NeoSeeker
GameWinners
Super Cheats

, Since the system is an older one, it will probably not prominently displayed on the website. You will need to browse through all of the available systems to find it.
 Use the alphabetical category listings to browse for the game you want.
 This will open a list of user-submitted codes that you can use. Each entry will have a rating that other visitors can use to say if the code works or not. Scroll until you find a code you want to try.


Since all Gameshark codes are user-submitted, there's a good chance that you'll come across codes that don't work for other people, or never worked in the first place. Use the ratings to help determine if the code is worth your time.
 Some games have Master Codes which must be entered before any other codes can be used. Make note of these so that you can use your codes.
 Select the code you want to use and copy it by pressing Ctrl+C or by right-clicking on your selection and choosing "Copy".


Many codes are multiple lines, so make sure to copy the entire thing.
 Click Cheats → List.... This will open a window that shows the list of active cheats.
 A new window will open for you to enter your code.
 Give the code a description so that you know what it does. Click OK when finished.


Master codes need to be created separately from other codes.
When a code is composed of multiple lines, a code entry will be created for each line. This means long codes will result in multiple entries in your Codes list.
 When you enter the code and press OK, the codes will be added and automatically enabled. You can then manually enable and disable codes if you want to only use specific ones.


Your Master Code should always be enabled if the game requires it for other codes.
Uncheck the boxes next to any code you want to disable. Make sure to uncheck all of the entries for that code.
 Once you've finished entering and enabling your codes, click OK. Click File → Reset to restart your game and let the codes take effect. Once you've reset the game, your codes should be working and you can cheat away!

, If a code is giving you problems or you no longer want to use it, you can disable it from the Cheat List.


Click Cheats → List...

Uncheck the boxes next to each code you want to disable. Remember to uncheck each line for longer codes.
Click OK after you have finished disabling codes.
Reset your game. The codes you deselected will no longer be in effect.

