 For a baby aged between 1 and 5 months old, select a front carrier for his head and neck support. When your child is able to sit independently, choose a secure back carrier. A hiking stroller is another option, but it may be restrictive with some terrain. Test your equipment before using it on the hike to be sure you and your child are both comfortable.;
, This way you don't head out on a long hike and find that your baby has had enough before you have even hit the midway point. Select a baby friendly hiking trail with a terrain that is not difficult to walk. You can research the best trails by calling state park informational services. The length of the trail that you can hike with baby is subjective and usually dependent on the age of the child. Again, this is a guessing game, so start out on a short trail and see how your baby deals with it.
 Make sure you are hiking on a clearly distinguished trail and that you are equipped with a map and GPS. Remain on the trail and organize your hike with another adult so that you have support when dealing with the baby.
 Always have a good supply of water for you, and milk or drinks and snacks for the little one. Pack food in convenient Ziploc bags and make sure it is easily accessible. Carry a first-aid kit, sunscreen, and bug spray; just make sure that you use the appropriate screen and bug spray for your child.
 Wear layers that can be shed easily and comfortable hiking shoes. If your child can walk, dress him in the same manner, but if he is a baby, make sure to dress him so he doesn't get too hot or cold, but protected from the sun. Select an outfit that allows for easy diaper changes. Your child should also have a hat, even if you choose not to wear one yourself.
 A baby usually has his own plan and often that plan does not meet your perfect view of how things will go. Expect that there will be crying, whining, and a lot of stops. The journey may be slow going with a young child who wants to pick up every leaf and throw every rock, but take it as it is, and remember that this is all new to your child. Promise yourself that you will enjoy the experience no matter what. You also want to learn from it so that you can modify certain aspects of your next hiking trip.

