 You're never going to kiss your boyfriend if you don't know one another. Talk, plan activities, and spend "couple's time," with form an emotional connection and attraction. Alone time creates more opportunities to go in for a kiss.


Since most people won't kiss in public, finding out if you are comfortable alone is important not just for kissing, but for your relationship.;
, Send your boyfriend the right message by staying close, pointing your shoulders towards him, and leaning in when he talks.


Twirling your hair, removing a jacket, and making eye contact tells your boyfriend that you are open to him.
Avoid crossing your arms or legs or looking down, as this makes you seem distant and unavailable.
 It's a lot easier to kiss someone who you've touched, so find ways to make physical contact before you think about kissing. Playing with his hair, holding hands, or just brushing his cheek with your hand can signal that you're ready to lock lips.


A good first step is just touching shoulder to shoulder when watching a movie or TV.
 While you don't have to go into "makeover-mode," taking a little extra time to look nice will show someone that you are interested and willing to work for their affection.


Lightly use perfumes to smell amazing. Scent is one of the most powerful subconscious senses for men and women, but make sure to go easy on it. No one likes being overpowered by a smell.
Protect your lips with chapstick or lipbalm so they look soft and inviting.
 If this is your first kiss, head outside for some fresh air or snuggle up close on the couch. Take away the pressure of being in public and enjoy being together -- more often then not, the right moment will present itself.
 This is easy if you are standing, but if you are sitting, turn your body so that your shoulders line up with his.


Move your hips so that they face him.
Scoot in a little closer so you don't have to lunge for his face.
 It doesn't have to be poetry to be effective. Be sincere and kind with phrase like, "you look handsome," "I really enjoy spending time with you," or "mind if I get a little closer?"


If you can't think of anything clever, or feel particularly bold, just ask if he wants to kiss. Many guys will like the forwardness.
 This is going to make it pretty obvious that you want to kiss, and that's a good thing! Smile slightly, and don't be afraid to stay nearby for a few seconds. You might be able to gauge his interest by his reaction to you.


If he leans away or turns his face it means he is probably not interested.
 If he is leaning in, looking at your lips, and brushing your hair, lean in and kiss him first.There is no reason why the boy must be the first one to make a move.
 If he leans in, go with the flow.
 Simply cocking your head to the side a little will prevent an awkward bump.
 As you approach each others lips, lock eyes. Not only will it keep you from missing, but it's incredibly romantic.
 At this point, staring at each other from that close often feels weird.
 Keep your lips light and soft. Begin by kissing him gently, but see how it feels and react to him as well.


Don't pucker your lips. Hardened lips signal that your are not really interested or aren't enjoying it. It should feel like pushing your lips against a soft peach.
Go slowly, pulling away after 2-3 seconds to see his reaction. If it is good, go in for another one for a few seconds.
 Pull him closer, place a hand behind his head, or interlock fingers.


If you don't know what to do, place your hands on his hips or his shoulders.
 As you get more comfortable with each other, change up the pressure, rhythm, and duration of your kisses to find out what he likes.


Push your lips a little closer to his.
Kiss him three of four times in a row without pulling your face too far away each time.
Go for a longer kiss, holding together for 3-5 seconds, then 5-8 seconds.
Give him a kiss on the neck, the cheeks, or the earlobes.
Don't make any quick or drastic changes. Try things slowly and take your time.
 Open kissing, or french kissing, is more playful and passionate that just kissing each other. Try initiating open kissing by:


Gently licking his top lip, then sliding to the bottom lip.
Lightly bite on his bottom lip.
Turn your head slightly to side. It's easier to open kiss if your noses aren't in the way!
Open your own mouth a bit, inviting him to join.
Dart your tongue lightly in his mouth.
If he reciprocates or opens his mouth, he is telling you he wants to do this too, so keep experimenting.
 Communication is key in every aspect of a relationship, and kissing is no exception. Briefly saying that "I liked that," or "let's try this," will ensure that your partner is doing the right things to keep you happy.

