 The sender should have given you the reference number.This will enable you to see the status of the transfer without having an account on MoneyGram.
You will need to enter your last name, and then click "Track Transfer" to get a result.
 If a physical money order has been sent to you to be picked up at an authorized location then you may check with them for its status.Money orders can be sent to a person or business directly, but sometimes they can be sent to MoneyGram's retail-based locations--especially if a person is travelling or other reasons.
If the delay is less than 2 weeks then the money order may simply still be in the mail. If the money order has not reached you or its designated MoneyGram location in 2-3 weeks then ask the sender to file a claim card.
 Only the purchaser can file a claim on the money order that was submitted, but as the recipient, you can at least contact MoneyGram to let them know that the order is missing if the purchaser is unavailable.Make sure you have the money order reference number the purchaser originally gave you, and the dollar amount sent available.
Use the phone service if convenient: 1-800-Moneygram (1-800-666-3947) or 1-800-955-7777 for Spanish speakers.
You can use the web-based contact form as well. Fill out as much of the transaction information as you can to speed service along.
 There can be a couple of reasons for this including currency exchange for international orders, and the institution's policy's on making sure the money order clears.If the person who sent you the order submitted it to your bank or credit union, for example, they may hold it for a period of processing similar to clearing a check. This could be a day or two or longer if this occurs during a weekend or holiday.
For international orders, currency exchanges may delay processing for a day or so as the money order changes value in the account.
 The sender of the money order will need to file a claim on the money order if it is lost for a lengthy period of time and not cashed.Be as thorough as you can with making sure you didn't lose the order in your daily mail, or other locations the person may have sent the order such as MoneyGram dealers or bank.
If/when you're sure the money order is lost then ask the purchaser to submit the claim so they can be reimbursed and perhaps find another means to send you funds.

