 Outdoor cages for rabbits are often hutches, which are raised cages that keep your rabbit off the ground. Give your rabbit plenty of space, while also providing him with protection from predators and weather.A hutch should be stable and high off the ground.
Consider a wire floor cage with a mat or other flat service for the rabbit’s feet. Wire floors can make sure feces or urine can drop through to the ground or to pans below. Never house a rabbit directly onto a wire floor as this causes a painful condition called sore hocks — make sure you provide a soft surface for him to stand on.
Have enough space in your rabbit’s outdoor cage. He should be able to stand up without his ears touching the roof, stretch, and be able to hop. The bigger the cage, the better it will be for your rabbit., Outdoor cages expose your rabbit to potential predators, including cats, dogs, birds, and raccoons. Your outdoor rabbit cage needs to be off the ground and provide your rabbit with somewhere to hide if she gets frightened by predators.


Place the rabbit hutch high above the ground. Don’t make it so tall that the rabbit gets frightened, but the hutch should be tall enough for the rabbit to feel distance from any potential predators that approach the hutch.
Give the rabbit a shelter, such as a small box or travel carrier where she can hide. Rabbits may get frightened if approached by predators, so she will need somewhere to conceal herself.
Keep the top of your rabbit’s outdoor cage enclosed. Open cages are not good outdoors, since birds, cats, and raccoons can easily get into a cage with an open top.
 Rabbits are mammals and need to regulate their body temperature. Give him plenty of shelter outdoors if you choose an outdoor cage. If you live in an especially cold environment, it’s probably not a good idea to keep a rabbit outdoors.Provide your rabbit with a warm blanket or rug. Make sure the blanket is thick enough to keep the rabbit warm when the outdoor temperature is very cold.
Place a small shelter in your rabbit’s cage. It should be concealed from the elements and give the rabbit a way to avoid cold and precipitation.
Don’t keep a rabbit outdoors if you live in a colder environment. Outdoor rabbits can freeze to death if exposed. Consider keeping the rabbit indoors if it’s too cold where you live.
 Rabbits need plenty of attention, especially if they are living outdoors in a cage. Make sure to pet or play with the rabbit every day if she lives outside.Don’t pick up the rabbit abruptly. Since they are prey animals, rabbits may think you are a predator and become frightened.
Sit on the ground and wait for your rabbit to come to you. Your rabbit may like being petted, but not picked up.
Give your rabbit plenty of exercise outside of the cage. Rabbits need 20–40 hours of exercise per week. They like to explore, so make sure to keep an eye on your rabbit when she is exploring.
If you do pick up your rabbit, place one hand under her rib cage and another under her bottom, so the rabbit can’t kick. This will protect you from her powerful legs and nails. It will also make sure your rabbit is adequately supported.

