 Discuss some of your other options that exist for the other nearby Walt Disney World parks or local attractions in the area. With other major possibilities being the Epcot, the Disney (Hollywood/MGM) Studios, and the Magic Kingdom and the mess of water parks and other activities that Disney sponsors, decide if this park is your best choice.
 The address to the Disney's Animal Kingdom is located at 551 Rainforest Rd, Lake Buena Vista, FL 32830 .The cost to park your car at the Magic Kingdom will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).Depending on how far into the lots it took you to get to park, you could be located in either the Butterfly, Dinosaur, Giraffe, Peacock, or Unicorn parking lots that are located on campus. ,,, This park is divided into about six lands around one central hub area/monument called The Tree of Life. These lands include The Oasis, Dinoland USA, Discovery Island, Asia, Africa and Rafiki's Planet Watch.. Due to construction issues in Camp Minnie-Mickey, this land isn't included anymore in the park.
 Notice that there are no rides or real attractions in The Oasis except a few animals. The Oasis houses only a few different kinds of animals. (The Oasis is an estuary 'per se.'.) Disney's Animal Kingdom is an 'animal sanctuary' and Disney wants to invite you to view some of its lovely animals it houses here, that it couldn't find housing for otherwise.
 There is one path on the west side and another path on the east side both joining at the same access point.
 Keep your eye on them as you help them understand these animals. Be the narrator of what these animals' names are. There are placards on or near the railings near the animal's enclosure (if you need help). Some kids like it if you use the animal's real name.,, This tree is the landmark item that Disney wanted to treat it's guests to in this park. Disney Imagineers added these little carvings to the Tree to give that tree its own special "spark".
 The trails can provide you an up-close look at the carvings inside the tree.
 If you enter through It's Tough to be a Bug's entrance, you will find that there is a 3D movie theater under the Tree. (Yes; there actually is a theater under the Tree itself, and a very tall theater for that reason too.) At the end of the movie, when you come out of the movie, you'll still be underneath the tree, but you'll be right in line for heading towards the next land, Dinoland USA.
 No school age children ever not dreams of playing with the bones they dig up here. But wait a little while to retrieve your kids. Make sure they can be comfortably within walking with you once again (for security reasons).
 If you've ever been on Dumbo at the Magic Kingdom, TriceraTop Spin is almost the same, though the ride vehicles you ride on are different. The ride sequence though is a few minutes longer, but is still definitely bearable for many adults and children alike.
 This ride surely will make your head spin!

,,, This will lead you over a bridge and into the "Asia sector of the park.
 Expedition Everest is especially popular for most adults who come to this park, so try to be the first one in line if you arrive at the park gates at opening time.
 Kali River Rapids is an exciting whitewater-rapid riding ride that thrills almost everyone who rides it.
 Though you've put on many miles in your shoes, Maharajah Jungle Trek is a walking path which talks about various animal-based information.
 Walk yourself in the direction of Africa. Though you'll find the next attraction still technically in Asia, it's around the corner inside the "hub"., With all the different birds and prey information they present, this is a popular show for some people looking for informative information about birds. Many people just bypass it in hopes of finding other "better" items to do at the park.
 If this is your first safari, you're in for a treat. Although this safari ride is "kicked up a notch", it's not much faster than an average car ride over an average two lane road through an African safari village.
, Formerly in the Asian area, this stage play has moved around and has now been relocated to this area of the park.
 Rafiki's Planet Watch is primarily a conservation station.
,