 This keyblade has the unique ability Combo Boost; this makes your attacks do more damage the longer your combo is.


Defeat the Experiment in Halloween Town to get this weapon.;
, This armor adds +25% damage reduction from all elements, including physical damage.


You can get Highest Ribbon if you complete the Twilight puzzle.
 This increases resistance toward all elements as well as physical damage.


You can synthesize Ribbon. Find the recipe at http://www.khwiki.com/Ribbon.
 This boosts Sora’s strength by 3 points.


Upgrade Full Bloom to get Full Bloom+. Recipes are at http://www.khwiki.com/Full_Bloom+.
 In non-berserker mode, after dealing damage to Saix, he'll dash toward Sora and slash him with his claymore.


Easily deflected this with guard (□).
 In non-berserker mode, Saix will stand still and absorb the moon’s power.


Use a finisher (e.g., Magnet Splash) to break him out of it.
 In non-berserker mode, Saix will use this after you break him out of his berserker mode. He'll perform a series of ground-based attacks aimed at Sora.


Deflect this attack with Guard (□).
 In berserker mode, Saix will run around the arena, creating shockwaves then throwing his claymore at you.


Quick run (analog + hold □) or glide (while in the air, analog + □) away from Saix.
Alternatively, you can spam Reflega to avoid getting hit.
 In berserker mode, Saix will perform a series of ground-based attacks, then he will throw his claymore at you.


Quick run away from Saix, then block his claymore with Guard when he throws it.
 In berserker mode, Saix will jump into the air and throw his claymore to the ground.


Block this attack with Reflega.
 In berserker mode, Saix will do a mixture of berserker slash and shockwave strike.


Don't even try to attack him when he does this attack.
Double jump and glide (while in the air analog + hold □) around the arena to avoid getting hit.
 Saix will face the moon and charge his berserker meter; this is a great chance to unleash a full combo on him.
, He'll retaliate with a slash. Once blocked, you can continue with your combo.
 Now, depending on how much damage you dealt, Saix will either use his desperation attack or a different attack.
 This is assuming you didn't do enough damage to send him into berserker mode and desperation attack.
 You could also guard, but it's risky, especially if you're not very well versed with the timings of his attack.


If you're able to block it, grab his claymore by pressing ∆ then get near him to activate the Reaction Command.
This Reaction Command can miss, so use it with caution as it's hard to grab a claymore.
 This is your best chance to get a claymore and attack him without missing. As soon as you see him about to hurl the claymore at you, cast Reflega and grab the claymore. Quickly go over to Saix while he's recovering and use the Reaction Command.


The claymore disappears as soon as Saix regains it, so act quickly!

, He'll try to retaliate. Guard against it with □, then proceed to doing more combos until he goes back into berserker mode.
 He'll definitely use his desperation attack. Your MP will not be able to survive spamming Reflega, so don't even try to avoid it that way.
 This will make him stop and therefore be unable to use his desperation attack.
 Then do another reaction command on him to get out of his berserker mode.
