 In this way, you can work through each reindeer in the manner of a production line without having to stop and chop anything or remove wrappers, etc.;
, Cut small triangle shapes from the bell pepper, tomato or other red savory food item you're using as the nose. The triangle can be pretty rough but it shouldn't be too large for the tip of the cheese. Cut sufficient for the amount of cheese triangles you're using.
 If you're using peppercorns, simply tip them into a small container to make them easy to grab. If using half olives or other food items needing chopping, cut them into small rounds now. Keep within easy reach.
 Carefully unwrap each cheese triangle to be used. Take care not to pull off the end of the triangle as you're unwrapping but if you accidentally do, the nose should cover this mistake. Take it slowly rather than rushing this step. When peeled, lay the peeled cheese on a silicone sheet or parchment paper piece over a plate or tray, so that the cheese stays clean and is easy to pick up.
 Ensure that you use only the ones that are perfect; do not use broken ones as they won't work without all the holes being intact (feel free to munch on those ones).


Small nicks out of the pretzels are okay unless you're after perfection.
 Ensure that it is clean and ready for food. Do not line it with anything made of paper––paper napkins, etc., will stick to the cheese and ruin it for eating. If you want to line it, use something made from plastic, silicone or another non-stick surface.
 It may be easiest to add the pretzels first, but you will likely find your own rhythm as you're making the reindeer as everything stays stuck to the cheese once on, in which case, simply shift around the steps for adding the features to suit your preference.
 Slide the bottom hole of a whole pretzel over the base corner of the wider end of the cheese triangle. It should fit snugly in place. Repeat for the other base corner on the wide end of the cheese triangle, again fitting it snugly. Presto, you have two antlers added without much ado.
 On the single narrow tip end of the cheese triangle, gently press the nose shape on the top. It should stick fairly easily, as the cheese is sticky enough. However, you may need to adjust the nose size if you think it appears too big or small; the first reindeer can be a good guide.
 Press in the peppercorns or olive halves gently where you think the eyes look best, a little way under the wide end of the cheese triangle. Be sure to space the eyes apart evenly, unless you want a crazy reindeer, which is fine too.
 Stand back and check that you're happy with how it has turned out. It now serves as the basic template to follow for the remaining cheese triangles.
 You should find that you get quicker the more you make, as you hit a rhythm and get the knack for it. When each one is completed, carefully arrange on the serving platter.


Cover with kitchen plastic wrap or other suitable covering to protect it until needed. Place in the refrigerator until serving time or serve immediately.

