 Add a few drops of fragrance oils to a plastic spray bottle, then fill with water. Shake the bottle well to mix the oil into the water. You can then spray 2-3 times into the air to spread the scent into any room.Be careful not to spray into the eyes of any people or pets.
The spray should come out in a fine mist, not a sharp stream. The water is simply a carrier for the oil.;
, An oil burner is an ancient method of scenting a room. To use an oil burner, find an oil you like. Place 3-5 drops of the oil together with some water into the top of an oil burner until it's 1/2-3/4 of the way full. Place the burner in a safe location, away from children, pets or burning hazards. Light the candle at the base of the burner. The oil/water mixture will start to heat and evaporate, scenting the room.A lavender-scented oil may be good for relaxation. Lemon is be both cheering and soothing.
Be careful not to put too much oil into the burner mix, or it can cause throat and sinus irritation.
 Take a new container (1 lb) of baking soda and add a few drops of your favorite fragrance oil. Mix the oil in well, and allow to soak for 24 hours. You can now shake this mixture onto your carpet for a carpet cleaner. Shake lightly across the full area of the carpet you intend to clean. Allow the mixture to sit in the carpet fibers for 30-60 minutes, then vacuum.You can substitute corn starch for baking soda.
Apply to a small area of carpet if you're not sure how your carpet will react to the mixture. Most carpets will be fine.
 Adding a drop of fragrance oil to the insole of your shoes will help cover unpleasant shoe odor.If the shoe odor is caused by foot fungus or infection, adding fragrance oil will not address the source of the foot odor. However, it may help cover the bad smell while your foot heals.
You can also wipe the interior of your shoe with a paper towel that has been moistened with fragrance oils.
 Apply by soaking a cotton ball in your choice of fragrance oils. When you turn the light bulb on, the oil will heat. As it heats, it will start to evaporate and scent your room.Be careful not to add too much oil to a cold light bulb, or the scent may be too strong.
Experiment with different oils to find the one you prefer. Different occasions may call for different oils.
Avoid getting oil on the base that screws into the light socket. Also avoid putting oil on incandescent or halogen light bulbs because they can get very hot and burn. Your light bulb may have a shorter lifespan as a result. If you have a radiator, that may be a more suitable place for the oil.
 Creating a love note with a special scent is a memorable romantic gesture. Place a few drops of fragrance oil onto a paper towel. Fold the paper towel, and place into a plastic bag. Put the stationery into the bag, and seal.The fragrance oil should permeate the stationery.
If your stationery comes in a box, a small oiled square of paper placed in the box will scent the whole stationery set.
Scent your envelopes in the same way.
 Cut an old white tee-shirt into 5-inch squares. Each square is a natural fabric sheet. Add 3-5 drops of fragrance oil to the cotton square, and place it into the dryer with your clothes. Your clothes will be laced with the fragrance as they dry.Each cotton sheet can be reused 2-3 times, adding 3 fresh drops of oil before each use.
Wash the sheet, and reapply a new kind of oil if you like. This dryer sheet can be reused many times before it must be thrown away.
The oil helps with static clean as well as providing a pleasant scent.
 Add a fabric sheet lightly scented with fragrant oil to a sour drawer or closet to scent your clothes or linens. You can also tuck a cotton ball moistened with your favorite fragrance oil into the corner of your drawer.Because this scent will be quite strong, use the oil sparingly.
You can use different scents in different drawers or closets. Perhaps a floral scent in the underwear drawer, and a fresh, "spring rain"-like scent in the linen closet. Experiment to find the scents you enjoy the most!

, Cut a 6-7 inch square of color-fast cloth. In a small dish, add a drop of fragrance oil to 1/8 cup of baking soda. Mix well, and place the mixture onto a square of fabric. Pull the corners of the fabric together, and tie in place with a ribbon.The sachet can be tucked into any drawer or hung in a closet.
This scented sachet can help with bad smelling drawers. It can also keep moths out of woolens.
 Fragrance oil can lend its scent to any unscented body care cream, including shampoo or lotion. Add 7-10 drops of fragrance oil per ounce of unscented body care product.Using more fragrance oil creates a stronger scented product. Less oil results in a milder scent.
Be careful to use oils that don't cause problems for your skin or hair type. Test on a small area before spreading liberally. If your skin or hair has negative reaction, discontinue use.

