 Ask your stylist about bangs, layers, etc. and what may look good on you, and good for styling. If you want, ask for them to dye or put highlights in your hair.


There are several websites that let you "try out" a hairstyle before getting a cut. Type in "Virtual Haircut" to import a photo of yourself and see how you look with new colors and cuts.
 Wash your hair with a desired shampoo, and use a conditioner every other wash, or when you plan on styling. The number of washes varies depending on your hair type, but you'll know when it's time—your hair will feel greasy and gross to handle. Get a hair cut about every 2 to 3 months to avoid split ends. Consider these tips as well:


Rinse the shampoo out with cold or lukewarm water, as the cold water will give your hair an extra shine. After you wash your hair, you should condition the ends. Be sure to use a good shampoo and conditioner made for your hair type or use a different kind that makes your hair shine bright and smell good.
If you have frizzy hair, find a good leave-in conditioner or anti-frizz spray at a local store.
As an extra treat, you can apply a mask to your hair. Apply the hair mask mostly at the ends, leave it for about 15 minutes, then rinse it out. This will make your hair look as if you just walked out of the salon.
 If you choose to use heat, straighten/curl your hair 3-4 times per week—daily heat can damage the hair. If you do insist on using heat to style your hair every day, invest in a good heat protectant product.



Beachy waves are a great, fresh alternative to straight hair; you can pick up a good mousse that is especially for waves if your hair won't hold curls easily. Try out different styles and pick out the one that makes you look the best!
If you have and love your curly hair, use a curl-defining cream, gel, or spray to keep your hair beautiful and frizz-free.
If you want longer hair but are too impatient to wait for it to grow, you can try hair extensions. Since going to a salon can burn a hole in your wallet and damage your hair, why don't you try a clip on piece?

