 Being a good kid doesn't make you a goody-two shoes. Most of the time, following your parents' rules is better than breaking them. It leads to less fighting and more appreciation. When your parents think of you as a good kid and can trust you, you get rewarded with more privileges. Even if your parents are control freaks, they often only want what's best for you, so try to work with them as opposed to automatically rebelling.;
, Accept yourself for who you are. As Oscar Wild stated "Be yourself; everyone else is taken." If being cool means being someone or doing something that you aren't happy or comfortable with, then don't do it. The coolest people are confident in themselves and not putting on a show.
 You may have true friends that are popular. You may have true friends that are nerds. Don't judge your friends based on their social status. If you're only friends with someone because you think it will make you popular, then your friendship means nothing. People who aren't true friends won't be there to help you when you need it and they won't make you feel better about yourself. Find friends that are nice, trustworthy and share some interests with you (reading, shopping, gaming, music).
 Don't just think "I care about parties" or "I care about popularity". Try to dig deeper. Often kids think they want to be popular and party because people in movies and on tv do that. Everyone is an individual, though, so what's fun for one person may be boring to another.
 Don't do stuff you hate because your friends are doing it or it's the cool thing to do. If you have a passion for swimming, don't settle for the football team. If you have a passion for choir, don't do cheer because that's what your friends do. If you do what you love, you'll most likely be happier and more successful. You might also make friends who share your interest.
 Trying hard in school is one thing. Don't let it take over your life though. Judging yourself based on your grades is like judging yourself based on your popularity. In order to be really satisfied with yourself, you respect yourself no matter what your grades (or your peers) say. If you usually get A's, but you get a C in a class, it doesn't mean you're stupid. It means you struggled with a class. If you consistently get poor grades, try talking with a teacher or counselor to explore your options. It may be that your workload is too heavy or that you need a tutor or better study habits. It doesn't mean that you're stupid.
 Whether it's your crush or popularity or the fight you had with your friend, obsessing over something doesn't make you happier. It makes you more anxious and unable to cope. Try to remain calm.
 If you're being yourself, then you are unique and that's something to be proud of. If you're nice to others and you don't judge based on popularity, that's another thing to be proud of. If you get great grades, that's something to be proud of. If you are a loyal friend, that's something to be proud of. As long as you are yourself and you try to be kind to others, you will have plenty of reasons to be proud of yourself, and no reason to be ashamed.
 Maybe you've gotten stuck in a rut. Take a hobby to the next level. If you like writing songs, record one and put it on youtube. If you love sketching little pictures, make a comic book or paint a mural. If you love style, design (and even make!) an item of clothing or an accessory.
 Not drama; something fun and constructive. If you need service hours or you just want to give back to the world, start a charity or host a fundraiser. If you love music and you know others who do to, start a band. You'd be surprised how far you can get if you take your band seriously. Try to get local gigs. Start a club for people with a similar interest: books, Asian TV shows, video games, cooking - anything really.
 Not everything meaningful in your life has to be a social activity. If you have a passion for books, but you don't want to start a book club, or you have trouble getting along with people, then do what you love by yourself. Read. If you can't start a band, write your own songs and sing them and record them. Be creative and make something or be proactive and try to better yourself (get more fit, learn a new language, get a new skill).
 It's better to be known as the guy who started a charity to help disabled children or the girl who wrote a novel than to be known as "that guy who is always high" or "that girl who sleeps around". Know what you care about and are good at, and let everyone see that great side of you. Don't flaunt it. Just let it shine through.
 It helps you later in life and it gives you a sense of pride and accomplishment when your hard work pays off. Your parents will also appreciate your hard work (and if they don't, that's their problem).
 This can be really hard, but don't bow into peer pressure. This means more than not taking drugs or drinking (though you shouldn't do those). Don't date someone just because your friends think that person is cool. Don't join the track team if you hate running and have a bad knee. Don't stay out past your curfew and get into trouble just because your friends are doing it too.
 Try something new for a change and try to be nice to new people who you meet. If you aren't stubborn and stagnant, then your life will be exciting. That said.
 As great as change is, if something in your life is very important and you love it how it is, don't change it just for fun. This goes for hobbies, friendships or even your own attributes.
 High school is a transition from elementary school and day care to college and the adult world. If you do things and have friends and interests outside of your high school then things that happen at high school (drama with friends, a poor grade, unpopularity) won't seem like the end of the world. Having interests and friends outside of high school gives you perspective.

