 Make sure you know all the different models, so you know what you’re looking for when you get to the dealership.BMW 1 Series is a rear-wheel drive four-seat car. The 1 Series is best for consumers who are looking for a small, fast luxury vehicle.
For the best-selling BMW car, you’ll want to look for the 3 Series. This is also a small car, but it comes in rear-wheel and all-wheel drive. You can a get a sedan (E90), wagon (E91), coupe (E92), and convertible (E93). This is also a high powered vehicle, but is also known for handling well. If you're looking for something cheaper, consider the older (E46) coupe or cabriolet.
The BMW 5 Series is a mid-size sedan that is mostly known as a luxury vehicle. It is available in all-wheel drive. Some even have diesel engines and save costs in fuel consumption, although exhaust parts may need to be replaced more often
For the largest sized vehicle, you’ll want to look for the BMW 7 Series, which is a luxury sedan that comes with leather seats and often wood trim. This is a made for people who can be driven around by say a chauffeur, otherwise don't waste your cash on it
Based on the Series 3, the BMW X3 is a small SUV that has a lot of space for hauling whatever you wish. It works well if you have a small family and "occasionally" need to tug a giant amount of items
The most expensive BMW (Besides the 7 series) is the BMW X5. It’s the largest SUV and can be pricey to maintain as well as buy. Be careful of the X5s as they are greatly unreliable and costs start and go upward of $5000;
, BMWs are great cars, but they lose value quickly. This can especially be a problem if you plan on reselling your used BMW later on.BMWs do not maintain their value for long. With each passing year, your car loses value at a larger rate than other similarly priced luxury vehicles.
Some BMWs don’t depreciate as quickly as others. While the 7 Series depreciates especially quickly, the 1 Series and X5 do not. Keep this in mind when choosing the model of BMW you want to purchase.High depreciation cars can also mean that you can find an older BMW for less. The difference between a 3- and 6-year old BMW can be rather large.
 BMWs can be expensive to maintain, because of general upkeep, as well as costly repairs and issues with reliability.BMWs are expensive to maintain. They require higher quality gasoline, oil, and tires than many other vehicles. Additionally, the labor costs for BMWS are usually higher because of the way they’re engineered. This can be avoided by going to second or even third hand repair centres. If the BMW is made before 1999, the car can be serviced by any mechanic specialized, non-specialized or even by the owner (you).
Repairs for BMW can be pricey. It’s not hard to find a shop that specializes in these vehicles, but in their Vehicle Monitoring Systems. Local dealerships are usually expensive for repairs, so having a BMW-specialized repair store near you is important for keeping costs down.
While BMWS are (for exception of BMW X5s) generally reliable, they do occasionally need repairs. Some of their reliability issues are due to the use of plastic parts and the expensive electronics that make up the interior of the car.
 Certain BMW models are known for having common problems. Make sure you know any specific problems with your model. Some of the most common problems for BMWs include:Electrical issues. The BMW has many complex electronics both inside and outside the vehicle. BMWs occasionally have issues with the battery, fuses, and the key control system. Additionally, some internal electronics like power windows and power steering are problematic in BMWs. As mentioned earlier most of these systems are managed and controlled by the vehicles iDrive System
Engine issues. Since many of the BMWs have turbocharged engines, engine problems are common with these cars. Some issues including stalling, difficulty while idling, and a rough ride. On an Second-Generation X5s, the engine replacements can cost around $50,000
Rattles. BMWs can have strange noises coming from inside or outside the vehicle. These may simply be annoying, but they could also indicate a problem with the vehicle.

