 If you are conducting a replacement job on an existing ceiling, you will want to match the ceiling tile style to the existing tiles. The easiest way to do this is to order much more than you need during the initial installation and store them for later use. If you are buying new tiles, start by removing them from their package and letting them rest inside overnight. The tiles need time to adjust to temperature and humidity conditions, as they can expand or contract a bit.;
, Use a tape measure to measure the dimensions of every opening in the ceiling grid that will need a tile cut to size. Write these measurements down for later reference. If your ceiling grid has been installed properly, most tiles will only need to be cut along 1 dimension.
 A wood tabletop provides an ideal surface. You will be cutting the tiles with a utility knife, so make sure your work surface will not be damaged by the knife blade.
 Place the straightedge along 1 side of the tile, line the markings up with the tile's edge, and then make a small mark with a pencil denoting the location of the cut. Repeat this process on the other side of the tile. Then, place the straightedge across the tile, joining the 2 pencil marks. Trace your pencil lightly along the straightedge to mark the line along which you will cut.
 Leaving the straightedge in place as a guide, score the surface of the tile lightly by running the utility knife along the straightedge (following your pencil line). Make sure that you replace the razor blade in the knife before beginning, as a dull blade will tear your tile. After the initial pass, make a second cut along the same line, this time cutting all the way through the tile. Cut in a smooth, continuous motion; using a sawing motion will rip the tile.
 After making the cut, pull gently on the excess tile. It should pull away cleanly, but if it does not, you can go over the cut once more with the utility knife. Discard the unused portion of the tile.
 If the cut leaves a ragged edge on your tile, you can use your utility knife to cut away some of the material and clean up the tile's appearance. Note that a small portion of the tile will be concealed behind the ceiling grid, so this step is only necessary if the ragged portion extends into the tile past this point.
 After testing your first tile for a proper fit, continue cutting the remaining tiles with the same method. Be sure to regularly wipe down your work surface to keep the tiles clean. You may also want to replace your razor blade if it begins to dull.

