 Urinary tract infections, BPH, and prostatitis will not present with metastatic signs of cancer. There are a variety of symptoms that can go along with advanced prostate cancer. You should keep an eye out for these if you are at risk of prostate cancer or have had it in the past.
 Prostate cancer can attach to bone causing a deep bone pain, weakness, and eventually broken bones. The calcium from the bone can empty in the blood leading to increased levels causing nausea, vomiting, constipation and confusion., Prostate cancer can spread to the lymph nodes. These nodes are located throughout the body including around the pelvic area. They help filter and empty out fluid into the blood. When these become blocked by cancer tissue they will enlarge and cause swelling of the area. Look for swelling in your extremities such as the legs or arms. If you think one side is affected compare it to the other side., Prostate cancer can spread to the lungs. Look for a cough that cannot be treated with over-the-counter remedies or antibiotics, chest pain that may be throughout or isolated to an area, shortness of breath and coughing up blood. The cancer interrupts normal lung functioning, leading to damage and inflammation of the tissue and arteries. Inflammation will lead to fluid accumulation within the lining of the lungs (pleural effusion) and can cause shortness of breath and aching chest pain., Difficulty walking, headaches, sensation loss on certain parts of my body, memory loss, and trouble holding urine — when experienced together — can be signs of advanced cancer. The most common cancer spread to the brain from the prostate is called Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis.It can present with headaches, sensation loss on the body, difficulty walking, unable to hold urine (incontinence), and memory difficulties., Prostate cancer can spread to the spinal cord. This can lead to compression of the spinal column causing back pain, tenderness and muscle weakness with or without sensation loss. Neurological problems may arise such as urinary retention or, less frequently, bladder or bowel incontinence., This can be a sign that cancer has spread to the rectum. Case studies have documented prostate cancer can spread to the rectum due to its close proximity. Look for bleeding and/or abdominal pain from the rectum when passing stool., For example, a urinary tract infection may present with burning on urination and fever but will not have any of the other symptoms of prostate cancer. In either case, whether the burning and fever are symptoms of prostate cancer or a urinary tract infection, you should see your doctor. Best practice is to seek expert medical advice and perform the routine exams and tests for a proper diagnosis.


Prostatitis may present with the same symptoms as prostate cancer but tends to be more painful in the lower abdomen, lower back, and pelvic region. Prostatitis may be due to an infection and can present with a fever where cancer does not.
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) can mimic prostate cancer symptoms to the point where only diagnostic test and examination will help rule cancer out. Though, BPH most commonly present with lower urinary tract symptoms such as urgency to urinate, weak urine stream, waking up at night to go to the bathroom (nocturia) and straining to void urine.Also, almost 50% of men aged 50 to 80 may experience erection or ejaculation difficulties.Nocturia (nighttime urination) is common as you age. The bladder loses elasticity and its ability to hold more urine the older you get. In addition, our bodies make less hormones over time, which slows down our kidney function at night causing more urine production than normal. This combination leads to frequent waking up and nighttime urination as well as more urination during the day.BPH and prostate cancer can cause nocturia but will normally present with weak stream of urine, lack of urination, burning sensation in penis from urinating, painful ejaculation and trouble getting an erection.
Frequent daytime and nighttime urination can also be a symptom of diabetes (high blood sugar), which can also have serious complications. It is advised to seek medical advice from your doctor if you experience excessive nighttime and daytime urination. Keep a voiding diary, this is a two-day record of how much you drink, how often you have to go the bathroom and the urine output, any medications you are taking, any urinary tract infections, and any related symptoms. Your doctor will review the diary in order to determine the possible cause(s) of and treatment for the nocturia., Many men with prostate cancer often have no symptoms at all. If you are at risk of prostate cancer, then it is a good idea to get checked on a regular basis, whether you have symptoms or not.

