 You can visit the website and read about the schools as much as you want, but you will get the best understanding by visiting the school. Visiting multiple schools will help narrow down your likes and dislikes and decide which schools you would like to apply to. A school may look great on paper, but may be different in person.


Start looking at schools early. The fall before your child starts is an ideal time.Pay attention to your gut feelingwhen you visit schools.
 Both you and your child need to like the school and feel comfortable there. Ask your child what they like about the school. Ask your child if this is somewhere they would like to go to school. It is important that your child feels like they are a part of the decision making process.Take time to visit the school at an after school event or during an extracurricular activity. This will provide a better picture of the school's culture.
Tours show the school that you and your child are interested and excited about the possibility of attending.
Many schools have open houses during the fall enrollment season.If your child is young or would be a distraction, you can limit the number of tours you take them on. You may only take them to the schools that you are actually applying to.
 There are key features you should look for when you visit a school. Make a list of questions and take it to each school. Write down your answers as you go through the tour or after you are finished. This will give you a way to compare and contrast each school. Consider the following:Do the students appear engaged and interested?
Are the teachers knowledgeable and enthusiastic?
How does the principal interact with the students, teachers, and other staff?
Do the students behave as they change classes and walk through the campus?
Are the classrooms a positive, fun place for learning?
Are the parents involved with the school?
Is the campus clean, well-kept, and safe? Are the buildings up-to-date?

, Depending on the grade level, learning needs, and interests of your child, you may have specific questions about the school. Make a list of these items and ask them during the visit . For example, if the science instruction or the music program is important for your child, ask to see the facilities, students, and teachers that are involved in these programs. Other aspects that vary by grade level may include:For elementary students, before and after school care, transportation to and from school, and the amount of outdoor time will be important.
For middle school students, academic tutoring offerings and creating a community environment are important.
For high school students, college planning and counseling services, standardized test preparation, and honors and AP class offerings are important.
The GreatSchools website has a checklist for elementary,middle,and high schoolvisits.

