 The LMG is the most awkward class of gun in the game. With a high RoF (Rate of Fire) clip size, and damage, it seems as though it would be an awesome class of weapon to use in close quarters. The reality is that most times they are best used at mid-mid long range because of the amount of kick (Recoil) they usually have. If you are a slow and methodical player who loves the systematic destruction of your foes, this class is for you.;
, There are three LMG's in the game; The M249 SAW, RPD, and M60E4. They all have drastically different characteristics. In example, the SAW with steady aim is nearly as accurate as the M4, and has an amazing RoF, it compliments well players that like to hip fire. The RPD is in the middle of the road, as it haves both decent damage and RoF. The M60E4 is inaccurate from the hip, but boasts the most shot-for-shot damage of any LMG and compliments very accurate players. Once you know what play style is for you, you are prepared to create a class.
 It is a smart idea to try to 'balance out' your guns performance, in example, if your gun does a massive amount of damage but low RoF, why put stopping power on it? Try double tap to balance out your guns stats. Here are a few examples of classes.-


Primary Weapon- M249 SAW, Attachment- RDS (Red Dot Sight) or grip, Pistol- Any, Perk 1- 3xFrag, Special Grenade x3, Second Perk- Stopping power (for normal)/Double Tap (Hardcore)/ UAV Jammer (Hardcore) Third Perk- Steady aim. This is an awesome class for both 'LMG Sniping' and running and gunning. With a grip this gun is as accurate as some SMG's, and with a RDS it has so little kick that you can pick of targets at long range, but be prepared to dump a barrel of bullets into someone; this gun has notoriously low damage. This is the preferred class of LMG for hardcore, but the second perk can be changed out for either double tap for a literally insane RoF, or a UAV jammer to be stealthy. Note- Don't use anything other than stopping power in Normal modes.
Primary Weapon- RPD, Attachment- RDS or grip, First Perk- Frag x3, Special x3, RPG, Second Perk- Stopping Power/Double Tap/Uav Jammer. Third Perk- Steady aim/Deep Impact. This is the most versatile of all LMG's. It has a decent damage output and RoF. In normal, it is best used with either RDS with stopping power and deep impact (My favorite RPD class) for range, or double tap and grip for close combat.In hardcore, using double tap or UAV jammer is great on this gun, I suggest grip and steady aim, but I have seen other classes with RDS, ACOG Scope, and Deep Impact work equally well.
Primary Weapon- M60E4, Attachment- Grip/RDS/ACOG, Pistol- Any, First Perk- 3x Frag, 3x Special, Claymore (For sniper class), RPG, Perk 2- Stopping Power/Double Tap/UAV Jammer, Perk 3- Steady aim or deep impact. There are really only 2 ways to use the M60; Long range or point blank. Long range M60 classes are very effective in hardcore. Try LMG sniping, using ACOG, double tap, and claymores. It only takes about two hits to drop someone, and if they get close....it is a LMG after all. The ACOG can be replaced with a RDS for closer range. Closer up, I like using the grip, with steady aim and double tap. This works in both normal and hardcore. In normal, you can always substitute stopping power for double tap, but this gun already does a lot of damage.
 It is best to be cohesive with a unit so they can point out targets for you. As the LMG takes so long to reload and bring up to its sights, it is necessary to know where your enemies will pop up at. Run with a partner so he can spot targets for you directly, or hang back, watch your radar (Or listen for hardcore) and provide long range support. Remembers- All your movements are slower with a LMG, so good intuition and foresight is a MUST.
 An LMG player is in a class of his/her own. At medium range, you're lethal; at close range, you're lethal; at long range - well, two shots and you're still lethal. Refrain from running around a lot, like an SMG gunner; and don't act like a sniper, either. From my point of view . . . LMG = raw firepower + ambush. Develop your own play style, but refrain from running around without cover - your gun's low mobility will let you down. I know player who perform "assassination" - barging into enemy pockets, blowing em all to kingdom come; high-speed sniping - and also ambushing. An LMG's very versatile.
 A good LMG user is devastating, able to pick off enemies from almost any range while not having to move much. They are good anywhere on the battlefield, from urban assault to locking down entire fields of fire in the open. Maybe you use the LMG because of the damage, or the style, or maybe you just hate reloading.

