 The ingredients should be enough to make approximately 1 and 1/2 cups of chocolate sauce.Use bittersweet, semi-sweet or milk chocolate, depending on your preference.
There are alternatives to using cream, although cream is the preferred liquid because of the rich sauce it creates. You could also use milk or half-and-half.
Note that if you use chocolate with a higher percentage of cacao and a liquid that doesn’t have much fat in it, the flavor of the sauce will be intense.;
, Fill a medium saucepan with a few inches of water over medium high heat. Place a metal bowl on top of the saucepan and add the chocolate and heavy cream.Take care not to burn the chocolate. Tempered chocolate can seize up if overheated or burned. One thing to look for if you fear your chocolate is burning is if it starts to look grainy or clump together. If it also loses some of its smooth sheen, this is also an indication that the chocolate is burning. If this does happen, you'll have to start over as the chocolate will have a burned taste to it and will not taste right in the recipe. Remember that chocolate is the star dish for this ingredient!Ensure that no little beads of moisture are allowed to mingle with the chocolate and that the metal bowl with the chocolate and cream does not touch the water in the pan. Chocolate is adverse to moisture, so mixing moisture with chocolate will usually cause the chocolate to seize and burn.You can also place the chocolate and cream in a microwave safe dish and microwave for 1 minute on medium power. Be careful not to burn it. Remove from the microwave and stir until smooth.
 As the water simmers gently, mix the ingredients together as they melt. If it looks like the sauce is getting too hot, remove the saucepan from the heat and allow the sauce to continue melting over the remaining steam. When the chocolate is smooth and has a nice sheen to it, you know it's melted.
 While melting the chocolate and cream together, feel free to jazz up your sauce by adding extra flavorings or ingredients.


Add a small pad of butter to the sauce to give it a super smooth texture and glossy sheen.Add a teaspoon of vanilla extract to bring out and heighten the chocolatey flavor.Add 1/4 teaspoon of a flavored extract, like peppermint, almond, orange or raspberry.
For a boozy twist, add a dash red wine, Grand Marnier, Kahlua or your other favorite liqueur. , The sauce should keep for up to two weeks.


To reheat, microwave for 30 seconds to 1 minute or briefly rewarm in a pan or sink of hot water. It's best to microwave the sauce for a short time and then put back in if it's not melted enough. You don't want to burn it!

, This basic sauce is great on top of ice cream and other treats. It's also great on its own, right out the container with a spoon!

