 Marth's attacks are the most powerful at the tip of his sword. Because of this, you can keep attacking your enemies from a distance, while they cannot even touch you. It is best to be fairly far away from your enemy at all times.;
, Timing is everything with Marth's attacks. Do this and your opponents will be flying off the stage in no time.
 Marth's Aerial A-attacks are said to be the greatest in the game. However, make sure that that you don't give your enemy the opportunity to attack.
 This attack has a large negative stigma for being overused, and for a good reason. It is powerful, relatively quick, and has the greatest range of Marth's moves. Practice so that you'll be able to get a tipper; it's much more powerful. Also, do not over use the move because it can be punished or may greatly annoy the opponent.
 They can be useful, but it is entirely situational. Yes, it renders you physically invulnerable, but when used more than maybe once or twice the opponent catches on and will fake an attack, make you counter, and you will be left open for punishment. There are a few (a very small few) times when pros will use it, yes, but only as a "mind game" or trick to fool someone unaccustomed to seeing counters, or after a ledge hop (letting go of the ledge by either tilting the control stick down or away from the ledge, and using your second jump to come back onto the stage). It can also be used as an Edgeguard to counter characters using their third jump (usually up-B).
 Reverse Dolphin Blade (Up-B) is done by pressing up-b and then quickly back. If Marth is next to the opponent, it will be much stronger, capable of killing them at higher percentages.
 Marth's wavedash is among the best in the game, ranked 4th under Mewtwo, Ice Climbers and Luigi. It is done by flicking your thumb along a jump button (usually X) to do a short hop, then quickly directional air dodging towards the stage at an angle. If done correctly, you'll see Marth "slide" across the stage quickly. Try to input fast enough so Marth appears to have never left the ground. If mastered, this will greatly increase Marth's mobility and allow you to execute complex combos., Marth is one of the few characters that have the ability to do two aerial attacks with one short hop. This can be done with his forward-air, which comes out fast and has little recovery time.

