 Make sure you have 1,000 forum posts, as this will be important later.
 If you're new to Roblox, then create a new account. Buy BC, TBC, or OBC if you are NBC.,

Come up with a unique name. Generic names, such as "The Army" or "Empire", will not stand out, and should be avoided. Search online for a clan name generator, or come up with an idea for yourself. Good examples of names are The Fifth Exile, Gallantry, and V O I D.
 (Post on group wall, group shouts, view group wall, etc.) Using military ranks is suggested if you are trying to run a military army, like Private, Corporal, Sergeant, Captain, Major, etc., 1-19, or 1-6, or 1-10..., You may change them any time, but you will not be able to remove group ranks.,, This will be your group's emblem, and will represent it., The most common training center, a Holo, uses a script to change the map upon command. They generally include several obbys, a map for sword or gun tournaments, and a free-for-all map. Make sure it has an admin script., Bases usually have two teams, one for the defenders (your clan) and one for raiders. Bases also generally have a terminal or flag that the raiders must hold for a set amount of time. You can also take one from free models. Everyone says it's bad, but usually nobody can tell, and everybody does it., Generally, people copy their ranks from other clans. An example of this would be, in order from least to highest: Private, Corporal, Sergeant, Lieutenant, Captain, Major, Officer, Colonel, General, Commander. It is best to have about 6-7 ranks. Having lots of ranks serves no purpose and costs extra money., Uniforms unite all of your members under a common outfit, giving them more team pride, and making it easier to identify members., Come up with a generic message which could apply to anyone, and send it to a lot of people.

Invite popular C&Gers, your friends, or anyone else you trust to be a high rank in your group. High ranks host trainings, raids, and other events to keep activity high.
 Once you have about 10 or 20 members, it is time to start hyping your clan. There are several ways of doing this, and all involve using the Clans and Guilds forum. Ways of doing this are having all of your members make forum posts saying "GLORY TO ", declaring war on a major group (Such as V O I D), and other ways. There are multiple ways of hyping your clan, so find one that works for you., If you are planning to be a power clan (a group that focuses on having skilled, active members rather than being large), make an obby which potential members must complete in order to be accepted into the group. If you are planning to be a superclan (having lots of members), you can skip this step.