 This sends opponents skyward in a powerful tail sweep. This move can be a useful and quick kill option if the opponent is sitting at a high percentage and can be set up in a number of different ways. One of these ways is a laser to Down-A;
, This sends opponents rocketing down at a diagonal angle, so you never really have to intercept flying opponents. This is also a very common killing move, simply intercept the opponent with it when he's over air. Also, you will find that this move is one of Falco's best because it is essential to combo-ing.
 This is a lot more powerful than Fox's Fire Fox and has the power to send opponents burning into the background. However, it's still awful as an offensive move because it is far too slow to start up and finish, and leaves you open to attack. It is only useful for recovery. No exceptions.
 This points upwards (Fox's points sideways). Although this has nothing to do with the direction missile attacks go in, if executed close to an opponent, it sends them upwards. This is a really great move to use in combos, since you can continually use the reflector along with Falco's dair (down-air) afterwards and repeat in order to combo the opponent. This is called pillaring, and is not recommended for new players.
 Proper use of the blaster is essential, as this is frequently cited as the best projectile attack in the game. On the ground, the move is slow and inflexible, but by using the Short Hop Laser technique (short hop, laser, fast fall), a Falco player can greatly improve their offensive game. Using the attack in the air causes the lag associated with putting away the blaster to be cancelled upon landing and allows the player to move around while using the laser, making it the perfect approach tactic.


Another technique, the Ledgehopped Double Laser, allows players who are hanging off the edge to quickly return to the stage while attacking an edgeguarding opponent- it involves falling from the ledge, jumping, and firing two lasers before landing on the stage (the timing of the jump controls the height of the lasers). This can also help new players learn some components of the SHFFLing technique, which allows aerial attacks to be performed next to the ground with amazing speed.
 If you catch onto Falco, and you know all of his moves, you can easily mix up moves to make outstanding, breathtaking combos.


You could Shine (Reflector), jump, down air, jab, forward tilt, jab, side smash, then when the opponent is recovering, down air them as they are about to get to the stage. This will send them down at such a fast pace, and is labelled as a 'spike'. There is no way to recover from this move after a certain percent.
Another great combo is on Fox if he has 0% damage. Shine, downair, fast fall, L-Cancel, shine, downair, fast fall, L-Cancel, do it three times, then shine, jump (right away) and back-air, then when Fox is coming back, jab him then forward smash. Done. 0%-Death. Whilst pillaring, you must read the directional influence of your opponent and keep the combo going, or you will get nowhere. Falco's recovery is also highly exploitable, having a much weaker range than fox, his only upside being his side b, but his up-b is very edge guardable.

