
Lemonade is an obvious candidate for lemons but there are many other lemon drink possibilities, including:


Lemon fizz
Lemon juice
Lemon and lime soda
Lemon soda
Lemon drop cocktail
A hot, soothing lemon drink

Lavender and lemon soda.;
,
Lemons add moisture, flavor and tang to many dishes. They can also be used to prevent premature browning of some cut foods, when the juice is sprinkled over food such as apples, potatoes and bananas.


Grilled lemon chicken
Lemon chicken and green bean casserole
Asian style lemon chicken
Baked tilapia with lemon butter
Place a lemon inside the cavity of poultry. The resulting cooked poultry will remain moist.
Add flavor to dishes with a sprinkle of lemon juice. Add to soups, vegetables, dessert dishes such as crumbles or over puddings.

Lemon cakes, cookies and pastries are a staple favorite for many lovers of baked goods. Some recipe ideas include:


Lemon and candied ginger muffins
Lemon polenta cake
Greek lemon cake
Lemon drizzle cake
Lemon cupcakes
Make a lemon sponge. Add some lemon meringue for a topping.
Lemon icing (frosting)
Lavender and lemon cookies

Lemon pie.

Having lemons available all the time just for cleaning purposes is a sensible idea. Lemons can clean, disinfect and add a delicious odor to cleaned items. Some cleaning ideas for lemons include:



Clean a microwave with a lemon.

Clean the bathtub with lemon. Scrub grout using an old toothbrush with lemon juice squeezed onto it.

Make lemon scented window cleaner. Lemon is also excellent sprayed diluted onto kitchen counter tops.

Clean kitchen appliances with a lemon.

Clean wooden cutting boards with lemon. This kills germs and removes stains.

Clean copper with a lemon. Real brass and chrome can also be cleaned using a lemon.

lemon sponge.
Grills and grates can be cleaned with a combination of lemon juice and salt.

The odor of lemons is liked by just about everyone and this scent can be used to remove foul odors from the home. Some ideas include:



Make a lemon juice air freshener.

Keep the garbage disposal fresh and clean with lemon. This is a great way to get rid of overripe or squeezed lemons and keep the garbage disposal smelling great.

Remove the smell of fish from your hands.

Remove the smell of burned food from your home.
Leave half a cut lemon in the fridge to remove odors. Replace weekly.

Get rid of the smell of mothballs using lemon.

Use lemon to get rid of foot odor.

Lemons can lighten hair color and help to condition hair. Some ideas to help include:


Highlight your hair with lemon
Use lemon juice to lighten hair
Dye your hair with lemon juice
Make a parsley lemon rinse for hair
Make a lemon, lime and coconut hair bar
Make hairspray with lemons

Get super soft waves using lemons.
 Lemons can be used to soften, condition or scent other parts of the body. Some ways to beautify with a lemon include:


Shower with a lemon
Make a lemon face cleanser
Make a rosewater and lemon face wash
Make a lemon oil mask
Use a lemon to lighten your skin
Rejuvenate skin with lemon juice

Get rid of dry skin using a lemon.

From fleas to garden pests, lemons have a role to play in helping you to protect pets and plants.



Make a lemon flea spray for your pets. Just be careful if using this on cats, as they hate citrus and may react poorly to this spray. For example, lemons can be used to repel cats.

Deter ants, cats, moths and night insects with lemon peels.

You can power LED lights and other objects using a lemon as a battery, or for explaining scientific ideas in a novel way. Here are some ideas:


Create a battery from a lemon
Make an invisible ink message with lemon

Make a lemon powered clock.

