 Place all of the spices together into a small bowl. Stir them together with a fork or mini whisk.You can also use a packet of fajita seasoning from the store.;
, Get 2 pounds (907 grams) of boneless, skinless chicken breasts, or boneless pork loin, or flank steak.Trim any fat away. Leave pork whole but cut steak into thin strips. You can cut the chicken breasts into strips or leave them whole.

You can also use boneless chuck roast instead of steak.You can also skip the meat if you'd like a vegetarian or vegan option.
 Trim away the white/pale part from the inner ribs. Finally, cut the bell pepper into ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) strips. You can cut them lengthwise or widthwise.

If you can only find one type of bell pepper, substitute it for the other colors.
If the lengthwise strips are too long for you, cut them in half widthwise.
 Cut the onion into quarters. Next, cut each quarter into ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) thick slices.

You can use red onion, white onion, or yellow onion.
 Try to get the kind that have green chilies in them. If you don't like chilies, you can get regular diced tomatoes. You can also substitute salsa instead; plan on using 10 to 20 ounces (325 to 650 grams)., Try to spread it as evenly across the bottom as you can. Make sure that your slow cooker is big enough to fit the rest of your ingredients, about 3 to 4 quarts (3 to 4 liters)., You can mix them up first in a big bowl, or you can keep them separate. You will eventually be mixing everything together in the end.

If you want crispier vegetables, hold off for now. You will need to add them during the last 30 to 60 minutes of cooking., Spread the meat evenly across the vegetables. You are adding it last because you will need to take it out and shred it. This will make it easier to take out, and you won't have to "dig" for it.

Some people like to rub their seasoning on both sides of the meat first. You can do this too, or save the seasoning for the end.
 If you rubbed the seasoning onto the meat, you should still have some left over. Sprinkle it on top of everything in the slow cooker, focusing on the vegetables., Your fajitas are essentially seasoned, but there are a few things you can add to take things to the next level. What sort of extra seasonings you add depends on the type of meat you are using. Here are some suggestions for you:

Chicken: add 4 cloves of minced garlic or 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) lime juice.Pork: Add up to 2 cups (475 milliliters) of barbeque sauce.Steak: Pour ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of soy sauce over the meat., You can use a low or high heat setting. Let them cook until the meat and vegetables are tender. If you want crispier vegetables, add them into the slow cooker during the last 30 to 60 minutes.

Chicken: cook on low for 6 hours or on high for 3 hours.Pork: cook on low for 8 to 10 hours.Steak: cook on low for 9 hours or on high for 5 to 6 hours., Use a pair of tongs to take the meat out of the crock pot; leave everything else inside. Place the meat onto a cutting board. Cut the meat into thin, ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) thick strips. You can also use a pair of forks to shred the meat instead.

If you already cut the meat and do not wish the cut it down further, you can skip this step.
Use a clean knife and cutting board. Do not use the ones that touched the raw meat previously.
 If the meat has not been cooked all the way, cook it for another 10 to 15 minutes on low, covered.This is not completely necessary for steak, but it is for chicken and pork., Use a pair of salad tongs or two forks to toss the ingredients together. Keep doing this until everything is distributed evenly throughout the mixture. Be sure to grab the goodies from the bottom of the slow cooker as well!, Use a soup ladle to scoop out the excess broth. You can discard it or save it for another recipe.This will make it easier to serve the fajitas and prevent them from being too soggy., You can transfer all of the fajitas onto a large platter so that everyone can serve themselves. You can also scoop out about ½ cup (120 milliliters) onto flour or wheat tortillas instead.You can use store-bought or homemade tortillas.
If you are using store-bought tortillas, heat them up in the microwave for a few seconds. Keep them between sheets of paper towel to prevent them from getting soggy

, Since everyone likes different things, it would be a good idea to have all of the toppings in separate bowls. This way, everyone can take how much they want of whatever they want. Just about anything that goes in a taco or burrito will go well in a fajita. Here are some ideas to get you started:Fresh cilantro/coriander, chopped
Guacamole
Salsa
Shredded cheese (especially Cheddar or Monterey Jack)Sour cream

