 If you have strands of hair that are too short to pull up but too long to let hang, try pinning them back. Bobby pins will more often than not be your constant companion in the weeks and months it takes to grow out a short haircut. Here's a quick guide for those a little out of practice:


Make a deep part on one side of your forehead just above the center of one of your eyes. Then sweep that portion of hair to the side, using pins to hold it back. Then set with hairspray.
Grab the portion at the front of your hair that's starting to fall over your forehead. Twist the section once or twice, then pin flat at the top of your head. The slight twist will add a bit of volume to the front of the section.
Once the top of your hair is long enough to pull back, pin up the shorter sections underneath for a cleaner ponytail look.;
, These products can help tame your hair when it's prone to looking wild and unruly. Test out a few different products to find one you like - if you're on a budget, ask your friends what they use and whether you could try a bit. If what you're using makes your hair look stiffer than you'd like, try adding a bit of water to the product before applying it.For a matte look, go for the wax or the pomade. Use only about a pea-sized glob of the product and work it through your hair beginning where the hair meets your scalp. Style how you'd like.
For a glossy or wet look, reach for the gel. Again, use a small glob and work through your hair beginning at the base. If your style allows it, comb your hair to make sure there are no gel clumps left over.
Mousse will be helpful for those with curls or anyone looking for added volume. For curls, use a palm-sized amount and work it through the bottom 2/3 of your hair (so not near your scalp), then flip your head and do the same to the underside. For volume, have a glob of mousse in one hand and then use a comb to apply it to your hair, starting at the roots., If you've got the tools at hand, try curling your hair for some added bounce to your hair-do. Curling is a neat trick to shorten hair that's in an awkward period between not short enough and not long enough. Alternatively, if your hair is curly or wavy you can straighten your hair for added length to get the style you desire.
 Leave the sides and back hanging down with the front in a small bun. An easy fix for those looking to get the hair out of their face, or for those frightened of bangs. If your hair in the front isn’t quite long enough for a bun, don’t fret, a small mini-ponytail is perfectly acceptable as well., A simple fix for those who’d like to avoid complications as their hair grows out. A blunt cut will rid your hair of the layering which can become awkward as short hair grows out. A blunt cut is equally useful for those hoping to regrow their hair evenly, as it keeps all sides at roughly the same length.
 If one feature of your growing cut is a mess of runaway hairs, try reaching for the gel and slicking the whole mess back. Use a comb to avoid getting any clumps of gel left behind in your hair. Depending on how long your hair is, you can flare the length out to the side or keep it running straight down in line with your neck.

