 One of the keys to managing two part-time jobs is keeping your stress-level low. One way to accomplish this is to aim for a minimal commute. If both of your jobs are close to one another (and ideally also close to home), then you will be able to travel between them more easily. This will minimize the time you could spend worrying about getting to work on time. Keep location in mind when selecting your jobs.If working two jobs close to each other is not an option, consider working different jobs only on different days.
This way, you won't need to travel between them.
 In addition to maintaining a consistent schedule and planning your week ahead of time, it is important to create a new checklist each day. When you are working more than one job, it can be easy to get confused and let obligations slip. Instead, each morning sit down and make a list of everything you need to accomplish that day at each of your jobs. Then when you are at work, simply move down the list, tackling projects one by one., An important component of managing multiple jobs is remembering to sometimes say “no.” You are not going to be able to always take the overtime, or the extra project, or attend every training seminar. Working multiple jobs will have you stretched thin, and you will need to protect the precious time that you have.Set limits for yourself, such as maintaining one full day off each week, never working past 7:00pm, or never exceeding 50 hours per week.
 Along the same lines as setting limits, it is crucial for you to plan some breaks into your work schedule. If you do not prioritize taking breaks, you are likely to burn out. When you are figuring out your schedule, aim for at least a two-hour break between jobs, and one full day off each week., In order for your breaks to be effective, you must really use them as breaks. When you’re not working, don’t think about work. When you are on break, don’t check email or try to get caught up on work-related tasks. Instead, spend time with friends and family, simply sit and enjoy a meal, or do something else fun to get your mind off of work.