;
,


The hood release is under the steering wheel.
Be sure the van is off and engine has cooled down if it were driven recently.



There are 6 plugs in total.
Cylinders 2,4 and 6 are in sight as soon as you look under the hood. Cylinder 1,3 and 5 are behind the engine when looking from the front of the vehicle. They are difficult to see so some of the work taking them out will require only your sense of touch. If you have not done this sort of work before try removing the spark plugs from cylinders 2,4 and 6 so you get a better feel for what you are doing.



Make sure to remember the way the wires are arranged because the timing of spark will change if they are not installed at the correct cylinder.
Gently twist and pull the ignition coil wires to remove.



Fit the 5/8" spark plug socket on the spark plug and loosen it using a ratchet with extension. There is rubber in the socket to hold the spark plug when it unscrews, but still be careful to not hit against something and damage it.
Keep track of which cylinder each spark plug came from. If one spark plug appears with worse condition then you will know what cylinder it belongs to and check for problems there.



First make sure they are all the correct brand and design. The manufacturer recommends Champion RE14PLP5 (7440) Double Platinum Spark Plugs.
Look for damage such as cracks and inspect the electrodes that produce the spark for corrosion, excess dirt, and wear.
For the best performance over the life of a spark plug, the gap between the electrodes should be as close to specification as possible. Gap Specification: 1.27mm (0.05"). Place an appropriate size feeler gauge in between the gap and adjust by slightly bending the outer electrode.



Depending on how old your plugs are and their condition you may or may not want to replace them. It is important to consider that while modern spark plugs can stay operational for longer, there are many possible causes to obstruct a spark plugs operation. As well, the time it takes to swap out your plugs and the cost if you do it yourself is moderately low for something that could benefit your vehicle's performance.



Put the spark plug in the hole it came from using the 5/8" socket and an extension. Hand tighten it until threaded all the way in to reduce the possibility of cross-threading the plug in the engine block.
If you own a torque wrench then torque the spark plug to 13 ft-lbs (17.5 N.m).
Without a torque wrench tighten by hand then add 1/4 of a full turn with the ratchet.



On the ignition coil you will see numbers expressing what cylinder each wire goes to.
Simply push the wires on and you will hear and feel a click when they are connected.


Make sure the engine sounds like it is running smoothly and the check engine light does not appear.

