 If you like a little crunch on your morning yogurt, consider making a quinoa granola. Using a high-protein grain like quinoa can boost the nutrition of a traditional granola recipe.

Start this recipe by preheating your oven to 350 degrees.
In a large bowl, mix together 1 cup of rolled oats, 1/2 cup uncooked quinoa, 2 cups of nuts, 1 tablespoon of honey and a pinch of salt. Stir to combine.
In the microwave, melt 3 1/2 tablespoons of coconut oil together with 1/4 cup of maple syrup. Stir frequently until the liquids are completely combined. Pour immediately over the dry ingredients.
Pour the granola onto a rimmed baking sheet and press into an even layer. Bake for about 30 minutes. Half way through the baking process, stir the granola to ensure even browning. Allow to cool thoroughly and serve at room temperature.
 For a Mexican spin on your breakfast, make breakfast burritos. Adding quinoa will provide an additional source of protein and fiber to your burrito.

Start by scrambling 1 egg over medium heat in a nonstick skillet. Once cooked, place in a small bowl.
Add in 1/3 cup of cooked quinoa and 1/4 cup of thawed chopped frozen or baby spinach to your scrambled egg along with a generous sprinkling of shredded low-fat sharp cheddar cheese.
Place your burrito filling into the center of a 8" whole wheat tortilla. Roll up tightly and serve immediately or wrap in plastic wrap and stick in the freezer for another day.
 If you're in the mood for a savory and filling breakfast, try making quinoa hash. Substitute quinoa for shredded potatoes in this tasty recipe.Heat a large skillet over medium heat and add four strips of bacon (or skip this step if you don't eat meat or like bacon). Cook until the bacon is crunchy and the fat has rendered out. Remove bacon from pan and roughly chop.
To the still hot pan, add in 1 cup of cooked quinoa, 1/2 cup of diced peppers, 1/2 cup of diced onions and 1 cup of sliced mushrooms. Sauté for about five to six minutes or until vegetables are soft and quinoa is heated through.
Turn up the heat slightly. Press the quinoa mixture down into the bottom of the pan. Allow to crisp up and brown for about one to two minutes. Serve immediately with eggs if you'd like.
An alternate recipe is to make a mixture of cooked quinoa, peeled and grated raw potato then add to eggs and spices to taste. Cook on a large skillet for about seven minutes on each side until golden brown.
 If you're in a rush in the mornings, you can try making quinoa muffins ahead of time for a quick, protein and fiber filled breakfast. Freeze leftovers so you'll have a stock of these tasty muffins.Start by preheating an oven to 375 degrees. Lightly grease a muffin tin with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, mix together 1 cup of cooked quinoa, 1/2 cup of applesauce, 1 mashed banana, 1/2 cup of milk, 1 teaspoon of vanilla and 1/4 cup of honey. Mix until thoroughly combined.
Peel and roughly chop 1 apple or pear and stir into the quinoa mixture as well.
Fill each muffin tin to the top with the quinoa mixture. Bake for about 20 – 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and allow to cool for five minutes before enjoying.

