 Each state has its own requirements of the education that will suffice to make you eligible for a construction or civil engineering license. Generally you should get a four-year degree in engineering through a college or university with an engineering program accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Committee (EAC) of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET).When you're choosing schools, look for one that includes the phrase "EAC/ABET accredited" in conjunction with their engineering programs.
You don't necessarily have to go to school in the state where you want to work after you graduate. However, you should look at the educational requirements of the state where you want to work, not the state where your school is located, since they may differ.
If you haven't decided where you want to work yet and are looking at several different states as possibilities, look up the licensing requirements for each and make sure your program would suffice in any of them.
Each state's engineering licensing board has a website that spells out the educational and work requirements for license applicants. You also may be able to find additional resources on the state's website, or look over the application materials to prepare.
Some states also have combination programs that allow you to get some of your credits from a community college, which can save you money. However, make sure you're taking the required courses and have sufficient hours in the disciplines listed by the licensing board.;
, If you pass the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) exam just before or soon after you graduate from college, you can become classified as an "engineer intern." Also called an "engineer-in-training" in some areas, this classification demonstrates to employers that you've mastered the fundamentals of engineering and are on your way to licensure.The FE exam is administered over the course of one day, and you will have to answer 110 multiple choice questions.
The basic fee for the FE exam is $225. Some states may charge additional application or processing fees.
 You must have at least four years of work experience as an engineer before you're eligible for licensure. Typically you'll need to work for and be supervised by a licensed professional engineer, who will provide you with a professional reference when you apply for your license.Focus on gaining substantive experience in design or analysis, as these are the types of experience most commonly accepted by licensing boards.
As you work, your responsibilities and your supervisor's expectations of your output should progress and increase over time.
When you apply for your license, you will have to demonstrate the progress that you made through your work and on-the-job training, so it's a good idea to take notes of the projects you undertake along with a brief description of what you did.
Keeping these notes on a regular basis, typically daily or weekly, is helpful since with the passage of time you can forget projects that would be important to include on your license application.
 Since each state has specific license requirements, it's important to check them on a regular basis and make sure you're fulfilling them appropriately.This is especially important if you're starting your process in one state but plan to move to another. While states do have reciprocity with other states for education and work done, you must keep in mind that you need to fulfill the requirements of the state where you intend to work, not the state where you are.
Getting a professional engineering license requires a significant investment of your time and money – two things you don't want to waste doing something that isn't necessary for licensure.
Find the website of the state licensing board and bookmark it in your browser so you can refer to it regularly.
If the state licensing board provides a checklist of licensure requirements, you may want to print that out and post it in a place where you'll see it on a daily basis, such as on the refrigerator or in the bathroom.
 When you're nearing time to start the licensure process, get a copy of the application so you can look it over and gather the information and materials you'll need to complete it.The licensing application requires you to provide basic identification information such as your name, address, and birth date, along with details about your engineering education and experience.
You also must answer basic questions about your application history, including whether you've ever been convicted of a felony and whether you've ever been refused a license or had a license suspended in another state.
The application also includes space for you to describe your work experience, along with forms you must send to each of your supervisors to verify the experience you described in your application.
Your application must be accompanied by a licensing fee of at least $230. Check with your licensing board to confirm the acceptable methods of payment.
 Each state has its own requirements regarding the references you must provide. Typically at least some, if not all, of these references must be people who are currently licensed professional engineers.Your professional references typically are separate from the forms completed by your supervisors to verify your work experience. However, you may be able to use the same people to both verify your work experience and provide a professional reference.
Professional references typically testify both to your skills as an engineer and to your general character.
 Along with your application, you must get your school to send transcripts verifying that you have the degrees you listed on your application. The state licensing board provides a transcript request form that you must send to your school, which will send your transcript directly to the licensing board.You must provide the name and address of the educational institution you attended on your application, then send the transcript request form to the appropriate office at your school.
Although transcript fees vary significantly among schools, you should expect to pay a fee for copies of your transcript. This fee will be less than a hundred dollars, typically around $30 or $40.
If you've taken the FE exam, you also must have that exam and your score verified by the organization that administered your exam.
 All professional engineers must take and pass the Principles and Practice of Engineering (PE) exam, administered by the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES).The fee for the PE is $230, and typically you'll pay it when you submit your license application to your state's licensing board. Your state may have other fees related to the application in addition to the testing fee.
Your state also may require you to take and pass an ethics exam. This exam typically covers your state's licensure law and the rules of the state licensing board.
 All states require licensed engineers to complete continuing education courses so they are up to date on the latest technological trends and industry standards.The number of hours of courses you must take varies among states. You can find the requirements on the website of your state licensing board.
State licensing boards also may require that a specified portion of your continuing education hours consist of ethics courses.
Expect to pay several hundred dollars to complete your continuing education requirement each year. If you pay for these courses out of pocket, you can deduct the amount as a business expense on your taxes. Save your receipts and basic information about the courses.
 To keep your license from being suspended, you must pay any licensing fees, dues, or privilege taxes that your state requires licensed engineers to pay each year.Some states, such as Tennessee, require all residents who hold a professional license in the state to pay privilege taxes to the state department of revenue each year. These taxes typically are several hundred dollars.
Your state licensing board may charge fees every year, or may charge a single lump-sum fee when your license is issued and when it is renewed. Expect your licensing fees also to be several hundred dollars.
If you work for an engineering firm, the firm may pay your licensing fees and taxes as well as any dues owed for memberships in professional organizations. However, these payments are your responsibility, so it's up to you to make sure they're paid on time.
Keep in mind that if you pay your licensing fees yourself, the amount is deductible as a business expense on your taxes. The same goes for any dues you pay for membership in a professional organization.
 Each state has different requirements for when your license must be renewed, so be sure to check with your state's licensing board so you know and understand these requirements.Typically you have to renew your license every three to five years at a minimum, although some states may require you to renew your license more often.
Renewal involves filling out an application and paying renewal fees. You typically must demonstrate that your existing license is in good standing and that you've fulfilled all continuing education and other requirements.

