 Whenever you label another person negatively, it allows you to give up on that person and takes responsibility off of you. If you feel it's always someone else who is the troublemaker or problem, it will leave you feeling resentful and powerless. In addition, you will miss the areas in which you could improve your situation or yourself. Keep an accurate view of your own actions and attitudes to help you better understand others and stop labeling them.Avoid blaming or labeling others when something goes wrong in your life.
Realize when you've made a mistake and accept responsibility for it, instead of labeling someone else as the problem.
Often, a person who always thinks his problems are because of someone else — everyone else is too sensitive, they're all jerks, etc. — is failing to take responsibility for his own challenges and recognize areas where he may need to grow and improve.
 Even though it may seem convenient to apply labels to others, they aren't of much actual use. Since you won't often know the full story behind someone's life, any labels you apply will be inaccurate representations of the person's personality. Avoid applying labels to others to help you gain a more realistic understanding of them.Getting to know a person will allow you to more accurately understand her.
Applying a label without understanding a person will only result in a false image of her.
Learning more about a person will make it more difficult to invent harmful labels or stories about her.
 When you stop applying labels to someone and take time to get to know him, you'll be able to build a stronger and more rewarding relationship. Misleading or false labels can cause you to avoid getting to know someone and may end up with you missing out on some great friendships. Steer clear of applying negative labels to increase your chances of building better, stronger and longer lasting relationships.For example, maybe you've always thought your coworker was “weird;" however, once you got to know him a bit better, you might actually find out that you've both got a lot in common and enjoy one another's company.
Or maybe you assume that someone is "disabled" because he's in a wheelchair. But, when you start asking him about his hobbies, you actually find out he's a serious athlete who plays wheelchair basketball and rugby. Asking the person questions and getting to know him can challenge the label you placed on him based on your assumptions.
Moving past labels and learning more about who the person actually is can be a great way to find the good in whoever you're meeting.
 Labeling people can be a quick way to write a person off, whether she has actually wronged you or not; however, by being more compassionate and understanding, you can avoid labeling a person and allow your relationship with her to grow. Try to be understanding with others to avoid applying harmful or needless labels to them.Let the past go and actively forgive someone.
Focus on the facts of a situation to gain a better view of what actually happened.
Try to give people a second chance.
Understand when something was a one-time mistake.

