 Since most toddlers are not able to blow their noses, they require additional assistance in order to clear their stuffy noses. A nasal aspirator, also known as a bulb syringe, uses suction to pull mucus from the nostrils. Nasal aspirators have a bulb section and a long, narrow section you insert into the nostrils.Have the child lay down on your lap. You should be able to easily reach the toddler's nostrils and be able to hold the child in place if needed.
Pick up the nasal aspirator and squeeze the bulb portion.
Insert the tip into 1 nostril while still squeezing the bulb.
Release the pressure on the bulb gradually, allowing it to suck out the excess mucus.
Remove the nasal aspirator from the toddler's nostril and squeeze the bulb over a facial tissue to remove the mucus.
Repeat the process with the other nostril. Be sure to wash with soapy water and rinse after each use.
You can also try a NoseFrida, which is a suction device that parents use a flexible straw-like device and their own suction to draw out the mucus from the baby's nose.;
, Although most cough and cold medications are not approved for use in small children, saline solution is safe to use on babies and toddlers and can help clear a stuffy nose. If you make your own saline solution, be sure to use filtered or purified water, not tap water. Mix 1/4 tsp salt into one cup of warm water. Also keep in mind that you can buy pre-made saline solutions in drop or spray forms at the drugstore, or buy kits with the equipment you need — just add the water at home.Get the toddler in a position where the head is lower than the feet and you can easily reach the child's head.
Take your saline solution and gently squeeze two to three drops of the saline solution into each nostril.
Wait for one to two minutes to allow the solution to drain through the nasal passages. The toddler may sneeze or cough out mucus, so have facial tissues available.
Suction the toddler's nostrils with a nasal aspirator if the child doesn't sneeze or cough out the mucus.
 Warm steam can break up congestion by loosening nasal secretions. With your toddler, go into the bathroom and shut the door. Turn on the shower in a bathroom, using the hot water to generate steam. Remain in the bathroom 10 to 20 minutes.