 Smiling is contagious, and you never know whose day you will brighten by smiling at them. Plus, it will make you look friendlier and more confident, a person that others may feel more comfortable asking for help, even if you are a stranger., Don't be a bystander. You don't need to know the other person, but if you see someone is in pain or trouble, reach out and help. Research suggests that people are less likely to help others when there is a crowd around. Don't let yourself fall into the trap of thinking "someone else will take care of it."This doesn’t have to be something serious like stopping crime. Sometimes, people just need the door held open, or help carrying something heavy. Even little actions like this can be helpful.
If the person you see is the victim of a crime, the best thing you can do to help is to contact the police. If you can reach a phone, dial 9-1-1 and give information on what is happening and where. If the situation could be dangerous, such as a robbery or an assault, your first priority is keeping yourself out of danger. Calling the police and letting them handle it is the best thing you can do., There are thousands of charities out there, dealing with all kinds of social, cultural, and medical causes, and other concerns. Your giving can certainly be money, but clothing, food, or anything else the charity says it needs to carry out its mission is good also.


Find charities that deal with causes you care about. For example, if a family member suffers, or has suffered, from a certain disease, look for a charity that is researching a cure or provides support to victims and their families.
You don’t need to just look at charities that deal with big national or international issues. Smaller, local charities are probably more in need of your help, and can more directly impact your immediate community.
Donating clothes that you no longer wear is a great way to help the less fortunate. Clothes that are in good shape can be great for people unable to afford new things to wear. Plus, you'll be able to clean out your closet or drawer for more space.When giving money to charity, it is generally better to give to larger, more established organizations. These groups usually have a good record of delivering on services, meaning your money will get where it needs to go.
 Many organizations need more than just money or materials. They need people willing to help. Find organizations in your area that are looking for volunteers, and ask what you can do. In most cases, the things they will ask you to do are easy things that anyone can do, so you don't need to worry about having special skills. Just showing up will be enough.Alternatively, if you do have some special skills or other technical expertise that might be of use to a group, offer those services. For example, if you are a website designer, you can offer to make a site for a group that needs to reach out to people over the internet.
 If you've got a great idea, or some information that will help solve other problems, you need to let people know about it. There are a variety of mediums for publishing your ideas, and different things you can write about.One way you can do that is to write a blog that discusses issues important to you and offers solutions is an easy way to do this. Make sure to publicize your blog on social media and other blogs that cover similar topics.
If your ideas are longer and more well formed, you can publish them as articles in magazines or newspapers, or even as a book.
If you have an idea for fictional work, like poetry or a novel, those can be good as well. Good literature helps to understand the nature of humanity, or can provide pleasurable reading for someone looking to get away from the regular world for a little while. You never quite know how your work can affect someone one.
 If you think you want to get involved with others, but don't know how to start or have something particular in mind to do, ask others. Friends, family, businesses, churches, and other social groups are already finding ways to help others and improve their communities, and they will probably have a few good suggestions for things you can do to join in.