 If are you eligible, you can apply for a loan from the Department of Veteran Affairs. These loans guarantee purchase mortgages and don’t require a down payment from the buyer. The loan comes from a private lender, which is guaranteed by the Department of Veteran Affairs. You will have to pay a funding fee, but this is generally placed into the loan and not required upfront. The fee varies, but could be between 2.15% and 3.3%.To qualify you must have suitable credit and income, as well as obtaining a Certificate of Eligibility relating to your military record.
To be eligible for a VA loan you must have been discharged under conditions other than dishonourable.
The minimum active service requirements vary, but can be viewed here: http://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/purchaseco_eligibility.asp


, The Navy Federal Credit Union is the largest credit union in terms of assets and membership, and it can provide 100% property loans to members who qualify. Eligibility is limited to members of the military, some civilians who are employed by the military, and those who work for the U.S. Department of Defence.


The program works in a similar way to the VA loan, but the funding fee is generally lower, at around 1.75%.There is no down payment required, fixed-rate terms are available, and no Private Mortgage Insurance is required.
Loans are available up to $1,000,000 depending on the circumstances., The US Department of Agriculture have a mortgage guarantee program that is very popular. Despite the name, these Rural Development loans are not restricted to farmland, are not all rural, but they are geographically determined.The USDA has eligible areas designated on maps online that you can browse: http://eligibility.sc.egov.usda.gov/eligibility/welcomeAction.do.


Search for your area on the maps and see if there are any possibilities.
The mortgage comes from a bank but is guaranteed by the USDA.
There is a 2% initial guarantee fee, but this can be rolled into the loan.
There is an annual guarantee fee of 0.5% of the loan balance.