 These policies should be pre-printed near the customer signature line. Make sure the policy is legible on every copy of the receipt. These policies will help you make your case to the credit card issuer should a chargeback claim arise.For example, if you do not allow refunds after 30 days, state, "No refunds after 30 days."In this scenario, if a credit card issuer starts a chargeback claim because a consumer said they were charged for an item they bought and returned 40 days later, you would have evidence that no refund should be given, and no chargeback should be initiated, due to the clear policy statement on the consumer's receipt.
 As a merchant, you are required to deposit your sales and credit receipts with your acquirer within a specified period of time. For example, Visa requires you to process every transaction within 180 days of it occurring. However, these time limits may change based on certain factors and most merchant agreements require you to make receipt deposits within one to five days of the transaction.


If deposits are not made in a timely manner, it can result in "late presentment" chargebacks (i.e., Visa Reason Code 74), which occur when you fail to deposit receipts within the required time frame.
Failure to deposit receipts with your acquirer can cause you to lose money and negatively affect customer service., Make sure that incorrect transactions are properly voided and every consumer is only charged once for their purchase. If transactions are entered into the system more than once, or you deposit both your copy and the bank copy of a transaction receipt, or you deposit the same transaction with multiple acquirers, you can cause the consumer to be charged multiple times for their purchase.If this happens, consumers will likely dispute the multiple charges and the credit card issuer will submit a "duplicate processing" chargeback (i.e., Visa Reason Code 82) against you., If you are delivering items to a consumer, keep them up-to-date regarding any delays. In addition, let the consumer know when they can expect to have the product at their door.When you communicate with your consumers, you reduce the likelihood that they will dispute a charge., When you deposit a credit card receipt with your acquirer, it will relay the information to the consumer's credit card issuer and the consumer will be charged on their credit card. If consumers see a charge on their monthly statement before they receive your product or service, they might dispute the charge. Therefore, only deposit receipts after you ship the product or provide the service to the purchaser.