 Night terrors are most common in children aged three to seven years old and tend to stop as a child gets older. Adults that suffer from night terrors commonly experience them in conjunction with unusually high levels of stress and they also subside as stress levels are reduced.Children usually grow out of experiencing night terrors, but if they persist past the age of seven consider seeing a doctor to determine if there are any other medical conditions contributing to them.
Adults experiencing night terrors should focus on relieving stress and addressing any contributing medical issues. The night terrors usually subside soon thereafter.
Adults or older children who start having night terrors on a regular basis should be seen by a doctor to address stress, any drug use, especially teens, and/or changes in medications that might be contributing to the change.
Night terrors usually only last a few minutes, but can last up to thirty, and they tend to stop once the person’s stress levels are lowered or they grow out of them in a few years.;
, Sometimes waking your child up while he experiences night terrors might prolong his confusion and cause him to wake up rather upset. Most children do not recall having night terrors the next day.Rubbing your child’s back may help calm him down, but it may have no effect.
If you fear your child may hurt himself, you can try to wake him up in order to help him regain control of his actions; however, it can be very difficult to wake someone experiencing a night terror, and the person will likely not fully awake.If he doesn't seem as though he will hurt himself, it may be best just to allow the night terror to pass on its own.
Night terrors can be very frightening to a person observing the sleeping person — he may be screaming or thrashing around. Stay calm and focus on making sure the person doesn't injure himself.
 There is no direct medical treatment for night terrors, so seeking medical assistance will have a limited effect on them. There may be other medical conditions contributing the issue that may be addressed, however.Medical conditions such as sleep apnea may contribute to night terrors because of the body reacting to a lack of oxygen. Sleep apnea is a serious condition and requires medical treatment.
Treating contributing medical issues may relieve or reduce the frequency of night terrors.
 It is uncommon to be prescribed any kind of medication for night terrors, but some severe circumstances may require a prescription of antidepressants.Tricyclic antidepressants like those used to treat obsessive compulsive disorder or panic disorder may alleviate the symptoms of night terrors.
Drugs are usually only prescribed for a short time to treat severe cases of night terrors.
 Another option in severe cases of night terrors is to be prescribed benzodiazepine medications to take before bedtime. These medications are only prescribed in the most severe of cases.Medications like Valium and Xanax are commonly prescribed benzodiazepine medications.
These prescriptions are usually used only for short periods of time for night terrors.
 While it may seem counter-intuitive to get more sleep when suffering from night terrors, a common cause of the condition is simply not getting enough rest at regular intervals.Set a sleeping schedule and stick to it to make sure you don’t suffer from fatigue.
Eliminate things that disturb your sleep like lights, televisions, or radios.
 When someone suffers from night terrors they often cannot control how they behave in the midst of it. Try to eliminate ways a person waking up from an episode may injure themselves in their room.If you or your child sleep on bunk beds, use the bottom bunk to avoid falling injuries.
Do not leave things on the floor around your bed that you or your child may step on or trip over.
 Night terrors can be caused by experiencing higher than normal levels of stress, so identifying and relieving stress levels can reduce the occurrences of night terrors in some people.Research ways to Relieve Stress Quickly.
Learn how to Meditate to Relieve Stress.
Help your child relax to reduce their stress by asking her if anything is bothering her and assuring her that she is not expected to be perfect.
Help your child keep stress levels low by working to control you own. Allow your child to participate and teach her what works for you., A simple, relaxing bedtime routine may help reduce the occurrence of night terrors.This routine might include a soothing bath, listening to quiet music, and/or reading a story. Do some deep breathing exercises with your child and give him an opportunity to share anything that might be bothering him before he goes to sleep.
 If the night terrors are affecting your child, keep track of how long she is asleep before night terrors commonly occur. If you are experiencing the night terrors, ask a friend or family member to note how long you are asleep before symptoms begin to arise.About fifteen minutes before night terrors commonly occur, wake the person or have someone wake you up.
Stay awake for a few minutes before returning to bed.
Simply interrupting the sleep cycle in this way often will prevent night terrors from occurring.
 It is not uncommon for children or adults to have sporadic nightmares. Night terrors, on the other hand, happen regularly. If you or your child wake up because of nightmares frequently or more often than not, you may be experiencing night terrors.Nightmares should be uncommon. Waking up every night because of them in unusual.
Night terrors affect a very small percentage of children and are extremely rare in adults.
 Night terrors are more than simple nightmares. One of the most telling symptoms of night terrors are waking up in an inconsolable and terrified state.Screaming or uncontrollable crying are common for people suffering from night terrors.
Being disoriented upon waking up is also common for people with night terrors.
The person suffering night terrors may not be responsive to you when approached because they may still be sleeping. The person may even have his eyes open while asleep.
 Aside from the readily visible indications of night terrors, there are a number of medical symptoms that are common among people suffering from night terrors that you should check for:Increased heart rates are common among people suffering from night terrors.
Increased breathing, or short, panting breaths are normal for people experiencing night terrors as well as for a short time after waking up.
People suffering from night terrors will often sweat an unusual amount as they sleep.
 Night terrors usually occur between approximately ninety minutes and three hours after the person suffering them falls asleep and while the person is not in a REM state.Night terrors occur while in a deep, non-REM sleep.
Unlike nightmares, night terrors are not the result of dreams, but rather a sudden reaction displaying fear that occurs as you or your child transitions from one stage of sleep to another.

