 If your baby moves around too much, you can use a slipper or shoe that fits him or her well instead., Make sure that the curves are nice and neat, and not "sketchy." You can do this with a pen to distinguish it from the original pattern.

It might still be a good idea to do this if you used a slipper to trace the pattern. Remember, it is always easier to cut down something that's too big than the other way around.
 Start at the pinkie area, and wrap over the toes, around the heel, and back towards the pinkie. Next, overlap towards the big toe, and record your number. This extra measurement is important; it will help create that wrapped, crisscross look for your slipper., This will give you the height of your slipper.Again, if your baby moves around too much, use shoe that fits him or her well. Choose a shoe that ends either at the ankle or just below it; do not use a bootie., Start by drawing a long, skinny rectangle based on your circumference and heel-to-ankle measurements. Next, orient the rectangle landscape-fashion, and use the toe part of your sole to sketch out the curves. Make sure that the pinkie part of the sole touches the top, long edge of the rectangle on each side., You will need to cut out each pattern once. Flip one set over for the other slipper, and set it aside for now., Find the center of the rectangle, and pin one of the long edges to the center of the sole's heel. Your rectangle may have an edge that's move curved than the other one. Keep this edge against the edge of the sole., Start by wrapping one of the flaps around the inside of the heel, over the big toe area, and towards the pinkie, pinning it as you go. Next, wrap the other flap around the other side of your slipper, pinning as you go.Remember to reverse the flaps for your other slipper. This way, they both wrap towards each other.
 You can do this using a simple straight stitch, or you can use a blanket stitch for something fancier. Remember to pull the pins out as your sewing., Place the elastic behind the crossed-over flaps. Pin the left side of the elastic to the left flap, and the right side to the right flap. Avoid stretching the elastic if you can. Next, stitch the elastic in place using a some X-shaped stitch. This will allow the slipper to pull open and close.