 Certain types of photographs are safe to post. These include professional photoshoots, family pictures, photos of the baby smiling, or snapshots of the baby playing. Other photographs should never be posted online. These are photos that could potentially endanger the child or that could be shared for criminal purposes on the internet.


Do not post pictures of your baby in the bath or on the toilet, nor should there be any naked pictures of your baby online.
Do not post pictures of your baby engaging in any unsafe activities. Even if you were there to watch them, these photos may misinterpreted by others. For example, a picture of your baby dangling off an edge might be funny to you, but it may cause alarm from other people.;
, If you are concerned about people seeing and locating your baby, you should make sure that any photos you post do not reveal where you live or where your baby attends daycare. Avoid photographs that may reveal this information.Identifiable landmarks include street signs, local storefronts, or numbers on the front of your house.
 A photo that is cute now may cause embarrassment for your child down the road. Since it can be hard to completely erase a photograph from the internet, you should only post pictures that portray your child in a positive light. Keep in mind that these photos may be shared and that your child may encounter them throughout their lives.Avoid using photos to shame your child. Even if your baby is not on social media now, they may be in the future.
Photos of sick children, especially pictures that display vomiting or diarrhea, may make both your child and your friends uncomfortable., If you have pictures of your baby with other children, ask the parents of the other children if they are comfortable with the picture being posted online. Respect their decision if they say they do not want it online.Always tell the other parent where you are posting the picture when asking. You can say, “I have this cute picture of our two babies together. Do you mind if I post it on Facebook?”
If they don’t mind you posting the picture, you should ask, “Do you want me to tag you in it or not?”
If you still want to post the picture online, you might decide to crop the other children out of it.

