 Since capital gains taxes are taxed at lower rates than wages (often called unearned vs. earned income), they reward individuals who make a living from the sale of assets.Since only assets which are held for more than a year are given preferential treatment, they encourage investors to target investments that will be productive over a longer period of time. Theoretically, this encourages people to invest money in ventures that increase productivity.
 Since only long term capital gains receive preferential tax treatment, capital gains taxes not only encourage long term investment, they discourage people from buying and selling assets quickly.The quick buying and selling of assets is known as "speculation." Speculation is more like gambling than investment. The speculator is betting that the price for the asset will go up—for whatever reason—at which point they will sell it. An investor, in contrast, makes an educated guess that the asset they invest in will increase in value, and not just in price.For example, an investor invests their money in shares of XYZ corp. because they believe that XYZ corp. is an innovative company that will advance productivity in their industry and benefit the economy as a whole. The speculator buys shares of XYZ to drive up the share price and then immediately sells them off, with no regard for what happens to XYZ after the sale.
 In order to pay capital gains tax, a person has to have assets to sell in the first place. In order to have assets, you have to have money to buy the assets. So capital gains tax inherently rewards those who are already comparatively well off.For example, a person who makes $37,000 in wages is subject to a 15% tax rate. That level of income—about $700 per week before taxes—is not really sufficient for a person to invest. A person who makes the same amount in capital gains must have enough money to buy and sell assets that net $37,000 in profit—and they pay no tax.Furthermore, economic activities subject to capital gains tax aren’t always helpful to the economy. Say a person buys 15 used cars at any price and parks them in their yard for a year. The buyer details the cars and sells them for an average of $2400 more than they paid, for a profit of $37,000. This is of little benefit to the economy as a whole, and the seller pays no tax. In contrast, a schoolteacher making the same amount of money pays 15% in taxes, and education is valuable to the economy as whole.

