 Whether you’ve adopted a dog from a shelter or bought a puppy from a breeder or pet store, chances are your new friend has gone through quite a bit of stress in the relocation process. Take a minute to think about what it’s been like for your dog, and it will help you figure out how best to act and get acquainted.It can help to ask a shelter or store employee for any relevant background that may help you in the transition period. For example, you should know if your dog was abused by children in its past home, or if it lived on the streets for awhile before being brought to the shelter.
 While you’re still at the shelter or pet store, you can begin giving your new dog treats. Hand them over when the dog gets close to you and when they get in the car to go to their new home. This will show them that they get rewarded for positive behavior, and that you are a friendly, generous provider.All treats are not created equal, so check out the ingredient list of the treats before you start feeding them to your dog. Look for whole food and organic ingredients, as well as a protein as the top ingredient in the list before any carbohydrate or meal filler., It will help to earn your dog’s trust by getting down to the dog’s level during your first interactions, as it lets you and the dog inhabit the same space without being confrontational.Avert your eye contact and keep your touches respectful and light until you get comfortable roughhousing with each other.
 One of the best ways to get acquainted with a new dog is to take them for a walk, so you should do this before you even enter your new home. This will tire the dog out and make them less energetic when entering your household, as well as help the two of you open lines of communication and begin to build trust.Make sure that your leash and collar fit your dog properly and don’t chafe uncomfortably. You also may want to avoid long or retractable leashes until you and your dog are used to one another and know each other’s habits.
 Your new dog will respond much more positively if you make sure that your tone of voice is friendly and calming. Even if you’re stressed or feeling a bit frazzled, be sure not to shout, scream, or bark orders, as this will agitate the dog and make it feel on edge with you.Be particularly careful with sudden noises and shouts which would alarm the dog while it’s doing something else. Just one shock while chewing on a toy or entering a crate can make the dog associate that particular action or place with fear, so it’s important to keep your volume controlled., Getting acquainted with you and moving to your home causes a lot of stress for your dog, so you should let them move in at their own pace. Have a comfortable bed or crate set up in a quiet place in your home so that your dog can withdraw whenever they want and have some quiet, alone time., In addition to having a quiet, solitary space for them to sleep and rest, you should also maintain a calm atmosphere in the household while the dog gets acclimated. If you usually have a lot of friends over or loud music playing, hold off on these habits for the first few days.As children are generally noisier and rowdier than adults, they should be particularly well supervised if living in the home where you’ve brought a new dog. Try to keep their interactions with the dog limited until they become well acquainted.
 After a day or so, you can start introducing your new family member to other family and friends. It’s important to do this early on, so that the dog comes to know their presence as customary and familiar.Carry out introductions one at a time, though, so that your new housemate doesn't feel overwhelmed by all the new contact and personalities.


This is particularly important if your new dog belongs to a breed which is typically territorial. While these dogs are often aggressive later in life when new people are brought into the home, this behavior can be avoided by introducing the dog to these people early in life or soon after adoption.

