 Resume feeding when the infant has ceased to hiccup, or, if he or she is still hiccuping after 10 minutes, try feeding again.


Calm a flustered baby by rubbing or patting the baby's back. Babies who are hungry and upset are more likely to gulp air, which causes hiccups.;
, Keep the baby in a semi-upright position during feedings and for up to 30 minutes after.Staying upright can relieve pressure on the baby's diaphragm.
 Burping the baby can release some of the hiccup-causing gas in his or her stomach. Place the baby upright across your chest so the baby's head is on or a little above your shoulder.


Rub or gently pat the baby's back. This helps the bubbles of gas to move.
Resume feeding after the baby burps, or wait a few minutes if the baby does not burp.
 If you hear gulping noises, the baby may be eating too quickly and swallowing air. Swallowing excess air can cause an infant's stomach to distend, leading to hiccups. Take frequent breaks to slow the feeding session., The infant's lips should cover the areola, not just the nipple. An insecure latch can cause the baby to swallow air.
 This allows air in the bottle to rise to the bottom and away from the nipple. You may also want to consider using collapsible bag inserts for the bottle that are designed to reduce air swallowing.
 If the hole is too big, the formula will flow too quickly, and if it is too small your baby will grow frustrated and gulp air. If the hole is the proper size, a few drops should come out when you tip the bottle., Doctors often advise feeding the infant more frequently, but for shorter lengths or for smaller amounts at time. When a baby is fed too much in one sitting, the stomach distends too quickly, which can cause the diaphragm muscle to spasm. , Burp before you switch breasts if you are breastfeeding. Burp after the baby eats 2 to 3 ounces (60 to 90 ml) if you are bottle-feeding. Pause to burp or stop feeding if the infant stops nursing or turns his or her head away.


Burp more frequently if you are feeding a newborn, as newborn infants will eat less in one sitting. Newborns usually feed eight to 12 times a day., Feed your infant as soon as they seem hungry. A calm baby will eat more slowly than a hungry, worked up baby. A baby may also swallow excess air during a crying fit.


Signs of hunger might include crying, mouth movements such as sucking motions, or restlessness., Write down the time and duration of each hiccup episode. Keeping track of when the baby experiences hiccups can help you determine if there is a common pattern and help you focus your efforts to relieve the hiccups. Note whether the hiccups occurred during or shortly after feeding. Scan your notes and look for triggers., Most hiccups will go away on their own. Hiccups are often less disturbing to infants than they are to adults. If your baby seems bothered by the hiccups, is not feeding normally, or is not growing normally, see a doctor., If an infant is regularly hiccuping for over twenty minutes, this can be a symptom of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)Other symptoms of GERD include spitting up and fussiness.
A pediatrician may be able to prescribe medicine or provide recommendations on how you can help your baby cope with GERD.
 If you hear wheezing or the baby's breathing seems to be otherwise obstructed, take the infant to a doctor right away.

