 Sprinkle seeds across the dirt in the areas you want your fenugreek to grow. Don't worry about making sure that the seeds are even or perfectly spaced. Fenugreek seeds don't have to be distanced a certain amount of space apart in order to grow properly like some plants.Some people recommend soaking the seeds in water overnight before you plant them., Fenugreek does not need to be buried very deep in soil. In fact, only .5cm, or ¼ inch, of potting soil provides ample coverage for your fenugreek.You will want to be sure they're buried so that scavengers like birds will not eat them., In order for the seeds to germinate (that is, begin to sprout), you will have to water them in the soil. Make sure that the soil is evenly moist. The excess water should quickly drain away, but you will want to continue to keep it well-moistened over the coming days. Sometime between the third and fifth days they should start to bud.Because of the rainy environment that fenugreek adapted to, it's advised that you maintain a steady slow drip watering method instead of pouring water on the surface periodically. Not only will this make water delivery constant and even, it also allows the water to penetrate the soil deeper and more effectively., Although fenugreek does not suffer from too many pests or diseases, you may notice a powdery mildew, aphids, or charcoal rot. Use organic pesticides and avoid over watering to help control any pests or diseases that may try to attack your fenugreek., It takes between 3-4 weeks for the seedlings to be ready to harvest. You will know that it's time by the height of the sprouts, which should grow to about 6 inches or 140 mm tall., Depending on whether you're trying to get leaves or seeds from your fenugreek you will want to vary how you harvest the plant. For leaves, cut the plant at the stem a few centimeters above the soil or pull them up by the roots. For seeds, wait for the pods on the plant to turn yellow, signalling that they've fully ripened, and harvest the seed before the pod pops open., Some varieties of fenugreek do not regrow after flowering.So if you want a constant supply of fresh fenugreek, you should plan to sow seeds every 2-3 weeks, as that is around the time the current set of plants will die.If you want to reuse the same area, especially immediately, you'll want to pull up the remains of the plants after harvesting and compost them.