 Add 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of olive oil to a large, heavy pot on the stove. Turn the heat to medium-high, and allow the oil to heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 5 minutes.You can substitute canola oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 Once the olive oil is heated, add 1 large, coarsely chopped onion and 6 large, minced garlic cloves to the pot. Cook the onion and garlic until the onion is tender and the garlic becomes fragrant, which should take approximately 5 minutes. Stir the veggies frequently to prevent them from sticking.You can mix chopped celery in to saute with the onion and garlic if you like.
 After the onion and garlic have cooked for several minutes, add three 14.5-ounce (411 g) cans of diced tomatoes with the juice, a 4-ounce (113 g) can of diced mild green chilies, 3 tablespoons (24 g) of chili powder, 1 tablespoon (6 g) of ground cumin, and 1 tablespoon (6 g) of dried oregano. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined and allow the mixture to cook for 10 minutes so the flavors have time to meld.You can adjust the amount of chili powder to taste.
 Once the mixture has cooked for another 10 minutes, add a 15.5-ounce (439 g) can of rinsed and drained kidney beans, a 15.5-ounce (439 g) can of rinsed and drained black beans, 1 chopped green bell pepper, 1 yellow bell pepper, and a 10-ounce (284 g) package of frozen corn kernels to the pot. Mix well so all of the ingredients are combined.You can use any combination of green and yellow peppers that you like. You can also substitute red for one of the peppers.
 When all of the ingredients are mixed in the pot, lower the heat to medium-low. Allow the chili to simmer for approximately 35 minutes, or until it is thick. Keep the lid off of the pot to help the chili thicken as it simmers. Make sure to stir the chili occasionally so it cooks evenly.
 After the chili has simmered for a half hour or so, taste it. Add salt and black pepper to taste, and spoon it into individual bowls to serve. You can top the chili with shredded cheddar cheese and sour cream if you like. It is also delicious spooned over rice.Store any uneaten chili in the refrigerator. It should keep for 3 to 4 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the chili if you don’t eat all of it. Place it in freezer-safe containers, such as plastic freezer bags, in individual serving sizes after it’s cooled completely. It will usually keep for 4 to 6 months in the freezer.

