 This is why people with diabetes are known to have reduced sensation in their extremities (most commonly the feet) over time, as nerve damage goes hand-in-hand with chronically elevated blood sugar levels. One nerve that can get damaged in the long-term with diabetes is the vagus nerve, which is responsible for helping with digestion. Damage to the vagus nerve as a result of high blood sugars is what causes diabetic gastroparesis.;
, This is because too much time spent with elevated blood sugar levels will speed up the rate of damage to the vagus nerve, further impeding digestion. Therefore, if you consciously monitor your blood sugars and make an effort to keep them in the "normal range" for as much of the time as possible, you will minimize the rate of any further damage.


The normal value for blood glucose ranges from 70mg/dl to 110mg/dl. If you blood sugar is outside of this range, you may need to take insulin (or higher medication doses) to lower blood sugar levels. Speak to your doctor about what strategies are best in your particular case.
You can purchase a glucometer in any drugstore to monitor your sugar levels at home. To use a glucometer, use a lancet device to prick the tip of a finger. Place a drop of blood on the strip and wait for a few seconds as the device counts the blood sugar level.
 This will ensure that the effects of insulin are delayed (given that the rate of digestion is delayed) and that the blood sugar levels are controlled.


Be sure to consult with your physician before switching your insulin regime.
 This is due to the fact that smaller meals are easier to digest, and important nutrients can be absorbed by the body more quickly.


Smaller quantities of food also prevent blood sugars from spiking too high, which reduces the need to for insulin production. This is very important for diabetic people.
Try to eat six small meals a day instead of three large ones.
 Chewing food properly helps with digestion. This is due to the fact that proper chewing breaks down the solid texture of food, making it much easier for the stomach acid to digest.


Proper chewing of food involves chewing for longer periods of time, eating small portions, and swallowing slowly. Don’t be in a hurry when eating - take your time and concentrate on chewing every bite thoroughly.
 Therefore, digesting fat takes more time and effort. Fatty foods should be avoided whenever possible, especially if you have diabetic gastroparesis.


Foods that are high in fat include: butter, cheese, processed meats, canned goods, and any fried meat.
Acidic and spicy foods can also increase symptoms in those with gastroparesis.
In addition, avoid carbonated beverages, as it can worsen abdominal distention.
 Speak to your doctor before making significant changes to your diet; however, your doctor may recommend cutting back on high-fiber foods such as oranges, broccoli, apple with the skin on, wheat, beans, nuts, kale, and red cabbage.


If you do need to cut back on fiber, try cutting out soluble fiber, eating small amounts of insoluble fiber instead. Insoluble fiber includes things like celery and wheat bran.
 Exercise can also help to improve digestion and blood sugar control. Exercise not only helps to utilize the sugar in your bloodstream faster, it also develops channels for absorbing sugar that are "insulin-independent."


What this means is that exercise improves your overall ability to digest and to absorb the sugar from your food without causing further nerve damage if you suffer from diabetic gastroparesis.
 It is important to sit up straight while you eat and to avoid lying down for at least two hours after eating. This will aid digestion due to gravity.
 If you have been diagnosed with gastroparesis, your doctor may prescribe several medications to help with the digestion process.These include:


Metoclopramide: This drug helps in stimulating the contraction of the stomach muscles. It also helps to speed up the emptying of the stomach, allowing the patient to eat. The drug also helps to prevent nausea and vomiting. It should be taken half an hour before meals and before going to bed. The dosage is generally 10 mg three times daily.
Antibiotics: Certain antibiotics, such as azithromycin and erythromycin, may be used to increase the rate of GI motility.
Ranitidine: This drug is usually used to treat heartburn, but is sometimes used off label to treat gastroparesis. acts by increasing the motility of the digestive tract. The dose is usually 1 mg per kilogram, taken twice daily in the form of oral tablets.
Know that nausea is quite common alongside diabetic gastroparesis, due to an "overly full feeling" in your stomach.For this reason, Metoclopramide or other anti-nauseants such as Ondansetron (Zofran) may be of help.
 As previously mentioned, ensuring proper blood sugar control via both dietary strategies and medication is key to minimizing the progression of diabetic gastroparesis. In other words, the better your blood sugars are controlled, the less damage to your digestive process in the long run.


Certain diabetes medications, such as pramlintide, liraglutide, and exenatide may delay gastric emptying. If you take these medications, talk to your doctor about switching to a different medication.
 In some cases of diabetic gastroparesis, your doctor will advise you to go on a liquid diet, as liquefied foods are easier to digest. Acceptable liquids include porridge, tea, milk and soup.


The liquid diet is often temporary until exacerbations of your gastroparesis settle down.
 To receive this treatment, a battery-operated device is implanted into the abdomen. The device sends electrical pulses to the muscles of the abdomen. This helps to increase gastric emptying, and to reduce nausea and vomiting.


This procedure is done surgically under general anesthesia, which means that you will be put to sleep so you will not experience any pain.
 More invasive surgery may be necessary in the most severe cases of diabetic gastroparesis. During this surgery, a jejunostomy tube is inserted directly into the small intestine through the abdomen.This tube will allow you to be fed by sending the food directly into the small intestine.


The jejunostomy tube can also be used to decompress the GI tract to relieve symptoms.
 This is caused by the delayed emptying of the stomach.


When one has ingested food, the food is stored in the stomach and then taken to the intestines after initial digestion has taken place.
When there is delayed emptying of the stomach, you are more inclined to feel full all the time.
Nausea and vomitus that contains recently ingested food is also a symptom.
 These muscles help in the digestion of food.


When they are not in good working order, digestion and emptying are delayed, causing gases to be trapped in the stomach and intestines instead of being released.
This gassy build-up may cause you to feel bloated.
 This may cause you to feel pain and discomfort as the food does not go through the normal process of digestion and stomach emptying.
 This is because the food that is eaten is broken down into sugar, so when there is delay in digestion, you may have a reduced amount of sugar in the blood.


In addition to a lower than normal blood sugar right after eating, you may also have unexpectedly higher blood sugar levels later on as the food that was digested more slowly finally enters your bloodstream.
 Weight loss is caused by delayed emptying of the stomach that makes you feel full most of the time.This causes many people to eat less food because they feel less hungry.
 An acidic feeling in the throat is caused by the regurgitation of food into the esophagus, which can happen as a result of delayed stomach emptying.


The esophagus helps to connect the mouth and the stomach. When there is a lot of food in the stomach and it is not being emptied, the food may move upwards into the esophagus.
This food is usually mixed with gastric juices and, when it is regurgitated, it causes a burning sensation in the esophagus (the feeling of "heartburn").