 Team building exercises can help improve communication between members and help solidify relationships within the team. Employ team building exercises if you find your team in constant unproductive conflict. Make sure that your team building exercises are not competitive and unify the team. Also, make sure that you do them on a weekly or monthly basis to be the most effective.An example of a team building exercise is called back-to-back drawing. Two team members stand back to back as one describes a shape or picture and the other member draws it without seeing the original image. This forces team members to work together to solve a problem.
 When members go to a superior about a problem or conflict, it can create distrust within the team. Instead of escalating problems, encourage the team to try to communicate with one another and solve problems by themselves. If a team member comes to you with a problem, suggest that they try to talk to the team member they are having problems with. When conflict arises and it doesn't devolve into destructive behavior it's known as constructive discord and can actually help the team.You can say something like, "Eric, I appreciate you bringing this to me, but you should talk to Sharon about it first. I'm sure there's a good explanation for her actions."
If there is a disagreement between team members, it's good to meditate and get to the bottom of the conflict before it gets emotional or personal.
 While having too many meetings can cost unnecessary time and money, weekly meetings can help bring your team together. This is particularly the case if everyone's jobs are different and members don't interact often. To have an effective meeting, make sure you create an agenda of items that you'll talk about beforehand. Restrict the session's length to be long enough to cover the essentials, and always make them goal oriented.Don't get bogged down in minute details or unnecessary things.
If you need to speak to a member specifically about something, save it for after the meeting.
 Take your underperforming team members aside to talk to them about their performance gap. A sign of a good leader is one that's able to identify issues in someone's working habits and come up with solutions to remedy them. Instead of dismissing the person from the team, explain the areas that you think they are underperforming in and think of tactics and strategies to improve their performance. Ask the team member if they understand what you talked about and follow it up with positive reinforcement for the things that they do well.Concentrate on the areas in which the person is underperforming, not their character or personality.
You can say something like, "Jerry, I want to talk to you about your sales numbers. You haven't been meeting the quota for two weeks, so I'm concerned that you aren't working as efficiently as you can. I've taken a look at your call sheet and notice that you're not making as many calls as you should per day, which might explain the drop in sales. Do you think that this could be your problem?"

, Serious misconduct like harassment, assault, or theft should are grounds for immediate dismissal.Those that chronically underperform should also be dismissed if their behavior is persistent and shows no sign of improvement. Having an underperforming member could hinder your team from reaching their goals and have an affect on the entire team. Sit the person down privately and talk to them about their performance.


Focus on the facts and their lackluster performance and not the individual or their personal habits.
You can say something like "John, there have been a number of complaints from customers about your demeanor. We've talked about the issue a couple of times, but I haven't seen any improvement. Unfortunately, I'm going to have to let you go because it's starting to interfere with the rest of the staff."Before dismissing anyone, make sure that you read up on your team's bylaws or rules so that you follow the correct procedure.
Some companies require verbal or written warnings before a dismissal can take place.If you aren't in the position to fire anyone, talk to a supervisor about the misconduct or underperformance.
Make sure that before you cut anyone from the team that you have a conversation with them and allow them to grow and improve.

