 Most ear piercing infections are uncomfortable, but, provided action is taken, are never a serious problem. While newly-pierced ears can have a lingering tender feeling for days or weeks, an actual infection usually comes with redness, swelling, and irritation. If your piercing is exhibiting these symptoms, you probably have a minor infection. Not to worry - most piercing infections go away with a few days of treatment at home.;
, Most piercing infections are the result of bacteria being introduced into the piercing. This can be from a variety of sources, though dirty piercing equipment, dirty earrings, and dirty hands are among the most common. The next few steps will require you to touch your ears and earrings with your hands, so, before beginning, be sure to carefully wash with an antibacterial soap them to make them as clean and sterile as possible.


If you're extra-worried about the germs on your hands, you may even wear a pair of sterile gloves as you work.
 When your hands are cleaned, carefully remove the earring from the infected piercing. Use a clean cotton swab or Q-tip to apply an anti-bacterial cleaning solution to both sides of the piercing.


In terms of cleaning solutions, you may have several options. Some earrings come with a solutions specifically-designed for this purpose. If yours did not, most commercial antiseptic solutions (especially ones containing benzalkonium chloride) intended for similar uses will work well.

Some medical sources recommend rubbing alcohol,while others recommend against it.
 Next, clean your earring's post (the part that sits in the piercing) with the same antiseptic solution you cleaned your ear with. After doing this, apply a thin coating of antibiotic ointment or cream to the post. This will help to kill bacteria inside the piercing when the earring is re-inserted. Finally, put the earring back in.
 Perform this routine - removing the earring, cleaning the outside of the piercing, cleaning and applying antibiotic ointment to the post, and re-inserting the earring - three times per day. Maintain this routine for two days after the symptoms of the infection disappear.


This last point is important. When fighting bacterial infections, it's crucial to ensure that the infection has been completely wiped out before stopping treatment. If a small amount of bacteria remain, the infection may return.
 While you're waiting for your infection to disappear, you can treat the pain and inflammation resulting from it by taking most commercially-available painkillers. Acetaminophen, Ibuprofen, Aspirin, Naproxen Sodium, and most other cheap, common medicines will work fine.


Even when dealing with these relatively weak drugs, never take more than the recommended dosage or mix drugs carelessly. This is especially true with Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs), a class of drugs including Ibuprofen and Aspirin, which have been linked to a variety of serious side effects at high doses., Though most infections caused by ear piercings are superficial and temporary, some can develop into serious issues. Left untreated, these infections can cause lasting discomfort, permanent damage to the ear, or even worse outcomes. If your infection leads to any of the following symptoms, it's a wise idea to see a doctor as soon as possible to gain access to antibiotics or other forms of treatment:Swelling and redness that worsen or do not improve after two days of treatment
Fluid draining from the site of the infection
Swelling that becomes so pronounced that it is difficult to see either side of the earring
Fever over 100.4°F (38.0°C)

