 The most important thing is to purchase panties that fit! Make sure they are not too tight, or else they will dig in to your skin and cause unsightly panty lines. At the same time, if you choose underwear that is too loose, it can easily wrinkle up inside your clothes, showing wrinkles and bumps.If the elastic is cutting into your skin and feels restrictive, your underwear is too tight.
If there is any excess fabric hanging down or you feel like your underwear isn't supporting your butt at all, it's probably too big.;
, Thongs simply don’t have the lines to show, making them the ideal panty line-free choice. While they may not be the most comfortable underwear, they are a good option when you are wearing especially tight clothing.Be sure to check out the rear view when you sit or squat, as these positions tend to expose part of the thong if you’re wearing low-cut pants.
If you're concerned about your thong showing when you squat, be sure to wear high-waisted pants and skirts or shirts that extend lower than the waistline of your bottoms.
G-strings have even less fabric than thongs, so they're the best choice for minimizing panty lines.
Keep in mind that thongs are much less comfortable if they are too tight, so get one that fits properly.
 For those who hate thongs, there is another alternative! Boy shorts provide full coverage, and because they do not cut across your butt, they offer a much more seamless look than most bikini-style underwear.You need to be more cautious with boy shorts than you do with thongs because they do not completely eliminate the possibility of a visible panty line. It's a good idea to test them out with your favorite pair of form-fitting pants.
You can find boy shorts in many different materials. Choose one that you find comfortable and that has invisible or very minimal seams.
Make sure your boy shorts fit snugly, but don't cut into your skin.
 Most major lingerie brands have a line of seamless panties, so there are plenty of different styles to choose from. Many of these styles have laser cut edges, which are very thin edges that do not leave a visible panty line. Elastic and spandex panties are very good for a seamless look.
Unfortunately, cotton panties, which are the best for feminine health because of their breathability, are typically not seamless because the fabric is too thick.
 Match your underwear to your skin tone when wearing light-colored clothing. Flesh-colored underwear blends in with your skin, leaving invisible panty lines, even if your pants are a bit see-through., If you're brave enough to do this, simply don't wear underwear. This is the only way to know that there are no panty lines whatsoever.


Going commando is best when wearing pants. Always wear underwear with skirts and dresses.
Be sure to wash your pants after each use when going commando to prevent infections like bacterial vaginosis and yeast infections.Some workout pants are actually made with special linings so that they can be worn without underwear. If you feel uncomfortable doing this, you can also go "faux commando" by ordering disposable cotton patches that adhere to the inside of your pants, allowing you the freedom of no underwear without any discomfort.