 It should be a good sized, ball that inflates. A kickball, volleyball or a soccer ball is perfect for this game though both have their faults. A kickball is soft and bounces well, but it is harder to hit and is almost too bouncy. A soccer ball is perfect, except that it can hurt if hit too hard. A smaller ball will work if nothing else is available, but be careful what size ball you choose. Too large, and it complicates things. Too small, and it makes the game harder, if not impossible.;
, Choose an enclosed space that is clear of debris. It could be a room clear of furniture or a squash court. It must be as level as possible, as inclines will make the game harder.
 The game is intended to be for a large group, hopefully for five people or more. There should be no more than 30 people. Obviously, the number of people you can have is limited by your playing space.
 Have everyone else say "Ga" back, to indicate that they are ready The designated person then throws the ball against the side of the playing area or throws it up in the air. When the ball has bounced once, it is live and the game begins.
 For the best stance, hunch over and hold your arms and fists in front of your legs, with your palms facing outward. Face the ball at all times, and you will be tough to eliminate.


Other tips in include hitting the ball with your fists (although this is not for everyone, as stronger players could hurt younger ones), being defensive as well as offensive, and trying to stop the ball instead of trying to hit it.
 You are allowed to hit the ball, but no more than once in a row. If you "double hit" the ball, then you're out. However, you may hit the ball twice if it has bounced off a wall in between hits. Note that even touching the ball counts as hitting it.
 They should stand off to the side or in a corner, and make sure they are stationary. If the ball bounces off these people by accident, treat them as walls.


Another way to do this, if you have boards enclosing the area, is to have them crouch outside the boards (they are free to move around the outside of the boards). In this version, the eliminated players can try to hit the ball and get a player who is still in the game, out. If they do so, they take that player's place.
 When two people are left, it becomes a showdown. Eliminated players can still try to get the final players out. In the showdown, players are allowed to touch the ball three times in a row, although still may not hold the ball.
 Consider a rule where younger children have to be hit below the knees multiple times to be out.

