 Each class has a different method of getting their advancements.


If you're an Explorer, take the taxi in Lith Harbor to your respective city (ex. Thieves go to Kerning City). Then talk to your respective job advancement leader. If you're a Cannoneer, after you get off the island, go and talk to Kyrin for your 1st job. Dual Bladers also go to the Kerning City and talk to the Dark Lord, but they talk to Syl when they're level 20.
For Cygnus Knights, accept a quest and go to a Chief Knight so you can pick your class (ex. Blaze Wizards go to Oz for their 1st Job).
Arans just need to click on the giant Pole Arm in Rien.
After doing the quests, Evans will start their 1st Growth.
Resistance members will receive a letter that will move them to the Resistance Headquarters. Then they talk to Belle (Wild Hunter), Brighton (Battle Mage), or Cheeky (Mechanic). Despite being a Resistance character, Demon Slayers does not follow this method.
Mercedes, Demon Slayers, Jett, Luminous, and the Nova Classes automatically get their 1st jobs after the cutscenes.
 Quests give a generous amount of EXP in the first levels, but they aren't worth it after you're level 25. Some quest rewards sell for millions of mesos in the Free Market (ex. Subani's Legacy gives 60% Gloves for Attack scroll, which can sell for eight million depending on your server)

, At level 18, you should get a message from your job instructor asking you to kill a certain monster. After finishing the quest, you will get a hat that gives 12 of your main stat.
 In any city, go to the Dimensional Mirror, choose a party quest, and ask to join a party. If it is your first time, tell them so they can brief you and give you tips. Party questing is a great way to gain experience fast and is also very fun. Sometimes you may get goodies such as Squishy Shoes, Broken Glasses and other neat stuff! However, you can't do the Henesys (Moon Bunny’s Rice Cake), Kerning City (First Time Together), or the Ludibrium (Dimensional Crack) party quests after level 69!

