 Bare soil is far more vulnerable to erosion than soil with ground cover. Aim for at least 30% ground cover on all grazing land, ideally 40% or more.After harvesting crops, leave the residue on the soil as a mulch, or plant hardy winter crops.
 Tree roots are powerful tools when soil is too eroded or steep to plant. Plant native trees on steep slopes and riverbanks to reduce soil loss.Bare ground around the tress still needs to be covered in mulch or grass for best results.
 Deep, frequent tillage creates a layer of compact soil vulnerable to water erosion, topped by loose soil easily removed by wind.Consider a zero-tillage approach using a coulter or other deep planting device.If this is not feasible, try a ridge-till or mulch-till system that leaves the lower soil levels untouched.These conservation tillage techniques also reduce the amount of vehicle traffic, and therefore soil compaction.
 Crops with weak roots or that need to be sparsely planted are more vulnerable to erosion. Plant these in strips, alternating with strips of an erosion-resistant crop such as dense grass or legumes.Plant the crops so they contour the slope.
Plant these crops perpendicular to the prevailing wind if possible.
 Grazing land cannot remain healthy and erosion-resistant if cattle are allowed to graze year-round. For best results, close off a paddock for the entire wet season to allow grasses to reestablish themselves.


This may not be effective if the other paddocks cannot support the spelled cattle.
If possible, keep cattle away from riverbanks and heavily eroded soil at all times., Runoff is concentrated into a narrower area as it travels across lands. The points where the concentrated runoff reaches a slope are particularly vulnerable to erosion. You can build a paved flume, or lined channel, to lead the water to a safe drainage system. Build these at gully heads as well.


Another option is to build a swale to re-direct the runoff into a pond. Building several swales along a hillside can greatly reduce runoff volume and eliminate the need for a paved channel.Do not build flumes on slopes steeper than 1.5:1., The steepest slopes are almost impossible to farm on. Turn the hill into terraces instead by building retaining walls running across the slope. In between the walls, grade the soil level to create a flat area resistant to erosion.

