 Try your best at everything. Things may not go as planned, but give it your best shot. Be prepared for what you want to do as sometimes you might have to try again, but believe in your dreams and almost anything is possible!;
, Many of us lack in self esteem and this is a real set back. If you believe you can do something, chances are that you are more likely to succeed. No one can go to bed all shy and quiet and wake up bursting to the brim with self confidence. It may take time to develop. A start is to think of all the things you like about yourself, not the bits you don't. Your talents,looks or even great personality all definitely count. And sticking with your true mates who make you feel good about yourself helps too. Be happy with yourself.
 Surprisingly to some, some successful singers who have done this have actually got their jobs by doing so! Maybe you could. Also, seeing all the comments people who have seen your videos have written is nice.
 This may be nerve racking at first but an amazing experience. When you get into it, really, trust me, you start to enjoy it! Of course, you may have to have an audition but just take a deep breathe, smile and go for it! Beat those nerves because you can.
 Think of a beat you could have and words that go together. Sing it as you go along. It feels great to know you've managed to come up with some songs yourself! Write them neatly in a notebook to keep safe. You could include lyrics of your favorite songs by artists by printing them off the internet or copying them out too. Pictures of singers and bands is nice too.
 On the computer, up in your room, anywhere. Get inspired by your favorite songs and enjoy listening to them.
, Go to practices if you have them, try new things, learn and discover........do all you can to make your dreams true. Remember the motto, "practise makes perfect". Try your best.
 Skinny jeans,shirts,pumps and trainers, Ugg boots, pretty jewelry....anything that you feel happy in. Make up is nice too, as you can try lots of different looks and have fun with it. And of course, a smile!

, With effort dreams will no longer be just dreams, but a part of your life.

