 By eating foods such as fruit, vegetables, yoghurt and lean meat, you should feel less hungry than if your diet consists of foods such as cheese, bread, pasta and biscuits. This is because the fiber in fruit and vegetables helps to fill you up.;
, However this is OK because muscle burns 9x as many calories.






There is a danger that you might eat more if you think that you have "earned it" by doing exercise. There's no point in piling the calories straight back on if you've just spent time and energy trying to burn them off. Also, you probably presume you've burnt more calories than you actually have, and this can lead to overeating because you think it doesn't matter.
 By spreading your intake of food over the whole day, instead of in three big meals, you prevent your body from getting too hungry, which can cause it to cling onto calories, and you are less likely to eat too much in one sitting which result in the excess being stored as fat. Choose your snacks carefully though, go for fruit, smoothies, cereal bars or low fat yogurts rather than sweets and crisps.
 Try adding more strength exercises which target your problem area to your routine, this creates a foundation of muscle which allows the fat to lie flat on top rather than being lumpy.
 As well as this, joining a class will provide you with support and guidance from the leader and other members.






Mix your workout in with your social life. Try to get a friend involved and either go to classes together or go jogging together. You'll be able to gossip as well as helping each other out to get fit.






Don't always work out in the same place, try going running around different areas of country side or along a canal. If you constantly do the same thing in the same place, you'll get bored and switch off from it.
 Get rid of any distractions such as your phone or the TV for the duration of the time which you want to spend exercising, and when you're doing it, push yourself as far as you can. DVDs should be done about three times a week in order to use them effectively. Also, you'll need to make sure that the exercises which they are providing actually help you to work out your whole body, especially your specific problem areas. Running, swimming, and simply doing your own choice of exercises to some music are all other options if you're not a fan of the gym.
 Or you might not be focusing on your core enough during your workouts. Try adding exercise balls to your exercises, and try pilates to really strengthen your core and firm up your stomach. Also, avoid stress, eating too much salt, chewing gum and caffeine which can all add to a flabby belly.

