 Parents should discuss a variety of topics with your child's teachers, such as effective rewards and consequences, how to establish effective homework routines, how they will communicate on a regular basis about problems and successes, or how parents can mirror what teachers are doing in the classroom for greater consistency. For some students, success will be obtained relatively easily by establishing consistent schedules, routines, and homework communication methods as well as utilizing effective organizational tools such as planners, color-coded binders, and checklists.Unfortunately, even with outstanding cooperation and effort by the adults, many children still will not succeed and will need more intensive services available through the school or district special education department. In some cases, rigid teaching methods by inflexible teachers are the issue. In these cases, parents must seek administrative support or look into changing teachers, changing schools, or exploring special education options., In most school systems, children qualify for free special education services based on one of two basic reasons. Either they have a qualifying disability or they have fallen far behind their peers academically. Once parents become aware their child is not succeeding in school and they feel additional help is required, which is an opinion usually made in conjunction with the classroom teacher, parents may request a special education evaluation, a request that should be done in writing.


This is the first step to securing assistance that can take various forms, from minor accommodations like extra time to take tests to self-contained classrooms with teachers and aides who are specially trained to deal with children who exhibit behavioral disruptions. Once qualified, a child with ADHD may have access to other school-based services, as well, such as riding home in a smaller bus with extra staff who supervise students more closely than a lone driver is able to do.
 After providing documentation of your child’s ADHD diagnosis and completion of a special education evaluation that shows the child’s disability is interfering with his education, you will be asked to participate in an IEP conference. An IEP is a formalized document created by school staff and parents that spells out the academic, behavioral, and social goals of special-ed students. It also outlines how results will be determined, specific interventions that will be used to achieve the goals, and any other issues that deal directly with your child's educational needs.


It also lists decisions made concerning self-contained classrooms, percentage of time in mainstream classrooms, accommodations, discipline, testing, and any other special accommodations.
The school is legally bound to follow the guidelines laid down in the IEP, so teachers failing to follow the IEP open themselves and the school up to liability. The school also is required to invite parents to regular IEP conferences to evaluate the progress of the child and the effectiveness of the plan then make adjustments as needed. Once a child has an initial IEP, it becomes easier to establish special education services when changing schools or transferring to a new school district.
Never sign a prefabricated IEP. Each IEP should be personalized for your child's particular situation. Never sign anything until you have gone over the fine points with the teachers and principles., When children on IEPs hit age 16, the focus of the paperwork changes toward transition services. Up to that point, goals have focused on achieving academic, social, and behavioral success in the school setting, but when any child turns 16, the focus changes to needs that relate to what your child will do as she moves beyond the secondary school setting. The IEP Transitional Services will work with your child to help achieve this.


All students with ADHD will benefit from career guidance, which includes familiarity with job applications, resumes, and interviews. Many will need special college preparation, which encompasses searching for the right institution that will support specific needs, obtaining accommodations for testing, and deciding how to address special needs during the application process.
High school students with ADHD may be behind their peers in life skills areas, which is also addressed at this point in time.
Experts also recommend talking directly to teens with ADHD to rein in their natural anxieties and reassure them they will not be kicked out of the nest when they hit a magical age. You need to help assure your child that parents, school staff, and possibly therapists will work together with them to insure she has the skills she needs to survive and thrive as she transitions into adulthood.