 After opening it, a dialog box will open asking you to choose a template with different metrics in meters, millimeters, and feet. Select what you want to use and create a new document.


The interface will have a set of tools in the top side and the main view in the middle. The main view contains a space with three different axes and a human figure for scale. You can always delete the human figure by selecting it and pressing “Delete.”





;
, The cursor will change into a circular pointer.
 Click the “Camera” menu and select “Standard Views”. Click “Top” to get a two-dimension view of the model from above.
 Do this by right-clicking the mouse and drawing it along the diameter. A good stadium model will be around 20-30m in diameter. Select “Scale” from the toolbar, then grab and drag a point on the circle to distort it into an ellipse.


You can also keep it as a circle to create a circular stadium instead.
 The Offset tool contains two arches and an arrow as an icon.
 Start in the center of the existing circle and create a new circle to define the floor area of the stadium. The distance between the outer and inner circle act as walls.
 After creating the walls, make more circles using the same Offset tool for seating. Each circle will act as a row of seating.
 The button looks like a 3D rectangle with an arrow coming out of the top.
 Click drag the mouse upwards along the blue axis of the gap. This will raise the walls of the stadium.
 Once you’re done with the outer walls, pull the different distances between circles, descending down towards the center. Each row towards the center should be lower than the one behind it.
 Click the “Camera” menu and select “Standard Views”. Select “Front.” to view the front of the model in two dimensions.
 Select “Circle” from the toolbar at the top, and draw a circle right on the façade of the stadium where you want the door.
 Click the “Arc” button and drag the edge of the circle upward to make it look an arch.
 Use the “Push” tool from the toolbar and push the door inwards to the arena. If you want a door on both sides, extend it to the other side.
 Click the “Edit” menu and select “Intersect”. The Intersect tool will allow you to delete unwanted lines from the model.
 Choose “Intersect with Model” from the list of options. Select all the surfaces and lines that you want to remove, along with the surfaces that are blocking the doors. Clicking a surface or line will remove it.
 Once you’re satisfied with your stadium, click File →0 Export or File → Save to save it in a variety of different 3D model formats. You can save it as Skp (SketchUp) file, or export it as 3DS, OBJ, Collada, or CAD 2D format.