 The next time the person your crush likes walks into the room, watch his eyes without being too obvious. Does he look at her like he’s in a trance, with his pupils getting big, like he’s getting excited for a big date? Does he look at her, look away, and try to slyly catch another glimpse of her again? If this is the case, then chances are that he may really like the other girl.


When you’re in a group setting, try to see how many times he looks at her compared to how many times he looks at other girls without staring at him too much.
Watch his eyes when he’s talking to his potential crush. Does he stare into her eyes and look down and look back at her, or do his eyes keep darting around the room, like he’s looking for something better to do? If he’s giving her all of his focus, then it’s more likely he likes her.;
, Think about it. If the person you think your crush may like is around, whether it’s at a party or at the mall, is he much more likely to hang out, too? Does he tend to stay in if the person you think he likes is busy or out of town? If so, then it may be because your crush only want to be around if the person he likes is there, too.


You can even test this out by asking your crush if he’s going to so-and-so’s party. If he seems hesitant but then you casually mention that his potential crush will be there and he lights up, then this may mean that he likes her.
 If you’re in a group situation involving both your crush and the person he may like and they always just kind of end up next to each other, then your crush may really like that person. See if he sidles up to her, walks by her side, or just always finds a way to strategically make it over to where she is. If this is the case, then he’s probably gravitating toward her because he likes her.


Of course, don’t forget the possibility that these two may just be really good friends. To know the difference, look at their body language when they’re together. Do they seem excited and nervous and concerned about how they look? If so, then they may like each other. But if they’re totally relaxed and seem not too self-conscious, then they may just be friends.
Make sure that it’s your crush seeking out the person you think he likes and not the other way around.
 If your crush likes his potential crush, then you’ll see him trying to improve his appearance in her presence. He’ll be puffing up his chest, running his hands through his hair, adjusting his collar, smoothing out his shirts, and taking extra care with the way he looks. If he even looks in a mirror or a window to gauge his appearance before talking to his potential crush, then it’s likely that he likes her.


He may also try to straighten his coat or inspect his clothes for stains. All of this means that he’s a bit nervous and wants to make the best possible impression.
 Watch your crush when he talks to his potential crush to see if he’s always looking for ways to get closer to her, whether it’s to take a step toward her, sit so close across from her that their knees are touching, or to pull a thread off of her shoulder. If he even gently shoves her or pushes her, then this may be his way of flirting because he really likes her.


Watch his body language. Does he turn his chest and shoulders in her direction, or away from her? If he turns his body toward her, then he may have a crush.
See if he’s always trying to make physical contact, whether it’s to touch her earring or bracelet or to tap her shoulder.
 If your crush really likes his potential crush, then he’ll be looking for opportunities to look good in front of her. If you find him trying to show off whenever she’s around, then this may mean that he really does have romantic feelings for her. This could mean telling loud, bombastic stories, pulling stunts like cannon-balling into a swimming pool, wearing his best clothes, or showing off his dance moves, juggling skills, ability to speak perfect French, or just going out of his way to stand out for her.


When his potential crush leaves, see if he takes his personality down a notch. If he suddenly tries less hard when she’s gone, it’s a sign that he really does like her.
Pay attention to how much he cares for his appearance when she’s there and when she’s not. If it always looks like he put twice as much time into his hair when she comes around, then that’s telling you something.
 If your crush mentions the person you think he might like about ten times in the course of a five-minute conversation, then it’s likely that he has a crush on her. If he keeps mentioning things she said, finding tenuous ways to connect her to almost every topic, or even keeps talking about a conversation he had with her, then yeah, there’s a good chance he’s crushing on her.


Think about it: you’re probably looking for every excuse to talk about your crush too, aren’t you? It’s likely he would do the same.
See if he keeps mentioning what his potential crush thinks about certain topics. If he keeps saying, “Sarah thinks that…” or “Sarah says…” every other sentence, then he may value her opinion so much because he has a big crush on her.
 Of course, it’s also possible that your crush won’t mention his potential crush or bring her up very much at all. He may be so smitten that he can barely bring himself to say her name. However, you should look at his face or see what he says if someone else does bring up his potential crush; if he starts stammering a lot, looks nervous, turns beet red, or avoids the topic, then he may have a crush on her too.


You can always test this out by mentioning his potential crush’s name in passing and seeing how he reacts. Just make sure you’re not being too obvious about it, though.
 Observe your crush when his potential crush comes up. If he suddenly gets all flustered, starts tripping over his words, or even forgets what he was going to say as soon as his potential crush starts talking to him, then this may be a sign that he really likes her. See if he doesn’t sound like himself, tries extra hard to be impressive, or just generally seems overwhelmed by her presence; if he does, then this is a sign that he may in fact have a crush.


Of course, he may be able to talk to his crush without freaking out. But if he seems too cool or completely comfortable, then they may just be friends after all.
 If your crush laughs at everything his potential crush says, even if it really isn’t all that funny, then this may be because he just likes her so much that he’s inclined to think everything she says is funny. Laughter is also a way to release some nervous energy, so if he’s always laughing in her presence, it may also be because he likes her so much that it makes him nervous.


Notice how much your crush laughs when he talks to other people. Unless his potential crush is truly hilarious, if you notice that he isn’t nearly as responsive with others, then it really may be because he has a crush.
 Another thing you may find is that your potential crush is extra guarded around the person that he likes. He may seem more reserved, more quiet, or less likely to tell his usual corny jokes when he’s around the person he likes. This may be because he’s really concerned about making a great impression and that he’s less likely to fully be himself. If he seems to think before he speaks a bit more around his potential crush and to be more careful when he does talk, then this may be a sign that he really likes her.


He may even try to act more tough or more capable when he’s around her. While he may complain to you about his fight with his brother or his poor test grades, he may try to seem more perfect around the person he likes.
Of course, if your crush really likes his potential crush and actually gets to know her pretty well, then he may even begin opening up to her even more than he would to anyone else. But when they first talk to each other, it’s more likely that he’ll be more guarded than he would be around people he doesn’t like romantically.
 It can be hard to pinpoint exactly what “chemistry” means, but it basically means a palpable feeling of energy and sexual tension that’s in the air when your crush is talking to the other person he likes. If they seem nervous, excited, giggly, or just not quite themselves when they talk to each other, then you may be seeing some chemistry in action.


See if your crush stumbles, acts more silly, or just seems much more excited to talk to his potential crush than he is to talk to anyone else.
Sometimes it can be hard to pick up on the fact that the “chemistry” you’re seeing is only coming from one side of the equation. Make sure that it’s not just the person your crush may potentially likes who is showing the signals.
 Check out your crush’s Facebook page, Twitter account, or other social media sites to see how often he interacts with his potential crush. If you find that he’s commenting on or liking her pictures a lot, posting links on her wall to impress her, or interacting mostly with her while ignoring all of his other friends, then there’s a chance that he really does have a crush on her. Of course, he may be more subtle and may not interact with the girl he likes very much online, but you do have a chance of finding evidence that he likes his potential crush on social media.


See if he likes or comments on her photos right after she posts them. This can be a sign that he’s spending a lot of time on her profile.
 Another way to find out whether your crush likes someone else is to ask his friends what they think. Though this can be pretty risky because it’s likely that your question will get right back to your crush, if you really want to know but don’t want to ask him, then this can be one approach to take. His friends may know the truth and there’s a small chance they can even tell you what’s really going on, so if you feel like you’re out of options, this can be something to try.


Just know that, as soon as you ask his friends who he likes, they’ll think that you have a crush on him—and they’d be right.
 Your friends may see something that you don’t quite see because they have an outsider’s perspective on the situation. They may be able to tell you that it’s obvious that your crush does like the other girl, or they may tell you that it’s clear that those two are only friends and that you’re being paranoid. Tell your friends to be honest with you and make it clear that they won’t be hurting your feelings by revealing the truth.


If your friends don’t know that you like your crush, try to be casual about it when you ask them. Though chances are that they do know already—just make sure that they don’t spill the beans.
 If you’re really feeling bold and even know or are friends with the person whom you think your crush likes, then you can consider asking her what the situation is. You can try to be sneaky about it or even be honest and ask her if there’s something going on between her and your crush; if there is, then you don’t want to interfere with it. She may tell you the truth, or she may say nothing’s going on when it is; try to read her expressions and body language to get the real picture.


If you don’t really know or trust this person, however, you may not want to ask her yourself. See if you can find someone who knows her better to do some digging for you.
 If you really want to get some answers, then talk to your crush yourself. You don’t have to reveal that you like him and all you have to do is casually ask whether or not he has a crush on so and so. If he says no and sounds like he means it, then you can try to pursue him. If he says no but seems super defensive or weirded out, then there’s a chance he’s not telling the truth. If he reveals that he does have a crush on someone else, try not to look so upset and get ready to move on.


If you find out that your crush really does like someone else, don’t be so hard on yourself. It has nothing to do with you; people can’t help who they like. You’ll be able to find someone who appreciates how amazing you are before you know it.

