 If you can, try taking hourly walk-breaks to "massage" your bowels.Start out walking slowly for about 30 seconds. Gradually pick up the pace until you are walking as fast as you can without breaking into a run.
Do the fast walk for about 5 minutes. Then, slow down for another 5 minutes. The total time spent walking should be about 10 minutes every hour or so.If that amount of time doesn’t work for you because of other responsibilities, don’t worry. Just try to increase the amount of faster-than-normal walking you do whenever possible.
If you are severely constipated, this may be somewhat uncomfortable, but try not to get discouraged. It's better than another day of constipation.
 Aboriginal people tend to have bowel movements while squatting, and this position can be helpful.When you are on the toilet, use a stool or the edge of the bathtub to prop your feet up.You want to bring your knees in as close to your chest as possible. This increases the pressure on your bowels and may ease the passage of a stool.
 There are several yoga poses you can try to help stimulate your bowel and get your body in a comfortable position to have a bowel movement. They can increase the internal pressure on your intestines and help the bowels move the stool more easily.Among these are the following:


Baddha Konasana: In a seated position, bend your knees and bring your feet together so the soles are touching, and grasp your toes with your hands. Flutter your legs quickly, then lean forward so that your forehead touches the floor. Hold for 5 to 10 breaths.
Pavanamuktasana: In a reclined position, stretch your legs out in front of you. Bring one knee up to your chest, and hold it there with your hands. Pick one leg and pull your knee against your chest and flex or wiggle your toes. Hold that position for 5 to 10 breaths, then repeat with the other leg.
Uttanasana: From a standing position, keep your legs straight and bend at the waist. Touch the mat with your hands or grasp the back of your legs. Hold for 5 to 10 breaths.
 Liquid mineral oil will coat your stool with an oily, waterproof film. This will help the stool retain moisture and move smoothly through your colon.You can find mineral oil at most pharmacies and drug stores. Usually, it is combined with liquid, such as milk, juice, or water, to consume it.Do not take mineral oil without first consulting a doctor if you have any of the following conditions: food or medication allergies, pregnancy, heart failure, appendicitis, trouble swallowing, stomach pain, nausea or vomiting, rectal bleeding, or kidney problems.Do not take other laxatives or stool softeners at the same time as mineral oil unless instructed by your doctor.
Do not give mineral oil to children younger than 6.
Do not take mineral oil regularly. Regular use can cause dependency on its laxative effect. It can also keep your body from absorbing enough vitamins A, D, E, and K.Do not take more than the recommended dosage of mineral oil. Overdose can cause severe side effects, including abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting. If you have taken more than the recommended dose, seek emergency medical assistance., For rare or severe constipation, there are stronger herbs that can help relieve constipation. They are usually not safe for prolonged consumption and should be considered a last resort after other treatments have not worked. Common herbal treatments include:Sennosides are stimulant laxatives. They hydrate your intestines to help your bowel movements move smoothly. Natural senna laxatives can take 6-12 hours to work. They usually come in oral suspensions and tablets.Talk with your doctor before using senna if you've recently had surgery, you already take laxatives every day, or you have any preexisting conditions involving your digestive system.European buckthorn is sometimes used to treat constipation. It is only recommended for short-term use (less than 8-10 days). It can cause side effects such as cramps, diarrhea, muscle weakness, and heart problems. It should not be used if you are pregnant, breast-feeding, or under 12 years old.Do not take European buckthorn if you have stomach pain or intestinal problems, such as appendicitis, Crohn’s disease IBS, or ulcerative colitis.
 If you have chronic constipation, you may need more effective treatment than what you can achieve with at-home remedies. For example, your doctor can prescribe medications and laxatives that are stronger than those you can purchase over-the-counter. You should see your doctor if you have not had a bowel movement in more than 3 days.If you have been mildly constipated for more than three weeks, see a doctor. You should also see a doctor if you see blood in your stools, you have stomach pain, or you are losing weight.Your doctor may prescribe hypersmolar laxatives that soften stools. The most common of these laxatives are lactulose (Kristalose), sorbitol, and polyethylene glycol (MiraLax).