 This will help ease any symptoms of dehydration, which often goes hand in hand with a hangover.


The processes that break down alcohol also produce lactic acid and other chemicals that interfere with the production of glucose (sugar) and electrolytes; that's why sports drinks are a good idea.
While coffee will help with alertness, it actually dehydrates your system, and might further upset your stomach, so avoid it.;
, Taking a non-acetaminophen over-the-counter painkiller like aspirin or ibuprofen can be beneficial. Take a few extras with you if you are going to be interviewed outside the recommended time frame for taking the next pills.


Alcohol disrupts how the liver processes acetaminophen, so taking that may lead to liver inflammation and permanent damage.
 Make a bacon sandwich (with burnt toast) with a side of bouillon soup.


The toast boosts your blood sugar. Carbon in the burnt part helps filter impurities, which is why people hospitalized for alcohol poisoning get a potent carbon slurry pumped into their stomachs.
The protein in bacon breaks down to amino acids to help replenish brain neurotransmitters that were depleted by the alcohol.
The bouillon soup restores salt and potassium.
 A few drops of solution may help. Follow the directions and give the drops approximately half an hour to start working.
 Showering and grooming will be especially important as you may look (and smell) like something the cat dragged in. Be sure you wash well to reduce the possibility that you still smell like a beer-soaked cigarette butt.
 Even men will benefit from a few dabs of concealing make-up if dark circles or bags have surfaced due to a night of partying.
 Have a friend or spouse give you the “once over” before you leave. Have someone else evaluate how you look before you leave and ask for an honest opinion. Ask your friend or spouse for suggestions if they think you look disheveled or unprofessional.
 Your brain may not be working at full capacity so try to keep answers and comments concise and to the point, remembering that you might have a tendency to ramble just to cover up your pain or distress.
 As with any interview situation, hungover or not, your punctuality is crucial to a good beginning. If you're late, not only is this the first blot on your character but it will intensify the scrutiny of your presentation and appearance; it's only human to start wondering what might have caused the tardiness.
 While you may not want to reschedule the interview, heading out may do more damage than good, especially where the interview is with the firm you're already working for and everyone knows your usual bubbly self. Indicators that rescheduling is the only sensible option include:


You're ready to puke. All you need is to shake hands with your prospective employer and then vomit all over the room. If you feel as if your stomach can’t take the interview, don't even attempt it.
You're damaged goods. Fights, falling downstairs or even hickies that can't be successfully hidden, all warrant rescheduling.
You're still drunk. Never attend a job interview if you think you still have a buzz or you're still drunk. No employer will find this humorous or will look past it, no matter how talented or qualified you are for the job.
 Drink lots of water beforehand, and consider taking along a water bottle to your interview. Having such an item is commonplace and if you do need to hydrate during the interview and water hasn't been provided to you, you can excuse yourself to take a sip from the bottle where needed.


If it seems unprofessional to do this, don't hesitate to ask for a glass of water when being interviewed instead, it will help to hydrate and cleanse.

