 Exercise can help anyone be and feel healthy. But it can also help you shed excess weight. Understanding the benefits of exercise can help get fit and lose weight..Exercise can prevent excess weight gain.Exercise can minimize age related problems such as muscle and bone loss, stress, or even sleep issues.Exercise can increase your energy and help you to sleep., Whenever you have an exercise session, make sure you warm up before them and spend some time cooling down once you’re finished. This will help prepare your body to exercise as well as stabilize your temperature and blood pressure.Warm up with a low-impact and light activity, such as walking, for 5-10 minutes.Cool down with a low-impact activity such as light jogging or walking for 5-10 minutes.Being and staying properly hydrated for exercise is important. Make sure to have at least 64 ounces of liquid a day to stay hydrated and add 8 ounces of water for every hour of activity., Doing low-impact, moderate intensity cardiovascular exercise can help you maintain your fitness and may also help you lose weight. Discuss your plan to do cardio training with your doctor and certified fitness professional before you start.


People over 60 can do at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise all or most days of the week.If you can’t do an activity for 30 minutes, split it up into two 15 minute sessions.If you are very active, you may be able to keep up with these workouts with your doctor’s approval and if you feel comfortable.If you are just beginning or need to do a lower impact activity, walking and swimming are excellent options.You can do any type of cardio training to help you lose weight. Beyond walking and swimming, consider running, rowing, biking, or using an elliptical machine., In addition to cardiovascular exercise, strength training can help you lose weight.It may also help ward off age-related diseases such as osteoporosis and prevent you from injuring yourself because bearing weight builds bone and muscle.Before you begin any strength training program, consult with your doctor and maybe even with a certified trainer, who will create the best plan for your abilities and needs.
Focus on exercises that strengthen your whole body and are specific for your needs as you age. For example, leg strengthening exercises will help support the weight of your body.If weights are too heavy, resistance bands can provide a similar muscle building effect for people over 60., Try a yoga or Pilates class either in a studio or online. These lower-impact activities can help strengthen and stretch your muscles while helping you to relax.There are a wide variety of video-based yoga and Pilates courses available. You may consider purchasing DVDs, which can offer basic guided sessions for you to follow. You can also search online for videos or courses that guide you through different levels of yoga and Pilates sessions., If you decide to exercise to lose weight, it’s important to listen to your body during any activity. This can help you identify if you’re tired, need to hydrate, or are experiencing the signs of a more serious problem.


Permit yourself to rest when you want. If you feel tired or don’t want to exercise one day, allow yourself to rest. Remember that rest is an integral part of staying healthy and losing weight.You may find that you don’t have as much energy as you get older.Stop exercising if you experience dizziness, headache, worsening shortness of breath, chest pain, heart palpitations or uneven and rapid heartbeat.