 The most important thing to remember when talking to your daughter about her period is to stay relaxed and encourage her to ask any questions she might have. Remember to keep the conversation positive and encourage her throughout the process. These phrases may help you get the conversation started:


"Your body is doing what it is supposed to be doing!"
"This is perfectly normal, and every woman goes through this."
"I am here to support you, and I understand what you are going through."

, Explain what happens with the internal female anatomy during a period. Highlight the steps below to help her fully understand what is happening with her body.The menstrual cycle takes 28 days and is started by a change in hormone levels in a woman’s body.
The hormones trigger a woman’s body to release an egg cell from the ovaries in the process of “ovulation.”
If the egg is unfertilized, it breaks down on its journey through the fallopian tubes into the uterus due to a drop in hormone levels.
The egg and lining of uterus are shed from the body in the process of menstruation along with blood from the wall of the uterus.
 In most cases a pad is the best option for girls when they first begin having their period until they fully understand their cycle.Tampons can also be used; however, attention must be paid to the absorbency of the tampons and the relative blood flow during a menstrual cycle. It is important to educate your daughter on the use of pads and tampons as well as and to ensure that she knows to change her tampon at least every four hours. It is usually best to use a pad overnight., Although you don’t want to focus on the uncomfortable symptoms of a period, you should inform your daughter that periods do cause the uterus to contract which sometimes can cause cramps which feel like a dull aching pain in their lower abdomen or back., Due to fluctuating hormone levels in a woman’s body, the menstrual cycle causes the body to undergo changes which create the possibility of pregnancy when engaging in sexual activity. Make sure she understands this possibility to avoid future situations for which she isn’t prepared.Use these prompts to broach the subject:


"Because you have begun having your period, it is now possible for you to become pregnant."
It's important that you know that you can get pregnant by having unprotected sex.
 Make her feel comfortable and do something special to let her know that you support her and understand what she is going through. Going out for dinner, baking a cake together, or going to a special event are all ways you can commemorate the occasion and let your daughter know that you are there to support her!

