 Every boy seeks for a girl that is confident and loves who she is. That catches every boy's attention first. Especially when you don't act like it but know it. So remember, confidence, confidence and confidence. But if you are a shy girl, then seek out a shy guy or otherwise, become less shy and feel cool and free about yourself. But don't become one of those bratty confident girls. Use your confidence wisely. No one likes a brat.;
, Even if you like someone that is almost completely different from you, always remember; you are who you truly are, not some snobby girl that thinks she is better than everyone, but a nice beautiful girl that everyone wants to talk to.
 Even before dressing up into cool clothes, start a simple conversation with your crush., Once he knows that you aren't scared to talk to him, he will for sure talk to you more often! So talk to him about random things that pop up into your mind, or maybe even share friends and hang out with each other during free time.
 You can try Aeropostale or Hollister. Maybe you're an athletic girl, so try Coach or Lululemon. But if your family can't afford those clothes or maybe you don't have enough allowance, then try The Bay or Walmart. Those aren't bad either! But make sure to dress up the way you like it and clothes that represent who you truly are. If none of these stores are available to you, don't worry. Buy things you enjoy wearing.
 Discover one evening how you look without your plain ponytail or your hair let down! Maybe you can curl or straighten your hair to give it a twist. Or maybe you want to try a French braid or a side ponytail. Whatever you like, you may try! No one's stopping you. Guys are attracted to girls who try new things and don't stick with the same old, boring routine.
 Virtually anyone can get body odor, so put on some deodorant or antiperspirant every morning before school. Use a perfume or eau de toilette too if you like. Products that prevent body odor are especially important if you're an athletic girl or you have physical education that day. Brush your teeth twice a day to make your smile white and bright. Maybe after lunch at school, grab a piece of mint gum or a breath mint if you had tuna. That will help a lot! If you have some perfume or body mist, you may spray some in the morning too! Guys love to smell girls, so enjoy that!

, When you smile and he notices that will make a special connection between you two. Smiling can make any girl look pretty and attractive. Happy girls are pretty girls!

, Enter a talent show. If you have a hidden talent like singing, acting or playing an instrument then sign up for your upcoming school talent show! But if you are too shy to go up there in front of the whole school, then pull him into a corner one day or invite him over to your house to show him your hidden talent privately.

