 After your doctor has deemed you eligible to make a living donation, you will need to consider the financial costs. Generally, the recipient's insurance plans will cover the cost of the donor's surgery and hospital stay, but won't cover travel, lost wages, and other external expenses. Call your insurance company and ask a representative what exactly will be covered. Make sure to ask exactly what medical expenses will be covered by the recipients insurance policy. You should also find out if your follow-up care is covered.
You should also make sure that you are financially prepared to miss work for four to six weeks. Your policy will almost certainly not cover lost wages., When you are preparing for surgery, it is a good idea to have in-depth conversations with your doctors. You may find it helpful to speak to your primary care physician, your surgeon, and other members of the transplant team. Ask questions about both the surgical procedure and the recovery process.Talk to your doctor about the success rate of the transplant center, and what the rate of complications for donors are.
Discuss the plan for follow-up care. Ask if you will be assigned an individual donor advocate to guide you through recovery.
 Leading up to surgery, you will likely experience some anxiety. Make sure to talk about your fears with your doctor. You should also tell a close friend or family member that you are very emotional, and could use some extra support. Let your friends and family know that you will need some help after the surgery, as you will need time to physically recover.Line up people to help you before your surgery. You will have one less thing to worry about while you are recovering.
The hospital should provide a social worker to talk to you about the emotional aspects of donation. Make sure you schedule an appointment with him/her the week of your surgery.
 In the days right before the operation, the doctor will run some final lab tests to make sure you are physically ready for the operation. When you are ready, you will report to the hospital or surgical center for surgery. You will be prepped for surgery and placed under general anesthesia.Typically, the surgery is laparoscopic. Small incisions will be made in your abdomen while laparoscopic instruments are inserted to remove the kidney.
You will wake up in a recovery room, where pain medication and oxygen will be administered.
You will have a catheter to expel urine from your body, which will typically be removed the next morning.

