 Before you begin to think about dressing for your body type, you should confirm that you do indeed have an apple shaped body. Some people mistake a pear-shaped body for an apple-shaped body. An apple shaped-body is heavy in the middle and above the waist, while a pear-shaped body is heavier below the waist and in the upper thighs. Here are some other characteristics of the apple-shaped body:A wide torso
Broad shoulders
An average-to-fuller bust
An undefined waist
Thinner arms and legs
A flat bottom
Hips that are narrower than your bust
You don't have to have a very large belly to be apple shaped -- it just means that your center of gravity, or your extra weight, resides in your belly area.;
, To dress your apple-shaped body, you'll want to take attention away from your middle, since it's already full. To draw attention away from your middle, avoid low shorts or pants, high-cut shirts, or any fabric length that cuts off below or above your middle. You'll want to distract people from your middle by directing their attention elsewhere or by creating more definition in your waistline.


You should also avoid wearing an outfit with a different pattern in the belly area. This will draw more attention to your belly.
Avoid wearing thick belts, which will draw more attention to your middle.
Avoid clingy shirts or dresses, which will also draw attention to your middle.
 If you have an apple-shaped body, then you must have a great bust, so don't be afraid to flaunt it. Showing off your bust will not only emphasize one of your most amazing features, but it will also take attention away from your middle. To emphasize your bust, you should wear v-necks, plunging necklines, or A-line dresses, to lengthen your body and draw attention to your bust.


Wear shirts or dresses that flow from under your bust, expanding at the waist.
Remember that drawing attention to your bust is different from looking top-heavy. You don't need to wear elaborate necklaces or tops with ornate patterns near the neck. You already have a great bust, so it needs no adornments.
 A great pair of legs often comes with the apple-shaped body. So, whether you're tall or on the shorter side, don't be afraid to show off your great legs. You can do this with a pair of short-shorts, or high heels that lengthen your body and balance out your bottom half.


Don't minimize your legs by wearing big heavy boots, leggings, or skinny jeans. This will only make your gorgeous legs look smaller.

