 In addition to physical and sexual abuse, you might also be concerned that your teen is being emotionally abused or neglected by a caregiver. One of the most common hallmarks of this type of treatment is a teen who acts inappropriate for their development.


For example, a 13-year-old may have to help younger siblings with homework or get them ready for bed because the caregiver is absent/disengaged. A teen may have to cook meals for younger siblings, walk them to school or sacrifice their own leisure time to act as the “grown-up.”
However, teens who are emotionally abused may also act childish in comparison to others their age. Because the child does not receive attention or affection from their caregiver, they may act out in tantrums or suck their thumbs like a much younger child., Teens who suffer from emotional abuse often feel worthless and lack self-confidence. The abuser may call them names, belittle them, or treat them like they’re nothing. Over time, the teen has grown to internalize the abuse and starts to think less of themselves, too.


Emotionally abused teens may be slow to join in on social activities, appearing withdrawn or disinterested. You might notice your teen saying things like, “I’m a loser,” or “Nobody likes me,” which indicates low self-esteem.Your teen might also drop out of the activities they once enjoyed. They may withdraw from friends and social activities they used to love.
 A clear indicator of neglect is a teen who is persistently sick or appears underweight. Because neglected children may not receive adequate food, hygiene or healthcare, they may get sick more often and have a harder time getting better after illness., Teens who are neglected may also appear disheveled and unclean. They may demonstrate poor hygiene with overgrown nails, unkempt hair, and oversized or too tight clothing.


Neglected teens may also dress unsuitably for the weather. For example, they may not wear a jacket in the winter., Both emotional abuse and neglect may also manifest in a teen’s school performance and behavior. A teen who was once a stellar student may lose interest in school, be consistently tardy, or suffer from failing grades. The teen may start hanging with an unsavory crowd, get into fights, or even start skipping school.