 Why? Oath keeper increases your drive gauge duration, (makes it last longer) and sweet memories does less damage. The reason why we want to do less damage is because every time you hit an enemy, you gain 1 experience. so, find tough enemies with lots of hp, preferably nobodies from twilight town or the world that never was, such as berserkers, snipers, and assassins. Most people will say to use shadows in the world that never was, but they die in one hit, so it doesn't matter the quantity. The drive gue will be used up by three, so, here's a tip. if your in any form in drive, and you exit to the world map, you go back with full drive. any form is usable, and you should always stay close to a save point.;
, So use that. Now, every heartless you defeat you get one experience. so, your wanting shadows from the very start of the world that never was. Eliminate every heartless in the first 2 sections of the areas, head back to save point, world map, go back, and repeat process until success.
 why follow the wind? Every time you obtain a form drive form orb, you get 1 experience, and 3 for getting the larger ones. Follow the wind will draw them in. To get these orbs, go to the land of dragons, the throne room. Outside will be lots of those spear carrying heartless, which drop various large orbs when defeated.go further and further out and defeat every heartless till you reach the checkpoint. destroy enemies and the crates of missiles. go back to throne room, exit to map, and repeat the process.
 if you don't have that, use fatal crest. If you don't have that, use sleeping lion. if you don't have that,use wishing lamp. The reason you want these is because they are balanced in attack and magic. For final, every nobody you kill gets you 1 experience. Most people say use twilight town because there weaker there, but they are low on quantity. so, use the world that never was. if you are tough enough and quick enough and use thundaga enough, you should make it from brink of despair, (beginning) to proof of existence (suggested finish) zip through using glide and cast thundaga all the way through. once mp reaches zero, use ethers or elixirs. zip through to proof of existence and, exit to world map, start at brink of despair and repeat process.

