 When you go somewhere that is not in competition with your business, consider if they are complementary to your business. That is, do they go hand in hand with what you do? If they do, ask if you can leave some business cards. In return, tell them you'll take some of theirs for your business.For instance, an all-natural juicing bar and a vegan restaurant might be considered complementary.
Consider carrying cardholders, as well so the business will have an easy way to display them.This step can also work with your friends and family or with people who simply love your service. Ask them if they'd be willing to recommend you, and if they are, give them some cards, as well as letting them know the best way to present you to people., You never know when you'll run into a situation where you'll need them. Keep extra in your car or briefcase, but always have a least a few in your wallet or purse. When someone asks, you'll have something to hand them., While networking events are best for handing out business cards, it's fine to hand them out when you make a connection elsewhere, such as when you're in line at the grocery store. However, the same rules apply. You should only hand them out if you've made a connection, and the card is relevant to the conversation.For instance, if the person in front of you starts talking about the pretty dog on the cover of a magazine, it's fine to strike up a conversation. If you're a dog groomer, that's a perfect opportunity to work in a business card., The Chamber of Commerce will often have a place for you to leave business cards. Visit or call your local Chamber to find out if they offer this service., Many restaurants and businesses have community boards where you can tack up information. Try leaving a few business cards up on these boards.For even more incentive for someone to take one, try having a discount code or phrase on them so that they can get a discount at your business. It can be as simple as printing "Bring this card in for 10% off" on them., If you see a book at the library that's relevant to your business, slip your card in. If you happen to be looking at magazines, slip a few into relevant magazines. The key is to make sure it's inline with what the person is reading or looking at.For instance, if you own a business that sells crafting supplies, try slipping your cards into crafting books at the library.
Alternatively, if you own a dog-grooming business, stick your cards in magazines about pets.
 If you mail out anything to your customers, be sure to slip in a card. For instance, include it in filled orders along with the product. That way, the customer has it on hand if they want to pass it along.Some people even go so far as to put business cards in everything they stick in the mail, including when they pay the bills.