 While some younger kids are more mature, generally, you don't want a story line that will go right over their head. Similarly, you don't want to lose older kids by showing them movies that are too simplistic. Try to pick something that works for the age the kid is at.For kids two- to seven-years old, make sure the story is fairly simple, and that plot supports the idea you're trying to get across, as it needs to be glaringly obvious. Also, while animated movies will do the job, kids may learn more empathy from seeing live people.
For kids eight- to nine-years-old, you'll need to follow similar rules. However, humor works really well with this age group, as long as it's not making fun of the trait you want to build. Also, a character's actions should be connected to consequences, but it should primarily be showing positive examples of the trait.
For kids over nine, it's time to start letting things get more complex. Tweens and teens can handle more complex characters and plot lines; when a movie is too obvious, they're likely to dismiss it. Also, the movie should have characters they can see themselves in.;
, While different people will define character differently, you should have an understanding of what you're trying to teach as you pick out movies. That way, as you choose, you can decide on movies that emphasize the traits you want. For instance, one definition of character considers character to be made up of the following six traits: citizenship, caring, respect, fairness, trustworthiness, and responsibility. Once you have an understanding of the traits you want to teach, you'll need to work on finding movies that exemplify those traits.While some movies might emphasize several of these traits at once, others may focus on a single trait.
Do some research on what defines character, and also think about what traits you'd really like to emphasize with your children. Of course, what you emphasize can change in relation to what's going on in the child's life.
 As you're choosing movies for your kids, watch them first to see if they exemplify the traits you want to develop in your kids. You could even take a few character notes so you're ready to ask your kids questions later. Also, evaluate them to see if they're really something you want your kids to be seeing.


If you're not sure where to begin, try using an internet database that lists movies by traits of character, such as this one: http://www.teachwithmovies.org/ethical-emphasis-index.htm.
 When building character, it can help pick movies with characters your kids can identify with. That means picking movies with characters that are like them in some way. For instance, it could be the movie stars a girl just like your daughter or a boy who is a bit shy like your son. If they're able to see themselves in the character, the lesson may stick better.
 One way to help them engage with the movie is to have them think about what they'd do in the character's place. This exercise forces them to consider what the character is going through and how they might react in a similar situation. Role-playing can help children empathize with others, as well.You can even have an "intermission" for the movie when you stop and think about these questions (perhaps under the guise of refilling popcorn or going to the bathroom).
You could say something like, "Gee, Princess Anna is faced with a hard decision. What do you think she should do?"

, As the movie plays on, if something bad happens, ask your kids questions that can open a conversation about morals. It's another form of role-playing, but one that can help your children analyze why characters did what they did or what might have happened if things had been done differently.For instance, you might ask something like, "Who do you not like in the movie? What did they do that made you not like them? How do their actions affect other people in the movie? How would you feel if you were treated that way by someone? How might they have acted differently to do better?"

, Once the movie is over, spend some talking with your kids. Get them talking about who showed character in the movie. You could even ask them how they could show similar character in everyday life through their actions.For example, you could say, "Who do you think showed the most character? Why do you think so? What did she do that showed character?" Of course, your kids will need to understand character a bit first. You could simplify the questions by asking about a specific trait: "Who do you think showed trustworthiness in the movie?"
You could also ask, "How do you think you could be like Anna in your everyday life?"

, For younger kids, especially, you could discuss who you think showed the most character in the movie, though you don't have to use those exact words. Rather, just discuss the good they did in the movie, and why it was good.You could say, "Marlin proved that he loved Nemo because he went across the whole ocean to find him. Isn't that an incredibly caring thing to do?"

, While movies can help you teach kids about character, it won't stick unless they already know where you stand. Try incorporating discussions about character into your everyday discussions, based on things that happen in you or your kids' lives, what's going on in the news, or what they see on the television. You can also bring it back to the movies they've been watching, to emphasize the lesson.When situations come up, try to talk through them. For instance, if you see someone on television who got a community award, discuss the traits that helped get that person there. You could say, "See that person on television. She got an award for volunteering at the food bank. It takes a very caring person who's concerned about others to work that hard to benefit the community. What a good person, sort of like that movie we watched the other night."
It's also important to talk about people who's character you admire. For example, you might talk about why you believe Martin Luther King, Jr. had strong character.
 Your kids follow what you do, so if you're not modeling strong character, they will notice. They'll notice when you respond with kindness, when you stand up for justice, and when you prove yourself trustworthy. For young children, try talking through your actions, such as saying, "Today, I showed respect to my boss by replying a respectful manner, much like the character did in the movie we watched."The simplest way to show character is to live a life where you show others respect, out of love, and admit when you've made a mistake.
 Kids may not understand something like you telling them to be "kind." That's too abstract. You have to tell them what a kind action would be in the situation, so they understand how to act. It can help to point back to how a character acted in a movie."For example, you can help your kids learn responsibility by giving them chores around the house. If they complain, tell them being responsible means doing things you have to do even when you don't want to. You could give them example, such as, "Sometimes, I don't want to cook dinner because I'm tired. However, I do it because I try to be responsible."
You could also teach them how to be caring by asking leading questions or telling them directly. For example, if a sibling is sick, ask them, "What would you like from your siblings if you were sick? What can you do to help them feel better? What would Anna do for her sister?"

, You can also use characters as an example when you're trying to emphasize what a good action would be in that situation. Kids can identify with how the character acted and may implement a similar action in their own lives.For example, if you're child is having trouble with being caring with siblings, you could say something like, "You know, Anna cared deeply for her sister, and she worked hard to try to be there for her sister. What do you think Anna would do in this situation?"

