 Parakeets are active birds, so they need a large cage in which they can move around. The minimum cage size for a single parakeet should be 18” w x 14” d x 22” h (46 x 46 x 56 cm). However, it is generally best to buy the largest cage you can reasonably have in your home and which has safe bars for your bird.If you have two parakeets, double the minimum cage size. The more birds you have, the more space you need.;
, The bars on your cage should be spaced close enough that your parakeet can’t get their head through them. Look for bars that are spaced half an inch (1.27 cm) apart or less for your parakeet’s safety.You should also look for a cage that has at least one side with horizontal bars so that your parakeet can climb up and down them.
 Parakeets like to chew their cages, so it is important you get one made of safe materials. Painted cages should be lead and zinc free, and the cage should not have any sharp edges. If possible, look for a cage that is 100% stainless steel, as these are durable and safe for parakeets. Otherwise, look for a heavy wire that your parakeet won’t be able to bend.Avoid cages with sliding doors, as parakeets can get stuck in these when trying to get out of their cage.
 Dome-style cages may be pretty, but parakeets like to rest in corners. Some cages, like the palace or home shape, have corners, but can still restrict your parakeet’s movement. Look for a square or rectangular cage for your parakeet’s comfort and security., When deciding where in your home your parakeet should live, remember two things: they like company and they cannot handle rapid temperature change. Keep your parakeet somewhere where people will be able to see and interact with it, such as the living room, but keep it away from windows and vents, since parakeets like bright rooms, but can easily overheat or get too cold.Avoid putting your parakeet in the kitchen, though, as the fumes and hot surfaces can be unsafe.Cages shouldn't be kept on the floor, either. Look for a secure, elevated place to put the cage, such as a table top, or consider getting a stand just for your parakeet's home.
 You're going to have to change out cage liners every day. Your parakeet is also going to get food, water, and maybe even droppings in the area around the cage. Look for an area that will be easy to clean, such as a tile floor, or buy a carpet liner to protect the floor below the cage.This is important for you and your parakeet, since droppings and wet areas can encourage bacteria that could make you and your bird sick.
 Your parakeet will need a few perches of different width and textures set up in its cage. This helps mimic the outdoors, and promotes foot and leg strength in your bird. Look for both wooden and rope perches for your parakeet.Do not rely on the just the perch that came with the cage. Depending upon the manufacturer, these can be poorly made and using only the dowel could cause sores on the feet.
 Your parakeet should have access to food and fresh water all the time. Look for bowls that can clip onto the sides of your bird’s cage. You may also consider a water bottle instead of or in addition to a water bowl, as these are cleaner and easy for your birds to use.Avoid putting bowls on the cage floor. This is an area where your parakeet feels vulnerable, which may discourage them from eating or drinking.
If you buy a dish with a hood and notice your parakeet is not eating, try removing the hood. Some birds feel uncomfortable sticking their heads in an enclosed space.
Make sure you have at least as many food bowls in the cage as you do birds.
 Cuttlebones and mineral blocks together help your bird in two ways. First, they provide them with much needed minerals and micronutrients. Second, they allow your bird to satisfy their chewing instinct and keep their beaks groomed., Toys help your parakeet exercise its mind and body, so it is important to get a variety of toys that will challenge your bird. Soft wood and rope toys allow your parakeet to chew, while foraging toys help your parakeet use its mind to work for food.Always keep safety in mind when buying toys. Parts with dyed leather, removable hooks, or other small, removable parts could be choking hazards.
Keep a few toys in your parakeet’s cage at a time and rotate them out every few weeks to keep your bird interested and mentally stimulated. Don’t put too many in at once, though. Your parakeet still needs room to stand, fly, and move around.
 Your parakeet needs space to get out of its cage every day for at least an hour. Create a safe fly space by closing all windows and doors, cutting off all flying hazards including fans and hot surfaces, and moving other pets to another room.Check the fly space for chewing hazards, as well. Houseplants and electrical cords could be unsafe if your parakeet starts chewing on them and should be covered or removed.
Birds sometimes mistake windows and mirrors for openings and fly into them on accident. Help keep your bird safe by closing blinds or pulling curtains and placing towels or sheets over mirrors.
 Most pet stores and bird specialty stores sell play sets with slides, swings, ladders, toys, and other obstacles for birds to use out-of-cage. Get a playset and set it up in a space that you will be able to monitor while your bird flies around and stretches its wings.It may be helpful to set the play set on top of your cage so that droppings fall directly to the paper liner below.
 Flight cages are large cages that allow your bird space to stretch their wings while still keeping them from flying freely around a room. These are good alternatives for birds that do not have clipped wings, that live in a home with too many hazards to properly control, or who are otherwise overly active outside the cage.Play sets can be added to flight cages to keep your bird entertained while flying.

