 Goth clothing is mainly dark in appearance. Black is probably the most prominent color, although darker purples and reds are also acceptable. Stop by your local mall and pick a variety of goth outfits.A lot of goth clothing flows slightly. A long black coat, for example, can help. Pants should be on the baggier side, so do not go for tight or fitted jeans. A plain black t-shirt can be incorporated into many goth outfits. Vests and hoodies are also important to the goth style.
The bulk of your wardrobe should be black, so look for black clothing in a variety of styles. If you want to add a bit more color, however, go for shades like dark gray or dark blue. A little red here and there can also be added. For example, try wearing a red and black striped shirt. This will add a bit of color while still keeping your goth look in tact.;
, Shoes are another major component of goth style. As with your clothing, you want your shoes to be black. Buy a variety of footwear commonly worn in the goth subculture.Boots in particular are a staple of goth style. Look for large, clunky black boots if you're interested in being goth.
Any other shoes you purchase should be black. Go for things like black converse and black flats.
 Goth hairstyles vary greatly, so pick a style that flatters your hair and face while also reflecting the goth culture. If your parents allow it, try dyeing your hair black. You can get this done at a salon or use a home hair dye kit. Black hair will really reflect the fact you're adopting the goth style.For guys, longer hair may look slightly more goth than short hair. Longer hair shows a commitment to non-conformity, an important ideal of goth culture. Consider growing your hair out slightly and slicking it back with gel.
For girls, you can let your hair grow or cut it into a bob. Many female goths add other colors to their hair, like streaks of red or blue. If it's okay with your parents, you could dye your hair black and add something like blue tips or red highlights.
If your parents allow, a more dramatic style can also look goth. For example, try doing something like mohawks or spikes. Shaved hair can also look goth.
 There are many accessories to choose from when it comes to the gothic style. Go to a store like Hot Topic to stock up on a wide range of accessories that will convey your gothic style.Metal chains, if they're permitted at your school, can help with the goth look. You can tie a metal chain into your jeans.
Gloves are also popular among goth kids. Try wearing fingerless gloves or leather gloves to school or out with your friends.
When it comes to jewelry, dog collars, choker necklaces, and chain necklaces are popular. You can also wear jewelry with Pagan symbolism, or something like a metal cross.
 If you wear makeup, work on fostering a gothic style. In goth culture, it's not uncommon for boys to wear makeup as well. Black eye liner is popular for both genders. Pale foundation is also commonly used by both men and women.Go for a pale foundation. This will give you an eerie, gothic look. Add a heavy layer of foundation to your face before adding things like eyeshadow, eyeliner, and lipstick.
As with anything goth, darker shades are key. Black eyeliner, darker lipsticks, and dark mascara are helpful in cultivating a gothic style. If you like painting your nails, choose a dark shade.

