 Once you’ve found a job to apply for, an important step will be to tailor your resume before applying. Include only the information relevant to that particular job, though try not to leave any significant gaps in your work history. This will show an employer that you’re serious about that particular position and not just applying for everything (even if you are just applying for everything).









If there is an unrelated job experience that you don’t want to cut out because it leaves a large gap in your history, make sure to emphasize ways in which that job prepared you for the one you are applying for. Worked as a janitor? Taught you attention to detail. Worked with kids? Taught you to be flexible and think fast. Worked in the food-service industry? Taught you to work in a fast paced environment with accuracy and efficiency. Any job experience can be altered to seem more relevant.
 This will get you surprising far, so don’t neglect it. People will often write generic, boring cover letters and employers will quickly get tired of reading them. If you write one that stands out, you’ll be much more likely to get noticed.









Make sure that the letter is specifically targeted towards the job you are applying for. If it’s for a particular company, refer specifically to that company’s goals and mission and talk about how you fit into that larger picture. If you have experience with the company, outline how that good experience has led you to want to work with them.
Try to match the language of the advertisement. If they sound like a quirky company, sound quirky. If they sound like they want serious dedication, sound very dedicated. You want to sounds like an employee that would fit in with their particular work environment and “brand”.
 Be timely in applying for positions, don’t scoot in at the deadline. This will show that you are on top of things but also help you to be higher up in the pile of applications to review. Employers will often be tired of reading applications by the time they get to the bottom of their pile, so you’ll have to do more to stand out if you apply too close to the deadline.
 If they email or call you asking for more information or offering you an interview, respond as quickly as possible. This will show that you are interested, dedicated, and timely... very important qualities in any employee.









If they offer you an interview or the job but you are waiting to hear back from another potential employer, you can try delaying tactics but these will not work for long and they may not leave the best impression. Ask for an interview a day or two later than what they offer and tell them you have a previously scheduled appointment, like a doctor’s appointment for yourself or a family member.

