 Whether the liquid is urine, vomit, a drink, or some other kind of liquid, the first thing to do when you get liquid on your bed is strip it down completely. Take the sheets off, and if you have one, the mattress protector. Throw those in the wash., After you've cleared the area, you want to get as much of the stain out of the mattress as you can. Use a towel or rag to blot at the stain, letting it absorb the moisture. Switch rags or ring them out as needed., Another option is spraying on a light mist of cleaner, such as white vinegar mixed with water and tea tree oil, and then spreading towels over the top. On top of that layer, apply a layer of newspaper. Finally, add something heavy, such as books, to help weight the whole thing down. Leave it overnight to absorb what it can., Enzymatic cleaners are the spray cleaners made to clean up pet messes, but they work just as well on human messes. Spray the cleaner on, and let it sit for about five to ten minutes. Blot up the cleaner at the end.Other options for urine include laundry stain removers and a home mix of two parts vinegar to one part water with a capful or two of tea tree oil in it.
You can also use one part vinegar, two parts water, and a few drops of laundry detergent.These cleaners will also likely work on vomit and other bodily fluids.
 If you get blood on the mattress, a cleaner with hydrogen peroxide will likely work best. Mix together 1/4 cup (59 milliliters) of hydrogen peroxide, 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of cornstarch, and 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of salt. It should form a thick paste that you can spread on the stain to let dry. Once it's dry, scrape it up to see if the stain is gone. If not, reapply a new batch of the mixture.You can also try straight hydrogen peroxide (3%). Spritz it on, and then dab at the stain. Let it sit for 10 to 15 minutes. , If you spill a beverage such as soda, beer, or wine, using a bit of soap may do the trick. Dampen a sponge, then apply a little bit of dishwashing detergent or even hand soap. Dab at it with the sponge. You can even scrub a little to help remove the stain., Take the mattress outside. To ensure you've gotten as much moisture out as you can, lay a towel out on the wet area. Jump up and down or stomp a bit on the wet part, which will help release more of the moisture. Keep going until it's not leaving moisture on the towel., To make sure the mattress is thoroughly dry, the sun can do wonders. Take the mattress outside to a sunny area, and use a chair on each corner to keep it off the ground and promote air flow. Let it sit in the sun to dry out., Place the mattress with a chair under each corner so you have air flow underneath, and then use a dehumidifier or fan in the same room. If you're using a dehumidifier, it can help to close the door.A space heater can also help.You can also just prop the mattress up against the wall with the appliance nearby.
 When the mattress is mostly dry, you can sprinkle a little baking soda on top to help absorb any moisture left. This step will also help deodorize the mattress. Use a vacuum to remove the baking soda after letting it sit for about 15 minutes.