 This is also the only adventure that actually rewards spiked collars and wristbands themselves (besides the lucky clovers one). However, it isn't that likely that you will get a spike every 10-15 tries, but many people have at least gotten a spike once. However, this is an adventure that only members can play.


Spikes, den betas, top hats, clothing betas, neon bows and arrows, and more good items and rares such as these have been rewarded from this adventure. Sometimes you might get store bought items, but it is still worth checking here.






You don't have to complete, or even try the purple shards. They do take a lot of time, and sometimes, you wasted 15 minutes just to get a store bought item from there.





;
, This is the second adventure that also rewards spikes, including a black long collar. Collect all the lucky clovers and claim the keys in order to open the epic chest. Spikes are hidden in the Members chest, while good rare non member items can come from the non member chest and member chest, which includes phantom armor and worn blankets.
 Play with an arctic wolf in order to have a possible chance of getting two rares at once. Claim the chest in the arctic wolf gate first, then claim the one at the end. Choose either the top right or the top left chests. Those are the ones that usually give rares.


Some rares that could be rewarded from this adventure include rare bows and arrows, worn blankets, rare fox hats, rare head feathers, etc.






The arctic wolf gate rewards different rewards per jammer, but at the end, the rewards are the same for everyone.
 Make them join the adventure and have your main account play the adventure (move your back up accounts every now and then so they do not get logged out). Have all your back up accounts open the prizes at the end. You can also choose different chests in Return of the Phantoms, or if you already opened a good chest, you can have the others open that one too in order to get several of the same good rare.


Use this method in the Forgotten Desert as well - you'd be especially lucky if you got a spiked collar - depending on how many back up accounts you were using, you would automatically have several spikes at once!







, This adventure is like the underwater version of The Search for Greely hard mode, since both include freeing an alpha and also include the prizes as phantom and brigade armor. Brigade armor is probably a little more rare, since hardly no one goes under water. Collect the whole set of brigade armor by opening different chests every time you do the adventure.


Do the Search for Greely hard mode, and trade your phantom armor for rare fox hats or pirate swords. The same could be done for the brigade armor.
 Look up the combination for the bunny borrows adventure, when you use it you can get a rare.
 You may not always get rares. What's the point if you get rares every time, anyway?

, It can be a lot more fun to play together.

