 Aquarius women are variously described as bohemian, eccentric, unusual or even a little quirky. Use this knowledge to your advantage. Aquarius women want love, but not the cookie-cutter version you find in Hollywood movies.

Do the unpredictable. Stay loose. Sometimes, consciously do something acceptable, but out of the ordinary, encouraging her to join you. Make sure your dates aren't too conventional, or she might lose interest.



 


Don't waste your time with too many compliments. Aquarius women have more a devil-may-care mentality, and generally aren't looking for approval from the rest of society. Give her one unusual compliment and leave it at that — your interest in her should already be apparent.





;
, Aquarius women want all their senses to be stimulated, although not at the same time, of course. She wants to do things out of the ordinary, and she wants her senses to be tickled at every step of the way. Here are some ideas for dates:


Take her to a museum with contemporary art — the more outre, the better. Going glass blowing might be a good idea as well. These will stimulate her visual sense.
Take her to a Szechuan restaurant, or maybe for some Israeli street food, or perhaps for some Caribbean jerk chicken. These should stimulate her sense of smell and taste.
Take her to a concert that features some unusual music. Maybe look for some traditional Vietnamese folk music, or some salt-of-the-earth underground rock. A classical concert will probably not be her thing.
 Aquarius women love their freedom. She doesn't want to be tied to home or family, especially early on in the dating, so don't mention your desire your kids and a blissful domestic life, just quite yet. Concentrate on improvising and staying loose for the time being.


Take the relationship slower in the beginning. Coming on too strong, too fast, could scare her away. Remember not to be clingy. Don't let her know that you're pinning your hopes and dreams on her, even if you are. She won't want you to control her.
 It's not so much that she'll say one thing one day, and do something else the next; it's that she's constantly exploring, experimenting, and building up information about novel things. Be prepared for this. Although Aquarians are very well-rounded, they can be social butterflies and flit about without appearing to have a "direction."


Aquarius women are very social and love to be around people. Meeting new and interesting people is one of their favorite pastimes, so let them feel like they have that option.
Don't be surprised if she's off with other guy friends, too. She can be emotionally detached until they fall in love, and so in some instances it may seem like she's paying undue attention to other guys. Shake that feeling off: jealousy will not augur well for your relationship.
 Although Aquarians are air signs, they are by no means a whirlwind date. This means that you need to take the courtship slow in the beginning. She can be committed to someone but needs to be sure. Don't expect to woo her in a week. It takes time for her to let you into her inner circle, but once she does, you'll have the key for quite some time.
 Since Aquarius women are naturally intelligent, they love hearing about new opinions and having opportunities to test out their logic. That being said, Aquarians are also very stubborn people. They do not make changes in their opinions or viewpoints very frequently, so be prepared to back down from an argument, even if you know that you're right.
 As someone with lofty ideas, she probably seeks position and power. In this way, she is unlike other signs. Remember to let her cradle and nurse her ambition; for a while, it will be her baby.


Aquarius women tend not to see women on an unequal footing with men. When in a relationship with an Aquarius, try not to suggest that women's role is subsidiary to man's — it will make her mad beyond a doubt.
Don't expect her to fit into the stereotypical housewife mold, either. If you do, you're in for a sore surprise. Although Aquarius women are very loving and loyal, they don't necessarily feel challenged by domestic duties, and tend to look down on that expectation.
Aquarius women have big ideas and can generally make things happen, but sometimes they appreciate some help with the details. Though their ideals are lofty, they aren't always concerned with the practical details. That, perhaps, is where you come in if she lets you.
 For the Aquarius woman, love is a sort of ideal quality, to be enjoyed and celebrated, not something that turns possessive or jealous. She will talk about her exes and other guy friends, and she expects you to treat them with the same respect that she does, even if they pose "risks" to you. Learn to trust that her love for you is unconditional, even if she doesn't show it in the way you'd hope.


She probably won't marry unless you become her best friend first. In her book, friends are held in very high esteem, almost equal with her lover. She may think: Friends are forever and lovers can come and go. So really concentrate on being her friend in order to enhance your love.
 An Aquarian will leave the relationship if she becomes bored with it. If you fall into the same routine day in and day out, it doesn't feel right to her. Therefore, learn to spice things up a bit. Let her feel like you're on the cutting edge of something so she'll always want to stick around for the ride.

She is not afraid to try new things in bed. She likes to push the envelope, which means everything from positions and scenarios to locations — a little romp in the hay somewhere public (but still secluded) might be exactly what she wants.
 Aquarians are very sympathetic with Libras, Geminis, Sagittariuses, and Arieses.


With Libras: This partnership is lively and fun-loving. Great intellectual relationships, low in intensity, but great long-term.
With Geminis: This partnership is one in which the Aquarius is completely stimulated one second and frustrated the next, albeit in a good way. Aquarius finds Gemini completely irresistible, making way for unconditional love.
With "Leos": This partnership is rewarding and once they care it is unbreakable. When they meet there is magic in the air and after some disagreements they discover how loyal (in the deep sense) they are. These two opposites can make a long life entertaining partnership.
With Sagittariuses: A very passionate relationship. Sagittarius needs even more space than Aquarius, which gives her the freedom she most desires. Unusual but usually deeply successful.
With Arieses: A very physical relationship. Though the possibility of burnout is high, Aquarius loves Aries' independence, and he stimulates her intellectual with his directness.

