 The difference between a neat ponytail and a messy one is how much care you take with your hair. Frizzy or unkempt hair will result in a ponytail that sticks out in the wrong places or hangs funny. Depending on your hair texture, do one of the following to neaten your hair before you even put it up:


Straighten it with a straightening iron. You don't have to meticulously straighten all of your hair; focus on the ends and the sections that will be hanging down in your ponytail. This will help your hair fall more neatly. Even if your hair is relatively straight, give it a try.
Enhance your curls or waves with a curling iron. This will keep your ponytail from looking frizzy or too stiff. Defined curls make for a prettier ponytail.;
, Use a comb to create a neat part on the side or in the middle, depending on your preference. Run the tip of the comb along the part to move stray hairs and make it look nice and neat.
 Use a comb to smooth down the top, sides and the area underneath your ponytail, and gather it tightly in the spot where you want it, right in the middle of your head. A middle height ponytail should be a few inches below the crown of your head, not too high and not too low.


If you have a lot of flyaways, try spritzing your comb with hairspray before you use it to put up your hair. You'll comb hairspray into your hair for natural-looking hold.
 Use one that works with your hair type, that won't shift around and fall out over time. Silk hair elastics are known for being healthy for hair, since they don't cause breakage. Avoid using uncovered rubber bands.
 Take a look at your head in the mirror from behind. Is your ponytail in the right place? See if you need to shift it a little to the right or the left.
 Does it hang the way you want it to? If the shape seems off, use a straightening or curling iron to polish it up and give it the appearance you want. You can also apply gel or cream to create a smooth, defined appearance., Add a spritz to the top and sides of your hair and to the ponytail itself. Your look is complete.

