 If you are using a dock, you will connect your iPod simply by sliding the bottom port into the appropriate slot. The bottom port of the iPod should slide directly into the charging component of the dock stand. If you are using an adapter, you will need to plug the charger end of the cord into the same charging port at the bottom of the device.


Make sure that you have the correct dock or adapter for your device.Both the iPod Universal dock and Apple Universal dock should work with your iPod.
If you use a digital AV adapter, you will need to use Apple's 30-pin digital AV adapter. You will not be able to use the lightening adapter since it is not compatible with the iPod.
 The exact ports you will need to use will vary depending on your choice of adapter or dock. Regardless, you will need to find the right cable and hook it up to both the dock/adapter and TV set.


If you use a dock, use the Apple Universal dock with an Apple Composite AV cable and an iPod Universal dock with an iPod AV cable or an S-Video cable.

When using an Apple Composite AV cable, plug video-in and audio-in components to the TV and the video-out and audio-out components to the dock. The same applies to the iPod AV cable.
When using the S-Video cable, you will need to locate the Line-In and Line-Out ports on your dock and TV. These ports are circular and have rows of pins in them. The S-Video cable should have corresponding components on either end that can fit into these ports on the TV and dock.


For the adapter, you will need to find a plug that can connect the rectangular 30-pin port of the adapter to the corresponding port on your television.
Note that the digital AV adapter and iPod Universal dock with an S-Video cable can both improve the quality of your video, with the former being better than the latter. The other dock connections will only achieve a video resolution of 480i, however.
 The method you use will vary depending on your TV set. Check the instruction manual for further assistance.


You may need to switch to a certain channel to change the input, especially if you have an older TV. Usually, it will be channel 2, 3, or 4.
For newer TV models, you will usually need to press a "Source" or "Input" button and switch to the appropriate video input that way.
 Navigate to the video settings on your iPod and select the "TV Out" option to turn it on.


From the home screen or main menu, navigate and select the "Video" menu.
Within the "Video" menu, find and select "Video Settings."
Locate the "TV Out" option. Select it to link your iPod screen to the TV. When it works, the word "On" should appear by the "TV Out" option.
 Select your video as usual from the content on your iPod. It should play on both the iPod device and the TV.

