 You can use the same color and pattern for both circles, or you can use different ones. You could even use a solid color for one circle, and a coordinating pattern for the other one.Use a large bowl, plate, or compass to trace the circle.
Try to cut through both pieces of fabric at once. This save times and ensures that they are even.;
, Use the fabric circles to trace 8-inch (20.32-centimeter) circles onto cotton batting. Cut the circles out of the batting one at a time. The batting will make the Frisbee more stable., When you turn the Frisbee right-side-out at the end, the right side of the fabric will be showing., Place a cotton batting circle on top of your fabric disk. Flip the whole thing over, and place the other cotton batting circle on top. Pin the disk together using sewing pins. You should have the cotton batting circles on the outside, and the fabric circles on the inside., Use a sewing machine and a straight stitch to sew around the disk, ¼-inch (0.32-centimeter) from the edge. Leave a 3-inch (7.62-centimeter) gap between the start and end of your sewing., Remove the sewing pins first, then turn the Frisbee right-side-out through the hole. Run a knitting needle, or another long, slender tool, along the inside of the Frisbee to help shape it. You should now see the right side of your fabric on both sides., Tuck in the raw edges from the opening, and pin them in place. Run an iron over the Frisbee using the cotton setting. Flip the Frisbee over, and iron the other side., Use a ladder stitch to sew the opening shut. If you don't know how to ladder stitch, you can close the opening using fabric glue instead., Use a bowl, plate, or compass to trace a 4 to 5-inch (10.16 to 12.7-centimeter) wide circle in the center of your Frisbee.Use a washable dressmaker's chalk or pen to do this.

If your Frisbee has a front and back, trace the circle on the back.
 You can use the same thread color as the fabric, or a contrasting one. This will add an element of design as well as keep the cotton batting in place.Backstitch a few times at the front and start of your sewing.

