 The hyacinth macaw requires a diet unlike that of other parrots. In the wild, it eats two varieties of palm nuts which it finds undigested in cattle dung. To mimic this diet, you can substitute Brazil nuts, almonds, macadamias, coconut, pistachios and cashews.Pellet diets are not appropriate for the hyacinth macaw because the high protein content can result in kidney problems for the bird.
Macadamia nuts, high in fat, are a favorite of the blue macaw. You can also pour macadamia oil over pieces of bread for a treat. Filberts (hazelnuts) and brazil nuts are also good choices.
Smell or taste the nuts before you give them to your bird to make sure they aren’t rancid., Vegetables and fruits comprise a small part of the hyacinth macaw’s diet, compared with other parrots. However, your macaw can eat nearly anything you might, so share your groceries with him. Fresh pieces of kale, cantaloupe, cucumber, for example, make for tasty snacks. Don’t give your bird food that’s moldy, or uncooked meats.Fresh fruit pits (such as cherry, apricot, peach or plum) are poisonous to the hyacinth macaw. Never give your bird avocado, as this is toxic to parrots.
Wash all fresh food well before feeding it to your hyacinth macaw to rid it of any pesticides or fungicides.
 When you’re training your hyacinth macaw, It’s helpful to have a regular feeding schedule. Being slightly hungry will support your bird’s interest in the training activities. If you’re available to feed your bird 3 meals per day, engage in training sessions just prior to each meal.If your schedule doesn’t permit lunchtime feedings, then 2 meals per day will suffice.
Snacks will also delight your bird, and it’s a great time to get your bird used to feeding from your hand. Give her special treats of nuts, carrots, or pieces of coconut from your bare hands.
Snacking is also a good way to bond with your bird, and can be incorporated into training exercises. If your bird is fearful or cautious around you, providing snacks is a good way to encourage and develop trust.
 It’s actually quite easy to find out what your bird’s favorite food is. Simply provide a portion of all the different foods your macaw eats, including: carrots, coconut, Brazil nut, walnuts, almonds, macadamias, sunflower seeds, grapes, etc.After setting out all the portions in a neutral location, allow your bird loose to choose from the foods.
While your bird will likely poke around for a few minutes, it’s likely to eat to its favorite food first. Hyacinth macaws are not known for delaying gratification!
Knowing what your bird’s favorite food is will make training more fun for you both. You should bring along some extra treats when you’re teaching your bird a new trick.
 Change the water in your bird’s water dish at least once per day. Your hyacinth macaw should have access to fresh, clean water at all times. Clean the water bowl with hot, soapy water every time you change the water, so that you’re not pouring clean water into a dirty dish. Make sure you’re cleaning inside the bowl’s ridges, rims and corners, checking it for any residue or slime.Bottled water, spring water or fresh well water is the best choice for blue hyacinths.
Parrots will use the same water for drinking and bathing, and many birds dunk their food in their water.

