 Fertilizer formulas are measured by the amounts of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium they contain. These amounts are labeled numerically, according to proportion. For instance, a 10-20-5 fertilizer is made with 10% nitrogen, 20% phosphorus, and 5% potassium.


Nitrogen promotes the growth of above-ground foliage.
Phosphorus strengthens both roots and flowers.
Potassium contributes to overall plant health, and works the same way that an immune booster would work for humans.
Fertilizers also contain other nutrients, including calcium, magnesium, sulfur, boron, copper, iron, manganese, and zinc. The amounts of these nutrients vary from fertilizer to fertilizer, but they are relatively small compared to nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.;
, The simplest way to get what your roses need is to buy a commercial, inorganic fertilizer labeled for use with roses. These fertilizers will also come with instructions on the label for proper application.
.While this is a generally accepted concept, one should realize that marketing intelligence suggests that a package labelled specifically for roses and carrying a rose picture on the package commands a higher price than another plain package containing a fertilizer with virtually the exact, same contents. But the plants can not tell any difference between the two! So whenever possible, it makes sense to buy a fertilizer in plain package with similar fertilizer content.
 Fertilizers that contain equal parts nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium generally work for most plants, and roses are no exception. By applying a balanced fertilizer, you can ensure that the roots, flowers, foliage, and overall plant get proper nutrition.
 Young roses have not yet had the opportunity to establish a root system. Since phosphorus is used to strengthen roots, it is especially valuable to new roses.
 They offer a lower dosage of nutrients, but this lower dosage can be helpful when you are still in the process of discovering how much your roses need and how often they need it. Lastly, organic fertilizers also condition the soil for future use. You can opt for a single organic fertilizer, or you can mix a few different types.


Alfalfa meal is a slow-release fertilizer, and when used at a formula of 2-7-0, it provides ample amounts of phosphorus.
Bone meal provides roses with rapidly available phosphorus to promote root and bloom growth.
Cottonseed meal, fish meal, and blood meal provide high doses of nitrogen for full foliage growth.
Epsom salts contain no nitrogen, phosphorus, or potassium, but they do contain magnesium sulfate, making it a good additive to use on top of another fertilizer.
 Liquid fertilizers are absorbed more rapidly, making them the best option for plants that are newly developing. In addition, roses that are suffering from deficiencies can also benefit more from fast-acting liquid fertilizers than from slow-release granular fertilizers.
 A granular or organic fertilizer usually works better for this feeding than a liquid fertilizer. You should usually begin around mid April, but as soon as the plant has 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) of new growth, you should feed it even if it is a bit earlier.
 This is especially important for water soluble fertilizers, which require water to be activated, but the practice is good to be in even with fertilizers that are not water soluble. Watering the soil prevents the fertilizer from burning the soil or the plant.
 Adding fertilizer to the leaves of the rose can cause the leaves to burn. Likewise, letting the fertilizer get on the petals of the rose will cause wilting. The nutrients in the fertilizer do best when absorbed through the roots of the rose. This is especially true for organic fertilizers, which have the added benefit of amending the soil.
 Roses that are going through a drought or that are exposed to extreme, parching heat are likely to burn if fertilizer is added to them. Roses that have been put through extremely dry conditions should not be fertilized until moisture levels are improved. Even healthy roses should be fertilized in the early morning or evening, and not during the heat of the middle of the afternoon.
 Do not use slow-release granular fertilizer for these summer feedings. Instead, use a faster acting fertilizer, like a liquid inorganic fertilizer or organic fertilizer. If using an organic fertilizer, you can increase feeding to every three or four weeks. Many inorganic fertilizers do well when applied every six weeks, though.
 Roses grown in pots and other containers are generally watered more often than garden roses. As a result, fertilizers are washed out more frequently, especially granular fertilizers. For best results with container roses, you should apply a water soluble liquid fertilizer ever four weeks.
 Your roses will give you clues when they suffer from nutritional imbalance. For instance, iron-deficient roses lack chlorophyll, causing the leaves to become yellow and veiny. Roses that lack manganese also have pale leaves. If the leaves, flowers, or overall plant health of your rose suffers, odds are, it can be traced to a problem with fertilizer.
 Fertilizer produces new, soft growth that can be damaged by frost. As a result, you should end your fertilizing regimen about eight weeks before the first predicted frost date of your region, to allow this grown time to become hardier.

