 This method contains 3 different ways to make a ribbon or cotton webbing belt. Depending on how thick you want your belt and what style of belt you want to wear, find a material that is right for you. There are great materials for belts including Jacquard ribbon, velvet ribbon and cotton webbing. All of these can be found at craft stores or online. Follow the inline citations with the descriptions below for more information. As you follow the steps, skip to the ones that apply to your chosen option.


Jacquard ribbon is a patterned ribbon that was historically woven using a loom. With Jacquard ribbon you have a wide variety of patterns to choose from. Making a belt out of Jacquard ribbon usually requires a sewing machine to make. Buy at least 2 ½ yards in length (depending on your size) because you will need to double the measurement for the belt.Velvet ribbon belts can be great to wear with winter clothes. This is the simplest belt to make and only require iron-on tape and D hooks. Buy at least 2 ½ yards in length (depending on your size) because you will need to double the measurement for the belt.Cotton, acrylic or polyester webbing for your strap are great durable belts that look good with jeans or cinching tops. You should buy a strap 1 ¼- 1 ½ inches wide and 2 to 3 mm thick. You can also decorate the strap with lace if you would like., Make sure to buy D rings that are slightly wider than the width of your fabric. At a craft store, you will find these rings in silver or gold, typically, and you may also find plastic D rings as well.
 How you position the D ring depends on what material you are making your belt out of:


For Jacquard ribbon, slip your D rings into one side of the ribbon, and fold the ribbon in half. Make sure your ribbon is pattern side out. Your D rings should be at one folded end.
For velvet ribbon, slip the two D rings in one side of the ribbon. Fold the two sides of the ribbon into the middle so they meet. The fuzzy side of the ribbon should be facing out, and the D rings should be at one folded end of the ribbon.
For cotton webbing, at one end of the cotton webbing, slip the two D rings and fold the cotton webbing over. The cotton webbing doesn’t have to overlap a lot, maybe an inch over itself. Then sew the fold shut with a sewing machine or a strong needle. If you want to add a lace decoration to your belt, do not sew the end of the D rings yet.
 The ribbon is folded in half so that it is two strips. Use a sewing machine to sew the two strips together. Sew very close to the edge. Starting near the D rings at one folded end of your ribbon, sew and backstitch near the D rings. Then continue sewing down the length of the strip. Back stitch when you get to the end of the strip.
 When you get to the cut end of your ribbon, fold the cut edges over twice in small folds. Pivot and sew down the folds to close the end shut. Then pivot again to sew up the other side of the ribbon.
 After you pivot, sew a couple of inches and then do a back stitch. Continue sewing up the other long side of the ribbon. When you get to the D rings, do a back stitch to finish sewing your ribbons together. You are done!

, Cut off 1 ¼ yard (or the length of your ribbon when folded in half) of your iron-on tape. Peel off the backing, and sandwich between the two layers of velvet ribbon.
 Place scrap velvet on top of the belt to protect the velvet. Then set your iron on the cotton setting, and iron over the belt to fuse the two sides of the ribbons together. You are done!

, Place a piece of lace down the center of your cotton webbing, and using your sewing machine, sew down both sides of the lace to secure it to your belt. Use a wide zigzag stitch.


Cut off excess lace. Trim any lace threads on the belt as well.
Sew your D hooks into place now. Fold one end of the belt over the two D hooks so that the fold encases the hooks and overlaps a little. Sew the fold into place using a sewing machine or a strong needle.
 These tips should match the width of your cotton webbing (usually 1 ¼ -1 ½ inches). They can be found at craft stores. Belt tips have teeth at the bottom that will sink into the belt. Using a hammer, put the belt tip at the end of your belt, and then hammer it into place. Hammer enough so that the teeth go all the way in.


Your belt tip should go in fairly easily. You don’t need to use much force when hammering the belt tip in place.

