 Smoking tobacco and consuming high amounts of alcohol can aggravate your sickle cell anemia or lead to the development of sickle cell anemia if you carry the sickle cell trait. As a precaution, you should try to avoid smoking tobacco or consuming alcohol.You should try to drink at least eight 12-ounce glasses of water a day, especially during warm weather. Staying hydrated will help to prevent oxygen loss and reduce your risk of dehydration, especially if you already have sickle cell anemia.
 You should have a diet that includes a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables. You should also eat a lot of whole grains to ensure you are getting vitamins and nutrients from your food.Your doctor may recommend that you also take a folic acid supplement, as your bone marrow needs folic acid and other vitamins to produce new red blood cells. Always follow your doctor's instructions on dosage for supplements.
 You should try to get sufficient rest, with at least eight hours of sleep a night. You may try creating a sleep schedule, where you go to sleep at the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning. You may also try making your bedroom cool, quiet, and cozy so you are able to get a good night’s sleep.If you think you have a sleep problem, such as snoring or sleep apnea, where you stop breathing when you sleep, you should tell your doctor. Your doctor may be able to help you treat the sleep issue so you are able to get the proper amount of rest.
 Individuals with the sickle cell trait or sickle cell anemia should avoid high-impact exercises, such as running, jogging, or swimming. These exercises can cause the oxygen in the body to circulate at a high rate. Instead, go for low-impact exercises like light weight lifting and strength building exercises. This will allow you to maintain your strength without overexerting your body.Your doctor may be able to suggest an exercise program for you that can help to prevent sickle cell anemia or prevent your condition from getting worse.
 You should make sure your doctor is regulating your health to ensure you do not develop sickle cell anemia. Try to have a physical examination every three to six months. This will ensure your doctor can identify the symptoms of sickle cell anemia early or monitor you if you are at risk of the disease.Your doctor should do careful eye examinations during your check ups, as individuals with sickle cell anemia or the sickle cell trait are at risk of eye issues.

