 You probably already eat pulses without realizing it. Pulses are legumes, or dry lentils, beans, and chickpeas. They're being called this year's superfood, but their health claims are pretty modest. Specifically, pulses are high in protein and low in fat. They also contain fiber, vitamins and minerals, including iron.These health benefits back up a number of health claims. For example, pulses are especially good for vegetarians who may be lacking in proteins. They can lower blood sugar and blood pressure, which can prevent or manage type 2 diabetes and heart disease.Add pulses to soups and casseroles to up the protein.;
, You've probably seen matcha as a popular addition to drinks and desserts. You may have even seen claims that this crushed green tea leaf prevents aging. Since these claims vary widely, you should read health and nutrition studies. Research shows that matcha does contain antioxidants, as well as L-theanine which can keep you focused. But, consider the food to which you are adding matcha. A sweetened whole-milk matcha latte with whipped cream is going to have high amounts of fat and sugar.Instead, try to prepare and drink matcha as simply as possible — as a tea.
The antioxidants and polyphenols in matcha can protect against some diseases like cancer, heart disease, and diabetes., Many people are trying to eat the tiny seeds from the chia plant because they're seen as a superfood that can help you lose weight.Since this vague assumption doesn't tell you much about the specific health benefits, check major health journals to see what's being researched. The research shows that chia seeds are good sources of protein that can treat certain conditions. But, chia seeds don't actually help with weight loss.One study found that chia seeds may be effective for allergies, cancer, heart disease, and stroke (among other conditions). The research also showed that chia seeds may be an antioxidant and antiviral. But, the study also shows that more research is needed to see exactly how chia seeds prevent disease., Ancient grains like teff, millet, quinoa, and amaranth are popular because they're gluten-free and seen as more nutritious than plain flour. If you have celiac disease or gluten intolerance, these may be obvious flour replacements.Ancient grains are also seen as nutritious because they aren't processed like most flours. These whole grains contain fiber, antioxidants, and amino acids according to studies.Be skeptical if food packaging advertises ancient grains. It's more important to pay attention to whether or not the product is mainly made of whole grains and is low in sugars and fats., You may not be familiar with probiotics, but you've probably heard that Greek yogurt is a great health food that contains them. Probiotics are believed to improve intestinal health but supporting the "good" bacteria found in our digestive system. Recent claims suggest that improving gut health can improve mental health and anxiety.One study supports probiotic use to treat vaginal infections.Studies focusing on probiotics are difficult to perform because the microorganisms are living.Researchers have called for large studies to learn about probiotic treatment for Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). Many believe that probiotics will be an important treatment along with traditional IBS therapies., This popular diet focuses on eating unprocessed foods like nuts, meats, fruits, vegetables, and seafood. Some people eat a paleo diet to prevent bloat and get more vitamins and minerals. The idea is that eating a diet similar to one our ancient ancestors ate can prevent the development of chronic diseases.Some clinical trials suggest that a paleo diet can help you lose weight, control appetite, and manage your blood sugar and blood pressure.Unfortunately, many trials were very small and didn't last long (less than 12 weeks). This makes it difficult to understand any long-term effects of the paleo diet.
 A consumer food trend study found that sales of foods labeled "natural" or "organic" grew by 24 to 28% in recent years.Foods that are labeled "organic" must be certified and held to processing regulations. But, foods labeled "natural" are not held to any regulations. You should be in the habit of reading food labels to look for added sugars, fats, and artificial sweeteners or colors.For example, be skeptical of any food that contains high fructose corn syrup, trans saturated fats, or artificial coloring and claims to be healthy.


The Food and Drug Administration is considering regulating the term "natural" after May 2016.While it's tempting to believe the front-of-the package health claims, you should avoid relying on them. Health claims on the front are usually just marketing. Instead, focus on reading the nutrition label., At most, healthy food trends should only promise to taste good and be good for you. You should be skeptical of trendy foods that promise to help you lose weight. Remember that the only way to lose weight is to reduce the amount of calories you consume while you burn more calories through exercise and daily activities.Pay attention to terms like "low-fat," "diet," and "fat-free." Don't assume that these terms automatically make a trendy food healthy. Instead, be sure to read the labels for artificial substitutes, added sugars, and serving sizes.
 Lots of foods promise to speed up your metabolism, but that's usually an empty claim. The largest factor in your metabolism (Basal Metabolic Rate) actually depends on your body size and composition (how much you weigh and how much of that is muscle mass), your age, and your sex. These account for 70% of your BMR.The remaining 30% is determined by your physical activity (exercise), increasing your muscle mass, and by nutrients you get from your diet.
Metabolism may also be determined by genes, since genes play a role in muscle size and the ability to develop muscles.
Men tend to have more muscle mass, heavier bones and less body fat and hence their daily calorific requirement and metabolic rate tend to be higher.
Some foods and herbs may help your body burn calories more efficiently which can improve your metabolism. These include: chilli peppers, horseradish, mustard, cinnamon, fennel seed, garlic, ginger, ginseng, guarana, turmeric, and green tea., If you're interested in a trendy health food, you've probably heard that it's beneficial in some way. Rather than let yourself be informed by marketing surrounding the product, research the health studies that support or refute these benefits. For example, maybe you heard that kale is good for juicing and losing weight. To research this claim, you might research studies about leafy greens and their impact on metabolism and weight loss.


Pay attention to sources when researching food and health impacts. Don't rely on studies that were sponsored by a corporation that could benefit from the research. Instead, look for independent studies, medical or scientific studies, or government health departments for information.
 Your body reacts to vitamins differently, depending on if they're fat-soluble or water-soluble. With fat-soluble vitamins (like vitamins A, D, E, and K), your body breaks them down in fat and stores them throughout your body. With water-soluble vitamins (like vitamin C and the B complex vitamins), your body doesn't get a chance to store them since they dissolve in water before this can happen. Your body also needs a variety of minerals in different amounts in order to function correctly.Because your body processes these nutrients differently, you should avoid eating too much of one food (even if it is considered to be a superfood). Instead, try to eat a varied diet.

