 Here's where you can make the biggest savings. Check out both direct and indirect routing. Travel off season (both at origin and destination). Sometimes it is worth flying on a low cost carrier to a major hub, then purchasing the international segment separately.;
, Make sure you sign up for your carrier's frequent flyer scheme. This will offset future flight costs or pay for a treat after your visit.
 A rail connection exists from Paris to Madrid via Barcelona. It takes more time but may cost a bit less.
 These are often cheaper than hotels, and a number of them are located in the center of Madrid. Depending on major events going on in Madrid, you may need to book in advance to get a room or get a cheaper room. If you're on a very tight budget, consider couch surfing.
 Check your local rates before you leave. Some countries generally give better rates than others. For example. getting Euros in Russia is cheaper than getting rubles converted to Euros in Spain. The opposite is true for Australia, where you may be charged AU$8 to $12 for the transaction. If you can, avoid getting Euros converted at the airport, using the ATM to get Euros initially.
 The Madrid metro and bus system is both safe and efficient. A 10 trip ticket costs €12,20 and can be shared by the whole group. There is a €3 surcharge to take the metro from the airport that is on top of the 10 trip ticket. The ticket machines take credit cards if you do not have cash.
 They cost about €1,50 each way, and the buses have free wi-fi. Most places are reachable on foot from the city centre (la Plaza Mayor) if you have the time and inclination. Don´t take a taxi unless absolutely necessary. If you do need a taxi stop one in the street. They are available throughout the city.
 The Prado is one of the must-see museums in the city. Visit on Sundays and public holidays when entrance is free for the majority of people. Some museums have free nights, including the Prado which stays open late on Thursday and is free. Other museums are very cheap, including the Museo de Romanticismo which costs €3, less if you have a student ID card.
 Eat well at the hotel-provided breakfast buffet. For lunch choose a small bar offering the menú del día, a three-course meal for less than €10. The quality is always good, since the bars, like any restaurants, want repeat business. Many of these menus will be advertised on signboards outside the restaurant or in the window. Avoid eating in places like the Plaza Mayor, where there are tourist prices that cost much more than places off smaller side streets. If you enjoy seafood, it is worth trying in Madrid because the sea is close enough that you are eating fresh, not frozen, fish.
 Tapas are a snack between lunch and dinner. Many places have tapas menus, with local specialties like fried calamari, patatas bravas, croquetas and platters of Spanish meats.
 There are a number of places to buy them, though they will be cheaper outside the city center.
 Book tickets for football and basketball directly with the clubs themselves. It's not difficult and there are guides out there explaining how to do so. This will save you up to 200% against tout / scalper prices.

