 There are certain statements and phrases that you will see over and over in a mathematical proof. These are phrases that you need to be familiar with and know how to use properly when writing your own proof.“If A, then B” statements mean that you must prove whenever A is true, B must also be true.“A if and only if B” means that you must prove that A and B are true and false at the same time. Prove both “if A, then B” and “if not A, then not B”.
“A only if B” is equivalent to “if A, then B”, so it is not frequently used. It is good to be aware of it though, in case you see it.
When composing the proof, avoid using “I”, but use “we” instead., When composing a proof, the first step is to identify and write down all of the givens. This is the best place to start because it helps you think through what is known and what information you will need to complete the proof. Read through the problem and write down each given.


For example: Prove that two angles (angle A and angle B) forming a linear pair are supplementary.Givens: angle A and angle B are a linear pair
Prove: angle A is supplementary to angle B

, In addition to writing the givens, it is helpful to define all of the variables. Write the definitions at the beginning of the proof to avoid confusion for the reader. If variables are not defined, a reader can easily get lost when trying to understand your proof.


Don’t use any variables in your proof that haven’t been defined.
For example: Variables are the angle measure of angle A and measure of angle B.
 It’s often easiest to think through the problem backwards. Start with the conclusion, what you’re trying to prove, and think about the steps that can get you to the beginning.Manipulate the steps from the beginning and the end to see if you can make them look like each other. Use the givens, definitions you have learned, and proofs that are similar to the one you’re working on.
Ask yourself questions as you move along. "Why is this so?" and "Is there any way this can be false?" are good questions for every statement or claim.
Remember to rewrite the steps in the proper order for the final proof.
For example: If angle A and B are supplementary, they must sum to 180°. The two angles combine together to form line ABC. You know they make a line because of the definition of a linear pairs. Because a line is 180°, you can use substitution to prove that angle A and angle B add up to 180°.
 Start the proof at the beginning and work towards the conclusion. Although it is helpful to think about the proof by starting with the conclusion and working backwards, when you actually write the proof, state the conclusion at the end.It needs to flow from one statement to the other, with support for each statement, so that there is no reason to doubt the validity of your proof.


Start by stating the assumptions you are working with.
Include simple and obvious steps so a reader doesn’t have to wonder how you got from one step to another.
Writing multiple drafts for your proofs is not uncommon. Keep rearranging until all of the steps are in the most logical order.
For example: Start with the beginning.

Angle A and angle B form a linear pair.
Angle ABC is straight.
Angle ABC measures 180°.
Angle A + Angle B = Angle ABC.
Angle A + Angle B = Angle 180°.
Angle A is supplementary to Angle B.
 When you are sketching out the plan for your proof, you can use shorthand and symbols, but when writing the final proof, symbols such as arrows can confuse the reader. Instead, use words like “then” or “therefore”.Exceptions to using abbreviations include, e.g. (for example) and i.e. (that is), but be sure that you are using them properly., A proof is only as good as the evidence used. You cannot make a statement without supporting it with a definition. Reference other proofs that are similar to the one you are working on for example evidence.


Try to apply your proof to a case where it should fail, and see whether it actually does. If it doesn’t fail, rework the proof so that it does.
Many geometric proofs are written as a two-column proof, with the statement and the evidence. A formal mathematical proof for publication is written as a paragraph with proper grammar.
 The last statement of the proof should be the concept you were trying to prove. Once you have made this statement, ending the proof with a final concluding symbol such as Q.E.D. or a filled-in square indicates that the proof is completely finished.Q.E.D. (quod erat demonstrandum, which is Latin for "which was to be shown").
If you're not sure if your proof is correct, just write a few sentences saying what your conclusion was and why it is significant.

