 Arnica is an alpine herb that can be been used to relieve the pain of injuries, sprains, and strains to the back and other muscles and joints. You can also rub Arnica oil directly onto the sprained area. Salves and ointments containing this herb are available from health-food stores or homeopathy shops.Look for homeopathic remedies that include Arnica and can be ingested. Health food stores might have teas with Arnica, and you can also get it in a dropper form to add to any of your regular drinks.;
, You can use Eucalyptus oil for sprains, sore muscles and sports injuries.Rubbing the oil or a lotion that includes Eucalyptus onto the injured area will help lessen the pain of an injury. Place several drops of Eucalyptus essential oil onto your fingers, and rub the oil gently into the sprained or bruised area. Do this two or three times daily until the pain decreases.


Combine Eucalyptus oil with other oils such as Rosemary oil or Almond oil to increase the flow of blood to the injured area.Eucalyptus oil can also be used as a topical antiseptic. Rub in on minor scratches or cuts to keep them clean and prevent infection.If ingested, undiluted eucalyptus oil can be toxic. For this reason, avoid applying the oil directly to your face or to the face of a young child., The herb Helichrysum angustifolium, also called Everlasting, should be applied to the injured area immediately after you sprain something. An oil from the sunflower family, this herb will reduce pain and swelling if you rub it onto the affected area.The herb has analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties, so will prevent the bruise from swelling.



Helichrysum angustifolium is often included in essential oils. This makes it easy to apply: place several drops of the oil on your fingers, and gently massage it around your sprain or bruise.Do this two or three times a day, until the pain and inflammation subside.
 Although castor oil is primarily known as a laxative, it has homeopathic properties when applied externally to the body as well. Castor oil is an effective remedy for sprains.To apply castor oil to your sprain, you’ll need to make a castor oil pack.


Place a standard electric heating pad inside of a garbage bag.
Find 3 or 4 strips of cotton flannel fabric, and soak these with castor oil.
Place the oil-soaked flannel directly against your sprain. Place the garbage-bag-covered heating pad on top of the flannel, and turn the heat on to a comfortably warm temperature.
Let the castor oil pack sit for about an hour.
If you don’t want to get castor oil on your skin, cover the sprained area with a towel, and then apply the castor oil pack.

