 having a heart attack, losing control, dying, going weird, fainting, etc.).  How many times did what I fear actually actually? Was there ever a time that I was certain that i would have a panic attack in a specific situation and never did? When I did have a panic attack, what is the worst thing that actually happened and how did I cope with it?;
, This part is usually the most difficult  yet also the  most beneficial and rewarding. Exposures (clinical term for facing ones fears) should be implemented in a gradual manner.  Create a scale/hierarchy of anxiety provoking situations from 1-10. Try to think of as many situations that produce uncomfortable feelings. Start with the lowest situation first and then slowly work your way up the list.  DO NOT jump to the next situation until you have successfully (anxiety reduced by at least 50%) completed the previous one.  

,  For example, if you fear being far away from your home is it easier if someone that knows about your panic is with you? How far is too far (10 miles (16 km), 20 miles (32 km), 50 miles)? Is it worst if you are in a more remote location that does haven't a hospital in town. Try to keep all the details in mind when creating the scale.
  The more you try to the control anxiety the less control you actually have.  Only when you are able to fully let go do you actually gain the control.  That the paradox of anxiety and that is why it is so debilitating.  When you try to get rid of the panic, it becomes bigger and stronger.  One way of doing this is through mindfulness.  For example, when you feel your heart rate increasing, try to pay attention to each beat that it makes.  Really feel the sensation and stay with it until it doesn't bother you anymore. Then move to the next symptoms such as the shortness of breath.  Keep doing this with all the uncomfortable sensations.  

,  If your heart rate is one bothers you, then engage in jumping jacks or doing some sprints.  If it is dizziness, then do some spinning. If you are fearful of shortness of breath, then take a straw and breath through it for an extended period of time.  The reason for this, is to retrain your brain and body not to fear these symptoms.  Through habituation, the once bothersome anxiety symptoms, will not produce the effect they once had on you. Similar to watching a scary movie.  The more times you watch it, the less scary it becomes. 

, Sometimes we tend to discount what we have done afterwards and not give ourselves enough credit. Writing it down helps remind you of how far you came and much you really challenged yourself. 

