 While it's important to make sure the cat is stimulated by its environment, an aggressive cat is unlikely to want to socialize with people. She needs space to learn trust. Rather than dangling a toy in the cat's face, don't try to enforce playtime unless the cat seems to enjoy it.


When entering the room with an aggressive cat, avoid eye contact and make sure the cat has have a clear escape route. Do not approach an aggressive cat unless necessary; it's better to let the cat come to you.
If you have to handle the cat, wear thick gloves and long sleeves to avoid getting a scratch injury. To pick the cat up, wrap it snugly in a towel to impede movement.
 Some cats are easily overstimulated, and their play can escalate into aggression. To a cat, play is connected to how it learns to hunt. Play aggression is the most common type of aggressive behavior owners see in their cats.It’s believed that through play with each other, young cats learn to inhibit their bites and sheathe their claws when swatting.
The degree to which individual cats learn to inhibit their rough play varies, and those who were orphaned or weaned early might never have learned to temper their play behavior.
Long hours spent alone, without opportunities to play, and owners that encourage their cats to chase and play-attack people’s hands and feet contribute to play aggression., Some cats prefer toys that they can throw around themselves. Other cats prefer toys that require owner participation, such as those you wiggle and dangle. Stimulating play for a cat involves opportunities to “hunt,” so move toys in such a way that they mimic the movements of a rodent or bird. Introduce new toys periodically to keep your cat from becoming bored with her toys., Forty minutes is not that long for a person. It means a lot for the relationship between you and your cat. This will enhance the bond between you and your pet, and help your cat work out some energy.


For a truly aggressive cat you just need to be in the room, lying on the floor, eyes closed, with treats around you. This gives your cat time to build the confidence to know you are not a threat.
Use a fishing pole toy to keep the cat away from your body when playing.
Don’t resume playing until your cat is calm if it bites or scratches you.
Do not encourage your cat to play with your hands, feet or any other body part. While it may be fun when you have a tiny kitten, it becomes painful and dangerous as your kitten grows up.
Do not use toys that teach your cat to play with your hands, such as gloves with balls hanging from the fingers. If you do, your cat will be encouraged to direct his play at your hands.
Do not physically punish your cat for rough play. If you hit your cat, she may perceive your actions as play or become fearful of your hands.
Don't run from your cat or try to block its movement with your feet. These actions can cause your cat to intensify its play or become aggressive.
 A more complex environment for your cat will keep her stimulated, and she will require less attention from you. An outdoor enclosure not only keeps your cat in, it keeps other animals away from your cat. Make sure to include platforms and places for her to explore and rest.Cats will spend hours watching leaves blow in the wind, birds flying and squirrels scampering around. If you can’t have an outdoor enclosure, try creating a window perch where your cat can easily sit and look out the window.
 These are similar to the pheromones cats release when they rub their head on an object. This may reduce tension. Use a diffuser while the aggression is being resolved.Talk to a pet professional about brand recommendations and proper application.

