 The VA provides home loan guaranty benefit to assist military service members, veterans, and eligible surviving spouses become homeowners. The VA has a list of qualifying requirements for the loan program based on your time of service, whether you served in a war, and related to your spouse’s service if you are a surviving spouse of a veteran. You can review the list of service requirements here: http://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/purchaseco_eligibility.asp.


If you are in the National Reserve, you will need to have served for at least six years to qualify for this.
 In order to apply for a VA-backed loan you must provide proof that you are eligible for the program. Depending on your service and whether you are currently in the military, you must provide the following proof:


Military veterans and current or former National Guard or Reserve members who have been activated for federal active service must provide DD Form 214, which shows the character of service and the reason you left the military.
Active Duty Service members and current National Guard or Reserve members who have never been activated for Federal active service must provide a current statement of service that is signed by the adjutant, personnel office, or commander of the unit or higher headquarters. This statement must include: the service member’s full name; social security number; date of birth; entry date on active duty; the duration of any lost time; and the name of the command providing the information.
Discharged members of the National Guard who have never been activated for Federal active service must provide NGB Form 22—Report of Separation and Record of Service—for each period of National Guard service, or NGB Form 23—Retirement Points Accounting, and proof of the character of service.
Discharged members of the Selected Reserve who have never been activated for Federal active service must provide a copy of their latest annual retirement points statement and evidence of honorable service.
Surviving Spouses in Receipt of Dependency & Indemnity Compensation benefits must submit VA Form 26-1817, located at http://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-26-1817-ARE.pdf, and the veteran’s DD214, if available.
Surviving Spouses who are not receiving Dependency & Indemnity Compensation benefits must submit the following to the appropriate Compensation and Pension office: VA form 21-534 located at http://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-534-ARE.pdf; DD214 (if available); Marriage License; and a Death Certificate or DD Form 1300 – Report of Casualty. You can find the address for your local Compensation and Pension office here: http://www.benefits.va.gov/HOMELOANS/documents/docs/pmcaddress.pdf., You can request your Certificate of Eligibility in the following ways:


You can apply online at: https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/homepage

You can request that your lender apply for your COE.
You can request your COE by mail by completing the request form located at http://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/vba-26-1880-are.pdf, and mailing the form to: Atlanta Regional Loan Center, Attn: COE (262), P.O. Box 100034, Decatur, GA 30031.
Spouses can take form 26-1817 located at http://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-26-1817-ARE.pdf, to their lender for processing or they can mail it to: Atlanta Regional Loan Center, Attn: COE (262), P.O. Box 100034, Decatur, GA 30031., Since the VA does not lend money itself, you need to locate a lender that works with VA loans. Once the lender confirms that they work with VA loans, consider the following in evaluating the lender:


Get offers from several lenders and see who is offering you the best interest rates.
Show the lenders their competitors’ offers to see whether they will match or beat the best offer you received.
Check whether the lender is offering you a mortgage rate that is competitive to mortgage rates that people of similar credit ratings are receiving. You can see a breakdown of mortgage rates by credit score here. If you don't know what your credit score is, you can use free services such as Credit Karma to check it.
Ask all of the lenders to explain all of the closing costs, fees and any other expenses associated with the loan so you can understand and compare the true costs of each loan., By choosing to get prequalified for your VA loan, you can determine whether you will qualify for a loan and the amount you will qualify. Once preapproved, you can begin looking at properties and begin the home purchasing process. Generally, to become preapproved for a VA loan, lenders will examine your income, debt, expenses and other factors to determine whether they believe you will be able to repay a loan and the amount of the loan you can afford to repay.
 and all recurring monthly revolving and installment debt (car loans, personal loans, student loans, credit cards, etc.). Then, take that amount and divide it by the gross monthly income.
The maximum ratio to qualify is 41%.
In the event the number exceeds the 41%, the VA has a residual income guideline which can allow approval, yet are not considered a compensating factor., Your lender will provide you with all of the paperwork that you need to apply for the home loan as well as a checklist of any documents or information that you must provide with the application. If you went through the preapproval process, you may have already submitted some of the required documentation but there will be a much closer examination of your finances before a loan is finally approved.


You will need your DD214: Proof of Military Service form, and a prospective property.
Remember: all veterans who meet the criteria are eligible for the loan, but that does not mean that you will necessarily qualify for the loan that you seek.
The VA guarantees a loan of 25% of an amount up to $104,250, generally the list price of the home, plus the funding fee, which limits the maximum loan to $417,000.
Because there is no down payment involved, this will be a Guaranteed Loan, which means that the lender is protected against failure to pay.