 Write down a list of specific action steps you can take to follow through on your decision. Then make a timeframe for when you’ll take each step.For instance, if you’ve decided to go back to college, your action steps might include finishing your application and sending your transcripts by December.;
, If you know that certain things tend to distract or tempt you, get rid of them. Replace them with things that will help you stick to your decision.For example, if you want to do your homework as soon as you get home from school every day, stash your computer and your comic books somewhere you can’t see them. Keep your textbooks, pencils, and notebooks on your desk instead.
 Keep your blood sugar and energy levels steady by eating healthy meals and snacks throughout the day. Choose foods that provide a slow release of energy, like whole grains.

Some researchers think that willpower uses up glucose. This could explain why people make more questionable decisions when they’re hungry.Snacks are a great way to keep energy up between meals. Go for healthy but convenient choices like apples, cheese sticks, or a handful of nuts.
 It’s harder to stick to a course of action when you’re tired, overworked, and grouchy. Avoid this by getting enough sleep and pacing yourself as you work. Aim to get seven or eight hours of sleep every night, and take a short break every hour or two during the day.Practice good sleep hygiene by shutting down electronics at least an hour before bed. Do something relaxing, like taking a warm bath or shower or listening to soothing music. Shut off all the lights in your room and lower the temperature to sleep most comfortably.
 If you’re feeling overwhelmed, follow the two-minute rule. Do whatever it takes to stick to your decision for just two minutes. After that, you can stop if you want to – but you’ll probably find that you want to keep going.For example, if you’ve decided to start running, you can get out the door more easily by telling yourself you can turn around after two minutes.

