 The foods you eat can have a big impact on your overall health. Eating a well-balanced diet can help support your immune system. Eat right to help stave of winter illness.Aim to get multiple servings of vegetables each day. Parsnips, carrots, and turnips are great winter vegetables. You can roast them or mix them into your favorite warming soups and stews.
Increase your dairy. Milk and dairy products have lots of vitamins, such as A and B 12 that can help keep you healthy.
Look for low-fat milk and reduced fat cheeses. You can also try Greek yogurt and light cottage cheese.
 Exercise is a great way to keep your body healthy. It can be tempting to want to limit your trips to the gym during the frigid months. But staying active will help your fight colds and flu.Aim to get at least 30 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Choose an activity that you enjoy so that you are more likely to stick with it.
If you don't belong to a gym, winter is a great time to join one. Many fitness centers offer special sales during the cold months.
Find a winter-related activity. Try ice skating or cross-country skiing. You can even burn calories by shoveling snow.
 Winter can mean increased accidents in addition to increased sickness. There are many hazards such as slippery sidewalks and piles of snow. Use extra precaution during the winter to avoid harming yourself.Use salt. Using salt or ice melt on your steps and sidewalk can help you to keep from slipping.
Be aware of fire hazards. A high percentage of residential fires occur during the winter.
Candles look festive and smell good, but they come with risks. Keep children and pets away from open flames.
 Tension can weaken your resistance to germs. If you are stressed, you might also be extra tired. Try to find ways to relax amid the hectic feelings that the holidays can bring.Play games. Implement a family game night where you play board games and have fun snacks.
Try yoga. You'll de-stress and have the added benefit of some extra exercise.
Take a hot bath. Winter is a perfect time to use that aromatherapy bubble bath you got for your last birthday.
 It seems that limiting your sugar intake can help strengthen your immune system. A diet low in refined sugar can actually help you ward off the flu and colds. Take steps to limit your sugar intake.

Pay attention to what you drink. Sodas and fruit drinks can contain large amounts of sugar.
Switch to water or iced tea. These beverages will quench your thirst without adding sugar to your diet.
When you have a craving for something street, try a piece of fruit. The natural sugar is better for you than the refined sugars in foods such as cookies.
 Flu germs can cling to surfaces for up to 8 hours. By frequently cleaning the surfaces in your home and office, you can eliminate germs. Pay special attention to frequently touched items.You can clean with soap and water. You can also use sanitizing wipes that contain bleach.
At the office, wipe down your keyboard a few times a day. You should also sanitize your phone and other frequently touched items.
At home, wipe down kitchen and bathroom surfaces, such as counters. You should also wipe down your children's toys.

