 Think about why you want to find a certain family member. Was there family turmoil that may be uprooted if other family members know that you are looking for that person? Can you enlist help from other members of your family? Gauge other family members' possible reactions before springing the idea on them so as to not cause hurt feelings.


Adoption situations can make for complicated searches. If you are looking for birth parents, or for children that were given up for adoption, make sure that you won't be stirring up a taboo subject or creating unrest in your family.;
, Interview any available family members who can give you more information or possible leads. You may have to speak to multiple people to get all of the information that you need. The more people you can ask about your family member's history and the possible direction that he or she pursued, the more you will likely find out.


If your family is supportive of your quest, start dividing up tasks so that you can cover more ground in a shorter amount of time. Have one person search social media, one person visit the local public record archives, and one person contact your family member's old acquaintances to ask for information.
 Visit the person's hometown—or the town where you suspect that the family member resides—and check available public records. These records could include marriage, birth, and death certificates, or even newspaper articles and announcements. Visit the local public library, or ask around at the local courthouse for publicly-accessible archives.
 Keep organized records of everything that you learn. Write down facts and rumors, phone numbers and addresses, and contacts who might be able to give you more information. Piece together everything that you know. Consider what information, if any, might be missing.


Consider marking a map with each place that your family member has gone, and why. If you can visualize their journey, it might be easier for you to guess at their next step.
 If you uncover any contact information, consider calling, emailing, or sending a letter to confirm the location of your family member. If all you can find is an address, consider visiting that address to find out if the lost person is living there. Be persistent and be thorough. You never know when a lead will work out.


If you call, do not make assumptions. Say, "Hi, is Theresa there?" and explain why you are trying to find her. If the person on the other end of the line doesn't seem to know anything, do not push.
 If your research leads you to a dead end, try turning the case over to a professional who finds people for a living. Provide the investigator with all of the background information that you have already compiled and let them do the leg work for you. Search for "private investigator " or "private investigator lost family member". There are many websites that can help you find family, lost loves, and old friends. Be cautious: the Internet abounds with scam sites.

