 Deodorants can aggravate certain skin conditions such as psoriasis.If you have a skin condition, consult your doctor before switching to a new deodorant. Tell your doctor you want a spray deodorant; they should be able to recommend a brand that is safe.;
, All discount department stores, grocery stores, and pharmacies will have a health and beauty aisle with many different types of spray deodorants. Be prepared to spend 10-15 minutes browsing sprays to find the right one for you.
 The underarms are easily irritated, and if you have skin conditions like eczema or psoriasis, using a non-irritating deodorant is important.Aluminum, alcohol, fragrances, and parabens are the biggest skin irritants found in some deodorants, including sprays.Check the back of a spray to see if it contains these ingredients.
Don’t buy sprays that have these ingredients.
 If you don’t have sensitive skin, it is fine to buy a scented spray deodorant. However, be sure to test the fragrances to make you buy one you like.


Test multiple fragrances by sniffing the top of the can. Remove the lid on the spray before smelling.
Strong fragrances can be overpowering and off-putting to some people.
Lighter fragrances are not overpowering but may need to be reapplied if you are very active during the day.
 The best time to apply spray deodorant is after a shower or after you have cleaned your underarms. Your skin should also be dry before you apply spray deodorant.
 This is the easiest way to avoid spraying clothes. If you are in a situation where you cannot completely remove your shirt, simply pull aside your sleeves until your armpit is uncovered.
 Most spray deodorants will have a lid. Place the lid in a safe area where you will not lose it.
 Using the opposite hand of the armpit you will be spraying, grip the container. For example, if you are spraying your left armpit, hold the spray in your right hand.
 It is necessary to shake the can of spray deodorant before applying it. You must do this every time you spray the deodorant.
 At this point, your arm should be raised in the air, revealing your armpit. The spray deodorant can will have a hole where the spray will come out; ensure the hole is facing your armpit. This way, when you spray your underarm, the spray will not accidentally spray your face or body.
 Spray your underarm for 4-5 seconds. The mist of the spray should coat your entire armpit.


Take care to not get the spray in your eyes.
The spray will dry quickly.
Repeat this step to with your other armpit.
 Now that you’ve applied spray deodorant to both of your armpits, replace the lid, and put your deodorant away.

