 Pick up a few interior design magazines like Home Decor and Country Living to help get you started. These magazines will not only give you some helpful hints on choosing colors but will also be full of pictures of professionally designed rooms that can give you a clear idea of what you want. You can also search online on sites like HGTV or Pinterest for some insight and inspiration.;
, An easy way to choose a color for a sofa is to base it off other colors already in the room. Using complementary colors on the color wheel will guarantee a match and take out some of the guesswork in trying to find the perfect sofa shade. For example, if you have a lot of orange in the room via lamps, rugs, or paintings, then a couch which has a blue-ish hue would be a great addition. Or, if you have a large violet colored tapestry, try a chartreuse or other green colored sofa., As a sofa is usually the centerpiece of a room, try making it stand out. Pick bold jewel-tones like jade, ruby, and sapphire or a contrasting color to make the sofa pop. For example, if you have bright white carpet, pick a dark gray sofa or something black. You can also pick large patterns like floral prints or chevron stripes to bring the sofa into the forefront.Be mindful if choosing a particular pattern, though. Different fabrics can cause a sofa to cost more in the long run.
 To bring symmetry or balance to a room, match a sofa’s color with prominent pieces already in the room. This can be anything from lamps, tables, and pictures to the floor. For example, if you have light-colored, wood floors, try a tan or beige leather couch. Not only will the color match the flooring, but the leather will also mimic the smooth finish of the wood.You can also match the sofa upholstery to the color of the wall for a more unified look., If you have a lot of windows, try pairing the sofa color with any outside greenery. For example, if you live in a heavily forested area, earthy tones like greens, browns, and tans would be complementary. Or if you have a large outdoor garden, you can match the sofa color to the shades of the flowers or plants.


For those that live in a city, bring in some color from surrounding buildings. For example, look at the shades of surrounding brick or the dark gray of sleek metal structures nearby.
 Before you choose a color for your sofa, consider the other members of your family. If you have a roommate, children, or even a pet, you may want to go with a neutral dark or medium color like gray to hide potential stains. For example, small children are prone to making messes, and the last thing you want is to come home to a light colored couch covered in dirt and food residue. Similarly, pets like dogs and cats are likely to shed so you may want to match the color to their fur. This will spare you both constant worry and cleaning.
 Is the room you’re placing the sofa in for relaxation, entertaining, or simply for show? If there is a set purpose or theme to the room, you will want the color of the couch to reflect this. For example, if the room is a quiet place for relaxation, going for a light, minimalist color like a pale green or beige is a good choice. However, if the room is for show, you may want to make more of a statement with a bright red or deep purple., If you’re the type of person whose style is constantly changing, then you may want to go for a solid, neutral color. Though this may seem surprising, choosing a non-descript color and dressing it up with accessories like throw pillows is a great idea for someone with a shifting style. A gray, black, or navy couch works similarly to a blank canvas. It also works with pretty much any color you want to add to it.For those with a more traditional, consistent style, you can choose any color you like. Though a solid is recommended over patterns for versatility.
 Depending on the members of your family or the kinds of friends you have, you may want to go for a specific type of fabric. For example, if you aren't worried about dirt or debris you can try for a linen couch. However, if you expect a lot of wear and tear, you may want to go with a more durable fabric like leather or wool. Leather can be both vacuumed and damp-wiped to clean, while wool resists wrinkling, fading, and pilling. Keep in mind that each fabric will cost differently, though.If you aren't sure what would look best in your room, try bringing a couple of fabric samples home. You can get free swatches from craft stores like Jo Anns, or even whole fabric books from eBay.

