 You probably already have shampoo and conditioner. The conditioner you use regularly does condition your hair as thoroughly as a deep conditioner. A deep conditioner will make your hair appear softer, shiner, and healthier. It should only be used once a week. Focus on your ends when you condition and leave it on for no longer than thirty minutes.It should say on the bottle if it is a deep conditioner that is meant to be used less often.
Use steam or wear a heat cap to add moisture to your hair.;
, Many hair products bought at supermarkets can actually damage your hair more than help it. A product that contains more than two detergents can strip your hair, like sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium laureth sulfate, ammonium lauryl sulfate. Products with alcohol can damage your hair by drying it out. Instead, look for natural products with ingredients made from plants.John Masters Organics, Rahua, and Acure are a few brands that offer organic shampoos and conditioners.
 Heat from your straightener, curler, and blow dryer can damage your hair. It is good to avoid using heat on your hair when possible, but if not, buy a heat protectant product. A heat protectant product will replenish moisture and protect your hair against frying. A heat protectant can be bought at your salon, many supermarkets, and from online stores., Washing your hair everyday can be tempting, but it does your hair more harm than it does help. The detergents can strip the color of your hair and cause it to fade faster. It can also strip your hair of its natural oils. Try to wash every other day if your hair is naturally oily and wash a few times a week if your hair is dryer.Invest in a dry conditioner to prolong the time between shampoos. Apply the dry conditioner along your hairline.
 A bad brush can cause breakage and damage to your hair. A quality hairbrush can keep your hair healthy and make your color last longer. Look for a hair brush with a mixture of boar bristles and nylon fibers.A brush with boar bristles and nylon fibers will distribute the hair’s natural oils throughout your hair.
 Mix one part apple cider vinegar with three parts water to create a mixture. Use this mixture once a month after your shampooing and conditioning routine. This mixture will remove mineral buildup than can dull your hair, which will boost your shine and highlights.Apple cider vinegar is fairly inexpensive and can be bought from most grocery stores.
 A glossing treatment is similar to the topcoat you put on your nail polish. A treatment can maintain color and add shine in between salon appointments. The treatment will neutralize brassiness and remove mineral buildup. Get a treatment done only once a month at most.There are also home glossing treatments available, but it could interfere with the work your stylist has done.
 A product that protects your hair from UV rays acts as a sunscreen. UV rays can damage the outer layer of the rays by eroding the cuticles, which can dull your hair color. You can buy conditioning or spray products that have built-in UV ray protection.Bumble and Bumble Color Minded UV Protective Polish, Babo Botanicals Cucumber Aloe Vera UV Sport Conditioning Spray, and Garnier Fructis UV Ultra Strong Hairspray are a few UV protectant products., Hot showers feel great, but very hot water damages hair. The hot water opens the cuticles and washes away dye in your hair. It can also leave your hair feeling dry and brittle. Turn down the water to lukewarm or slightly cold.If you can’t stand cooler water, only turn the heat down when applying and rinsing out product from your hair.
 A root concealer can temporarily hide roots that have grown out between salon visits. The concealer will last from the time you apply it until your next wash. You should pick a color closest to your hair color, and spray it two to three inches away from your scalp. Wait until the product dries before brushing your hair., Use a product to add texture to your hair and change the direction of your part. Straight hair shows off roots more than waves and curls. Use a product that adds texture to your hair and use a comb to create waves. You should also change the direction of your part because the top area of your hair often takes on a darker tint., You can buy a tinted dry shampoo to cover up roots. A tinted dry shampoo is typically less messy than a root concealer. Look for a tinted shampoo in your hue, but if you can’t find one, even a translucent dry shampoo will lighten the appearance of darker roots. It will absorb the excess oils that make hair appear darker and add volume., A root touch-up kit is hair color made especially for covering roots and only roots. The dye is more translucent than regular dye, so it won’t contrast harshly if the shade is slightly different than your hair color. The process typically takes only ten minutes to complete. Only use a touch-up kit if you do not think it will interfere with your stylist’s work.