 Charting can help you to determine when you are most fertile. When you know this specific time span, you have more of a chance of getting pregnant. Charting is done by tracking your basal body temperature, cervical position, cervical texture, and cervical mucus.;
, You will need a special thermometer called a basal body thermometer in order to be able to do this. When you get up in the morning, take your temperature; this baseline reading is your baseline body temperature. Your basal body temperature will change throughout your cycle as your hormones fluctuate; these changes can help you to determine when you will be most fertile.During the first half of your cycle, estrogen dominates. The second half of your cycle causes a surge of progesterone. This hormone leads to a sudden increase in body temperature as it gets your uterus ready for fertilization and implantation. These days where you see a spike in your body temperature are the days when you are most fertile.
The changes in temperature can range from 0.2째 to 0.5째 C (0.4째 to 1.0째 F).
You can keep track of your temperature by creating a physical chart. Keep track of your basal body temperature for a couple of months so that you can predict which days are likely to be your most fertile.
 Cervical mucus is known as vaginal discharge; this mucus can change depending on which phase of your reproductive cycle you are in. To examine your cervical mucus, look at your toilet paper after you wipe. Check your mucus before going to bed. Keep track of your mucus colors on a chart for a couple of months so that you can predict when you will be most fertile.If you observe clear and slippery mucus for two days, you are fertile and can try to conceive.
Dry of cloudy mucus means that you are not likely to conceive.
 To find your cervix, stand or squat and place one of your legs on a stool. Insert two of your fingers into your vagina and push backwards. You will feel a slightly firmer texture when you reach the cervix.Do this every day to assess the changes of your cervix and keep track of these changes on a chart for at least two months.


During ovulation, your cervix will be high, soft, and open. The cervix is soft if it feels like the texture of your lips.
When you are not ovulating, your cervix will be low, firm, and closed. A low cervix is characterized as being just a few inches from your vagina. The cervix is firm if it feels like the texture of the tip of your nose.

