 You have probably heard that most times it's not exactly the situation, but your reaction to it that counts. Being an optimist is just as much about your reactions as it is about your thinking patterns. Stocking a toolbox with healthy skills that you can apply during stressful or upsetting times is key to maintaining your optimism. Healthy coping skills may include:Cultivating positive friendships
Staying physically active
Using humor to lighten the mood
Leaning on your spirituality
Practicing meditation
Escaping reality through reading
Pursuing a range of interests and hobbies
Spending time with a pet

, Don't try to be happy, as this can have the opposite effect. Rather than aiming to be happy, aim for engagement. Fully savor positive happy moments when you're in them. Then, when you find yourself in a negative mindset, choose a healthy coping skill to fully engage in and get your mind off what's getting you down. Becoming engaged in your life is like a cure for a pessimistic attitude., One guaranteed way to feel more positive about your life, and turn the proverbial lemons into lemonade, is to develop a grateful spirit. Science tells us that consistently being grateful brings with it a multitude of benefits, include more happiness and job, less loneliness and isolation, stronger immune functioning, and a bountiful cycle of acting in a compassionate way towards others.Incorporate the practice of gratitude into your life by noticing the small wonderful things that occur everyday. These might be laughter of children, tucking under a blanket with a good book, relishing in a gourmet meal, or hugging a loved one.Make it your business to not only notice these small wonders, but you should also document them. Start a gratitude journal that feature little kindnesses shown to you throughout each day as well as going into depth about specific events or situations of which you are grateful., When you are taking good care of your physical and mental well-being it becomes much easier to see the glass as half-full instead of half-empty. A healthy lifestyle consists of:Exercising regularly - approximately five 30-minute sessions each week
Eating well-balanced meals - between 3 and 5 meals
Getting adequate sleep - 7 to 9 hours
Managing stress - using your coping toolbox
Having fun - doing things that make you laugh or smile

, No one's life is all good or all bad. Being realistic is an important part of true optimism, too. Blind optimism, which is the everything's-all-good-all-the-time approach, can quickly lead to failed expectations. Also, not assessing your goals regularly to see if they are realistic can result in your walking in the same hole day after day and week after week., Holding your life and your accomplishments up against those of another is a bad habit that you need to break. Comparisons keep you feeling bad about yourself, because there will always be someone who is more attractive, richer, or more successful. Aim to stop idealizing and start humanizing.


What this means is instead of looking from the outside and idealizing another person's life, you should realistically assume that this person also has faults and bad days. No human being is perfect.
Accept that there is more to people than meets the eye, and you won't feel so bad about your own shortcomings., A surefire way to keep you on the path to a brighter outlook is by sharing the hours and days of your life with people who make you feel valued and worthy.


The environment around us largely influences our thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.When you surround yourself with friends and family who are supportive, you give yourself the best chance to thrive.

