 A trial separation is an informal period of separation during which the couple temporarily separates. This gives each party a chance to examine their feelings and lives away from the constant influence and presence of the other.Trial separations could help you and your spouse remember how much you miss and need each other. “Distance makes the heart grow fonder,” as the old saying goes.


Your spouse may not be open to the idea of trial separation. Explain to them how beneficial it would be to mutually “take a break” and have some time to think through what you both really want from the marriage.
 Between three and six months is the ideal trial separation period.A longer period may make it difficult to reconcile with other person as both you and your spouse begin to settle into the single life.
 When you move forward with a trial separation, there are a number of financial and lifestyle questions you both need to agree upon. Put the terms of the separation in writing so as to avoid any confusion between you and your spouse.Important questions to ask include:


Are both of you moving out? Or just one?
Where will each of you go?
Will bank accounts need to be divided or shared? Credit cards?

, If you have children, make sure you are open about the process with them. Help your children understand the situation and let them know that despite the conflict between you and your spouse, both of you still love them.Children may react badly to the trial separation. They may become clingy or refuse to go to school. Older kids and teens may become withdrawn or angry. Talk to your child’s teachers about your home situation so they can look for signs that your child may be acting out.
Children may believe something they have done caused the separation. Let them know that the situation between you and your spouse is not their fault and nothing they have done could cause it.
Arrange appropriate care and visitation schedules for your children. Try not to ship your children back and forth from one household to another more than once a week, and ensure that their schooling is not interrupted.
 Whatever was causing your domestic problems initially, it will not fix itself simply because you and your spouse are separated.Whether you proposed or opposed the trial separation, talk to a therapist about how and why your marriage ended up in its current state.


Ideally, you would continue attending couples therapy even while you live separately. A trial separation should not be a complete shutdown of communication between you and your spouse.Work on sorting out your differences with the help of a counselor.
Do not use the trial period to pretend you are single. Do not date other people or engage in romantic flings. The goal of the trial period is to find a new perspective on your relationship that only distance can bring.
 As the end of the trial period approaches, evaluate your experience. Are the problems in your relationship really insurmountable? Or did the trial separation demonstrate that you miss and love your spouse so much that divorce would be disastrous?Talk with your spouse about your feelings and elicit theirs.


It may be that you and your spouse do not reach the same conclusion about the state of your marriage. Be prepared to move forward with a divorce at the end of the trial separation if either of you deem it necessary.

