 The standard breakdown of skin types is: normal, dry, oily, acne-prone, mature, and sensitive. When you know your skin type, you will have it so much easier finding the right products. If you buy the wrong products, that doesn't suit your skin type, it can really mess up your skin and even make it worse.


To work out your skin type, see How to determine your skin type.;
, You will need (by skin type): A cleanser, skin tonic, moisturizer, a scrub, a deep cleansing mask and a spot stick and make.up remover. Go for a series that fits your skin type. Having trouble with finding the proper product? Ask the one behind the desk what to buy; that's what they are there for.
 Follow it twice a day, morning and evening. The regimen is described in the next steps.
 Use your hands, and pat your face dry afterward with a clean towel. Always remember to wash your hands with soap before any contact with your face.
 When you apply it, barely touch the skin so that you don't irritate it. Let the cleanser work for about 5 minutes, or for the time described on the product. Then carefully wash the cleanser off, and pat the face dry with a clean towel.
 Gently pat (don't rub) the pad with tonic on your face. Let it penetrate the skin.
,,


Sleeping in makeup makes your skin look older, and can cause dry or oily skin., Two-three times a week scrub your face, and once a month use your deep cleansing mask. Do what is described on the product.
 These remove dead skin cells and any dirt that probably didn't get washed out. You can use cucumbers while you sleep to get rid of those dark circles and puffiness in your eyes. You can get facials at your local beauty salon (if there's one near you) or do this yourself at home.
 Moisturizing your skin makes it smoother and hydrated. Water can also help with hydrating skin. Moisturizer also helps with wrinkling and aging skin. Most moisturizers contain SPF, so it will be protected from sun.
,, Eat a lot of fresh vegetables as carrots and tomatoes, fruits like kiwi, oranges, avocado. Eat and/or drink nuts, eggs, fish, lemon, green or white tea. Remember to get 600 grams of fruits and vegetables every day. That way you will get the vitamins and minerals you need.


Fruit is nature's candy. Raspberries, strawberries, bananas, and so forth, are very good for your skin.Replace that Coca Cola with water with lemon.
 Exercise 30 to 60 minutes per day. Do both strength work out and cardio vascular work out. That keeps the blood circulation going.
, Your skin reflects your emotional health as well as your physical health. Take time every day to relax and do something you really enjoy. Take a walk, get a lot of fresh air, read a book or whatever you like. Stress is never good for your skin.
 This makes your skin look worse, and it can cause even more inflammation. Plus, the injured tissue takes longer to heal, and it leaves scars. Use your spot stick on your pimples instead.
 Two times a day is enough.Your face needs natural oils.Too much face washing will lead to dry peeling skin, which does not look cute. The best times to wash your face is in the morning, and at night before you get in bed.
 Only use mascara and concealer when you need it, or just a very sheer cover of powder. Skip the heavy layer of foundation, it can clog your pores and cause pimples.


You can use make-up if you like, but use light makeup that matches your skin. There are brands that are made for covering acne. Keep in mind caking make-up on will agitate your acne and it will probably break out worse. The best thing to do is to wash your face and let it clear up. But if you do cover it up with make-up, use high quality make-up made for acne.
 Change your pillow slip more often if wished.
,