 There are many microbreweries and most people live near one. As such, it may be most convenient to visit the microbrewery that is closest to where you live. It may also be nice to visit a microbrewery that produces a particular beer of interest, or is located in a popular vacation spot. The Beer Mapping Project offers an online resource that can help one to research and find microbreweries.;
, Some microbreweries have designated visiting hours while others do not. Most microbreweries do have websites, however, so it is best to visit breweries' websites and contact breweries ahead of time in order to find out when it is best to visit. Larger microbreweries generally give brewery tours at specific times, while the smaller microbreweries may not have any formal tour hours or days. Brewpubs will, of course, be open to the public most of the time, but the brewery that serves the brewpub may not be readily accessible, or may even located elsewhere. Most microbreweries do offer some kind of formal or informal tour, and it should be possible to schedule a tour. It is recommended that one take a brewery tour, as this will enable one to learn about the brewing methods of the specific brewery, which may be quite different than the methods of other breweries. Tours also enable one to learn about the history of the brewery, as well as ask questions.
 This seems like it should be an easy task, but in some instances it may be somewhat difficult. The larger microbreweries with established tours will of course have established visiting procedures. The smaller microbreweries, however, may not have any formal visiting procedures. For these breweries, one may at first find the the front door or entrance to the brewery locked, or perhaps wide open but with no employees visible. If the entrance is locked, try looking for a back door of some kind. If you see that another door or entrance of some kind is open, try calling to someone who may be in the brewery, but don't enter an area that is not meant for customers or visitors. If the entrance is open but no one is immediately visible, look or listen for activity in the brewery. There will most likely be an an employee working nearby, and it should be easy to get their attention. But be respectful and patient, and do not enter work areas.
 If you will be taking a scheduled tour, and there is a specific employee who handles the tours, merely talk with this employee and do what the employee recommends. If there is no scheduled tour, you will most likely need to initiate a conversation with an employee, and tell them that you are visiting the brewery. From this point on, different things can happen. The employee may be busy brewing or conducting other tasks, and may not have any time to give a tour. Brewery employees tend to be extremely nice people, so at the very least the employee will most likely be able to talk to you about the brewery, beer, and other topics of interest. In any instance, show an interest in the brewery and the beer that they brew.
 It is always a good idea to take a tour if the brewery has one scheduled or if an employee is willing to give a tour. The tour is generally the opportunity for the brewery to provide relevant information about the brewery and show people how the brewery brews beer.
 If there is no established or scheduled tour, you will probably need to ask questions in order to learn about the brewery. It may also be the case that you will be talking with a brewer who may be brewing while you are asking questions. This would be a great time to ask questions about brewing! Oftentimes, one will have the opportunity to talk with the founder or owner of the brewery, and this person may also be the master brewer.
 Many microbreweries will end the brewery tour in the tasting room, where the beer that they brew is usually on tap. Breweries that do not have a formal tasting room will generally have beer on tap or in bottles that can be either tasted for free or purchased. There may also be an opportunity to taste beer taken directly from the fermentation tanks. It may also be quite nice to taste beer while discussing the brewery with an employee.
 When the brewery tour has ended or when you have discussed the brewery adequately, thank the brewery employees and re-enter the world that exists outside of the brewery.

