 A lot of errors with kitchen appliances happen because the owner failed to read the specific instructions accompanying the manual. Whenever it involves blades, high speed and the potential to explode, you owe it to yourself to read the manual.

Check for the required wattage.If the wattage is different from your house wattage, get the right adapter to transform it safely.
Check for specifics about the blades of your blender. Know how they work and what safety mechanisms it has, if any.;
, Children should not operate the blender until you consider them to be responsible enough to do so without injury.Even then, teach the child how to use the blender properly and to know all the safety issues.

Supervise all use of the blender by children. Do not allow children to use the blender alone.
 There are some foods that should not be blended because they may damage the blender blades or harm you. These include:


Hard spices, such as black peppercorns, nutmegs, cinnamon sticks:Blending these can cause pepper dust that will harm your breathing and eyes and the other two items can break or damage the blades. Use a spice grinder or a mortar and pestle instead.

Coffee beans:Blenders are not made to grind, which is the method required for coffee beans. Once ground, coffee can be added to the blender for milkshakes, etc.

Mashed potatoes:The blender won't be able to cope with the gluggy consistency of the potatoes and will make a mess, not a mash.

Rock hard frozen foods:This includes ice and hard frozen fruits, berries and vegetables, as they will damage the blades and may cause small missiles to explode out. Also, having only frozen food in the blender can cause "cavitation", an air pocket around the blades that prevents proper cutting.Thaw frozen foods halfway before blending and let ice cubes soften just a little first.

Ginger:Fresh ginger should be chopped by hand or ground using a mortar and pestle.

Boiling hot liquid:As will be explained below, never put boiling hot soup, drink, liquid into the jar. Always allow it to cool a little first (see below).
 Instead, cut the fresh food so that it fits into half the height of the jar.