 Thoroughly combine the yeast, flour, salt, and baking powder in a large bowl, using a wire whisk.;
, Use a smooth knife to cut the butter into slices that are about 1/2 inches (1.27 cm) thick. Cutting the butter makes it easier to mix into the other ingredients.
 Use your hands or an electric mixer to combine the butter and dry ingredients until a sticky, crumbly dough forms. Large pieces of butter may still be visible, but most of the butter should be mixed into the flour mixture.
 Stir it into the dough using your hands or a wooden spoon. The dough will not appear smooth, but it should be able to hold together.
 Turn it out of the bowl and onto a well-floured surface. Use your hands to knead the dough several times, just enough to remove any deep dividing lines and draw the dough into a solid, cohesive form.
 Form each half into a rough square, using your hands.
 Use a rolling pin to flatten each square into an 8-in. by 10-in. (20-cm by 25-cm) rectangle.
 Fold along the longer edge first, so that the new measurements are 8-in. by 3.3-in (20-cm by 8.4-cm). Turn the dough rectangle over so that the open "flap" is on the bottom, and rotate the dough 90 degrees.
 Using a rolling pin to roll the dough into 8-in. by 10-in. (20-cm by 25-cm) rectangles again. Then, fold he dough into thirds again, creating 8-in. by 3.3-in (20-cm by 8.4-cm) rectangles.
 Wrap each half of the dough in plastic wrap. Allow it to chill in the refrigerator, 30 minutes to overnight.
 Allow it to sit out at room temperature for 10 minutes, just long enough to soften and become easier to work with.
 You should be left with four rough squares of dough. Work with one square at a time.
 Use your hands to round the corners, forming a circle that is about 9 in. (22.86 cm) in diameter.
 You should form about six wedges or triangular slices from the circle.
 Start from the broad end of the dough and roll the wedge along its length, toward the top point. Bend the new corners of the roll inward, forming a slight crescent.
 Form the remaining squares into circles, cut the circles into six wedges, and roll each wedge into a crescent shape.
 The baking sheet should be lightly greased or covered with aluminum foil, wax paper, or parchment paper. Place the rolls on the pan so that the tip is tucked beneath the rest of the roll.
 Cover the baking sheet with a clean, moist kitchen towel and set it out in a warm spot for three hours. The dough will not rise drastically, but this step is important to ensure that the rolls will not become too dense.
 The oven should be preheated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190.6 degrees Celsius) and the rolls should bake until they are golden brown, about 20 to 25 minutes.
, You should be left with a total of four rough squares of dough.
 Use a rolling pin. The rectangles should be approximately the same dimensions as they were before, only thinner.
 Mix the two together until evenly blended.
 The cinnamon-sugar should be evenly distributed over the entire length of the dough. Only coat the top side of the dough.
 The strips should be of equal width and length.
 Start from one short end and roll along the length of the dough until a tight spiral forms. The cinnamon-sugar should be on the inside of the spiral. Use your finger to flatten the end of the dough against the side of the roll, smoothing it out to prevent it from uncurling as it bakes.


Note that you may need to moisten your finger with a little water before flattening the dough end. Water can help smooth the dough and adhere it to its side.
 Place the rolls on a lined or greased baking sheet and cover the baking sheet with a moist, clean towel. Allow the rolls to rise in a warm spot for 3 hours.
 Preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190.6 degrees Celsius) as the rolls are rising. Bake the rolls for 20 to 25 minutes, or until they look golden brown and the cinnamon-sugar inside becomes gooey.
