 Of course you think your reason to steal your man back is legitimate, but try to objectively consider if this is a good thing to do. Do you genuinely miss him and his companionship, or are you just angry that he moved on from you so quickly? Try to be honest with yourself as to whether your wants are worth breaking up his current relationship.This is especially true if cheating was involved in your original break-up. Consider whether you want to have to endure something like that again. It might seem like he’s the one for you, when in reality, you might just be experiencing some sadness and jealousy over the loss of a relationship that you invested time and energy in, not the guy himself.
 If you decide that you want to try to win him back, then the first order of business is to institute a no-contact rule. You don’t have to unfriend or unfollow him on social media, but don’t call him, send him private messages or texts, or post on his social media accounts. Keep yourself visible so he knows you still exist, but do not engage him at all.There are exceptions to this. For example, if you have children with your ex-boyfriend, then you cannot simply stop speaking to him, for their sake. If you find yourself in a situation that makes it impossible to have zero contact with your ex, then keep conversation to an absolute minimum. Be polite but don’t chat him up, and leave as quickly as possible.
The no contact period is probably one of the hardest things to do when you want to win back your ex. It’s important to remember that this is a means to an end. Although not true of all guys, most guys want what they can’t have. So removing yourself from him will, at minimum, make him realize what it’s like to not have you in his life. Your goal is to make that picture look bleak.
 Once you’ve cut off contact with your ex, it can be tempting to hop on his new girlfriend’s social media accounts and torture yourself with pictures of how perfect she seems and how happy they look together. Avoid comparing yourself to his new flame. She has nothing on you except his attention, which you are working to win back. If she seems taller or thinner or more athletic, don't get down on yourself. Remember that he loved you for you once, and he can again.
 This does not mean going on a crash diet or exercising excessively. However, you feel most confident when you feel good about yourself. Try a new hairstyle or color, get a manicure or pedicure, or hit the gym. This will boost your self-confidence, and even if you don’t win him back, you’ll feel good about yourself knowing you look your best.

