 The most commonly used classes of OTC pain medications include Acetaminophen (Tylenol), and a class of drugs called "NSAIDs." NSAIDs stand for "nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs," and include medications such as Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and Naproxen sodium (Aleve).Aspirin is also technically an NSAID, although it more frequently used in the prevention of heart attacks and strokes than it is in easing chronic pain.


OTC pain medications are generally safe to take in the short-term (meaning for less than 10 days at a time), as long as you adhere to the dosing instructions on the bottle and do not exceed them.
It is generally okay to have 500–1000 mg of Acetaminophen (Tylenol) every four to six hours as needed. However, if you consume moderate to heavy alcohol, your usage needs to be less and you should either temporarily reduce your consumption of alcohol, or speak to your doctor about a dosage that is safe for you.
It is generally okay to have 400–800 mg of Ibuprofen (such as Advil) every four to six hours as needed.
Note that the dosage for OTC drugs is smaller in children, and specific instructions will be present on the bottle.
If you need to use OTC meds for more than 10 days to manage your pain, it is always advisable to book an appointment with your doctor to discuss the risks and benefits of doing so. Your doctor can also diagnose any underlying conditions (the root cause of your pain) at this time, and possibly advise different treatment options that may be more useful for you (depending, of course, upon what specifically is causing your pain).;
, NSAIDs such as Advil should not be taken without first consulting a doctor if you have problems with stomach ulcers, or are on a blood thinning medication such as Warfarin or Coumadin (as NSAIDs can increase your risk of bleeding).


Another risk of overusing OTC drugs is when people inadvertently overdose by continuing with the maximum dosage of Acetaminophen or NSAIDs while simultaneously taking an OTC "cold or flu" medication that happens to contain the same ingredients.
If you take a cold or flu medication that already contains Acetaminophen or NSAIDs, you may inadvertently exceed the maximum recommended dose and put yourself at risk of potentially serious side effects.
Tylenol can irritate the stomach and cause ulcers and gastritis. This can lead to gastrointestinal bleeding and anemia. Special care should be taken with those who drink alcohol.
Always read the label of cold and flu medications carefully to see what ingredients are present in the mixture.
 If you need OTC drugs for more than 10 days, book an appointment with your physician to do a more detailed assessment of your pain, and to look into alternative modes of treatment that may be more effective (and also safer) for you moving forward.


Also consult your doctor if you have other health concerns, such as ongoing heart disease, kidney disease, or liver disease, prior to using OTC medications for your pain.
 Being overweight is known to worsen symptoms of both arthritis and back pain; therefore, if you are above your ideal body weight, now may be the time to look into strategies for weight loss, which will not only improve your overall health but may also make a notable difference in decreasing your pain.


One way to lose weight is by increasing your fat-burning exercise. Aerobic exercise such as jogging, brisk walking, riding a bike, or swimming is excellent as a strategy to burn fat and to lose weight.
Also modifying your diet to include healthier choices and smaller portions can make a big difference in losing weight.
Interestingly enough, studies have recently shown that being overweight not only adds stress and strain to your body (potentially increasing chronic pain that way), but it can also worsen chronic pain via chemical methods. What this means is that the fat particles that are stored in your body actually increase inflammation and worsen pain by chemical and molecular pathways, apart and aside from the pain of carrying the extra weight around!

, Depending on the cause of your pain, you may also find that activities such as brisk walking, jogging, or playing sports is something that your body can tolerate.


The benefits of exercise are numerous, including the fact that it can have a very positive impact on reducing chronic pain.
Exercise releases natural painkillers called endorphins in the brain, which work to diminish pain.
Also, exercise can strengthen your body overall, leading to reduced stress and strain on arthritic joints, sore backs, etc.
Exercise also enhances your long-term mobility and has been shown to improve your day-to-day function.
 Using dietary strategies to reduce inflammation can in turn greatly diminish your chronic pain, and reduce your need for OTC drugs to control the pain. Dietary strategies to try include:


Add turmeric as a spice to the food you cook. Turmeric is a known anti-inflammatory, and adding a small amount of it to your meals at least once a day can make a noticeable difference in reducing your inflammation levels.
Avoid consuming too much sugar or processed foods. Sugar and processed foods increase inflammation, and hence may be correlated to a worsening of your pain.
Eat more vegetables and fruits, both of which decrease inflammation.
Note that dietary changes will not be an immediate fix for your pain; rather, they will make a difference that gradually becomes more noticeable the longer you keep it up.
Practice dedication to a healthier and more anti-inflammatory diet for a couple of months and you may surprise yourself with the effectiveness of the results.
 This is because oral medications (taken in pill form) can have an impact throughout the body, while topical medications (applied on the skin) tend to act only at the location of the injury or of the chronic pain; therefore, if you have not yet tried topical pain medications, this is certainly something worth looking into.


You can try a topical anti-inflammatory such as Diclofenac (Voltaren), applied at the site of the injury.
You can also try alternatives such as capsaicin cream.
Speak to your doctor or pharmacist for further information if topical painkillers are of interest to you.
In general, these can also be purchased over-the-counter, with dosing instructions on the bottle.
 This is because you may need to take so much of the OTC medications, on a continual day-to-day basis, that the side effects of this may become more worrisome than simply opting for a stronger medication altogether.


Depending upon the reason for your pain, as well as the severity of it (and any other underlying medical conditions you may have), your doctor can help you to decide upon the ideal prescription-strength pain medication to try.
A first-line option is often Tylenol #3, which contains a combination of Acetaminophen (Tylenol) with Codeine. This is a good alternative if you need something for a short period of time to resolve the pain.
Tramadol is another option, as are opioid narcotics for pain that cannot be treated by any other means (opioids tend to be used as a last resort for pain that cannot be controlled with other strategies). Tramadol is good for people in recovery or suffering from addiction because it is not habit forming.
Be very cautious when it comes to treating pain with opioids, as they are highly addictive. Consider signing a pain contract with your doctor and ask about seeing a pain specialist.
 For instance, nerve-related pain (called "neuropathic pain") is treated differently than the pain of a musculoskeletal injury, which is treated differently than pain caused from muscle spasms. Talk to your doctor about which medication would best target the actual source of your pain, so as to diminish the degree to which you rely on nonspecific over-the-counter pain medications which may not be effectively targeting the root cause of your pain.


For neuropathic (nerve-related) pain, tricyclic antidepressants are a good option to consider. Gabapentin is a good choice for neuropathic pain. Dose should be orally 300–3600 mg/day depending on response to treatment and severity of symptoms.
For the chronic pain of irritable bowel syndrome, antispasmodics may be of help if dietary changes aren't helping. For moderate to severe IBS, your doctor may suggest taking rifaximin 550 mg three times daily for 14.
For ongoing back pain, a muscle relaxant may ease symptoms.
There are a myriad of pain treatments available, and it is important to talk to your physician about which would be most helpful for your specific medical condition.
 Ice helps to diminish inflammation in the immediate phases following the injury, and as such to decrease pain in the area. Heat is recommended for more chronic injuries and/or for generalized sore muscles. You can use a heating pad, or simply opt for a hot bath.


Massage may also help to ease muscle aches and pains, and to speed the rate at which injuries heal.
If you have extended health coverage through your work or another form of insurance, you may get partial or complete coverage for massage therapy.
 Other options include consuming ginger (which helps to decrease inflammation), feverfew, and/or adding turmeric as a spice to home-cooked meals.



Click here for further information on how to relieve chronic pain naturally.
 If you are interested in trying options for pain control that fall outside of the traditional medical model, you may wish to book an appointment with an acupuncturist, a naturopath, or a hypnotist to discuss alternative healing options. Your work benefits may even offer you coverage for alternative therapies such as those provided by an acupuncturist or a naturopath, so it is certainly worth looking into.
 Although it almost goes without saying, you should avoid any physical activities or duties at work that worsen (or are the source of) your chronic pain. If you find that work is exacerbating your pain, speak to your boss about alternate duties you could take on, or look into any disability insurance that you may be eligible for if you need to take time off to recover (or if you are no longer able to continue in a certain line of work).


For instance, if you have a back injury, you should avoid activities that involve heavy lifting (as well as avoiding positions that trigger your back pain, such as sitting or standing for long periods of time).
If you have an injury such as carpal tunnel syndrome, you should avoid activities such as typing and ongoing computer use that may worsen your symptoms, if at all possible.
 If you are struggling getting around your home (such as climbing the stairs, getting in the shower, or using the toilet) due to chronic pain, you may benefit from modifications to your home that can make these day-to-day tasks easier in light of your pain-related disability. Occupational therapists (OTs) are specifically trained to make modifications to your home environment to optimize the ease with which you can perform day-to-day tasks.


Your family doctor can provide you with a referral to see an occupational therapist. Having a formal referral may allow you to receive insurance coverage for OT services.You can also look up occupational therapists in your area and arrange to see one privately. However, seeing one privately (without a physician's referral) is unlikely to qualify you for coverage.
 It may diminish your reliance on pain medications, both OTC and prescription, and it may help you to regain function that you did not have previously. Speak to your doctor to see if surgery is an option for you.


If the source of your pain is a specific area of your body — such as knee pain or shoulder pain — you may be eligible for arthroscopic joint surgery to "debride" (clean out) the joint and to hopefully reduce the abnormality that was causing the pain.
If you have more generalized chronic pain, a neurosurgeon or orthopedic surgeon experienced in conducting surgery for chronic pain may be able to help you.