 A sexual disorder occurs when a problem arises during any part of the sexual response cycle (excitement, plateau, orgasm, resolution).Some sexual disorders include having a lack of desire for sex, problems becoming aroused, delays or absence of orgasm, and sexual pain disorders.


For men, sexual disorders can include erectile dysfunction, premature ejaculation or delayed ejaculation.
For women, sexual disorder can include the inability to achieve orgasm, inadequate lubrication, and inability to relax the vaginal muscles to welcome intercourse.;
, Don’t fall into the trap of feeling like nobody will love you because you have a sexual disorder. Sex is different from love. You deserve to feel loved for who you are, not for your sexual performance. Having sex does not mean that you love each other, and likewise, not having sex doesn’t mean you do not love each other.


If you struggle with sexual activity, remind yourself that you are worthy of love, even if that love includes a different version of sexuality.
 Many sexual problems result from feeling anxious, tense, or nervous.While this is not the case for all sexual disorders, it can help to relax your mind and your body. However, if at any point you feel uncomfortable in any sexual activity, don’t be afraid to say, “No” or “This is not comfortable for me.”


If you feel nervous about engaging in sexual contact, relax your mind and body. Tense all of your muscles and hold for three seconds, then release.
To clear your mind, challenge all of the critical thoughts and replace them with more positive thoughts. Instead of saying, “This is going to be terrible” say, “I can enjoy myself with this person.”

, If you choose to have sex, let your partner know of any challenges you face and how they may affect your sexual relationship. Find ways to be physically intimate that honor your body. Don’t feel pressured to have sex. If you feel pain or discomfort, tell your partner, “I need a break” or, “I need to stop.” Always respect your sensations, feelings, and needs.


Sex should be fun and enjoyable for both partners. If it’s not pleasurable for you, speak up.
You may also consider other ways that you can be intimate with your partner. If sex is not possible for you, then you might consider doing something to satisfy your partner in another way. This may be enough to create the same intimacy between you that sex provides., In both dating and relationships, eye contact plays an important role. Gazing into another’s eyes can increase feelings of affection, passion, and love.When the other person speaks, look them in the eyes. If your partner is sharing something important, stop and make eye contact to show that you care and are listening.


Eye contact is a great way to build trust, empathy, and connection., Be affectionate with your partner. Hold hands, put your arms around each other, and snuggle together. Caress your partner, give and receive a backrub, and give meaningful hugs. Affection arouses feelings of love and intimacy.Show love and affection and let them know you are interested.
 Touch doesn’t have to imply sex. Touch your partner and be touched in ways that feel good but that do not imply having sex. Enjoy being close with your partner engaging in sensual touch. Take turns touching each other in new ways.For example, use an object such as a feather to touch your partner. Explore non-sexual parts first (such as arms and legs) and move into more arousing areas. Ask your partner what they enjoy and make sure to tell your partner what you enjoy.


For more information, check out How to Get More Intimate Without Having Sex.
 Kissing shows love, affection, connection, and sensuality. You can convey a lot in a kiss: from saying hello or goodbye to passionately kissing. Engage in playful, fun, and intimate kissing. Kissing can be exciting, pleasurable, and erotic. Kissing can build feeling of trust, intimacy, and connection.In short-term relationships, kisses tend to be more sexual in nature, whereas in long-term relationships they tend to communicate closeness and intimacy.
 It can help to be able to communicate openly about sex, pleasure, and your body.While you may feel uncomfortable talking to your partner about sex, do it anyway and remind yourself that it’s an important topic to be honest about with your partner. Don’t focus so much on what you cannot do, but what you can and want to do.


Say, “I feel really nervous about being touched or having sex. It would help me to talk about it together.” Be sure to let them know your wants and desires.
For example, you can say, “I don’t like being touched this way. However, I like it when you touch me here.”
You can also say, “While sex is painful for me, these are the things I enjoy.”

, If you struggle with feeling shame or guilt about your sexual disorder, you may benefit from therapy. Here you can talk confidentially with a therapist about your frustrations and difficulties. A therapist can help you accept your disorder and move on with your life in a productive and healthy way. You can learn ways to feel pleasure, and in some cases, work through disorders to achieve sexual desire or intimacy.While some disorders have a medical or physical cause, others have a psychological cause. Working with a therapist can help you relax or reduce anxiety.
Look for a therapist who specializes in sexual disorders. You may even consider seeing a sex therapist who can help you navigate your disorder effectively.
Find a therapist by calling your insurance provider, local mental health clinic, or getting a referral from your physician.
 Join a support group for people with sexual disorders. Because sexuality can often be approached as a taboo subject, it may be difficult to receive the support you need. Joining a group means you can interact with others who also have a sexual disorder.


A support group is a great place for getting advice about dating and relationships and learning how other people cope with their difficulties., There are communities and dating websites for people who cannot or do not engage in sexual contact.These dating websites focus on companionship, intimacy, and love without focusing on sexual intimacy as a primary concern. This is a safe place to engage with others who will accept you and your boundaries that may have similar struggles.


These websites can be a safe place to discuss your sexual disorder or have clear sexual boundaries up front.

