 Some people may lack hope because they feel like they are not good at anything. If you have been feeling this type of hopelessness, try making a list of all of your strengths and accomplishments. Read through the list and congratulate yourself for these positive traits. Giving yourself a little pat on the back now and then will help you to develop your hope for the future., As much as possible, surround yourself with supportive and capable people. Strive to surround yourself with those people who help you to feel good and encourage you to be your best. Having a supportive network of friends will help you to further your interests and goals. It’s much easier to find hope within a strong community as opposed to completely on your own.Look at the activities and attitudes of people around you. See if any of them can serve as role models for what you would like to accomplish for yourself. Also, consider how the people around you act and make you feel.
 Doing things that you enjoy can also help you to develop your sense of hope. By engaging in activities that make you happy every day, you will have a greater sense of purpose. If you are not sure about what activities bring you the most joy, try out some new things to figure it out. Take a class at your local community college, try a new sport, learn a new skill, or take up a new hobby.
 Getting involved in a cause in your community can be a great way to cultivate hope towards the future. This can be in either your local community or even an online community, but either way the essential point of departure here is building relationships with others over common goals or projects. Involving yourself with other people who share your interests can help you to overcome alienation, which can cause a feeling of hopelessness.Get involved in local politics or join an online forum discussion on some world affair you might be passionate about. The more you do this the easier it will be.
Consider volunteer work. Some studies have shown that volunteering has a wide range of benefits for your mental and physical health., Always staying within your comfort zone may cause you to feel hopeless and depressed. However, putting yourself in situations that make you uncomfortable may help you to move past hopelessness and other negative emotions.Getting out of your comfort zone is essential to changing your thought patterns and learning to approach the world with more hope.Search for activities in your life that put you within that window between feeling only slightly uncomfortable and being entirely overwhelmed by your anxiety altogether. These will usually be the best times for you to grow and develop your sense of hope. For example, you could try going out with coworkers after work if you typically go straight home.
 Journaling can help you to understand why you have been feeling hopeless and it is also a great way to relieve stress.To get started with journaling, choose a comfortable place and plan to devote about 20 minutes per day to writing. Start by writing about how you are feeling, what you are thinking, or whatever you want. You can also use your journal to record your progress toward your goals.


Try keeping a gratitude diary. Every night, think of three things you are grateful for and write them down. Doing this every day will help you to develop a more hopeful outlook and it can also help you to sleep better and enjoy better health., Exercise, eat healthy food, get plenty of rest, and relax. Doing these things will help you to develop a sense of hope. By taking good care of yourself, you are sending your mind signals that you deserve to be happy and treated well. Make sure that you are devoting enough time to meeting your basic needs for exercise, food, sleep, and relaxation.Exercise regularly. Try to get 30 minutes of moderate exercise per day.
Eat a balanced diet of healthy foods like fruit, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.
Get 7-9 hours of sleep per night.
Set aside at least 15 minutes per day to relax. Practice yoga, do deep breathing exercises, or meditate.
Drink 8 glasses of water per day.

