 When you put your baby down to sleep, make sure he or she is fully covered. One-piece sleeper pajamas with feet and a skullcap should be enough to keep your baby warm while sleeping. If you want an extra layer, include a onesie or undershirt under the pajamas., Several thin layers of clothing should help keep your baby warm, and if your baby starts to overheat, they are easier to remove. A good rule of thumb is to give your baby one more layer of clothing than an adult would wear at the same temperature., Another way to keep your baby warm in the crib is to include a blanket while he or she is sleeping. For all of these sheets and blankets, remember that they should be tight against the crib and your baby. Loose blankets are dangerous to a sleeping baby.Therefore, you should just have one blanket for your baby's crib.


Use a fitted flannel sheet for the crib, especially during the winter. Flannel is a nice, thick material that holds heat well. When using a blanket, make sure you can tuck it into the mattress so that is doesn’t come loose, and doesn’t make the mattress uneven. Make sure it comes no higher than your baby’s armpits.
 If the room is still warming, your baby’s bed may be a bit cool before you put him or her into it. If that’s the case, you can use a hot water bottle, heating pad, or microwaveable bag. Let it sit on the bed for a few minutes to get everything warm. Just remember to remove it before you put your baby down., Once you have gotten the room to a nice temperature, you’ll still need to keep an eye on your baby to make sure he or she stays comfortable while in the room. Don’t be afraid to touch your baby’s chest, back, and abdomen to track the temperature. Keep an eye out for the signs of overheating, and if you notice them, remove clothing, turn off heaters, and find other ways to cool down the room.An overheated baby will be damp or moist from sweat, particularly his or her hair, back, and chest. The baby may also have red ears, a rapid pulse, and maybe even a fever.

