 A middle name can be used in all kinds of different ways: to pay tribute to a family name, to reference a creative or personal element of the child's history, but whatever you're considering as a middle name you must make sure that it sounds good to say. When you've settled on the middle and last names for your child, practice saying the middle name with it to make sure it sounds correct, it sounds good, and is easy to say.


Choose a middle name that begins with a different vowel sound than the last syllable of the first name. Names like Angela Anne or Denice Savannah are somewhat difficult to say, because the repetition of vowel sounds at the end of words end up sounding jumbled in the mouth.
Try using consonant sounds that aren't pronounced in the forename. Lena Grey or George Randolph or Thomas Stearns sound nice together because we get a full range of different sounds.;
, If you have chosen on a longer first name, choose a shorter middle name like Alexandra Grace or Christopher Owen. If you've chosen a shorter first name, you've got room for a longer missile name: Kate Elizabeth or Ross Anthony.


Count the syllables of the names to help you get a quick reference. If you've got a first name of two or fewer, use a middle name of two or three syllables.
 Write out names that you're considering and try to see if they'll look attractive written out, if they'll be easy to pronounce, and will represent your child well in the world. A good name should look good on paper and sound great in the ear. It can also be a fun exercise to imagine your kid's name written out, imagining their signature on the world.
 One excellent way of easing the transition of a new child into your family can be to give the older sibling or siblings input in the choosing of the middle name. If they're old enough to understand the choice, give your other kids a chance to help choose the name. You could either present them with a list of choices all of which you're happy with, and then let them choose, which will help you avoid having a child named Brian Robot. Choosing together can help bring the family close.


Alternatively, let the kids experiment and come up with their own list. Maybe the kids will come up with unique, strange, creative names you'd never have thought up. Maybe Steven Velociraptor is the perfect name? Well, the choice is still up to you.

