 Make sure the two circles are the same approximate size.


You can use any size circle. Just remember that the bigger the circle, the bigger the lantern. You can use a plate, the lid off a tub of ice cream, the bottom of a bucket, or any other round object.
You can also use any kind of paper you want: regular white printer paper, colored cardstock, decorative patterned paper, etc.
 Take one of the circles and fold it in half. Then, fold it in half two more times. This will give you a finished product that looks like a slice of pizza (a long triangle with a rounded top).
 Following the curve of the top of the paper (the pizza crust), draw alternating lines on the paper that cross the full length of the paper, but don't quite meet the opposite side.Start on the left side and draw a slightly curved line that stops shortly before (approximately 1 inch to 1/2 an inch) the right side. Then, below the line you just drew, start on the right side and draw a slightly curved line that stops shortly before the left side.


Continue this alternating pattern until you reach the bottom of the paper (the point of the triangle).
 Cut off a tiny bit on the point of the triangle, making a hole in the center of the paper.
 Use scissors to to cut the paper along the curved lines that you drew. Try to stay closely on the lines, but don't worry about being too perfect. Just make sure you don't accidentally cut across one line into the path of another.
 Making sure not to rip any of the delicate strips you just cut, unfold the paper until you are back to the open circle shape.
 Repeat steps 2-6 on the second circle that you cut out so that you end up with two identical cut-up circles.
 Use some glue to adhere the two circles to one another only on the outermost ring. Make sure you do not glue the inner parts of the circles together. Let the glue dry.
 Gently pull each side of the lantern so that the pieces spread out to reveal the beautiful design you cut into it.


Tie a string in the top (through the hole and the outer ring) and hang the lantern somewhere to enjoy it.

