 Any body temperature over 98.6°F (37°C) is considered a fever, though fevers lower than 103°F (39.4°C) in adults generally aren’t dangerous. Monitor your temperature on a regular basis while you're sick, at least twice a day, to track whether it’s improving or worsening.


There are many types of thermometers on the market ranging from the usual under-the-tongue (oral), to rectal (in the bottom), tympanic (in the ear), and temporal artery (on the forehead) thermometers. The latter are usually used for kids (rectal for infants), whereas most adults get a close enough reading with an oral thermometer.You can also take a child's temperature under their arm.Normal body temperature actually varies between 97°F (36.1°C) and 99°F (37.2°C). It’s also affected by things like exercise and hormonal fluctuations like menstruation and menopause.;
, Your body is causing your fever on purpose to fight off germs. It might not be comfortable for you, but your fever is actually helping you get better. When possible, don’t treat mild fevers – lowering your fever can actually keep you sick longer, or cover up other symptoms.If you can cope with the discomfort, bundle up in bed with soup and TV or a good book and leave your fever untreated.


Generally, do not treat fevers under 102°F (38.9°C) unless your doctor tells you to., Do not go to work or school if you have a fever. Not only will you feel terrible and probably be pretty unproductive, you’ll be putting more stress on your body rather than allowing it to rest and recover. Stay home to rest and protect your coworkers or classmates from catching what you have.


Have good sickness hygiene if you leave the house or live with other people. Wash your hands frequently, especially after using the bathroom, coughing, or sneezing. Cover your mouth when you sneeze or cough. Do not prepare food for others when you’re sick, and don’t share cups or utensils., When you’re feverish, stay in bed and rest. You’ll probably feel pretty weak and tired.Rest and sleep help you and your immune system recover from illness. When less energy is being spent on waking activities, your body has more energy to fight infection.
 It’s really easy to get dehydrated when you have a fever; in fact, dehydration is usually the most dangerous thing about having a fever.Sip on water throughout the day to stay hydrated, even if you don’t feel like it. Have plenty of other clear fluids like soup, tea, and juice. If you’re nauseated, suck on ice chips – you have to get fluids somehow.


Don't drink alcohol.Alcohol dehydrates you and makes it harder for your body to fight infection.
If you become severely dehydrated you might need an IV at the hospital.
Signs of dehydration include feeling really thirsty, having a dry mouth or dry skin, not urinating as much as usual or having dark urine, and feeling weak, dizzy, fatigued, or lightheaded., You might lose your appetite when you have a fever.However, you should force yourself to eat even small amounts throughout the day – your body needs fuel to fight infection and recover. Eat small amounts of healthy foods that you can tolerate – fruits, vegetables, grains, cereal, soup, and smoothies are good options.


Cater to your other symptoms to stay comfortable. If you’re having nausea or diarrhea, stick to the BRAT diet – bananas, rice, applesauce, toast, and tea. If your throat is sore, drink warm liquids like tea and soup.
 Get more comfortable by keeping yourself cool. Dress in light clothing, sleep with light bedding, or open a window for some fresh air.Dampen a washcloth with cool water and put it on your neck or forehead for some soothing relief.
 Fevers may occur with headaches, body aches, chills, sweats, and shivering.If your fever is over 102°F (38.9°C) and you feel extremely uncomfortable or you have to feel better to be productive, take an OTC pain reliever and fever reducer.Acetaminophen products like Tylenol and ibuprofen products like Advil and Motrin can improve aches and pains and temporarily lower your fever.


Understand that these medications do not cure your illness, they just temporarily improve your symptoms.
Don’t take these products if you have liver or kidney damage or have had stomach ulcers. Only take them as prescribed by your doctor or indicated on the label.
Adults can take aspirin for discomfort, as well. Never give aspirin to children – it’s been known to trigger a serious illness in kids called Reye’s Syndrome.