 Remember that you’re representing your store as a whole. Even though you may have no direct contact with the food in the containers, expect customers to assume that you do. Maintain a clean appearance so they’re more likely to order (and tip) again and again. Be sure to:Wear clean clothes and keep a spare outfit to change into if necessary.
Wash your hands, face, and other visible skin before work and between deliveries when needed.
Refrain from smoking en route or doing anything else that may stink you up (and possibly the food too).
 Assume that the customer is watching you as soon as you pull up outside. Don’t dawdle. Show them that you’re trying to get their pizza to them while it’s hot by moving quickly. At the same time:Don’t rush so much that you can’t handle the load safely. Remember to keep the heat bags level at all times. Avoid dropping or tilting their food so it doesn’t slosh around and look like a mess when it finally gets there.
 Anticipate your customers’ needs. Before you leave the store, gear up with the same free items that are offered in-store, even if the customer didn’t ask for any. Then, when you deliver the food, ask if they’d like them. These could include:Paper plates
Napkins
Straws
Packets of crushed red pepper, parmesan, basil, etc.
 You may feel tempted to simply hand over the pizza and book back to the store to get your next order and tip. Before you do, realize that doing so may earn you a lower tip here and now with this customer. Be willing to make an extra effort when asked for something out of the ordinary by customers with special needs.For instance, you may have an elderly or frail customer who can’t manage carrying a single pie to their kitchen table. Or, you may have a fit and able customer who made a very large order and would like some help.
However, keep your own safety in mind. Follow your instincts and politely decline if you feel like you’d be putting yourself at risk by complying. Be aware that delivery people are often targets for crime.