 If you want to put up your own writing online without having to worry about going through the hassle of a big submissions process, a blog is the best idea for you. Using one has never been easier to negotiate. Look around for some common blog templates, checking out examples and playing with the interface to see what you like best. Common and popular blog templates include


Wordpress
Blogger
Weebly
Tumblr

, What do you like? What are you like? What do you have to offer the world? If you're going to jump into the world of blogging, you've got to find your "thing" and focus a blog around a unique and engaging concept, topic, or project that you're working on.


Teach people something. It might be a good idea to start a blog to document your home building project, or the great handmade banjos that you lovingly craft. Develop a blog around your life as a maker of the thing you make.
Go places. Travel blogs are extremely common, and can be a great way of keeping in touch with people back home. You can upload pictures, describe your feelings, and feel as if you have some connection to the familiar, even if you're far from home.
Rant intelligently. Nobody probably wants to listen to you complain about your dirty dishes, but if you do it intelligently, humorously, or with excellent writing, who knows? The Oatmeal is a wildly popular blog that documents mundane things like the behavior of household pets, but it's hysterically funny.Start a special project. Decide that you're going to visit every state park in Minnesota in a single year and blog about each one. Decide that you'll buy everything that Oprah recommends on her television show and blog about the experience. Decide that you'll watch every zombie movie ever and blog about the terror, the fun, and the political subtext of the zombie flick. These are all real blogs. Get experimental and document your project.
 Check out the competition by reading the styles and the topics of popular blogs and obscure blogs alike. Whatever blog use as a template, you can search other blogs using the same one, getting some sense of how to customize it and use the template to its best potential.


It's also a good idea to read blogs that cover similar content. If you're going to blog about family life raising children on a farm in Texas, you're going to have some serious heat from the Pioneer Woman. Consider ways to tweak the formula to stand out. Instead of being mildly self-deprecating and twee, make your blog super-sarcastic, or squeamish about the outdoors to see if that fits in more with a fun slant on the topic.
 Start writing the kinds of blog entries that fit in with your intentions. Make them witty, well-polished, engaging, and diverse. try to write different kinds of entries, with different content and different writing styles to see what works. No one will come back to read the same entry about your breakfast humble brag about how healthy your first meals are day-in and day-out. Shake it up.


Plan out a schedule of blog entries so you won't have to struggle for something new to say when you're confronted with the blank page. Write out a list of good topics that you'd like to cover on your blog and keep them with you in a schedule. If you know that you're going to have to write about consumerism in Romero's Dawn of the Dead tomorrow morning, you can start collecting your thoughts in the meantime.
Update your blog frequently. If you develop some readers, you don't want to leave them disappointed if they keep coming back to the same three entries for the next two months. Stay on schedule and aim to produce at least a few entries per week.
 If you're going to all the trouble to write these great entries, make sure people are reading them. Follow other blogs on the blogging platform you use, and share their entries to jump into the community. Start a Facebook page, Twitter account, and Instagram account specifically for your new blog and start sharing the heck out of your new updates when they come out. You can even use the online community as an inspiration for subsequent updates and posts, if it works out that way.


Listen to constructive feedback and ignore haters and trolls. If you're putting yourself out there, it's likely you'll stir up the gunk that falls to the bottom of the Internet barrel. Some people can be ugly and harsh, so try your best to ignore them and keep doing what you do.
 If your blog becomes popular and starts to attract a substantial following and traffic to the site, you might be able to start making money from ad revenue, but you'll first have to export your content and your page to an independent site and pay for the domain name. If you've got a lot of followers, though, this can be a necessary investment.


Hire a web designer to create you a page that will maintain a similar structure and feel to the blog you already use, but make it more professional. Contact advertisers that sell products similar in nature to the content of your blog, and include ad space on your website. try to keep it as unobtrusive as possible to avoid irritating your fan base.
Consider merchandising. Another great way to branch out into making money with your blog is to start selling swag. Make t-shirts for your hike across Minnesota blog, or start selling those art projects you're making for your DIY blog on Etsy.

