 Sometimes livestock wander onto a road and collide with traveling vehicles. These kinds of accidents can cause serious damage. If your livestock injures someone in this manner, then you can expect to be sued. Accordingly, you should meet with a lawyer as soon as possible. Don’t wait until the lawsuit is filed.


You can get a referral to an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Once you have a referral, you can schedule a consultation. Many lawyers now offer free or reduced-fee consultations. Take relevant documents, such as police reports and photographs, to the attorney.
 You should also think about hiring the lawyer to represent you. If costs are a concern, then discuss different billing arrangements with the lawyer. For example, she might be willing to represent you for a flat fee instead of the usual billable hour.


Also, the lawyer might be willing to do only the work that you give her. This is called “limited scope representation.” For example, you might handle all of the pre-trial work yourself but hire a lawyer to represent you at trial. Ask the lawyer during your consultation if he or she offers this service.
 If you run a farm, then you should be carrying insurance to cover accidents caused by your livestock. Take out your policy and find the contact number.


You shouldn’t delay contacting your insurer. Your policy usually contains a deadline for reporting claims. You should report them as soon as possible.
 Once a lawsuit is filed, the plaintiff will send you a copy of the complaint and the summons. Go through each document carefully to see what facts the plaintiff alleges in support of the lawsuit.


You will probably be sued for “negligence.”Negligence means that you were not reasonably careful in how you penned up the animal. This is a fact-specific inquiry. The jury will need to look at how you restrained your livestock—with a fence, by keeping them in a locked barn, etc.—and whether these actions were reasonable.
 You can defend against a negligence claim by arguing that you were sufficiently reasonable in the care you took to restrain the animal. For example:


The fences you installed were in good working condition and were sufficiently high to keep the animal from escaping. The day of the accident, the fence might have failed because of damage caused by a storm.
You weren’t responsible for the animal escaping. Instead, someone else (like a vandal), broke the fence or otherwise released the animal.The injured person helped cause the injury. For example, if someone sneaks onto your property and frees an animal, then he is responsible if the animal then stomps on him.
 You will need to draft an answer and file it with the court before the deadline stated in the summons. You should get an answer form from the court where the lawsuit has been filed.
 If you have an attorney, then the attorney can represent you. A trial typically consists of jury selection, the presentation of witnesses and evidence, and opening and closing statements. If you hire an attorney, then the attorney can handle the trial.


You might not be able to hire a lawyer. Accordingly, you will need to represent yourself. For information on how to defend yourself at trial, see Represent Yourself in Court (U.S.).
 Your testimony at trial can be critical. In particular, the jury will want to know what you did to restrain your animals. You can expect the plaintiff’s lawyer to cross-examine you about your actions. To make an effective witness, remember the following:Show respect for the seriousness of the situation. Dress professionally, as you would for a job interview, and treat everyone politely.
Speak clearly and simply. Don’t provide additional information unless the lawyer asks for it.
Always answer out loud, using whole words. Don’t mumble, shrug, or say “uh huh.”
Look at the lawyer asking questions but then turn to the jury when you answer.
 If you lose at trial, you might want to appeal. You should discuss an appeal with an attorney. To bring an appeal, you need to pay to have court transcripts created. You also need to pay a filing fee, which can be expensive.


If you choose to file, then don’t delay. After the verdict is announced, ask the court clerk for a Notice of Appeal form. You can always choose not to file the form if you meet with an attorney and decide an appeal is not worthwhile.

