 There are optional ways to advance your degree even after you are a certified nurse. For instance, you can become a lactation consultant, which is a nurse who helps assist women with breastfeeding.To become a lactation consultant, you can take a specific exam and complete hours of clinical time caring for breastfeeding women.


You can also become certified in different areas of labor and delivery.Options for maternity nurses certifications are Inpatient Obstetric Nursing (RNC-OB), Maternal Newborn Nursing (RNC-MNN), Low Risk Neonatal Nursing (RNC-LRN), and Neonatal Intensive Care Nursing (RNC-NIC).
Nurse certification benefits patients, families, employers, and the nurse. The certified nurse becomes important to their patient because their patient knows they are experts in their specialty. Employers want certified nurses because it shows professionalism and retention. It shows the nurse loves what she or he does and wants to continue to learn. As for the nurse, it benefits him or her because of the sense of achievement in their career., Work for doctors and midwives, or volunteer at the hospital. You can even try to become a nurse’s aide in the area that interests you.


Although you should try to get experience before you get the job, once you are hired you can expect on the job training that will prepare you for the actual work of maternity nursing.
 For example, you must be able to handle pressure and stay organized in stressful situations. In addition, communication and good interpersonal skills are essential.


Learn to educate people. You will have to teach women how to nurse, partners how to encourage, and new parents how to care for their babies. Be sure you know exactly what you are teaching. Your patients will have questions and, as a specialized nurse, it is important to be able to answer those questions with accurate information.
Work on staying physically and emotionally strong. Many new labor and delivery nurses are on night shift and that shift can exhaust anyone.Assisting doctors and women during childbirth can be exhausting, and you will need to be prepared for any possible outcome during the pregnancies of your patients.

