 The seeds should be ground in a coffee or spice grinder, as finely as possible. Flax seeds have a slightly nutty flavor and may affect the taste of your recipe, so use it in recipes that would benefit from this flavor or have other, stronger flavors that will cover the taste of the flax.Chia seeds are darker and will deepen the color of your bake goods.Mix 1 Tbsp. ground flax seed and 3 Tbsp. water to replace one egg. Allow the mixture to sit for 30 minutes, until it thickens and has a jelly-like consistency.Mix 1 Tbsp. ground chia seed and 3 Tbsp. water to replace one egg. Allow the mixture to sit and after 30 minutes it should have a thick, gel-like consistency.If the eggs are meant to bind and leaven, add an additional 1/4 Tsp. baking powder., cornstarch and 2 Tbsp. water to replace one egg. If there is a lot of liquid in the recipe already, you can omit the water and just mix in the cornstarch.The cornstarch will act as a binder and thicken your food as well.
 You will probably need to experiment with quantities to find the right balance and really nail your recipe.


Add 2-3 Tbsp. mashed potatoes to replace one egg. Instant potato flakes or sweet potato can also be used.Add 2-3 Tbsp. rice to replace one egg. You can also try adding cooked rice to soups and pureeing them for thickness.Use 2-3 Tbsp finely crushed breadcrumbs to replace 1 egg.
Use 2-3 Tbsp cooked oatmeal or quick-cooking rolled oats to replace 1 egg in a recipe. This is a great for savory recipes and sweet baked goods like cookies, too.
 They will both bind and leaven your product. Remember that agar is vegan, while gelatin is not.


1 Tbsp. gelatin plus 3 tablespoons warm water will replace one egg.Whip 1 Tbsp agar powder in 1 Tbsp water, then allow it to chill in the refrigerator. Whip it again and it should be thickened and ready to use., Remember that adding fruits will make your dish dense and will usually alter the taste, so choose make sure you like the flavor combination before adding fruit puree to a recipe.


Use 1/4 cup mashed banana, applesauce, or puréed prunes to replace 1 egg.Add 1/2 Tbsp. baking powder for a lighter texture.