 Avocado is not only good for your health, but also for your body. It is full of healthy fats and oils, which can help repair damaged hair, and nourish dry or brittle hair., Putting olive oil into your hair may sound like a greasy idea, but olive oil is actually very good for your hair. It helps hydrate it, leaving behind soft, silky locks., Honey is not only good for your skin, but also for your hair. It is a natural humectant, so it draws moisture into your hair. It is also full of vitamins, which may help strengthen your hair., While this is not necessary, it will give your hair mask a lovely scent. If you use this mask on your scalp, the lavender essential oil may help relieve itching and dryness related to dandruff.If you aren't a fan of lavender, you can try another essential oil, such as rosemary, mint, or eucalyptus. All of these have a nice, refreshing scent.
 You can do this with a hand-held mixer. If you don't own one, you can use a stand mixer, or even a food processor fitted with whisks. If you don't have any of those, a blender or even a plain, old whisk would work.


If you are using a plain whisk, consider mashing the avocado up slightly with a fork first.
 This will open up the cuticles in your hair, and allow your hair to more readily absorb the nutrients in this mask.
 The ends of your hair are the parts that tend to be the most damaged, so you should apply the mask to them first. If you have any mask left over, work your way up to the roots.


Use your fingers or a wide-toothed comb to help spread the mask through your hair.
 If you have very long hair, consider pulling it up into a loose bun and clipping it in place first.
 If you do not own a hairdryer, or if you don't feel like using one, you can sit outside in the sun for 30 to 45 minutes—just don't forget the sunscreen!The heat will help your hair further absorb the nutrients in this mask. The shower cap will keep the moisture and heat in, and prevent the mask from drying out.
 Follow up with your usual shampoo and conditioner. Olive oil can be difficult to remove, so you may have to shampoo your hair twice.
 If you choose to blow dry your hair, remember to use a heat protectant spray. Because of how rich this mask is, you likely won't need to use any extra creams and oils.

