 Your head is perhaps the single most important part of your body to protect in a riot. Batons, rubber bullets, rocks, and fists can all cause permanent damage if they strike you in the head. Even weapons that aren't meant to be shot directly into protesters, like tear gas canisters, can (and have) caused major injuries and deaths this way.To protect against critical head injuries, wear a sturdy helmet. Rioters are known to protect themselves with:


Bike helmets
Motorcycle helmets
Hard hats/construction helmets
Sports helmets/headwear
Police/military surplus helmets;
, Generally, you won't want to be caught in a riot in your shorts and sandals. The more skin covered, the better, as many anti-riot weapons, like pepper spray, rubber bullets, and so on, are most effective against bare skin. However, you won't necessarily want to wear clothing that's prohibitively heavy or bulky, as, often, the best defense against danger is simply to run away. Below is just one sample outfit that you might want to consider:


Heavy but well-fitting jeans that you can run in.
Tee-shirt or undershirt.
Long-sleeved overshirt of heavy cloth or flannel.
Tough jacket (sturdy leather or cloth works well.
Scarf (optional)

, While it's important to dress to protect yourself, you won't want to commit too heavily to the outfit you're wearing during a riot. Try to wear clothing you can easily remove if the need arises (and that you won't miss if you have to abandon it.) Being able to slip out of an outer garment quickly can have some major advantages. For instance:


It can allow you to slip out of someone's grasp.
It can allow you to escape noxious chemicals (like tear gas and pepper spray) that have seeped in to your clothes.
It can allow you to easily "cool down" during breaks in the action when you get a chance to rest.
 If you have a chance to visit a sporting goods store, protective pads and guards can be very helpful in a riot. Though not quite as heavy-duty as the gear riot police are likely to wear, they can often prevent scrapes and bruises and may even offer limited protection against batons and rubber bullets. Commonly-available pads that you may want to consider wearing are:


Shin guards (soccer/football, hockey)
Knee guards (skating)
Thigh/hip guards (American football)
Elbow/wrist pads (skating)

, For obvious reasons, it's a good idea to wear a cup to a riot if you're a man. Don't forget this seemingly minor addition to your riot gear — it can be a lifesaver.
 As noted above, often, your best defense in a riot is simply to get away from sources of danger — in fact, even die-hard anarchist resources often prioritize a rioter's need to stay mobile over his ability to resist physical damage.This is much easier to do if you're wearing shoes that allow you to run at a sprint. Try to wear at least reasonably tough athletic shoes or boots that are worn-in and comfortable.


Heavier boots (like police or military surplus options) can offer additional protection but may make it hard to run if you're not used to them.
 If you find that it doesn't impede your ability to move, you may want to add strips or plates of hard protective material under your clothing to protect you from the hazards of rocks, rubber bullets, fists, batons, tasers, and so on. To attach these makeshift pieces of armor, stick them to the inside of your clothing with sturdy tape or string strips together with cloth to make a wearable "apron." Suitable materials may include:


Sheet metal
Thick, hard plastic (PVC, etc.)
Tough leather
Kevlar or other tough fibers

