 If you think you might be interested in becoming a forensic accountant, start your education and training as early as possible. If you can take electives or join extracurricular activities while still in high school, that's a great start.You may want to join relevant clubs, such as math club or student government. You could be the class treasurer for the experience of handling an organization's money ethically.
Electives and outside classes could focus on business and entrepreneurship, or advanced mathematics.;
, Most positions in forensic accounting will require a bachelor’s degree. If possible, obtain a degree in a relevant field, so that your studies will directly inform your career choice. A degree in financial forensics is the best possible choice.
Your field of study should involve courses in ethical standards and regulation, forensic psychology, cybercrime, and financial accounting.
 To become a forensic accountant, you must be certified as a CPA (Certified Public Accountant). To do this, you must pass the CPA exam, which is very rigorous. In order to take it, most states require that you complete a certain number of hours of instruction toward the test.Most states require 150 hours of instruction, which is 30 hours more than a typical bachelor’s degree requires.
Many people who become CPAs hold bachelor’s degrees in accounting, or MBAs in business.
 In order to sit for the CFFA (Certified Financial Forensic Accountant) exam, you’ll need at least two years of relevant work experience. It might seem like it’s impossible to find work without having already passed the exam. However, you can take entry level positions within the field.You may be able to get a part-time job or an unpaid internship while you complete your bachelor’s degree.
Many forensic accountants begin as accountants who work for an auditing firm.
Gaining work experience early on is helpful in making sure that you will enjoy this choice of career.
 In the United States, you’ll need to become a Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE). To do this, you’ll need to take the CFFA (Certified Financial Forensic Accountant) exam.In order to take the exam, you’ll need to become a member of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE).
You’ll also need to take a specified number of training courses in preparation for the test.
 A master’s degree in business administration (MBA) with a focus on ethics and fraud is an excellent step for those interested in leadership roles in financial investigation.A master’s degree is highly recommended if you’d like to work in crafting policies on fraud.
Some programs let students work toward a master’s degree and a certificate as one course of study. This is a great way to earn your MBA and your certificate as a forensic accountant at once.

