 Whereas women are expected to combine a variety of tops, many men tend to reach for the t-shirt. Simple, easy to clean, and draws little attention. Since this is a safe choice for self-presenting as a boy, it's easier to have some fun and pick out shirts that align with your interests.


Many men wear t-shirts of their favorite bands, or with artwork from their favorite TV shows and movies.
If you want to give off an athletic appearance, consider buying plain white, gray, or black shirts. Also, sportswear would be a good choice for an athletic male look.;
, Most men can be seen wearing blue jeans, navy slacks, and khakis. Take a trip to the department store or even a thrift store to save money, and pick up several pairs. These will give you a solid foundation to build multiple boyish or manly outfits.


Be sure to pick pants that fit comfortably.
Currently, skinny jeans are becoming more common among men, and these could be a good fit for your new look. Keep in mind though they are more revealing of figure (leg musculature) and could potentially reveal your sex. These could be great for muscular women or gender fluid people who want to embrace their non-dichotomous self-presentation.
 A common representation of women's shoes is flats, heels, and sandals. For men you will more likely see sneakers (high, mid, and low-tops), boat shoes, boots, moccasins, and loafers. Do you want a sporty look, or more professional? Knowing the answer to this question can help guide you toward the right shoes for you.


Skateboard shops, department stores, and brand name outlets are good places to find fashionable male shoes.
When wearing formal wear, be sure to pair your outfit with smart dress shoes. It is best to have them polished without any blemishes in the material.
 Considered by some to be the "common man's crown," baseball hats give you an athletic, relaxed look, that can compliment any male outfit.


Do you have a favorite sports team? Or simply a city you love and want to represent? Answering these questions can help you find a cool new accessory.
The way you wear your hat - forward, backward, angled, cocked, tilted - can convey different things about your personality, and allows you more expression in your new male look.
Be aware that sports fans may engage you based on mutual support or rivalry.
 Although they are undeniably used by girls and boys alike, women commonly carry purses instead. Trading in a purse or clutch for a simple backpack can add to your simple male appearance.
 For formal, business, and even some party occasions, it is appropriate to wear a suit and tie. Whether this is a simple blazer and overcoat, or a personally tailored tux, suits are an easy way to give off a male appearance.


Transforming the common female body into a male look often means minimizing hips and increasing shouldersConsider getting coats with shoulder pads to accentuate the appearance of a masculine build.
Loud colors like green, pink, and teal are extremely uncommon among male formal wear. In order to pass as male, you will have better luck with suits in shades of navy. Pants are typically khaki and navy. There is more wiggle room with ties. A good question to ask yourself is how much you want to stick out. For example Neil deGrasse Tyson often wears eccentric ties and garners some attention for it. On the other hand, your everyday business man on the street can usually be seen wearing a paisley, striped, or single tone tie.
 If you are older, or simply want to give off a more mature appearance, suitcases are a classic symbol of the business man. Traditionally, leather suitcases are the go-to for professionals. However, shoulder strap, and bicycle bags are steadily finding popularity among young professional men.

