 If you recently adopted your guinea pig, you must give it time to settle into its new home. This is a long process, and can't just be done overnight. If your guinea pig is in a rowdy environment, or if you negatively interact (scream, hurting it etc.) with your guinea pig, it can be very difficult to get their trust again. Guinea pigs are easy pets to take care of, but they can also be very stubborn!
, A sick guinea pig isn't a happy guinea pig! Always take your guinea pig to the vet, even if you don't suspect it's sick. Regular vet checks are always a good idea.

Take your guinea pig to the vet immediately if your guinea pig has a hunched poster, crusty eyes, patchy hair loss or overall just looks like it's in pain. Guinea pigs hide sickness very well, that's how guinea pigs defend themselves in the wild because the predators can sense when a guinea pig is vulnerable.
Don't forget to take care of your guinea pig's hygiene.
You might need extra services like grooming, nail clipping, or other special procedures, like neutering. If this is your first vet visit, your guinea pig's veterinarian should tell you during your first visit if there needs to be extra services involved.
Never cut your guinea pig's nails on your own. Guinea pigs and other animals have a vein called a "quick" which if cut, can cause extreme pain and bleeding. So always have a licensed vet cut your guinea pig's nails.
 For example, if your guinea pig is in a hut, stick your finger close to the hut. A healthy guinea pig that trusts you will investigate by sniffing your finger for a couple of seconds before quickly returning to the hut., Guinea pigs don't want to be trapped in a cage all day! Remove all wires, plants, and other objects a guinea pig shouldn't have access to. Make sure the area is clean, and has plenty of fresh air flow (not cold air!). Cover the spot where your guinea is laying in with a fleece (avoid using an overly fluffy blanket) blanket or a towel. Fence the area in with a gate. Don't forget to throw in some of your guinea pig's favorite toys! Your guinea pig will be have plenty of space to exercise and play in, and it might show its appreciation by popcorning or oinking!

Don't forget to get supervise your guinea pig!

, This might sound like it won't work, but giving a guinea pig fresh food is actually another great way to get your guinea pig to popcorn! Guinea pigs are huge food fans, just like us humans. They will sometimes squeak when they hear a cabinet or a refrigerator opening! Make sure you supply your guinea pig with fresh hay everyday.

Don't overfeed your guinea pig. Obesity is a common problem, and can cause many problems for guinea pigs. A quick test to see if your guinea pig is underweight is to run your hands down its body, if you can feel its ribs easily its underweight. If you just feel fat and no ribs, your guinea pig is overweight.
 Don't feel bad if you never see your guinea pig popcorn. Guinea pigs have other ways of letting you know they love you, such as oinking and purring.

If your guinea pig is older, it is less likely to popcorn. Popcorning is mostly seen in younger guinea pigs.
There may be plenty of other reasons your guinea pig isn't popcorning, but if you are really concerned, talk to a guinea pig behavioral specialist or visit the vet.

