 The title of the song could be the chorus, or it could be some other word/phrase you think sums everything up. The title is the audience's first clue as to what the song is about or means, so take your time thinking of it.


That said, don't make a complicated title if you don't have to. Most songs use the chorus lines for a reason -- the chorus is already stating the main theme of the song., A good way to think about this is a rhyme diagram, where each letter symbolizes a rhyme. So, in an ABAB rhyme scheme, the first line (A) rhymes with the third (A) and the second line (B) rhymes with the fourth (B). There is also AABB, where lines just rhyme back to back. There are hundreds of ways to structure your rhymes, so start playing with your lines until you like the sound.


ABAB, or "alternating rhyme" is also common, and is easily written by splitting two long line into four ones.
Really technical writers might try to rhyme 4-6 lines in a row. This could be an AAAA BBBB rhyme scheme, or even AAAA AAAA if you're feeling extra complicated.
Some writers will try extending out a rhyme over multiple verses. Like an AAAB CCCB scheme. For an example, tune into "Tombstone Blues."

, There are, in general, three main sections of a song, not including an intro or outro (which can, of course, have lyrics). These three sections are mixed and matched to form the final song:



Choruses/Hooks are the repeated sections of the song, and the catchy area you hope everyone remembers the song by. They are usually short, and identically repeated.

Verses are generally the longest, most unique sections, where you expand on the ideas of the song and make your point, tell your story, etc.

Bridges, also called "Middle 8s," are sections with different instrumentals. They often transition between a chorus or verse, or provide one section of differing texture and sound. This can be an instrumental solo, or cue a change in the mood or theme of the lyrics., Once you've got at least a chorus and a few verses written you can start thinking about how they alternate. You can even write a bridge to mix things up. The most typical song structure is intro/ verse / chorus / verse / chorus / bridge / chorus / outro, but there is nothing marrying you to this structure.


Another popular trick is to use multiple bridges to get from each verse to each chorus-- something like verse / bridge / chorus / verse / bridge / chorus / etc.
Bridges can also be instrumental breaks like guitar solos., Writing your own lyrics is only half the battle -- you need to know how to sing them, too. Even if you're a rapper, you still need to think about "flow," or the pace and rhythm of your words. The best way to do this is to experiment, usually with an instrument of some sort, but you can even whistle or hum until something sounds good as well.


Paul McCartney of The Beatles famously found the melody to "Yesterday" by just repeating the words "Scrambled Eggs" until he found the notes. The lyrics were put in later.