 One of the best ways to engage in conversation with another person is by showing genuine interest in them. How do you do that? You can stimulate conversation with others by talking about the things they like to talk about. People like to talk about themselves and their interests, so showing curiosity can get your sibling talking and deepen your bond.For example, if your brother is obsessed with Doctor Who, you might ask, “So, what’s you all-time favorite episode, and why?” Using an open-ended question format ensures that your sibling won’t just give a one-word reply.
Plus, allowing your sibling to share more about something they’re passionate about makes them feel good about themselves and about you.
 Sometimes silence is about not knowing how to bring up hurt feeling or difficult topics, or fear of being overwhelmed by such conversations and the emotions that come with them. If you can break down that barrier by checking in, it can help facilitate communication and stop silence.

Try asking your sibling: “Is everything ok? You seem really quite today.”

, The best listener is an active one. That is, someone who listens to understand rather than listening to reply. When you attempt to engage in conversation with your sibling, you want to make sure that they have your full attention. Follow the strategies for active listening and watch how communication between the two of you starts to improve.


Active listening involves using body language and verbal cues to improve the communication process. Body language includes having an open and relaxed posture (e.g. arms and legs uncrossed), making occasional eye contact, turning towards your sibling, and giving visual cues such as nodding or smiling when appropriate.
The verbal components of active listening include:


Paraphrasing, or restating the message in a different way (e.g. Original message: “He told me I was a loser in front of everyone, so I ran to the nearest restroom. I cried for hours…” Paraphrase: “It sounds like you were very upset.”).

Clarifying, or bringing greater understanding to vague aspects of the message (e.g. “Let me see if I heard you correctly. You’re saying…”)

Showing empathy, or addressing the speaker’s emotional experience (e.g. “I get the sense that you felt humiliated when he said that in public.”)



, No matter how much you and your sibling have in common there will come a time when you disagree with one another. Disagreement does not have to be a bad thing. In fact, it can be an opportunity to learn more about each other and become more open-minded. Here’s how to disagree politely.Focus on the action or concept rather than disagreeing with the person as a whole. (Instead of saying "You're a jerk," try "I was really hurt by what you said.")
Use “I” statements to express how you feel.
Be an active listener when it’s time for the other person to talk.
Avoid putting down the other person’s opinions or beliefs (e.g. “That’s silly!”)
Take a deep breath. If you find yourself getting angry, take a few moments to return to a calm state.
 If your sibling has been ignoring you, you may feel desperate to re-establish or build a connection with them; however, you should allow your bond to deepen at its own pace. Forcing your sibling may seem inauthentic, so give them time to warm up to having a connection with you.


As the relationship gradually deepens, be sure to celebrate the minor successes that you notice. For example, if your sister starts to stop by your room and chat for a few minutes after swim practice, pat yourself on the back. You two may not be staying up gossiping about your crushes just yet, but at least you’re making progress.

