 If you want to have fun with your friends, create an atmosphere in your room that encourages relaxation and fun. Redesign your room to make hanging out, chatting, and listening to music easier.


Your teenage friends probably love music. Make sure you have a device in your room that you can use to play music. A small stereo might be nice or maybe just a set of speakers for your iPhone or iPod.
Have a lot of seating space. You can buy cheap fold-out or bean bag chairs at a local department store. See if your parents have an old couch they're no longer using that you can put in your room. As your friends may get messy on occasion, make sure you choose furniture that can be easily cleaned.Sometimes, just having a nice looking room can be fun. Look into fun wall art, posters, and other decorations. Make a trip to a local art or thrift store to look for fun items to decorate your room., If you want to be a fun friend, you'll need to stay up-to-date on what's going on. People who are fun to be around are constantly full of ideas for plans and activities.


Pay attention to entertainment options there are in your town or city. What movies are coming to theater this weekend? What live concerts are showing? Is there a sale at the mall? Is there a high school football game everyone will go to on Saturday?
Always be on the lookout for fun activities you and your friends will enjoy. Be the first one to send out an e-mail or Facebook message suggesting you get a group together to see a movie or go to a concert.
 People love to be around people who laugh. If you want to be a fun friend, always be ready to crack a joke. Making your friends laugh can be a great way to have fun. You can have a ton of fun just hanging out at your house if you're able to make people laugh.


Some people have a natural tendency to joke. If this is the case with you, try to bring that tendency out when you're around people. If you tend to be more reserved, try to push yourself out of your shell a little. If you think of something funny, don't hesitate to say it. If you have a funny story, share it.Be goofy. Many people are afraid of letting their childish side show. Be open to occasionally being immature. While you shouldn't be cracking crude jokes during a dramatic film, when the moment feels appropriate don't be shy about letting your silly side out. Laugh at dumb jokes and ridiculous antics. Watch silly YouTube videos. Read funny Twitter accounts. Always be on the lookout for lighthearted fun., Another way to be consistently fun is to introduce people to unfamiliar things. People are naturally drawn in by those able to show them new experiences.


If a new restaurant opens up in town, make plans to try it. Watch new TV shows and movies as they come out and, if they're good, invite your friends over for a viewing party. Be on the lookout for new stores. Take a drive to a part of town you and your friends don't normally go to and spend the day exploring.Share your tastes. Many people are shy about sharing their tastes in music, books, fashion, and more. Be open to introducing your friends to your passions. Don't be pushy about it. Just try to slowly introduce your friends to new things. For example, play a CD of a band you like in the background while you guys are hanging out.
 You may think you have to structure everything in order to always have fun things to do. However, sometimes the most fun activities occur spontaneously. Allow for last minute get togethers and deviations from the plan. If your movie night is interrupted because your friends want to talk and giggle, that's okay. Let the fun happen on its own.