 You want to buy good quality materials with minimal knots, splits, or warping. Cedar, redwood, or even the new recycled plastic decking is best for flat surfaces. In this article, treated southern, yellow pine lumber is used.


Set up a work area so you can cut and assemble parts conveniently. You will need a workbench or table at least four feet square, as well as saw horses and a bench for your miter saw.;
, This will help you place pieces in the correct position.

You can lay out the hub with a framing square, drawing a center line, transversal (with its length roughly 1 1/2 inch (3.75cm) longer than 2 spokes placed end-to-end), then marking two 60 degree angles on each side at the center so the third angle between them on each side will be 60 degrees also (for 6 x 60 = 360 degrees), then measuring out from the center point equal distances (in the length of the spoke), and finally, connecting these points to form the outline of the hexagon (for 6 equal outer edge boards).
 For the table in the illustrations, the six sides are 24 inches (61cm); cut off a 30 degree angle from each end (leaving 60 degrees). Of course, when pairs of sides are put together while forming the band, the resulting table corner is 120 degrees.
 Pre-drill the holes through one side of these corners so they grip tightly and don't split.
 For the example project, each side is about 45 inches (114cm). A simple trick to keep the sides from slipping or moving, toenail two sides with wood screws to the table top until the spokes, or internal framing members are fastened.
 You might scribe these cuts, if you are unable to get an accurate measurement.
 Again pre-drill the band so the wood doesn't split and the screws pull up tightly. This assembly will be the basic support for the tabletop, and fitting everything flush (straight and aligned) and tightly joined together will give you a good, solid finished table.
 Measure the length of the spoke from the center of the transverse 2X4 inch (5cm X 10cm) out to one corner. Cut your spoke to that length.
To cut the angles on the spoke, first scribe the center of the 2 inch (5cm) way on each end. Then cut the outer pointed-end of each spoke by cutting off 30 degrees from each edge to your scribed center.
The hub-end will be cut 30 degrees to the center mark off one edge only, and 90 degrees off this end cut, from the center, to the other edge, thus dropping 60 degrees -- or after cutting 30 you could cut off 60 degrees to the center off the second edge, which would automatically leave that desired 90 (since 30+90+60 = 180).
 Again, pre-drill holes where possible, especially when fastening very near the end of the board.
 Check that the edges are flush on both the top and bottom. Be aware that even finished lumber may vary slightly in width and thickness, so this step is important for a good finished project.
 The leg pieces in the illustrations are 10 inches (25cm) long, and the diagonal braces are 6 inches (15cm) long, 45 degrees on each end.
 Then fasten the braces to these members. Keep the screws flush to the frame so each member can fit tightly in place. Use the same 2 1/2 inch #10 corrosion resistant wood screws.
 Secure the braces and check to make sure everything is in the proper location.
 Then fasten it in place with screws.
 Draw a line down on each side with a square to mark the location where the radial boards that will support the seats will be fastened. Cut four of these with the same 30 degree angles centered on each side of one end.
 Then brace them with diagonal braces, if you want, for extra support.
: 60 degrees angles). Then fit them between the spoke boards to brace them. Make sure they are equal, as these will keep the seat support boards in position during the rest of the table assembly.
, Use a larger, heavier screw for this attachment, since it will be supporting the weight of the table and its occupants when the project is finished and the table is in use.
, Add screws to any connections that seem loose, and replace any boards that have split or do not seem sound., The legs should rest firmly on the ground or your work surface. If any seem to be too long or out of square, you might trim them, but that shouldn't be necessary, if they are all cut and fitted correctly.
 The illustrations show 5/4 X 6 inch (3cm x 15cm) deck boards with radius edges, cedar or redwood, or 2 X 4 inch (5cm x 10cm) treated yellow pine can also be used.
 Let one end overhand about 3 inches (7.5cm), and screw the plank down to hold it in place. Continue adding planks until one side is almost covered.
 Save the drops (cut off ends) of these planks to finish the side you are working on and to start the other side. Make sure you fasten the planks securely; they may warp or twist, if exposed to the weather.
 Then trim all sides so they are equal and symmetrical to the base frame. Sand the edges to make sure there are no splinters or rough material to injure users of the table.
 Each will have a cut approximately 30 degrees, the outside should cover the top of the legs where they fit the ends of the seat supports. Drill pilot holes in the ends of the seat planks so they don't split.
,,