 Using a pair of scissors, cut off all the old straps and fasteners.;
,, With a cloth measuring tape, take the hole-to-hole measurement. Wrap the measuring tape around the frame as if it were a strap.
 Take the hole-to-hole measurement and multiply it by .85 (85%). Then add one inch. This number will be your cut length.


For example: Hole to hole measurement = 22" Hole-to-hole measurement x .8" = 17.6" Add one inch. Cut length: 18.6".
 Using scissors and a measuring tape, cut the desired number of straps at the cut length.
 Using a leather punch or and electric drill with a 3/16" bit, carefully drill a hole in the center of the strap, 1/2" from the end of the strap. Make sure to drill a hole on both ends.
 Once all straps are cut and drilled, trim off the corners of both sides of every strap.
 This is done to soften it. There are at least two possible ways to achieve this satisfactorily:

Use boiling water to heat it. Using a hot plate or other heat source, boil a large pot of water. Once the water has come to a boil, insert several straps. Reduce the heat so the water remains hot but not boiling. Allow the straps to stay in the water at least two minutes, although leaving them in longer will not hurt them.






Use a heat gun. Move the heat gun around frequently; do not allow it to rest at one place. Thirty seconds of moving it around the strap and it should be heated enough to use.
 From here on, gloves are recommended to be worn as the straps can be very hot coming out of the water or after heating under the heat gun. Remove one strap with a pair of tongs and dry it with a towel, or simply lift up the hot heated strap with the tongs. Insert rivets into both ends of the strap.
 While the strap is still hot, approach the frame from underneath. Push the rivet into the hole in the frame and bring the strap around the outside of the frame.


If the rivet is difficult to insert, use a rubber mallet or hammer to tap it in.
 Using one hand to detain the chair, grab the end of the strap with the other. Stretch the strap evenly and steadily over top the opposite side of the chair.
 Using heavy thumb pressure, hold the vinyl in place and attach the rivet to the frame with the other hand. Release thumb pressure and the strap will contract as it cools.
 When it's all done, the chair is ready to sit on again.

