 Fat just goes through your intestine and can make diarrhea worse during a flare-up.These undigested fats produce gas and lead to diarrhea and frothy stool. These symptoms are more severe in patients who have had a significant length of small intestine removed.
 Many who suffer from Crohn’s disease find that this can help reduce diarrhea and gas. Keep in mind that difficulty digesting dairy might also mean that you are lactose intolerant. Talk to you doctor if you believe this might be a possibility. Almond milk may be a good alternative to cow’s milk. It contains substantial amounts of protein, vitamin D and E, but no cholesterol or saturated fat. It can be fortified with calcium to meet daily needs.
 Fibers are actually complex carbohydrates that humans cannot digest. They pass unchanged into the colon and bulk up the stool. Fiber also retains water in the intestine that may worsen diarrhea. If needed, you should cut fibrous foods into tiny pieces and cook well (making them soft) to ease their passage through the intestine. Keep in mind that this advice is specifically for during a flare-up of the disease. When the incident has passed, eating a healthy high-fiber diet is a good idea. Crohn’s disease may cause some parts of the intestine to become narrowed due to inflammation and fibrosis. Food containing fiber cannot pass easily through these constrictions; therefore, you may experience cramps and abdominal pain due to vigorous contraction of the intestine.Green leafy vegetables
Nuts
Seeds
Prunes
Whole grains — oats, quinoa, rye, farro, etc.
 Residue refers to the undigested portion of food that is excreted as stool. Low residue foods are soft and are easily digested. They also pass easily through the narrowed parts of intestine. This way, you will have less abdominal pain and cramps. Again, this advice is for during a flare-up of the disease — it’s not healthy to only eat these soft, often refined foods as the constant basis of your diet. Try the following:


Cooked cereals
Pastas (not whole grain)
Skinless potatoes
Soft white bread
Canned vegetables without seeds.
 These can be found in fish and some eggs (labeled that they contain omega-3 fatty acids). There is evidence to suggest that these foods can help reduce inflammation.