 The opening of the race is incredibly important and contributes to the success of the relay. If you are the first runner in the relay, you will need to set the pace and tempo for the rest of your team.When you begin running, there will be a seven-second timeframe where your body will not have a buildup of lactic acid, and you can take advantage of this to gain speed without getting fatigued.Blast off as fast as you possibly can and then work on gaining more momentum as you run.


While it may seem like common sense to start slow and then build up speed, this is not the right tactic in the 400-meter relay. You should always be maintaining a speed that's close to a full sprint.
Train your balance and strength to build up your ability to explode out of the gate.Exercises like rocket jumps, truck jumps, lunge jumps, and forward weight throws will help build explosive power for when you need to take off.;
, The first 50-100 meters of your run will be an acceleration period. You should be right below your maximum sprinting speed.The goal here is to pick up enough speed before you go into a more controlled sprint which uses less energy. Don't fall behind the other runners during this stretch of the race.
 For the next 100 meters of the contest, you'll want to continue running at near max speed but conserve your energy. You can save your energy by reducing your arm's range of motion.Do not reduce your speed or go into a jog. The goal is to maintain the maximum running velocity while conserving your energy.
 When you hit 200 meters, you will undergo a rebuilding phase. Build your momentum back up to achieve your maximum speed. Sprint as fast as you possibly can for the last 100-150 meters of the race. In this phase, your body will begin to get tired and want to slow down, but you will lose the race if you do this.If you are behind, try to catch up to those ahead of you and exert all the remaining energy that you have for the end of the race.
 Lift your knees and drive your legs back to generate hip drive.Pump your arms and use your upper body to help you reach maximum speed. Tighten up your sprinting technique during practice by keeping a straight posture and working on the proper breathing technique.


You will be gassed towards the last leg of the race and your form may deteriorate. Practice drilling your technique so that you maintain it even when you're tired.