 Go on a quick stroll around your neighborhood. If you go slower, concentrate on the nature around you and visualize the tension leaving your body. If you go faster, it will get your blood pumping and will cause the release of endorphins, which will help you to clear your mind.Any type of exercise will help you to clear your mind. You can try lifting some weights, riding a bike, or even playing a game of basketball. Then, use your meditation time to decompress.;
, Find a count that works for you and then repeat it over and over again in time with your breaths. Breathe in for four counts and then breathe out for four counts. Make sure that your lungs inflate fully and try to remove all air from them with every exhale. Repeat this process for a few minutes until you feel calm and prepared to meditate., This is a tool that many people use to drift off into sleep; however, it also helps to relax your body for meditation. Pour some milk into a microwave-safe cup and heat it until warm. You can also heat the milk on the stove. Slowly sip the milk.
 Find a quiet, calm place and lie down for 30 minutes. Try not to exceed this time limit or your nap may make you more tired than focused. Once you wake up, take a few minutes to stretch before starting to meditate. Your nap can serve as a restart for your day and may lessen your stress levels.


Taking naps during the day results in headaches for some people. If this is the case for you, experiment with the lengths of your naps or just try closing your eyes for a bit instead.
 Choose a type of tea that you prefer, whether it be peppermint, chamomile, or another option. Blend a cup and breathe in the steam. Slowly sip the tea. Some teas, such as chamomile, have built-in low-level sedation properties which can lead to almost immediate relaxation.For even more relaxing results, you can pair your tea with a warm bath. Just make sure to not get too relaxed or you may feel tempted to skip your meditation exercises.
 At least 15 minutes before you start to meditate, put on some clothes that are not distracting to you. Go with natural blends, such as cotton. Synthetic fabrics can be scratchy and less flexible. Making clothing adjustments can pull you out of your meditation.


Some people prefer to wear something similar to workout attire. Try fitted or loose cotton pants with a matching t-shirt. You can also go shoeless for even more comfort.
 Sit still and consider each part of your body, starting with the top of your head and moving downwards. Pay attention to how each area feels. Are you experiencing any pain there? Does one area feel particularly strong? As you finish with your toes, tell yourself that you will work through all of this information later. Now, you are ready to focus on your mind.