 Saying it out loud a few times will help you commit to memory. Apply this method during introductions. As you shake the person's hand, you can say, "Hello, ." If a conversation follows, repeat her name throughout the time. If you are unable to speak to the person for long, bid her goodbye and repeat her name again before she leaves. Attempt to use the person's name two or three times throughout the conversation so that you remember it better.


For example, when meeting a new colleague at work named Kira, shake her hand and say, "Hello, . Welcome to the office!" Include her name when asking her questions, such as, "What made you interested in working in technology, ?"
The more often you repeat the person's name right away, the more likely you are to remember it later.;
, If his name is difficult to remember, asking for the correct spelling will give you a visual image. This also works for names you have never heard before, such as "Honghui" and "Kichiro". As they spell it out, you will be able to envision the way the name in spelled in your head. Also, this method will give you the chance to hear the correct pronunciation of his name again.


This method can be applied to names with different spellings as well. For example, the name "Shawn" could also be spelled "Sean" or even "Shon". By clarifying the spelling of the person's name, you will be able to correctly identify his name.
This method cannot be applied to common names, such as "Harry."
If you are unable to ask the person to spell his or her name, see if he has a business card. Having a visual image and physical reminder of his name will help you recall it., If it's near the start of the conversation and you forget her name, say, "I'm sorry, but I didn't catch your name." If you're asking later on towards the end of the conversation, in order to sound polite, say something along the lines of, "I've enjoyed talking to you, but I can't seem to remember your name. Please repeat it for me". The compliment will soften the blow of having forgotten her name.


Although you may feel embarrassed when asking for her name again, following this step will prevent awkward situations from occurring in the future. It is best to apply this method early in the relationship rather than later. 