 You can usually tell who is a nice person and is at the top of their game when you first see them. If they are mean, it's best to be polite and go find someone else.
 Don't be overly friendly when meeting people for the first time. Just a simple hello and a smile. Ask the people you meet questions about themselves. Don't act overly obsessed with yourself. The beginning of the conversation should be about them.
 For example, you don't want to run throughout the halls to chase someone. Things like this come across as immature and annoying to the upperclassmen.
 Never lie about what grade you're in. If you are a freshman, tell everyone you are a freshman. Also, don't lie about yourself. Don't tell stories that happened to you that never did. This stuff all comes back to bite you.
 Don't panic about who you are going to sit with at lunch, instead make a few friends in those first three periods of class. This is simply done by saying, "Hi I'm , and what's your name?" or "So, where did you go to school last year?" Start with simple questions. Compliments are also a great conversation starter that make the other person feel great. For example, "I like your shirt, where'd you get it?"

, Don't ever dump your old friends that you make throughout the year when you make new ones who might have a better social standing. Hang out with your new friends, but put in time for the old ones. Call, text, or instant message them once in a while.
 Study. This is the year where it all begins. You must be getting good grades to get into a good college. Contrary to what you hear, freshman year does matter. So don't slack off and always study. Take breaks when you need them though!

, High school always looks great in the movies. But in the movies nobody ever does homework or takes a test. Why? Because that would be boring. Remember, you're at school to learn. Don't let drama take over your life. Stay in touch with reality.

keep your self on a schedule for the week, don't overbook yourself. And finally, as much as possible, try to maintain a high GPA.