 It acts as an antioxidant, removing damaging substances from the skin. These substances, called free radicals, can arise from normal cellular metabolism. Vitamin E also performs a number of other functions on the skin:Vitamin E also absorbs UV radiation from the sun and can help prevent sunburn, functioning as a natural sunscreen.
Vitamin E may also act as an anti-inflammatory agent on the skin surface.
Vitamin E has also been implicated in promoting skin wound healing and may be involved in reducing scar formation.;
, If you are trying to reduce the size or the look of a scar, use a Q-tip or a cotton ball to apply the oil directly onto the scar. Consult your physician or dermatologist to determine how often you should treat.


If the area of scarring is relatively small, it may be simpler to snip the top off of one or two Vitamin E capsules. You can also puncture it and squeeze out the oil directly onto the scar.
If you have any skin conditions, including eczema, psoriasis, or acne, consult with your physician or dermatologist before using Vitamin E.
 Vitamin E can refresh dry, brittle hair. It is also great for dry scalps. Vitamin E promotes circulation, which is key to a healthy scalp. Pour out some of the oil and dip your fingers in it. Work it into your scalp. Focus on the roots of your hair, where the vitamin can soak into the hair and the scalp.You can also apply it to the length of your hair to moisturize dry hair.
Unless otherwise advised by a health professional, treatment once a week should be sufficient. Again, you don’t want to over do it.
If you have any skin conditions, including eczema, psoriasis, or acne, consult with your physician or dermatologist before using Vitamin E.,


Vitamin E also plays an important role in the immune system, cell-to-cell signaling, the regulation of the expression of a number of genes and a variety of biochemical (metabolic) reactions.
Alpha-tocopherol also may play a role in stopping or slowing down the growth of certain types of tumors and decreasing the chances of heart disease by possibly slowing down the formation of plaques within the arteries and preventing the aggregation of platelets (slowing the formation of blood clots)., To lessen the change of a bad reaction, get natural, organic Vitamin E oil.


The Vitamin E oil will be mixed with other oils, such as sesame oil, coconut oil or cocoa butter. Make certain that you don’t have any sensitivity to those by testing the oil on a small part of your skin. Put just a little bit on your wrists and wait for about 30 minutes to an hour. If you have no reaction, such as itching, blistering, redness, or any other problems, you should be able to use that oil.
Some products may also contain vitamin C, in the form of lemon or another citrus oil. This is believed to increase the degree of skin protection., Consult with a dermatologist to figure out the best dosage for your particular needs. Many of the commercial products have over 5,000 IU (an international unit of pharmaceutical measurement) of Vitamin E listed. This is actually a really large dose. There have been few studies to determine what dose is the most useful for skin. In addition, many labels don’t give you a good idea of how much Vitamin E is in each dose. Thus, it can be difficult to determine exactly how much to use on your own.


The temptation is always to use more but the fact is, we just don’t really know. It may be just fine to use as much as you want, but the research just has not been done.
 Unless you are working with a dermatologist, the most prudent approach is to use Vitamin E oil on your skin in a mixture of other oils that can also moisturize and help nourish the skin. Many of the oils contain Vitamin E as well. Choose other oils in the mixture that won’t clog your pores, which are called non-comedogenic. The best non-comedogenic oils, according to the American Academy of Dermatology, include:Hemp seed oil is a relative of cannabis and contains sterols, antioxidants and essential fatty acids but very low levels of THC.Shea butter is extracted from the shea nut. It is high in Vitamin E, which acts as an anti-oxidant.
Sunflower oil is derived from sunflower seeds and contains polyunsaturated fatty acids and vitamin E.
Castor oil is derived from the castor bean and is used to treat a number of inflammatory conditions. It contains essential fatty acids and undecylenic acid, which is germicidal for a number of microbes.
Calendula oil is derived from the petals of the calendula flower and has been traditionally used for its healing properties. It is especially good at healing scars, including acne scars.
Argan oil is rich in Vitamin E, carotenes (precursors of Vitamin A), and essential fatty acids. It is often used to treat skin infections and to moisturize the skin.
Almond or Hazelnut oil both contain essential fatty acids, B vitamins, and are anti-inflammatory.
 Rub a very light layer of the oil onto your skin. In fact, no matter what you are using the Vitamin E oil for always use a very small amount. These oils are very effective in moisturizing your skin and providing protection. In other words, a little bit goes a long way.


Most of these oils can stain clothing and bedding. Be cautious when applying it and let it absorb thoroughly. If it can’t be absorbed into your skin because it has been absorbed by your clothing or bedding, then you aren’t getting the benefit.
Even if you pick a non-comedogenic oil, it may clog your pores if you use too much. That could cause break-outs and acne.
