 The acid in lemon juice can be very helpful with softening and removing calluses. Soak your feet in lemon juice for about 10 minutes before scrubbing your feet with a pumice stone or foot file.While foot razors or shavers can be purchased at drug stores and pharmacies, they are not a good idea to use. They can easily cut your feet, and these cuts can easily become infected., Your heels tend to be one of the places that build up a lot of calluses. You can help keep your heels, and the rest of your feet, soft and moisturized by making your own cracked-heel cream at home. All you need to do is put a spoonful of olive oil in a small bottle and add a few drops of lemon or lavender essential oil. Shake the bottle until the liquid turns thick and milky and then apply it to your feet, specifically your heels.You can make this cream and store it for future use as long as you remember to shake the bottle before you use it.
 The best time to moisturizer your feet is right before bed. And you can moisturize your feet with more than just store-bought moisturizer — you can also use vegetable oil. Simply apply a layer of vegetable oil to your feet before bed and then put on a pair of thick socks. Leave the socks on all night while you sleep and then wipe off any excess oil in the morning.Vegetable oil (and other oils) can stain fabrics, including your socks and sheets. The best socks to use in this situation are wool socks, as the wool absorbs the oil and doesn’t stain. If you can’t use wool socks (or if they’re too hot) use a pair of old socks instead.
 Your face, hands and hair can benefit from masks — so can your feet! It’s easy to make your own at home using 1 tablespoon of Vaseline (or another similar product) and the juice from 1 lemon. Mix the Vaseline and lemon juice together in a bowl and apply the mixture to your clean feet before bed. Wear a pair of socks on your feet all night and wipe off the excess Vaseline with a towel in the morning.Dedicate a pair of old socks to this process so you don’t have to worry about the Vaseline staining them, or your sheets.
 Aestheticians often use paraffin wax as part of a spa pedicure, but you can also use paraffin wax at home. Simply melt the wax in a large bowl in the microwave and add an equal amount of mustard oil after the wax is melted. (The mustard oil is what moisturizes your feet.) Dip each of your feet in the bowl of wax (once it’s cool enough) twice, waiting enough time between dips to make sure the wax has dried on your feet. Then wrap your feet in plastic wrap or a plastic bag for 15 minutes. Remove the plastic and the wax at the same time.