 While this may seem unimportant or even superficial to some, nearly everyone has insecurities about their appearance. Hearing from our partner that we are attractive to them can give a big boost to confidence - and romance.Mention how nice they look before they leave for work.
Look into their eyes and tell them how beautiful they are.;
, Studies suggest that a post-sex declaration of love is more meaningful to those looking for a long-term commitment. The logic is that by that point the confession is more likely to be sincere, rather than prompted by ulterior motives., When you're in the company of friends or family, don't abandon your partner. Instead, make sure you communicate verbally and physically with them. Hold hands, check in with eye contact, and include your partner in conversation. This helps to confirm that your partner is special not only when the two of you are alone, but when you're with other people important to you.


If your sweetheart feels shy around your friends and family, make efforts to mention their news or accomplishments. For example, you could drop a line about how your girlfriend has nearly finished her Ph.D., or how she got a raise at work. Do be aware, though, that there may be some topics your partner would prefer not to talk about, so don't overdo it.
 Experts say at least 30 minutes a day of open communication, without distractions, helps couples maintain a strong connection. Topics can be anything, ranging from talking about your day, to expressing fears, desires, and hopes. You can discuss your relationship and what you love about each other, but don't feel this needs to be the subject every day.


Open up to your partner. Talk about the things you're excited or passionate about. This conveys trust on your end, an indication of your love and emotional intimacy., Stop what you're doing, put aside your cellphone/book/remote control, and face your partner as they talk. Give your partner 100% of your attention, even if it may seem unimportant: your partner has a need to talk, and your being there to listen helps build trust and love., Tell your partner how much you love them and value your relationship. Keep it short and sweet. Your partner will not only appreciate what you're saying, they'll also value the effort you've made in putting your feelings down on paper.


If you can't work your way up to a love letter, start with text messages that communicate nothing other than love (no practical information allowed!). Don't be afraid to be a little corny: tried-and-true phrases like "I love you," "You're my love," or "Hi angel," never get old. Or, you can just tell them how excited you are to see them later in the day.