 If you have raised or sunken scars, treating them with injections may smooth them. You dermatologist will administer them in his or her office. You may need to get a series of injections, and they may wear off over time. Injections cost around $50-75 dollars each, so make sure you have the budget to pay for repeated treatments.


You may experience side effects such as bruising, tissue death, dilated blood vessels, lightened patches of skin, or hyperpigmentation.Discontinue injection treatment if you have an allergic reaction.
 If you have shallow, sunken scars, especially acne scars, you may want to try laser resurfacing, dermabrasion, or a chemical peel. These techniques remove scar tissue on your face, giving new skin the opportunity to grow. Some damage in the form of redness, sun sensitivity, dilated blood vessels, cysts, acne, eczema, hyperpigmentation, lightened skin patches, and even new scarring is to be expected.


Resurfacing techniques are unlikely to work on raised or very deep scars.
If you choose dermabrasion, your dermatologist will use an abrasive tool to rub your scar down. They may use sandpaper or a wire brush.If you choose laser resurfacing, your dermatologist will pass over your scars 1-3 times with a laser. This technique can take minutes or a full hour, depending on the extent of the scarring.
If you choose to have a chemical peel, chemicals will be applied to your face. You may be given a "lunchtime," a medium, or a deep peel. Deep peels require general anaesthesia and require you to stay out of the sun for up to 6 months.Resurfacing techniques require skill. Choose a dermatologist who is experienced, trusted, and highly-rated.
 Cryosurgery freezes scar tissue with liquid nitrogen, causing it to die and fall from your face. This treatment is sometimes recommended for severely raised scars. It is recommended more frequently for use on lighter skins, as it can cause spotty bleaching. After cryosurgery, you may be recovering from blistering, swelling, and hyperpigmentation for up to 4 weeks.Cryosurgery is also called cryoablation and cryotherapy.

