 One of the most important aspects of the dress is the fit. Before you go shopping, you should figure out what fit you are looking for. If you have a small bust and shapely thighs and hips, think about an A-line fit.A-lines usually have a fitted bodice with a skirt that flares gently from the waist to form an "A" shape. They work for most body types and are a particularly good choice for pear shapes, or someone who does not want a tight fit on their lower body.
You can accentuate your waist further by picking a dress with a decorative element like a sash or beading around the waist of the dress.
Avoid a dress that is bunchy or overly embellished on the bottom half. This will make your hips and thighs look larger than they are.;
, If you have a large bust, you will want a fit that is supportive on top. You should consider a dress with boning or with a built-in corset. This kind of fit will give you the shape you want and will prevent any mishaps on your wedding day!Many busty women feel they can’t wear strapless dresses. You can still wear a strapless dress, but to make yourself feel more comfortable on the day, make sure it fits to a tee.
A square-neck dress is a great option for busty women because it shows off your assets without showing too much.
 An empire dress is similar to an A-line dress, except that it cinches under the bust and flows out to make a floor-length A-line. This fit is very flattering on most body types, and is a good option if you don’t want to wear a tight-fitting dress.Though empire dresses are flowy, don’t pick one that is too large or has a lot of excess fabric. You still want to accentuate your figure.
 Avoid any dresses that have any kind of horizontal detailing like beading or striping. Focus instead on finding a dress that has vertical elements like a plunging neckline, vertical paneling or vertical embellishments.An empire fit can also flatter a petite body type by accentuating the bust and creating the appearance of long legs.
 If you are thin and tall, you may either want to highlight your statuesque physique, or you may want to choose a dress that creates curves. Depending on how you feel individually, pick either a sheath dress that follows the long straight form of your body, or a flared dress like a mermaid cut that creates curves and breaks up your body. A sheath dress isn’t necessarily tight, but it won’t conceal the shape of your body. If you feel especially self-conscious about a certain part of your body, consider a different fit.
 There are a lot of conventions about which dress looks best on which body type, and generally they are great places to start from. But you want to be careful that you don’t pick a fit you don’t like or are not comfortable with.


A great way to figure out what fit is best for you individually is to look at the dresses you already own. Although they are much less formal than your wedding dress will be, figure out what fit you generally wear and feel comfortable in.
Another way to find the best cut is to think about your favorite feature and find a way to flaunt it. For example, if you have toned arms, find a sleeveless dress so that you can show them off.
Accentuating a body part doesn’t necessarily mean exposing it. Be careful of showing too much leg or cleavage, as showing too much skin can make your dress look less formal.

