 This article discusses the electrolyte disturbance of K+ ions that is called clinically hyperkalemia. This is one medical syndrome that is manifested by excessive amount of K+ ions in the extracellular space between the cells of the body and in the blood plasma. This excess of this ion in the body has many causes and is associated with distinct clinical symptoms. These clinical symptoms are the direct result of its physiological function in the body. This function of K+ ions is to mediate the formation of action potentials in neurons of the nervous system. This triggered action potential can then allow for the propagation of electrical signals along the anatomical structures of the nervous system between the adjacent neurons.;
, K+ is the main cation inside the cells of the body. The main cation outside the body is Na+. This arrangement of ions across the cellular membrane is the direct result of active transport of Na+ and K+ ions between the inner and the outer sides of the cells of the body.
 The natural selection is that Na+ ions are pumped in the direction outside the cell while K+ ions are pumped in the direction inside the cells. This fact makes the concentration of K+ ions higher inside the cells than its concentration outside the cells. On the other hand, Na+ ions are predominantly found outside the cells while their concentration inside the cells is marginal. The active transport of these two ions across the cellular membrane creates a resting electric potential across the membrane of the body cells.
 The formation of the action potential in a neuron can lead to the propagation of electrical signals between the adjacent neurons. this is the usual manner of communication between neurons of the nervous system and between a neuron and a muscle cell. from this previous discussion we see the importance of K+ ions in this process of cellular communication between the various cells of the nervous system. any disturbance in the concentration of this ion in the extracellular space can therefore have drastic effects on this manner of cellular communication between the neurons of the body.
 The main disorder of K+ that is discussed here is the hyperkalemia medical syndrome. This clinical disorder of K+ is manifested by the presence of large amount of K+ ions in the extra-cellular space between the neurons of the nervous system of the body. this clinical disorder is triggered due to various reasons.
 One of them is a hypoaldosteronism condition in the body. the deficiency of the steroid hormone in the blood is usually associated with the depletion of Na+ ions from the body through the kidney nephrons. At the same time there is conservation of K+ ions into the body by an antiporter mechanism that transports Na+ ions in one direction and K+ ions in the other direction. This leads eventually to the accumulation of K+ ions in the extracellular space and the depletion of Na+ ions form the body. this form of hyperkalemia is always formed due to deficiency of the hormone aldosterone in the blood.
 The other cause of hyperkalemia is due to chronic kidney failure. In chronic kidney failure there is total retention of electrolytes in the body. This includes Na+ and K+ and other electrolytes as well. However Na+ and K+ are the two main ions of clinical impotence to the physician. This conservation of these two ions lead to symptoms of hyperkalemia due to the accumulation of K+ ions in the body. This hyperkalemic state has distinct clinical manifestations such as their effects on the normal performance of the heart muscle. Also the excessive amount of K+ in the body usually leads to problems in the normal function of the cells of the nervous system.
 Another cause to hyperkalemia in the human body is a metabolic acidosis medical condition in the body.
 This can be explained by the antiporter mechanisms that are functional across the cellular membranes. these antiporter mechanisms transport H+ into the cells. At the same time there is transport of K+ ions in the other opposite direction outside the cells. The net result is the accumulation of K+ ions in the extracellular space between neurons and between the other cells of the body as well. This is another form of hyperkalemia that occurs i the body due to metabolic acidosis such as diabetic ketoacidosis and lactic acidosis.

