 The cat/cow is a yoga exercise that involves flowing between two poses with a breath for each movement. This movement will help strengthen and articulate your spine and get you more accustomed to synchronizing your breath with movement.Get on all fours with your wrists directly below your shoulders and your knees directly below your hips. Your back should be flat and neutral. This position is known as the table-top position in yoga because your back resembles a table top.
On an inhale, arch your back and lift your head and tailbone toward the ceiling, opening your chest.
As you exhale, lower your tailbone toward the floor and arch your back upward, like a Halloween cat image. Lower your head to completely round your back.
Arch your back again as you inhale. Repeat this exercise for 5 to 10 breath cycles.
 Downward facing dog is one of the most common and recognizable yoga positions. This relaxing inversion can open your chest and help relieve stress so that you find it easier to breathe.Start on all fours with your hands slightly in front of your shoulders. Spread your fingers and palms wide to provide a good base and tuck your toes under your feet.
On an exhale, lift your hips away from the floor, extending your arms and legs. You can keep a slight bend in your knees if it's more comfortable. If you're able to flatten your feet on the floor, do so, but you also can stay on your toes.
As you inhale, think about pushing down through your heels into the floor. With each exhale, think of lifting your hips toward the ceiling, pulling the weight away from your wrists. Hold this pose for 5 to 10 breath cycles, then slowly lower your knees to the floor on an exhale.
 Cobra is a supported pose that can help you manage your asthma symptoms by creating more space in your chest and opening up your lungs. The gentle backbend also stretches your spine.Start by lying on your belly on the floor with your legs extended straight behind you. Place your palms under your shoulders, spreading your fingers wide. Press your elbows back into your sides, making sure your shoulders are neutral with your shoulder blades melting down your spine.
On an inhale, straighten your arms to lift your chest up and your torso away from the floor. Lift through your sternum, keeping your back soft.
Hold this pose for 15 to 30 seconds, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.
If you want to challenge yourself, you can create a flow between the cobra pose and downward-facing dog, with a breath between each movement. Start on all fours, then on an exhale lift into downward-facing dog. Pause, then lower and lift your chest into cobra on an inhale. Repeat the flow three to five times.
 At first blush, the savanna or "corpse" pose may feel like you're simply lying on your back. But there's more to the pose than that, and it is a great pose for stress relief that can help you manage your asthma symptoms.Lie on your back, tucking your tailbone and allowing your shoulder blades to melt down your back along your spine. Extend your arms down your sides, palms up toward the ceiling. Relax your feet.
Close your eyes and release any tension in your face. Inhale slowly through your nose, expanding your belly and lifting your chest. Pause, then exhale through your mouth as slowly as you can.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 minutes, focusing on your breath. Try to breathe as slowly and evenly as possible, relaxing every muscle in your body as though you are dropping through the floor.
 The butterfly is a relaxing pose that also helps stretch your muscles to open up your chest and help you manage your asthma symptoms.From a comfortable seated position, bring the soles of your feet together so that your knees are pointed out to the sides. This is the shape that gives the pose its name, since your legs look a little like two butterfly wings. Hold the arches of your feet with your hands, maybe even giving yourself a little foot massage.
Take a few deep breaths, and then on an exhale, fold forward from the hips, bending your elbows alongside your shins. You also can press your elbows down onto your knees to deepen the stretch in your legs and hips.
Hold the fold for 5 to 10 breaths, then slowly rise to a seated position on an inhale.
 If you're coughing and wheezing due to asthma, the goddess pose can open up your chest to help control these symptoms. In some cases, you may notice an immediate effect.Get a long, rolled blanket or bolster. Sit on the floor and place this prop directly behind you in the same direction as your spine. Bring the soles of your feet together with your knees out to each side. Your legs should resemble a diamond shape or butterfly wings.
Slowly lie back on the bolster, making sure it supports both your head and lower back. You can place your arms alongside your body with your palms facing up, or you can raise them over your head.
Stay in this position for between 5 and 20 minutes, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. Focus on your breath and notice how your chest starts to open up.

