 If your company uses an email client with integrated calendar, like Microsoft Outlook, use it to set your meeting. Otherwise, you can just use your own email client and proceed to writing the meeting invitation.;
, Access your email client’s calendar to check your schedule. You can browse through your schedules and find the time slot for your meeting.
 Once you’ve found a good slot, open the calendar entry. There should be a lot of functions available to help you set your meeting invitation. One good function is a scheduling assistant that shows you everyone’s availabilities to help you find a common time for your meeting. There are also predefined fields available for the relevant meeting information, like invitees with their emails, subject, location, and date and time., Just like any email, you need to enter a subject line. Don’t leave this blank so that it won’t be ignored. Make the subject line short and relevant to your meeting.
 If your invitees do not know you, introduce yourself first. State your name, team or department, and role. You need to let everyone know that you’re in the position to call this meeting and that you’re not just a random bored person wanting a meet-and-greet.
 Include the purpose and objectives of the meeting. Why are you setting it in the first place? What do you want to achieve out of it?

, This is important. You cannot set a meeting without setting the date and time. Be very specific, and make sure this is a good common time for everyone. Respect everyone’s time, and only allot the required time for your meeting. Do not set a 3-hour invitation for just a 1-hour meeting.
 This is also important. Be specific in stating the location for your meeting. If it’s a venue not common to everyone, add the address as well. You may also want to note instructions on how to get there. If you’re doing a virtual meeting, include the conference and dial-in numbers.
 Invite only who are required to your meeting. It won’t be productive if you have a lot of irrelevant people. If you’re opening your meeting to optional attendees, make sure that you clearly identify the required participants. You don’t want a required invitee to think his presence is only optional.
 You can also share in your meeting invitation the agenda so that people will know how your meeting will flow.
 If the participants need to prepare for your meeting, call it out in your meeting invitation as well. It is better to have all pre-work done and ready before the meeting to save time.
 When you’re done, click on the Send button to send your meeting invitations out. This is the same button you use when sending any other regular email.