;
,, The Louise District of Brussels is without doubt the best place to stay, thanks to it being a prominent hub for entertainment and shopping as well as playing a major role in business. With the lovely parks and gardens nearby, such as the Bois de la Cambre that looks out to the Sonian Forest or the Tenbosch Park, you can be surrounded by trees, lawns and a safe calmness you might not expect from a city centre.
 Staying in a furnished apartment in Brussels means you can settle in, unpack you bags and have more space to yourself compared to that of a hotel. Brussels apartment rental buildings include a maid service for two hours per day, every other day.



Brussels is awash with many fantastic landmarks and museums, from the extraordinary Grand Place to Manneken Pis, there is something to capture every travellers' interest. The Grand Place, also called the Grote Markt, is a stunning 300 year old building that is lit up at night and dominates the center of the city. Nearby, the Manneken Pis is an interesting bronze statue of a child, and is held in high regard by the locals.
The fascinating structure called the Atomium, an atom of iron enlarged over 150 thousand times, is one of the contemporary pieces of art in the city and the unique spheres allow brilliant views of the city. Mini Europe is another fantastic place to visit, which has more than 850 'mini' cities including many European structures in a scaled-down version of themselves.
Brussels is also well-known for its museums and art galleries. Head to the National History Museum near the Parc du Cinquantenaire or visit the former royal residence and now a collection of Belgium's history at the Musee BELvue. As the capital of the EU, it's also possible to visit the European Parliament and listen to presentations or debates.



While it may be difficult to drag yourself away from the stunning private accommodation in Brussels, there are a myriad of things to do and places to visit. The Cantillon Brewery on Rue Gheude shows visitors the original way of producing Belgian beer and by using fruits and syrups, the creators make the finest, frothy natural beer right before your eyes. If you love beer, this is the place to go.
Although there are open-top bus rides, going on a Brussels Bike Tour is a great way to see the city. Visit the main sights using only pedal power and absorb the true beauty of this romantic city. Thankfully, there is a large tub waiting for you at accommodation in Brussels to relax and unwind after a day of sightseeing.
 From the latest in movie releases to the oddball independent films shown at the Cinema Nova, on rue Arenberg, there is something to suit every taste. Nightlife in Brussels is based around high-end wine bars, chic cafés and clubs. From the Crystal Lounge in Louise district, which offers a modern and refreshing lounge/bar, to the very hip De Walvis on Dansaert Street, you can dance the night away at these venues.
When you want to splurge on a night out, head to the Belga Queen which is a restored bank that features a cigar bar, an oyster bar and stunning décor, or next to the Grand Place, the De Gulden Boot is another fine restaurant that has only the best cuisine available.
 An apartment close by makes it possible.



Make the most of your stay in Belgium by taking advantage of its central location. You can visit Waterloo, Antwerp, Ghent or the mesmerizing city of Bruges, which are accessible within an hour or two. You could also visit Amsterdam, The Hague, Luxembourg, Paris or even Cologne in Germany for the day.

