 In some cases, you may be able to take a break and walk away from a stressful situate. Whether you are at work or at home, stepping away can help clear your mind so that you can refocus and approach any issues from a new angle. Take a walk around the block or sit outside for a few moments.;
, Take a deep breath and hold it for 5 seconds. Slowly release the breath and wait 5 seconds before taking another breath. As you exhale, imagine you are releasing all the negativity from your mind and body. With each intake of breath, imagine you are ingesting vitality and positivity. Repeat for several minutes until you feel you are relaxed enough to refocus on your tasks.
 Time away can help clear your head and rejuvenate yourself. You could simply take the day off and stay at home or you may wish to truly get away with a vacation. If you go away with family or friends, make sure to keep the atmosphere as free of conflicts as possible. Going from 1 stressful environment to another will not help you restore your energy.
 Spend a day at the spa or give yourself a pedicure and enjoy a long hot bath. Add bath salts and fragrant bubbles to your bath. Lavender is a wonderful scent that helps with rejuvenation. You may also wish to turn on soft, relaxing music in the background and light candles, similar to the environment you would get at a spa.
 If it is at all possible, turn off your cellular phone and computer. Give yourself an hour or a few days of no distractions as you rejuvenate yourself. This will allow you to truly immerse yourself in relaxing activities without distractions from work or other outside influences. You may wish to check messages in case of emergencies, but only check them sporadically and only return calls for things that truly need immediate action.
 You may be feeling stressed because you realize you are not meeting your own needs. Look at the things that make you unhappy in your life and try to find ways to improve those areas. Changes could be as small as blocking off 10 minutes a day to sit and meditate or as large as changing careers and moving. Take the steps you feel will best help you restore your energy and regain control in your life.
 There are all kinds of things you can do to help rejuvenate yourself. You may wish to take up a new hobby, read more, or spend more time in social situations. Not all tips work for everyone, so choose relaxation tips that fit into your lifestyle and what is feasible for you.

