 In a saucepan over medium-high heat, add the oil, garlic and cumin. Stir the ingredients until you can smell the fragrant cumin or for about a minute. Then, add the beans and the water. Cook the beans for six or seven minutes. At the end, add the lime juice and mash the beans with a potato masher., In a non-stick pan, add two teaspoons of oil, crack the eggs into the pan and cook for two or three minutes until the eggs are cooked to your liking. Put a tortilla on a plate, add a layer of beans, followed by the eggs and the feta., Start by chopping the butternut squash into half inch pieces. In a non-stick frying pan on medium to high heat, cook the squash in the canola oil for three or four minutes on each side. Put the squash aside in a bowl. Cook the onion and chili powder in the pan for two minutes. Then, add the turkey and cook it for three minutes or until it looks done (i.e., no longer pink). Finally, put the black beans, salt and cooked squash into the pan. Heat up the mixture for one or two minutes.Prepare the burritos. Heat up the tortillas in the microwave for ten seconds. Put the turkey mixture into the tortillas and then sprinkle some Jack cheese and cilantro on top. Roll up and serve the burritos., Drain all of the cans of beans. Mix together the beans with the onion and celery. Then, add the dressing of olive oil, vinegar, sugar, salt, celery seed and black pepper. Stir the salad so that it is fully covered with dressing. Chill for two to four hours.If you have any other leftover cans of beans besides the kidney, garbanzo or green beans, you could throw them in or use them to replace one of the other cans.
If you only have one can of beans, you could go to a local grocery store to pick up the other beans you need for the recipe.
 In large saucepan over medium to high heat, saute the garlic, onion, celery and bell pepper. Throw in the onion powder, kidney beans, hot sauce, salt and pepper. Once the mixture looks tender, reduce it to low and start the rice. In a pot, bring the chicken stock to a boil. Put in the rice and butter. Once it boils again, turn the heat down and simmer it for twenty minutes with the lid on. Mix the bean mixture with the rice. Serve it with some fresh cilantro on top.