 Locate the address for your county board of elections and arrive during business hours on Monday through Saturday.


Note that in some cases, there may be other locations at which you can vote early. Contact your local county board of elections by phone to find out where these locations are and if they are available options to you.
Business hours may vary depending on your county board of elections. Verify the hours for yours so that you can plan on going while they are open.
Early voting begins 35 days before the election.You can vote early in person up to three days before Election Day. Usually, the last day to vote early in person is the Friday before the election.
You can hand in an absentee ballot already completed and sealed up until the time polls close on Election Day, however.
 Even though the ballot itself is anonymous, before you receive the ballot, you will need to prove that you are who you say you are. There are multiple forms of identification you can use, including:


The last four digits of your Social Security number
Your driver's license
Your driver's license number
A copy of current, valid photo ID, like a driver's license, government ID, or state ID card, as long as the ID shows your name and address
A copy of a utility bill, phone bill, bank statement, paycheck, or other government document showing your name and address

, The ballot you receive should list all issues that you are eligible to vote on for the election, including national, state, and county matters.


Only complete as much of your ballot as desired. You are not obligated to place a vote on every issue.
Follow the instructions printed on the ballot carefully. The ballot should explain how to correctly mark your choices and how many choices you can make for each issue.
 Your early voting station should explain how to securely submit your ballot.


In some cases, you may need to place your ballot inside a secure, sealed envelop and drop it into a secure ballot box.
Other times, you may be asked to feed your ballot into a secure voting machine.

