 You can find them online and in well-stocked craft stores. Resin typically needs a catalyst to set. Some resin kits include this catalyst; the bottles are usually labeled "Part A" and "Part B." If you bought the resin just by itself, check the label to see if it needs a catalyst. If it does you will need to purchase it separately.

You can find basic, clear resin in an arts and crafts store.
Read up on the type of resin you are buying. Some types of resin turn opaque after they cure. Others turn a different color.
 Resin sets quickly, so have everything laid out and ready to go. Choose an area with adequate ventilation. Next, cover your work surface with newspaper or a cheap tablecloth. Put on a pair of gloves. Set out you stir sticks, button mold, and any additives. This includes things like resin dyes, glitter, and confetti.


High-humidity levels can sometimes affect curing times or cause resin to cure improperly. Plan on making your buttons on a dry day.
 Most resins come in two parts, and need to be mixed in a 1:1 ratio. Some resins are different however, so be sure that you read the mixing instructions carefully. If you don't use the correct amounts, the resin may not cure properly.Typically, however, you will need to pour Part A and Part B into separate mixing cups, then pour Part A into Part B, then stir it together with a stick


If you wish to dye the resin, do so during this step. Follow the instructions on the dye package, as each brand may be different.
If you plan on making a lot of buttons, consider mixing only small amounts of resin at a time. Resin sets quickly, and it may harden before you finish filling all of the molds.
 Hold the cup close to the mold, and pour the resin in slowly. This will help prevent splatters and air bubbles. Do not overfill the mold. If you do, you will end up covering the button holes.


If there are any air bubbles, gently blow on the resin.Consider adding some glitter or confetti into the resin after you pour it into the mold. If you need to, use a toothpick to stir the glitter or confetti around., Leave the buttons undisturbed during this time. How long the resin takes to cure depends on the type of resin you are using. Some take only a few minutes to cure while others take a few hours. Read the label to specific curing times.Just because the resin is hard does not necessarily mean that it is cured and ready to go. Follow the curing times exactly.
 Once the curing time is up, you button is ready to go! Turn the mold upside down, and gently pop the button out.

