 Cranium is a game that is played in teams. To play the game, you'll need at least four players so you have at least two teams. Divide people up into teams at the beginning of the game.As there is no limit on how many players per team, Cranium can be fun to play in big groups. You could play with 4 groups of 3 to 4 players, for example, if you're looking for a board game for a party night.
However, you can play in small groups as well. As long as there are at least two teams, the game is still playable. Cranium is a versatile game, so you can adjust team size based on your personal game night needs.;
, After you've established teams, there are certain supplies you'll need to play Cranium. Make sure all the teams have the right supplies before the game begins.


Choose a playing piece. Your copy of Cranium should come with a variety of pieces. Different versions of Cranium will have different kinds of game pieces. Allow each team to choose the piece he or her wants to play Cranium.
You will also make sure every team member has a paper and a pen or pencil. Cranium should come with some paper and pencils in the box. If you run out, you can use any kind of scrap paper you have lying around your house. Just make sure all players have materials to write with as you'll need them for a variety of activities in Cranium.Cranium boxes usually come with a small bit of clay, used in certain activities. If the clay is missing or dried out, you could replace it with a bit of play-dough purchased at the supermarket. You could also simply not play cards that require clay.
 Ask everyone when their birthday is. The player whose birthday is closest gets to go first., To start playing, the team who goes first needs to draw a character card. Character cards have different activities written on them that a team must perform. If your team successfully completes the character card, the player whose birthday is closest can roll the dice and move the appropriate number of spaces. However, if that team does not successfully complete the activity their turn is passed to the team on the left.