 For most people, social cues are read and interpreted naturally, usually without even thinking about it. If you want to make another person feel awkward, you should make a conscious effort to read social cues. For every move you think you are expected to return, you should do the opposite. This simple trick will make just about any social interaction fall to pieces within minutes.


For example, if someone tells a joke, you should respond by getting angry or sad. Even if you find the joke funny, withholding the expected reaction will almost certainly put the other person on edge.
 However, if you're aware of them and want to make someone feel awkward, you should go out of your way to bring up things people usually have a hard time talking about. Religion and politics are two things that can get under peoples' skin when they're brought up abruptly.


Asking really personal stuff about someone's life can work as well, but it's not always recommended. Some people may be legitimately hurt if you say something that touches on a past traumatic experience.
 Words like "like", "ahh" or "um" are used to give the brain time to catch up with what you're saying. Using these words will make you sound nervous and uneasy. This is a good thing if you're trying to make someone feel awkward. Work in an "um" in between or at the start of every other sentence.


If you're already prone to this sort of filler, be aware of the ways you naturally use that language and make a point of emphasizing it wherever possible.
If you regularly suffer from this problem without trying, you can train yourself out of it by slowing down how fast you talk.
 In most cases, you'll want to do your best to remember the names of the people you meet, but intentionally mispronouncing names of people you know will put an uncomfortable distance between the two of you.


This only rally works on people you're not very close with. If you've known the person for a long time, he'll think you're being stupid.
 This can be replicated to your advantage if you're wanting to make someone uncomfortable.


For example, if you accidentally bump into someone, repeatedly apologize to that person, and bring up the slip-up later on in the conversation after he's probably forgotten about it. This keeps the slip-ups fresh and makes them seem much bigger than they really are.
 If there's a period of silence or a stilted conversation, it's effective to bring up the feeling of awkwardness in conversation. Say something like "It's really awkward right now" and let the silence drag on. This puts a responsibility on the other person to keep a doomed conversation going, and he'll probably feel really uncomfortable in the process.


On the flipside, bringing up the awkward feeling directly in conversation can actually be used to work through it. If someone is honest about it, there is often a release of tension on both sides.However, if you bring attention to the awkwardness and remain deadset on keeping it going, you'll be able to push it further.

