 Depending on the condition your teeth are in, you may be instructed to wear your retainer at all times, except during times when the retainer might be damaged.If you've been wearing your retainer for a while, your orthodontist might allow you to switch to a part-time basis.Always follow the instructions your orthodontist gives you, and ask him/her if you have any questions.


Retainers generally need to be worn until your jawbone and gums stabilize around your teeth, which should now be aligned, and the roots of your teeth have reached the desired position.This takes time, and the exact length of time will need to be determined by your orthodontist.
Orthodontists will generally have patients wear their retainers full time (24 hours a day) for the same length of time that the patient wore braces.
After wearing the retainer full time for an initial period of time, your orthodontist may allow you to switch to only wearing it at night.;
, Eating food with a removable retainer in your mouth can damage the retainer and will almost certainly cause food to get stuck in your hardware. You should always take your retainer out before eating, and make sure you store it properly inside your retainer case., Any time there's a risk of your retainer being damaged or lost, you should take it out of your mouth. Make sure you store it safely in its case once it's out of your mouth, and be careful so you do not misplace your case or retainer.Wearing a protective mouthguard during sports is important, whether you wear a retainer or not.
You will not be able to properly fit a protective mouth guard over your retainer, and physical contact (even through the mouth guard) could damage your retainer and seriously injure your mouth.
If possible, avoid contact sports while receiving orthodontic treatment. Your entire bone structure is weaken during this time and any force can have a negative impact and may cause irreversible damage.
Some orthodontists recommend taking your retainer out when you go swimming. If the retainer somehow slips out of your mouth, it could easily be lost in the water., Any time you take your retainer out of your mouth, whether for eating, sports, or cleaning your gear, you should always store it properly. This will help ensure that your retainer is not lost or damaged.Never leave your retainer wrapped in a napkin, tissue, or paper towel. This can be easily mistaken for trash and thrown away by accident.
Always carry your retainer case with you wherever you go if you're wearing the retainer full time. Store your retainer in the case any time you need to remove it.
Do not leave your retainer in direct sunlight, including a parked car, as the heat may melt or warp the plastic.Never leave a retainer near a stove or heater for the same reasons.Avoid leaving your retainer lying around outside the case, even at home. It could get lost, or (if you have pets) your dog will likely try to chew on it — they are attracted to the smell of the retainer.