 You can play with as few as three people, but no more than fifteen, as it may be difficult to hear each other in too large of a group. Because this is a coordinated group activity, make sure that everyone understands the rules and answer any questions they might have beforehand.Participants may learn best after watching or participating in a few slow rounds. If some people already know how to play, have them do a quick demo game.
Large groups of people can slow down the pace of this game. Due to this, smaller groups are recommended for young children.;
, Assign one player the role of "Big Booty." This person will act as the leader of the game. After that, assign each player a sequentially ascending number (1, 2, 3, 4...) with no numbers repeated.


Determining Big Booty is a matter of preference. You could decide this role with a game of rock, paper, scissors or by drawing straws.
Number players starting from Big Booty. Count up for each player to the left or right of Big Booty. When assigning numbers, only do so in a single direction (left or right).
No names except for the ones assigned are used in this game. Each player must remember their assigned role/number. These will change over the course of the game.This game can be boisterous and may attract attention. Onlookers may want to join. If so, add them to the circle as a new highest number., Have Big Booty clap a steady beat. All players should join in with Big Booty. While clapping, all players say together, "Big booty, Big booty, Big booty, aw yeah!" Claps should coincide with the bolded parts of the chant. Clapping continues until someone makes a mistake.After the group chant, players perform a one-by-one call and response led by Big Booty:Big Booty: Big Booty, Number 2Player 2: Number 2, Number 5Player 5: Number 5, Number 3Player 3: Number 3, Big BootyAnd so on...

When passing off the chant, callbacks aren't allowed. You cannot call out and pass the chant back to the player who just passed it to you.
Use your own rhythmic combinations. For example, you might clap on the first beat, snap on the second, pat on the third, stomp on the fourth, then repeat., When a player makes a mistake, gets tongue-tied, or interrupts the rhythm, all players respond with "Aw shoot!" The player who makes a mistake takes the position of the highest number, players reorganize to their new numbers, then Big Booty starts the game again.


If you start a game with Big Booty and players 1 through 5, players will shuffle between these roles as the game is played and mistakes are made.
There are many variations of response you can use when a mistake is made. For example, you might say, "Oh snap" or "Aw shucks.", For beginners, a simple rhythm, like only clapping, alternating claps and pats, or alternating claps and stomps may be easiest. Have Big Booty start the rhythm at a moderately fast pace.Surprisingly, playing this game too slowly can be just as difficult as playing it at a very rapid speed.
 Big Booty should give some kind of signal to other players that the group chant is about the begin. For example, while speaking to the rhythm, Big Booty might count down, "We start in 3, 2, 1, Big Booty, Big Booty..."You could also use a gesture, like a head nod or a small hop to indicate when the chant is about to begin.
 Keep your eyes open for players that appear distracted. These are prime targets to pass the chant to. Look at one player while calling out another player's number.

When a player makes a mistake, yell out "Aw shoot," pause the rhythm, and reorganize players., Once players are reorganized and have their new numbers, Big Booty should start up the rhythm again. Do the group chant and then another round of call and response. Play this game for as long as you desire., In this version, even when an error is made the rhythm should continue. When a mistake is made and players say, "Aw shucks," they should do so while in time with the rhythm. Then:


The person who called out the player who made a mistake will pick up the chant and call out a new player.
If the person who called out the player who made a mistake isn't paying attention and they make a mistake, other players must say "Aw shucks" again. The person who called out that new out-person must now pick up the chant.
 This is a great variation for more experienced players. After the first few rounds of one-by-one chanting, have Big Booty speed up the rate of their clapping. Continue increasing speed slowly over time until someone makes a mistake.To keep things fair, you may want to decide the amount of rounds you chant before the game speeds up. For example, you might decide that after the fifth one-by-one chant, Big Booty increases speed.
It can be difficult to maintain a steady speed for your rhythm. Use a metronome or a metronome phone app to help keep the beat.
 Where a player would normally say their own number, have them say "Big Booty" and equal amount of times. For example, instead of saying, "Number 2, Number 4" you'd say "Big Booty, Big Booty, Number 4."


This version forces players to pay closer attention, especially Big Booty. If Number 2 passed the chant to Big Booty, they would say, "Big Booty, Big Booty, Big Booty!"
When playing this version, the second number does not change at all, only your own number when you are chanting yourself., A popular variation of this game uses superhero or pop-culture character names in the place of player numbers. For example, instead of calling "Number 3," a player might say, "Spiderman" or "Princess Peach."This version works best with smaller groups. It can be difficult to remember the ascending sequence for random heroes and characters in a large group.
 This can add a competitive aspect to this fun group game. Whoever lasts the most rounds as Big Booty gets a special prize. To keep players honest, you may want to have a monitor or referee keep track of who's Big Booty longest.


Simple prizes, like stickers, stamps, gum, and bubbles work great for kids. For older players, try movie passes, gift cards, and more.

