 Giving a child an allowance is a milestone for their financial development. This may occur around age six. Start by giving them a small amount each week. You may want the weekly value to be roughly one dollar for each year of their age. Help them understand that the money should be saved and used on something they really want, not just spent every week.Get your child a piggy bank to keep their money in. Explain to them that each week they will get more money, and it stays in their bank. If they save it, they will have a larger sum of money.
Any time your child wants to make a purchase with their money, make sure that you discuss it with them so that it becomes a learning experience.
 Many children start making friends at a young age. However, past the age of eight, these friendships start to become more important and they find themselves becoming closer with certain friends. Help encourage your child to cultivate these relationships so they can develop socially.Encourage your child to take extracurricular classes, join a team sport, or get involved in volunteer work. This helps them meet people and develop social skills.
Get to know your child’s friends. Let your child invite them over to play or spend the night. Meet the friend’s parents so you feel comfortable letting your child go to their home.
 Children lose teeth between the ages of six to eight. Some many even lose them around five years old. For some children, this is exciting because the tooth fairy will come see them and their friends may have already lost teeth. Other children may get upset or scared. Gauge your child’s reaction so you know how to respond.If your child is excited, celebrate this milestone with them.
If your child is nervous or scared, remind your child that everyone loses their baby teeth. Tell them their new teeth will come in soon, though it may take awhile for the new tooth to grow.
 Between the ages of ten to twelve, your child will start to develop hobbies. They get interested in things, they become more independent, and they can think more about complex things. Due to this, your child may start to find hobbies. When they do that, support them and help them start to cultivate them.Teach your children that it is okay to try out different hobbies until they find what they really like, but that making a commitment to other people means that you cannot always quit immediately.


For example, your child may love acting, so take them to local plays and theater productions. If your child loves to draw, take them to art museums and encourage them to practice their talent.
 Children between the age of five to seven start to feel uncomfortable going into opposite-sex bathrooms. They will start to want to go into the gender-appropriate bathroom. When this occurs for your child, explain to them how to behave in a public restroom and how to be safe.For example, you should explain that no one should talk to them, touch them, or go into the stall with them. Tell them going into the bathroom is a private, solitary activity and they should go in, use the bathroom, and come straight out.
Explain about how to use a public restroom alone, like closing the stall door and washing their hands.
Stand right outside the door and wait for your child.

