 With any property deal, the down payment is part of the negotiations. Your bargaining position will depend on your credit rating and your financial situation, but there is a chance that you will be able to negotiate a lower down payment if you can make a strong argument.


You could offer to pay a higher overall price for the property, but pay it only through mortgage payments.
You might ask to pay the down payment in instalments over the first year, or as a single payment, but a year into your mortgage.Think carefully about the best deal for you, and be wary of getting tied into a high interest rate in lieu of a down payment.;
, You may be able to negotiate to assume an existing mortgage. This will involve taking on responsibilities for all outstanding payments without necessarily making a down payment. This kind of deal is known as a “subject to” contract, and involves the buyer using the seller’s existing financing for the deal.


The buyer will receive the title to the property in exchange for taking on the mortgage obligations.
You will need to research the existing loan to ensure that there is no due-on-sale clause, which would stop a new buyer from assuming the mortgage.Assuming a mortgage might be a possibility if the seller is unable to make the mortgage payments and wants to avoid foreclosure., A lease-to-own arrangement involves the buyer leasing the property from the seller for a set period of time, before then purchasing the property outright. The purchase price will be agreed as part of the initial negotiations, but you will not have to make a down payment when you move in.These deals enable the buyer to live in the house and build up their credit rating and savings before making the purchase.
A lease-option agreement is similar, but only includes an option to buy rather than an obligation.
Be aware that these deals often end up having a higher overall cost than a traditional mortgage, and are sometimes associated with predatory lending., Seller financing can sometimes be agreed if the seller owns the home outright (has no outstanding mortgage payments). This kind of deal involves the seller becoming the mortgage holder and the buyer becoming the title holder. The buyer makes mortgage payments to the seller, as they have been negotiated.


A seller might opt to do this if they have a number of properties.
You may be able to negotiate a no money down deal with the seller if they are looking to defer the tax due on a large down payment.
The seller may make a better return on interest payments from you than from putting the money in the bank.