 If you have longer facial hair, it will be very difficult to dry shave. Trim any hair that is long enough with scissors or an electric hair trimmer, then you will have a manageable beard or mustache to dry shave.
 Old razors that are dull require a lot of pressure to cut the hair. This will increase the likelihood that you will get cuts or nicks while dry shaving.


Experiment with razors to find the one that shaves you the best. The moisturizing strips on many disposable razors only work in the presence of water, so they are useless for a dry shave.
 It's best to use just about anything between your skin and the razor, if you can. Water, soap, shampoo, olive oil, lotion, and hair conditioner will all do if you don't have anything that says it's for shaving., When dry shaving the goal isn't to get the closest shave, but simply to remove the hairs as much as possible without causing too much damage to your skin. Going against the grain (shaving the opposite direction that the hair grows) makes for the closest shave, but it also produces the most irritation. To reduce the risk of injury when dry shaving, always shave with the grain instead.
 You don't have to actually stretch the skin. Just use your fingers to create a flat, firm surface for the razor to cut across.


Start with the sensitive areas around the ankles and behind the knees. These areas are more likely to get nicked as the blade gets dull and collects skin and hair in the course of shaving.
 You should not need to press down or apply pressure with the razor. If this is necessary, then the razor is probably not sharp enough. A sharp razor will cut hair cleanly at its base level with the skin. Pressing the blade down may cut the hair at a slightly lower spot, but it will also bring the blade in contact with the sensitive skin that surrounds the other side of the follicle. Accept that a dry shave will probably not be as close as a wet shave.


Grip the razor handle at the very bottom with your fingertips, to apply the least pressure possible to your skin. More leverage means more likelihood of the blade cutting flesh, instead of hair.
 Don't rub with a towel, as that can irritate the freshly shaved skin. If you have a moisturizer, apply it to your skin. This will help to reduce any redness or irritation to your skin.

