 If you develop back pain that won't go away after a few days, then schedule an appointment with your family physician. Your doctor will examine your back (spine) and ask questions about your family history, diet and lifestyle, and maybe even take X-rays or send you for a blood test (to rule out rheumatoid arthritis or a spinal infection). However, your family doctor is not a musculoskeletal or spinal specialist, so you may need a referral to another doctor with more specialized training.


Other types of healthcare professionals who could help diagnose and treat mechanical back pain include osteopaths, chiropractors, physiotherapists and massage therapists.Prior to any acupressure treatments, your family doctor may recommend anti-inflammatories such as ibuprofen, naproxen or aspirin to help you cope with your back pain.;
, Mechanical low back pain is not considered a serious medical condition, although it can be quite painful and debilitating. Typical causes include spinal joint sprains, spinal nerve irritation, muscle strains and spinal disc degeneration.However, medical specialists such as an orthopedist, neurologist or rheumatologist may be needed to rule out the most serious causes of back pain such as infection (osteomyelitis), cancer, osteoporosis, fracture, herniated disc, kidney disease or rheumatoid arthritis.


X-rays, bone scans, MRI, CT scan and ultrasound are modalities that specialists may use to help diagnose your back pain.
 Make sure you get the doctor to clearly explain the diagnosis, especially the cause (if possible), and provide you with various treatment options for your condition. Acupressure is only appropriate for mechanical back pain and not for more serious causes such as cancer, which would likely require chemotherapy, radiation and/or surgery.


Pain from mechanical back pain can be severe, but it doesn't involve high fevers, rapid weight loss, bladder / bowel problems or loss of leg function, which are all signs of something more serious., If you feel overwhelmed learning about acupressure points and techniques, and uncomfortable treating yourself (or asking a friend for help) then use the internet to find nearby practitioners of TCM (they aren't all Asian) or allied professionals who have the appropriate training. This approach will cost you more money, of course, but you'll be in more capable and confident hands.


Many acupuncturists practice acupressure and vice versa.
The number of acupressure treatments needed to be effective for back pain (or other conditions) is not well established, but starting out at 3x per week (every other day) for 2 weeks is reasonable to gauge progress.
 Regardless of where you perceive your back pain, certain pressure points along the spine (and throughout the body) have been discovered over the centuries as areas that can alleviate pain, especially if it's mechanical in nature. The low back pressure points are situated just a few inches laterally to the 3rd lumbar spinal vertebrae (just above the level of your hip bones) within the paraspinal muscles and are referred to as points B-23 and B-47.Stimulating the B-23 and B-47 points on both sides of the spine can help relieve achy low back pain, pinched nerves and sciatica (which includes shooting leg pain).


For best results, reach around your low back, press down on these points with your thumb and hold firmly for a couple of minutes, then release gradually.
If you lack the flexibility or strength, then ask a friend after showing them a diagram of the points on your cell phone or other portable internet device.
Alternatively, you could lay on your back and roll a tennis ball around the area for a few minutes.
In TCM, these low back pressure points are also known as the Sea of Vitality.
 A little further down the backside are the pressure points of the hip region, often referred to as the B-48 points.These points are located a few inches lateral to the sacrum (tail bone) and superficially right over the sacroiliac joint (demarcated by the dimples above your butt muscles). For best results, press down and inward gradually with your thumb, towards the center of your pelvis, and hold firmly for a couple of minutes, then release gradually.


Stimulating B-48 points on both sides of the sacrum can help relieve sciatica, as well as low back, pelvic and hip pain.
Again, if you lack the flexibility or strength, recruit a friend or grab a tennis ball.
 Slightly below and lateral to the B-48 points, lay the G-30 acupressure points.The G-30 points are situated in the more fleshy part of the buttocks, specifically in the piriformis muscles, which lay beneath the larger gluteus maximus muscles. For best results, press down and inward gradually with your thumb, towards the center of your buttocks, and hold firmly for a couple of minutes, then release gradually.


The sciatic nerve is the thickest nerve in the body and runs down each leg through the buttocks region. Be careful not to irritate the sciatic nerves when putting pressure on those muscles.
 Immediately after any acupressure treatment, you should apply ice (wrapped in a thin towel) to the thicker muscles of the back / hips for about 15 minutes, which will help prevent any bruising or unnecessary tenderness.


Putting ice directly on the skin runs the risk of frostbite and skin discoloration.
 One of the ways that acupuncture and acupressure work is that they cause certain compounds such as endorphins (the body's natural pain killers) and serotonin (the body's feel good chemical) to be released into the bloodstream.Therefore, pressing safely on certain spots hard enough to elicit achy pain, such as the fleshy point between the thumb and forefinger (called LI-4), can be effective for treating pain all over the body, not just the back.


Creating pain temporarily to treat pain due to an injury may seem strange, but that's one of the ways that acupressure and acupuncture work.
While laying down on a sofa or bed, apply pressure on this point for at least 10 seconds and release it for another 5 seconds. Repeat at least 3x and wait to see how it impacts your back pain.
 This acupressure point is on the anterior part of your lower arm, about 2–3 inches (5–8 cm) below (distal to) where your elbow joint flexes.This point is within the brachioradialis muscle and often referred to as the LU-6 point. Sit up in a comfortable position and raise your arm to find the spot (typically 4 finger widths from your elbow). Start with the side of the body that hurts more and press the point for about 30 seconds, 3-4x over the course of 5-10 minutes for best results.


Acupressure points may be tender when you first press on them, but the feeling will likely diminish the more times you use them.
 Always try to press and activate acupressure points on both sides of your body, especially if they're easy to get at like the ones in the hands and elbows. It may not be obvious which side of your back is injured, so always stimulate acupressure points bilaterally if possible.


As you first apply firm pressure to the hands and elbows, you will likely feel a slight achiness or even burning sensation. This often indicates you're pressing on the right spot and it will disappear as you continue to put pressure on it.
 Immediately after any acupressure treatment, you should apply ice (wrapped in a thin towel) to the thinner muscles of the arm for about 10 minutes, which will help prevent any bruising or unnecessary tenderness.


In addition to ice, frozen gel packs are effective for inflammation and pain control too.
 Stimulating the acupressure point between your big toe and second toe is best done while laying down supine, which is sometimes called the "sleeping" position by practitioners of TCM.For best results, press down on the top of the foot in the webbing between the first two toes and hold firmly for at least 30 seconds, then release gradually. Do both feet after a short rest between the two.


Soaking your feet in an ice bath post treatment will help prevent any bruising or foot soreness.
 There is another beneficial acupressure point on the bottom of your foot, a little closer to your toes than your heel.To start, clean your feet thoroughly and sit on a stable chair. Then massage the bottom of your foot for a few minutes before locating the pressure point. For best results, press down with your thumb and hold firmly for at least 30 seconds, then release gradually. Do both feet after a short rest between the two.


If you have especially ticklish feet, then use some peppermint lotion on them, which will cause a tingling sensation and make them less sensitive to touch.
Massaging and putting pressure on the feet and parts of the lower legs is not appropriate for women who are pregnant as it may induce uterine contractions.
 The relevant pressure points behind the knees are situated directly below the center of the knee joint (point B-54) and also a few inches lateral to the knee joint within the lateral gastrocnemius or calf muscle (point B-53).For best results, press down with your thumb and hold firmly for at least 30 seconds, then release gradually. Do the points behind both knees consecutively.


Stimulating the B-54 and B-53 points behind both knees can help relieve stiffness in the back as well as pain in the hips, legs (from sciatica) and knees.
The points behind the knee are sometimes referred to as the Commanding Middle by practitioners of TCM.

