 Scars vary in size and severity depending on the original cause. Determining the quality of the scar can help camouflage it.Keloid scars are scars that raise above the skin and do not go away over time. They often occur after surgeries, but acne and minor irritations can also cause keloid scars.Flat scars and hyperpigmentation commonly form after skin irritation including pimples, cuts, or burns. Note that scars vary in color depending on your skin. Some are pink or reddish while others are a bit darker than your natural skin tone.;
, Most scars can be covered with a concealer. Your cover up should generally match the color of your skin. The type of scar, however, can determine the hue or quality of makeup you choose.For flat scars, choose a color that neutralizes the scar. This means you’ll choose a color with a hue that reflects the opposite color of the scar. For example, if the scar is red, choose a concealer with green undertones to cancel out the redness.
Keloid scars can be covered with a concealer that matches the skin around it. Lighter or darker concealers will only draw attention to the scar.
 Not all drug stores or makeup stores will allow you to test a product, but it is best to do so. It can be difficult to tell if a color is right for you unless it goes on the skin. Remember to test the color on the area that you will use it. Skin tone may vary around different parts of the body.
 Your face or body should be completely clean before applying any type of makeup or concealer., Using an SPF of 30 or higher is key, as it will prevent the scar from worsening. A moisturizer provides a soft base for concealer application., Put a small amount of concealer on your finger (or tool of your choice) and dab it on and around the scar. Continue dabbing until it blends in.If you are concealing a scar that is not on your face, put your clothes on before you apply concealer. Protect your clothes with napkins or paper towels if necessary.
 Use a translucent powder or one that matches your skin tone. Apply the powder with a large brush or buff. The powder will seal in the concealer and prevent it from running or rubbing off.