 Check it out thoroughly in all seasons or find someone that lives on it or nearby that is willing to tell you more about the property. You really have to build your patience for this type of thing too. Do not get discouraged because sometimes it can take awhile to find out the basic information you need.;
, Do they have a public image? Are they a reputable firm? Will they fit with your company? Some property owners are a consortium (a group of people owning a property) who really don't care about the property, it's just an investment for them. Also find out if they are local or out of town owners. It's very hard to explain a problem to an owner who really hasn't seen the property in months.
 If they are, you should have no problem in finding their head office address. Once you have this information, put together a brochure package for them listing out your qualifications, your own company information, and general pricing and contact information.
 If you can't get an appointment, then take a chance and drop by the office especially on a Tuesday or Wednesday mid-morning. Going on a Monday morning will definitely get you the bum's rush out the door as Monday's are hectic for these people.


After introducing yourself and doing a little sweet talking, then you just might get in to see the person you need to speak with - without an appointment.
 Ask what they really require for this property.
 They may be reluctant at first but be just a touch pushy by asking questions gently, making small talk and then going back to ask again about their requirements.


By this time, the person you are talking with should be willing to at least give you a chance at quoting on the contract for the property maintenance. Even if you already have dollar figures worked out for this property don't give it to them yet.
 Tell them you'll get the quote to them within the next day or two. Leave them your brochure, contact information and pricing and leave them with a good impression of yourself and your company.
 If you saw the owner on a Tuesday take the quote back to them on Thursday around 11:00 a.m. It's important that you will do as you said you would and that you do respect them enough to bring the quote to them personally and not send it by mail.
 You both can sit down and go over the figures you have put down on paper and discuss the finer points of the maintenance contract. You might find that they are willing to do a contract up right then and there. If they do not have the time, ask them to review your quote and let them know that you are available to answer any and all their questions.
 Ask if it would be alright if you call them later that week or early the next just to see if there are any questions. If you leave it open like this, then they do not feel pressured to make a decision right then and there.
, Finalize everything by getting the contract written up, signed, sealed and delivered.
 If this happens, go back to the owner and see if they will be flexible on that clause or not.
 If you do, then sign the contract & get it back to the owner as soon as you can.

