 If you can see fat, muscle, or bone through your cut, or if the cut is wide and jagged, you will most likely need stitches. If you are unsure, you should check with a doctor or nurse.Signs that it is a problem needing quick attention can include any or a combination of the following: extreme pain, a lot of bleeding, signs of shock (such as cold, sweaty skin, feeling cold, or paleness of skin and appearance).
You know a cut is through the skin if you can see fat (yellow-tan, lumpy tissue), muscle (deep-red, stringy tissue), or bone (tan-white, hard surface).However, any cut that is more than three centimeters long or 1/2 inch deep requires medical attention.
If a cut does not go all the way through the skin, it does not need stitches, and can be cared for at home.;
, If you believe your cut needs emergency medical attention, there are a few things you can do to care for the wound before traveling to the emergency room. Quickly rinse the wound under water to wash away any loose debris or dirt. Try to wipe any debris or dirt away from the injury site first with sterile gauze to ensure that the water does not wash the debris into the wound. Next, apply pressure with a clean cloth or bandage and continue to hold pressure as you get transported to the emergency room.


The wound will get cleaned again when you see your doctor to make sure it is thoroughly disinfected.
If the wound is large and bleeding a lot, try to wrap the area with a towel or bandage, then continue to apply pressure.As you travel, try to position the wound above the level of the heart to reduce severe bleeding.
 Don't remove any object that does not wash away easily. If glass or debris is lodged in the wound, you can do more damage by trying to remove it yourself. Also, do not attempt to sew or glue the wound shut, as household products can cause infection and/or prevent healing. Do not use rubbing alcohol, hydrogen peroxide, or iodine to clean the cut, as it can slow healing., If possible, do not drive yourself, as it may be dangerous. If you are alone and bleeding seriously, it may be a good idea to call an ambulance.

