 When you pretend to be happy, you force down bad emotions that need to be expressed, worked through, and dealt with. This is not healthy. Emotionally healthy people experience positive and negative emotions.When you suppress negative emotions, they can build up and cause deeper emotional problems.
Expressing negative emotions in healthy ways, such as journaling, talking to someone, exercising, or another preferred method, helps you deal with them and be healthier.
 Many people pretend to be happy as a coping mechanism. By doing this, you deny yourself the real process of coping and working through what has happened. Instead of pretending to be happy, face your emotions. Grieve, be upset, work through all the bad feelings. This can help you move beyond pretending to be happy.Let yourself feel the emotions. If you are pretending to be happy, you are ignoring how you really feel. Start by taking a breath and saying, "I feel angry. I feel sad. I feel disappointed. I feel depressed."
After you acknowledge the emotion, let yourself express it constructively. You may want to write your feelings down in a journal, listen to mood music, talk to a trusted friend, or go for a walk.
Allow yourself time to go through the emotion. For example, if you are grieving, this can take weeks to fully work through. Frustration or sadness may last for days.
 Pretending to be happy is often an act for other people’s benefit. You may be doing this to protect the people around you. You may not be happy in private, or you may be fooling yourself. You should put yourself first as you stop pretending to be happy. Not pretending is doing something for you.You may keep a happy face for your spouse and your children. This is not protecting them, but lying to them and yourself. Being truthful and acknowledging your feelings can strengthen your relationship with your family and help you fix whatever is making you unhappy.
Remember that it is not your responsibility to please others. Being true to your actual feelings is more important than what others may think.
 Some people pretend they are happier than they are because they compare themselves to others. They see people on social media posting happy photos and status updates, or they talk to others who are super positive and always seem happy. You should stop measuring your happiness against others.Social media is not a good indicator of people’s true feelings. Many people fabricate images on social media.
Many people pretend to be happy, just like you. If more people were authentic about being unhappy, they may not be so obsessed with being happy like everyone else.
 If you work in a job where you work with the public, you may be required to act happy while at work. This can be emotionally and physically draining. You can choose not to pretend to be happy just because your job prefers you to.


Instead, be polite and respectful to your customers. Treat them with kindness, but you don’t have to be a bubbly ball of sunshine. Say polite things like “thank you” and “you’re welcome,” and you can smile at the customer, but you don’t have to fake being happy.
 People think happiness is found through large amounts of money, new things, a job promotion, or a better relationship. Often, this won’t lead to happiness, though people may pretend it does. Instead of pretending to be happy all the time, relax and let life happen. Not pretending and not trying to find happiness in everything around you can help you get become more authentic.Instead of pretending and forcing happiness, just enjoy the small moments. You don’t have to be happy, just find the simple relaxation in the moment.
For example, you may find peace and contentment watching television with your family after dinner or going to lunch with a friend.

