 E-Verify is an internet-based system that verifies an employee’s eligibility to work legally in the U.S. by comparing the information he submits on Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification to data from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Social Security Administration (SSA). To use E-Verify, an employer must first enroll his company in the program using the E-Verify website.Open the USCIS E-Verify program enrollment link .
Click on “Enroll in E-Verify” link located on the right side of the page.
Read the terms on the screen and if you agree to them, click “I agree.” Then, click on “Continue.”
Review the checklist on the next screen to confirm you have all of the required information. If so, click on “Begin E-Verify Enrollment.”;
, Once you have initiated the E-Verify enrollment process, you will be asked to select your access method and commit to following the rules of E-Verify.The first screen will ask you four questions to determine your E-Verify access method. If you wish to use E-Verify to verify your employee’s immigration status, answer “yes” to the first question and “no” to the final three and click “Next.”
Select an organizational designation. Certain organizations, like federal contractors, have unique E-Verify requirements. If none of the categories apply, select “None of these categories apply.” Then, click next.
Review the E-Verify “Memorandum of Understanding” (MOU). This document requires that you commit to following the rules of E-Verify. The person who signs the MOU must be a person authorized to make this commitment on behalf of his company. Select the box that indicates you agree to the MOU and then click “Next.”

, The E-Verify enrollment program will guide you through a series of questions.Enter the name and contact information for the person who will electronically sign the MOU. Click “Next.”
Enter your company name and contact information in all fields marked with a red asterisk. Click “Next.”
Enter the first three digits of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for your company. Click “Accept NAICS Code and Continue.” If you do not know your NAICS code, click on “Generate NAICS Code” and enter the names of the states in which your company is located and the number of hiring sites within each state.
Enter the names and contact information of the persons in your company who will serve as the E-Verify program administrators. Once your company has enrolled, you may add or delete users.
 Review the accuracy of the information you have entered. If all of the information is correct, select “I agree” in the certification box and click on “Register Employer.”


Your application will then be processed. Within a few minutes, you should receive an email confirming your company’s enrollment.
 The email you receive from E-Verify confirming your company's enrollment will include a temporary password and username. You will need to login to your E-Verify account using the temporary password and then select a permanent one.


Passwords are case-sensitive and must be between 8 and 14 characters long. They must be changed every 90 days.Before you are granted full access to the E-Verify website, you will need to complete an online tutorial.
 When you hire a new employee, you must ask him to fill out Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification on his first day of work. You must also ask him to submit proof of his immigration status, such as a U.S. passport, permanent resident card or work permit.Look carefully at the photo on the document your employee submits. If it does not appear to be the same person, ask him for an explanation.Keep in mind that a driver's license is not proof of an employee's legal immigration status.
 Once an employee has submitted Form I-9, you will need to create a case on E-Verify. This must be done no later than the third business day after your employee has started working. Log into your E-Verify account.
From “My Cases,” click on “New Case.”
Choose the correct option button corresponding to Section I of the employee’s Form I-9. Click “Continue.”
Indicate the type of document (i.e. U.S. passport, permanent resident card or work permit) provided in support your employee’s Form I-9. Click “Continue.”
Input all required information from your employee’s I-9 into the required text fields. If an employee provided you with an email address, you must disclose it.
When asked for the employee’s “hire date,” enter the employee’s first day of employment in exchange for wages or remuneration.
 When you create a case, E-Verify will display a photo on the screen.Compare the photo on the document provided by your employee in support of Form I-9 (i.e. U.S. passport, permanent resident card or work permit) with the photo displayed by E-Verify. The photos should be identical with only minor variations in shading and detail. If the two do not match, the document may not be valid.
Do not compare the photo on the screen with the actual employee. Direct comparison between the document and the individual should be performed when the employee first submits his Form I-9.
 Once a case is entered, an initial or interim result will be displayed on the screen. If you receive an initial case result of “Employment Authorized,” it means that the information entered into E-Verify matches government records.
If you receive an interim case result, it means that additional action is required before E-Verify can complete the verification process. There are several kinds of interim case results. If you receive a “Review and Update Employee Data,” it means a typographical error or incorrect information was provided on Form I-9.
If you receive a “Tentative Non confirmation,” it means the information provided by your employee on Form I-9 did not initially match government records. In that case, you must notify your employee of this result in a private setting and instruct him to visit an SSA or DHS office as soon as possible. If your employee chooses not to contest the finding, you may terminate his employment without penalty.
If you receive a case result of “DHS Verification In Process,” it means the information provided on Form I-9 did not immediately match government records and a manual review of government records will be required. This process usually takes about 24 to 48 hours.
 Regardless of whether you receive an initial or interim result on the first round, you will need to wait to receive a final case result to confirm your employee’s eligibility to work. If you receive a final case result of “Employment Authorized,” it means the information you provided matches government records.
If you receive a final case result of “SSA or DHS Final Non-Confirmation,” it means E-Verify cannot verify an employee’s work eligibility after he has visited an SSA field office or contacted DHS during the TNC referral process. Once you have been informed of the Final Non-Confirmation, you must close the case. You may also terminate your employee’s employment without penalty.
If you receive a final case result of “DHS No-Show,” it means your employee did not contact DHS within 8 working days following an initial finding of TNC. This is equivalent to a Final Non-Confirmation. You must close the case with E-Verify and you may terminate your employee’s employment without penalty.
If you receive a final case result of “Error: Close Case and Resubmit,” it means that the expiration date that you entered for your employee’s work authorization document is incorrect. If this occurs, you will need to find out the correct expiration date from your employee and create a new case. You will not be able to submit the information as part of the original case.
 Once you have received the final result, you must close the case you created with E-Verify. Log in to E-Verify.
Click on the Employees tab and search for the employee whose case you wish to close.
Click “Select” on the employee’s name. Then, click on “View Details/Close EEV” to close the case.
You will be taken to the E-Verify report. From the drop-down menu, click on “EEV Status.”
When the Case Detail Screen appears, click on “close case.”
Indicate whether the employee whose case you are closing still works for the company by checking the box for “yes” or “no.”
Provide a reason for why you are closing the case. For example, if the employee is still working for you and you received an “Employment Authorized” result, check the box that states this option.
Once you have selected the appropriate statement, click on “Close Case.”
Record the employee’s case verification number on his Form I-9 or print out the confirmation that the case has been closed and keep it on file with Form I-9. 