 Lemon juice has natural bleaching properties, which can help reduce the appearance of dark spots and create more even, lighter skin. Rub freshly squeezed lemon juice onto your dark spots and leave the juice on for about 10 minutes before rinsing. Repeat this treatment three times a week.


Lemon juice dries out the skin and makes it hypersensitive to the sun, so it is important to follow this treatment with a moisturizer and sunscreen.;
, Apple cider vinegar works by speeding up the process by which your skin naturally sheds, which can help even out skin tone.Dab the vinegar onto your dark spots with a cotton ball and leave it on for a few minutes before rinsing.
 The acid in onions has natural skin-lightening properties, which can help fight dark spots.Extract the juice from the onion by either squeezing it or putting it in the blender. Use a cotton ball to dab the juice onto your dark spots and leave it on for about 10 minutes before rinsing. Repeat this treatment daily.
 Cut a fresh garlic clove in half and rub it onto your dark spots. Alternatively, blend the garlic in a food processor to create a paste and use a cotton swab to dab it onto your skin. Leave the garlic on for 30 minutes to an hour and then rinse.
 *Caution! Read warnings about this method* If you want to lighten a dark spot, take a needle and SOFTLY prick the area. Not enough to make it bleed, of course, but enough so that the skin on it appears to flake a bit. Don't peel it off, but leave the area for a few days. Eventually, the skin flakes off, leaving you with a lighter spot than before., There are prescription dark spot treatments on the market that contain a skin-lightening agent called hydroquinone.Additionally, topical cysteamine has also proven effective treating pigmentation.With continued use, these types of lotions can fade existing dark spots and create a more even skin tone.


The bleaching agent in hydroquinone creams may cause temporary itching, burning, redness, and other discomfort.
Non-prescription lotions are also available that claim to treat dark spots. Most major cosmetic companies like Clinique, Estée Lauder, Maybelline, Proactive, and Garnier carry such products.
Avoid skin-lightening creams that contain mercury, as this chemical can be toxic in humans.
 Laser treatments are available that target melanin-producing cells, which are responsible for skin pigmentation.Laser therapy can gradually lighten the appearance of dark spots after several treatments.


Laser therapy carries some risk factors, which include discoloration of the skin.
 This treatment involves applying an acid to the skin that causes the outer layer to peel and a new, fresh layer to form underneath it.You may need to get multiple treatments before seeing the results you want.


It is important to protect your skin from the sun following this type of treatment. Like laser therapy, chemical peels carry a risk of skin discoloration.

