 Scheduling time for hygiene makes sure you get it done, and (even better) helps you see yourself as a priority. Here are some basic guidelines:


Wash your face twice daily. Even if you're super exhausted at night, try to at least take off your makeup and use a moisturizer.
Brush your teeth at least twice per day. Don't brush more than that because the enamel on your teeth will start to wear. Try to floss every night, as well.
Shower once a day, at least. That doesn't mean you have to wash your hair once a day (and sometimes you shouldn't — keep reading for more on that), but your body should be cleaned daily.
Take care of your nails. Nails should be trimmed at least once a week; if you want, you can even try a Manicure or Pedicure.
Remove unwanted body hair regularly. Plucking eyebrows, shaving legs and armpits, and getting rid of other stray hairs doesn't have to be part of your beauty routine. If it is, though, try to do it on a consistent schedule.
Make sure you have clean laundry. Fresh clothes will both look better and make you feel more attractive.;
, Get split ends trimmed every 6 to 8 weeks, and touch up any highlights or color around the same time. Here are some other ways to maximize your locks:



Choose a hairstyle that suits your face shape. How you wear your hair can highlight different parts of your face, so choose a style that brings out what you like. For instance, if you have sharp cheekbones and a wide jaw, wearing your hair pulled back will make these more prominent, whereas flowing layers will make a round face seem longer. You can try braiding the side of your braid for a half shaved look, do a messy ponytail, fishtail braid or curl it. Heat may damage it so try using the headband method.
Don't wash your hair every day. Unless you have baby-fine hair that's thin and gets weighed down easily, consider washing your hair every other day instead. On the between day, use a boar-bristle brush to move the tiny bit of oil through your hair — it will make it look shiny and bouncy.
Avoid over-styling your hair. One or two days a week, give your hair a break from blow dryers, curling irons, and straighteners. The heat can damage your hair and make it look brittle.
 Even if your hair and your clothes are just OK, how you take care of your face can push you from "pretty" to "drop-dead gorgeous." Here's how to make the most of your features, with or without wearing makeup:



Get glowing skin. In addition to washing and moisturizing twice a day, avoid breakouts by keeping your hands away from your face and sleeping on clean pillowcases. Spot-treat pimples using salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide. Or, for a quick overnight fix, crush a few uncoated aspirin tablets (the plain white ones), mix with a few drops of water, and leave the paste on any zits while you sleep.

Shape your brows. Start by only plucking a few hairs, then see how it looks and remove more from there if necessary. For less painful plucking, avoid doing it during the week before your period. Or, you can hold ice cubes on your skin for a minute before you start tweezing.
Wear makeup that suits your face. Check out some of the tutorials in How to Apply Makeup, or visit a department store for a consultation. (Most makeup counters will put makeup on you and teach you techniques for free, but it doesn't hurt to ask.)
Follow the eyes-or-lips rule. If you wear makeup, focus the drama on either your eyes or your lips — not both. If you have a great pucker and wear red lipstick to make it look amazing, skip the heavy eyeliner and eyeshadow, and do one coat of mascara. If you want to highlight your eyes, go easy on the lips with a light stain or chapstick. Blusher works well too but not over the top!

Be yourself Don't try to be someone you're not. A boy or girl should like you for who you are not about what you look like. Just maintain good hygiene and you're good to go.
 What suits another drop-dead gorgeous girl might not look great on you, and vice versa. The good news: figuring out what probably looks good on you is easier than you think. Try these tips:


Decide whether you should wear warm or cool tones. Wearing the right color can make your skin glow, while the wrong one can make it look washed out or splotchy. The best way to do this is looking at the inside of your wrist under bright light — do your veins look blue or green under your skin? If it's green, wear warms; if it's blue, you'll probably look better in cools.

Warm colors include bright yellows, yellow-based reds and greens, browns, gold, cream and anything with a yellow or orange tint to it.
Cold colors are made up of "jewel tones" such as deep purples, blues, and greens, black, white, and "cool" pastels with blue tones.


Take a glance at what is in your closet. Chances are, you already gravitate toward colors that look good on you — and it's OK to stick to those.
Make sure your clothes fit. They should cover you adequately without being baggy, and be fitted without squeezing too tightly. If a lot of your clothes are bigger than you'd like, take them to a seamstress or tailor to be altered — individual pieces shouldn't cost much. (You can usually find one at your local dry cleaner's.)

, Exercising regularly will not only make your physique look better, it'll also boost your confidence and your endorphins. Try to set aside time to exercise for at least 30 minutes, three or four times per week, or get involved in an athletic sport. If you need a jumpstart, try these articles:


How to Begin Running
How to Strengthen Your Back with Pilates
How to Perform Yoga Postures
How to Swim
How to Play Tennis
How to Play Field Hockey

, Sleeping too little gives you red, baggy eyes and a lackluster physical presence. Studies have also shown that sleeping too little causes overeatingand weakens your immune system. If you struggle with insomnia, read How to Sleep When You Are Not Tired.

