 Keeping your skin clean and healthy will help you stay wrinkle free for as long as possible. You can do this by:Washing your face daily with clean water and mild soap that won’t dry out your skin. This will help remove dirt, oil, and dead skin cells which can clog your pores.
Moisturize your skin to prevent it from getting dry and itchy. Use a non-oily moisturizer so that it won’t clog your pores and make you prone to pimples.
Take off your makeup each night. This will prevent it from getting rubbed into your pores.;
, You can purchase self-care materials like an exfoliating glove or a gritty rub which will help you remove layers of dead skin cells while you bathe. Chose a gentle exfoliating product that does not contain harsh chemicals.


Exfoliating materials containing microbeads are the gentlest because they have round edges. Avoid scrubs with rough edges like crushed apricot pits or walnut shells, as these harsh abrasives can damage your skin.If you use an exfoliating cream, rub it into your skin in gentle circles. Do not rub so hard that it hurts. You don’t want to damage the living, healthy skin underneath.
You can also purchase an exfoliating glove or use a washcloth. Rub your skin gently to loosen and wipe away any dead skin cells. This will reveal new, healthy skin below.
 Protect your skin from the sun. The ultraviolet rays in sunlight damage your skin making you more prone to wrinkles and skin cancer. You can protect your skin by:Using a moisturizer with a light, but effective sunscreen in it. The sunscreen should protect you from both UVA and UVB rays. If you moisturize daily with a moisturizer with sunscreen, this will give you sun protection each day. This should slow the development of wrinkles over time.Wearing sunscreen with a high sun protection factor (SPF) when exposing yourself to large amounts of sunlight. The American Academy of Dermatology advises people to use an SPF of at least 30. The higher the SPF, the better it is in protecting you against ultraviolet radiation and sunburns. If you are at the beach or pool, be sure to reapply it frequently and to use water-resistant sunscreen.
Avoid direct sunlight during the middle of the day when the sun is the strongest. If you are out in the sun between 11am and 3pm, put on a hat, a light long sleeve shirt, and light long pants to reduce your sun exposure.
Children are the most sensitive to getting sun burns and skin damage from ultraviolet rays.
 Smoking degrades the collagen in your skin and causes your body to produce less of it. This gives the skin of a smoker a wrinkled, leathery look. Smoking also damages the blood vessels causing your skin to get less oxygen. If you already smoke, quitting will vastly improve the quality of your skin. If you need help quitting, there are many resources available to help you. You can:Talk to your doctor
Join a support group
Call a hotline when you get the urge to have a cigarette
Try nicotine replacement therapy

, Drinking alcohol can dehydrate you, making your skin more likely to sag and wrinkle. If you do drink, supplement it with enough water to keep yourself hydrated and stay within the recommended limits.Women should drink no more than one alcoholic beverage per day. Men should have no more than two.
A beer, glass of wine, or a shot of hard alcohol qualifies as a drink.
 You can keep your skin youthful with a diet that contains everything that it needs to repair wear and tear that accumulates through your life. This will help slow the process of developing wrinkles. A healthy diet should contain:Lots of fruits and vegetables. Fruits and vegetables provide the vitamins and minerals that your skin needs to maintain a healthy glow. They make great snack for satisfying hunger between meals. Instead of eating a bag of chips, try an apple, carrots, fresh broccoli, a green pepper, or berries.
Low fat sources of protein. You can get protein from milk, eggs, tofu, beans, and lean meats like fish and poultry. If you cook meat, try baking, grilling, or roasting it instead of frying it.
Whole-grain sources of carbohydrates. Whole grains are excellent sources of energy for your body. They have vitamins and fiber. You can purchase whole grain breads, whole wheat pasta, and brown rice.

