 Maintaining a social media presence can help you monitor your child’s activities and help you stay connected with your own family and friends. However, you should model proper use of social media for your child.Try not to let your child see you with your eyes glued to your phone. When you’re having a conversation with them or anyone else, avoid pulling out your phone to check for texts, emails, or notifications.
 We all want to brag about our children, whether we post a picture of them after a sports victory or science fair win. However, sharing too much information about the ups and downs of parenting can interfere with your child’s sense of independence.Avoid posting about disagreements or difficulties you’re having with your child. Try not to post things like, “They are so stubborn about cleaning their room! They took such a tantrum when I asked them to pick up their things!”
If you do feel the need to ask for advice on social media, limit the post's privacy settings and leave out your child's name.
 When you do post information about or pictures of your child, ask them if it's okay to share. Most kids, especially teen, have strong feelings about controlling and curating their online identities. Try to limit posts to positive content that make both you and your child proud.Ask them, "I really want to brag to my friends about you winning the spelling bee. Can I please post the picture of you with your trophy?" It's natural to want to brag about your child, but do your best to limit how much you post.
 Try not to feel jealous or less capable when you see other parents' pictures of meals they've prepared or outfits their kids wear. Almost everyone carefully selects what they post on social media. Remember that you don't get a behind the scenes view of that seemingly perfect life.Your friend might post a couple pictures per week of elegant, healthy meals she prepared. However, she wouldn't post pictures of the fast food she buys or other not so photogenic realities. Try to stay positive and find inspiration in the images you see instead of letting seemingly perfect pictures hurt your self esteem.
 Kids have a more difficult time learning how to socialize and form emotional bonds when parents overuse social media.Show your child how to confidently interact with others in the real world. Try role playing with them to develop and maintain social skills.Teach them how to introduce themselves to others. Explain to them how to have conversations with people by asking questions, like “What are your favorite things to do?” or “What games do you like to play?”
Show them how to politely assert themselves by saying things like, “Hey this game looks fun! Can I play?” or “I don’t like being called that. You should call me by my name.”  

, Show your child firsthand how to bond with others through meaningful, face-to-face conversations. Regularly ask your child about their life, friends, school, and other relevant topics. Convey that you care about their interests, and that they can come to you for advice, for help with school, to vent, or just to chat.Turn your phones off or agree not to check them when you have a conversation.
If they give you one word answers, try to phrase questions specifically and in ways that encourage deeper responses. Try asking things like, “What was something new you learned in school today,” or “What did you do at practice today? Anything you want to work on more at home?”

