 To apply for any position on the UPS website, you must create a profile; however, the personal information you enter within your profile can be saved and used to apply for multiple UPS positions.


Click on the "Apply to This Position" button at the bottom of the webpage that displays the job details for the UPS Freight job you want to apply for. You will then be taken to a new webpage that lists additional details about the position.
Click on "Apply Now," then click on "Create a profile" to begin the application process.
If you already have a UPS Jobs profile, enter your email address into the field provided to proceed; otherwise, enter your name, contact information and email address into the fields provided on the form, then click on "Create Profile."

, UPS will ask you a variety of questions that will vary depending on the position you are applying for. For example, if you are applying to be a UPS Freight sales manager, you may be asked if you have prior sales experience.
 UPS will prompt you for the name of your high school and information about any colleges or schools you have attended.
 You will be prompted to enter information about the last 10 years of your employment history; including the names of your employers, job titles, and the length of time you worked at each job.
 You will be asked to indicate skills you have regarding the use of certain types of office equipment, computers, and software.


Place check marks next to each skill you are knowledgeable in.
 The agreement will disclose information regarding how UPS will handle the personal data you have entered into the application.
 A resume is required to complete the application process.


Click on the "Browse" button to select your resume from its stored location on your computer, then click on the "Upload" button. After you have uploaded your application, your resume and information will be submitted to the UPS Freight recruitment office.
 You will be contacted by the UPS recruitment office if they find that you are suitable for the position you applied for; however, if you do not qualify, you may receive an email from UPS stating that the position has been filled.

