 It's perhaps best to invite an odd number of friends so, including you it will be an even number and you can go off in pairs. Try to invite no more than eight people, or it might become unmanageable or squished.


Name your spa. For example, Relax and Unwind Spa.;
, See making invitations for ideas on how to make your own. Spa ideas could include an image of someone in a bathtub, a nail polish bottle-shaped invitation or the words "SPA" in bubble letters, cut out around the letter edges.


If it's a hassle to mail them, then find spa themed e-cards to send.
 Add in any specific needs, such as bringing along a bathrobe, spa gear, makeup, etc. Send the invitations with plenty of time to spare for RSVPs (confirmations of attendance).
 List such things as food (it should be mostly healthy, according to theme), and movies (ask the guests if they have a specific suggestion before the party).


What are you going to do? Are you planning to do makeup, nails, and hair? Or just nails?
et a cleanser, toner, face wash, face mask, towel, bathrobe and pajamas for each guest. This may sound like you're going over the top, but it will make it seem so much more relaxing and pamper like if it's new stuff, if you can't afford all of this just invite one friend or divide it among guests and ask them to bring particular things. You also need to get cotton pads, buds, flannels, and moisturizer.
Buy exotic face mask flavors like banana, pineapple, strawberry, kiwi, watermelon and oatmeal.
For the hair, get hairspray, hair grips, hair bands, hair elastics and heat protector, so that you can do anything you want with the hair.
For nails, just pick up a couple of different nail vanishes and some foot moisturizer and hand moisturizer.
 Play games like M.A.S.H. and Truth or Dare or Would-You-Rather. Decide which games are pre-spa and post-spa, as games are not suitable during the pampering part of the spa party.


Play Man Hunt.
Do a scavenger hunt to find all the spa supplies in your house.
 It is best done after the outdoor activities have been completed and everyone is inside for the rest of the night. You could eat before or in the middle of spa activities, as preferred. Snacks can follow at the end.
 Some snacks to try are:


Small, cut sandwiches
Anything on crackers plus dip
An assortment of fruit and vegetables and maybe some delicious chocolate-covered strawberries
Candies and cakes in small amounts only; try for banana and carrot cakes and date sweets.
 Get some spa type music to play at the party.
,

Get ready for the best party ever., When your friends arrive, tell them to unpack, because you shouldn't be wasting valuable time at the party.
 Go outside for as long as you can because you're going to be cramped up for a whole night.
,, Chick flicks and comedies are usually the best.

