 Before you can begin the process of sealing jars with a water bath, take some time to prepare the jars. First, inspect the jars and lids for nicks, cracks, or sharp and uneven edges. Check both the inner and outer layer of a jar's lid. Make sure the bends fit on all the jars. Defective jars should be thrown out.Once you've made sure all the jars are safe for use, hand wash your jars and lids in soapy warm water. After washing them thoroughly, set them to dry in a drying rack or on a clean dish towel., Place your jars in a large pot filled with water. The water should be hot but not boiling to start. The pot should be large enough so that the water completely covers the jars. Bring the water to a simmer. Keep the jars there until ready for use.








If you frequently need to seal glass jars with a water bath, consider purchasing a bath canner. This is a special device specifically designed to submerge jars in water for sterilization. However, this tool is mostly for convenience. If you do not have a bath canner, a large pot will work just as well., When using the water bath sealing method, make sure your foodstuff is naturally acidic or has added acid. This is the only way to guarantee that bacteria will not build up in your canned goods. While you're letting the jars sterilize, prepare your canning recipe.High-acid foods include fruits, fruit juices, jams, jellies and other fruit spreads, salsas, tomatoes with added acid, pickles, relishes, chutneys, sauces, vinegars and condiments.
 First, turn off the heat on the pot and remove your now sterilized jars from the pot with tongs. You can also buy specialized devices designed to remove jars from hot water, called a jar lifter. This may be slightly safer than tongs.Place the jars to dry in a drying rack or on a clean dish towel. Then bring the large pot to a low boil.
 Set the boiling water aside and fill your jars. For the best effects, use a tool known as a jar funnel which allows you to easily transfer liquid-like substances into your jars.









Make sure to leave some air space. For soft spreads, like jams and jellies, leave 1/4 of an inch. For solid foods, like fruits and pickles, leave 1/2 of an inch.Place the lid on the jar and screw the ring on.Tap the side of the jar with a wooden spoon to remove bubbles.
Repeat with the other jars.
Don’t screw the ring on too tightly or the excess air won’t be able to escape.
 The canning rack is a device that sits on the water bath canner or pot and ensures the glass jars don’t touch the bottom and break. Make sure you have a canning rack before beginning the sealing process. Never layer the jars on the rack. You may have to seal the jars in several batches depending on the size of your canning rack.
 Place the canning rack with the jars into the boiling water. Process them according to recipe directions. The processing (boiling) times will vary from recipe to recipe.









Processing time starts when the pot comes back to a boil.
Make sure there's about an inch or two of water above the lids of the jars. Add more water before returning it to a boil if necessary.
 Remove the rack with the jars and set them on your counter to cool overnight. Wear oven mitts when moving the rack to avoid injury. Use a pair of tongs or jar lifters to lift them carefully out of the rack.
 If the lid is not depressed, it is not sealed. You should eat it immediately instead of storing it or re-seal the jar with a new lid. Check the jar for cracks before doing so.