 When you write numbers, each spot in the line has a name or type. Learn these spots to help you line up the numbers correctly so you can add them. For example:


2 by itself is in the "ones" place.
In the number 20, the two is in the "tens" place.
In the number 200, the two is in the "hundreds" place.
So, in the number 365, the five is in the ones place, the six is in the tens place, and the 3 is in the hundreds place.
 Line up the numbers so that each full number that you have to add is on top of the other. The "places" are what you'll use to line the numbers up, so that all of the ones place numbers are right above one another. Leave a space to the left when you have a number that is smaller than the others. For example, when adding 16, 4, and 342, you should write it like this:


342
_16
__4

, Start with the right-most column and add the numbers together. Once you know the sum (how much you get when the numbers are added together), write the number in the ones place below all of the numbers you're adding, at the bottom of the ones place column.


In our above example, we get 12 when adding the 2, 6, and 4 together. Write the 2 from the 12 at the bottom of the right-most column.
 If you have a number in the tens place, write the tens place number at the top of the next column (to the left).


We have a number in the tens place in this example, so write the 1 from the 12 at the top of the middle column, above the 4 in 342.
 Move to the next column to the left and count all the numbers in this column, including the one you might have added from the previous step. Write the number you get at the bottom of the column, carrying any number in the tens place like before.


For this example, we count the 1 from the 12, plus the 4 from the 342, and the 1 from the 16. This gives us 6.
 Repeat these counting steps, moving from right to left from column to column, until all of your columns are done. The number that you have at the bottom when you're done is the sum.


In this example, the sum is 362.

