 Punk means resisting tyranny in any form and making your own decisions and own ways without what others say. It's associated with rebellion and anti-establishment.


Read up on classic punk topics like resisting tyranny, DIY, rebellion, anti-authoritarianism anarchism and violence. The more you know, the more easily you'll be able to express yourself.
Find interesting ways to express what you know and why you think it's important. There is a difference between complaining about authority figures and being against the structure that allows for authority in the first place.
Talk to like-minded people and different-minded people. You need to talk to both to really get comfortable with your own perspective. Also, if you're only talking to like-minded people, how will you deliver your radical message to those that need it most?;
, Get to know other people who have the same beliefs. This way you'll feel comfortable exploring your punk side without judgement or conflict from squares.


Go to some punk concerts. Some venues put up posters - check your local telephone poles.
If you have an Instagram account, set it up with a punk or heavy metal theme. That way you can get more friends who are punks, even if you don't know them.
Be unapologetically you. If you're autistic, stim in public. If you're LGBT, wear your colors loudly and proudly.
Choose a punk music scene. It doesn't matter what music they do. Either punk rock or hardcore punk or Oi!
Choose a regional punk scene you're affiliated with, such as The Detroit Scene, The California punk scene or the Boston music scene.
Figure out where punks in your area meet, be it a specific corner or landmark. Punks usually don't meet at establishments unless it's for the sake of music - they try to use public space as much as possible.
If all else fails, ask another punk on the street when the next gig is.
Don't be afraid to admit that you're new to all of this. Everyone was new once, and they will probably understand. If you are friendly, people will like you whether or not you know every punk band on earth and have all the typical clothes.
Join a punk online community. Here, you can meet other punks world wide, trade MP3s, find shows or discover new bands.
If you choose your favorite regional scene, you have do some research.
 Punks are very resourceful. Find new ways to enjoy yourself without giving your money to big corporations.


Enjoy the outdoors, be it hiking a mountain or enjoying the park with your friends.
Make or join a community garden. You can grow vegetables and cool plants and you won't have to buy them from any establishments
Learn to cook. Not only is it an enjoyable way to spend your time but it also saves money - more for you, less for the establishment. Negative Approach vocalist John Brannon doesn't only earn his music career, but he got another job as a chef.
Find free events through friends, the websites of venues you like or using local event forums.
Get crafty. For each item you craft, you haven't supported a store that sells a similar manufactured version.
Visit the mall or a big-box store only when necessity demands it. Even things like furniture can be found for free with sites like craigslist.org and freecycle.org. If you must buy something, try to find it used first. It'll be cheaper for you and a little more anti-establishment.

