 Obviously spinning these will not teach you how to spin an electric guitar, but they will teach you what not to do, such as what to do with your back during the rotation.;
, The strap will certainly scratch up your neck. You're going to begin practicing with front flip style spins, with the headstock in front. Make sure you have about 2 yards (1.8 m) of open space in every direction.
 If it's too high, the guitar may get caught on you. If it's too low, it will take a lot of power to get around, plus you'll have a very destructively large radius of swinging axe.


Without holding a pick, try to throw the guitar over your shoulder, making sure that the strap is resisting the guitar. It may take a few tries to get a feel for the rotation and power needed. Do not try to launch it on your first try. If anything, be light on your first few attempts. This plastic Guitar Hero controller is going to slap you in the back a few times.






If you're still not getting it, the trick is to have the guitar pulling against the strap, making the strap rotate around your body. Two examples, a bike chain, and a hula hoop. Surely a bike chain will not work without the proper tension. Now think of a hula hoop. The best way to keep it going around is balancing the speed and force with which it is spun.






When you feel you have figured how out to complete the spin, hold a pick properly, and try again; after all, you'll be doing these while playing.
 If one is handy, start with an acoustic guitar of little value. The method is actually different from the electric guitar throw, but an acoustic will be great to learn with due to its bulk, because you will need to be careful.
 If you have electrical tape, hockey tape, or duct tape, make some close passes to the strap button, sealing off the line used to take the strap on or off. Optionally, you may also tape the strap buttons to the strap. If you do tape the buttons, there will be a slight difference in the feel of the guitar while playing, but it will be more secure during spins. If you don't, you'll retain the natural feel, but you are slightly more likely to have an accident.


When you think you have a tough fit, give that guitar a few tosses, without a pick first, then later with one.
 That does not mean your brother's Stratocaster that you don't like, or your dad's old guitar that he keeps in that case in the attic, that means the guitar grandma bought you from Toys 'R' Us.


Step over the cord so it's behind you. Watch performers who spin their guitar on stage to see exactly how they deal with the cord, especially when spinning more than once.
This strap must be seriously reinforced. You're pushing a lot of weight this time, and you shouldn't wouldn't worry about the guitar as much as the windows, walls, televisions, and whatever else is within eye shot of you. This strap must never come off, especially when you consider doing these in a live setting. Hitting an audience member with your guitar could cause an injury, or even death.
Once your strap is reinforced, you're free to swing that thing wherever you want. It's easier than the acoustic to get around.
 Accidents can always happen.

