 You should do your best to be at school every day. If you are not in school, you’ll miss important information, won’t be able to turn in your homework, and will fall behind. Trying to catch up can be stressful, and you probably won’t do as well as you want to when trying to do lots of work very quickly.If you miss the bus, or are late for some other reason, make sure you get to school as soon as you can. Being late is better than not showing up at all.
If you are sick, though, it is better not to go to school. Not only will it make it harder for you to concentrate and learn, but you might also pass it on to your classmates, making them sick too. This means being actually sick, not just “not feeling well.” If you are able to get up and move around at home without too much difficulty, you are probably well enough to go to school. If you are throwing up, have diarrhea, or a disease like a pinkeye or strep throat, your parents should make you stay at home.;
, This can be tough in some parts of elementary school because you have assigned seating. However, if you have the chance, try to get a seat close to the front. You’ll be closer to the teacher, more engaged in what she is talking about, and you’ll remember more information.If your class is doing some activity out of your chair, that would be a great chance to make sure you get up in the front.
 When your teacher is giving information, it is important to write it down. This will help you to remember what he is saying, and make sure you have it when you need to study.You shouldn’t write down everything your teacher says, as you’ll never be able to keep up. Instead, listen to the teacher when they tell you something is important. Write down information that gets put on the board. These pieces of information are definitely worth remembering, and knowing them will help you do well on graded assignments.
 If your teacher asks a question, try to give an answer. You won’t get in trouble for giving a wrong answer as long as you are trying to be serious. Even if you are wrong, it will give the teacher an opportunity to give you the right information. That way, when the question comes up on the test, you’ll be ready., This means following your teacher’s instructions, treating your classmates with respect, and not distracting yourself with cell phones or other books. When you misbehave, you will get in trouble and need to serve some punishment. It is much harder to learn and keep up with work if you are in a time-out, having to visit the principal, or just not paying attention.


Getting in trouble for misbehaving at school can also hurt your grades. Even if you get all the answers right on your homework and tests, your grade will still not be an A if your teacher lowers your grade because you didn’t pay attention or follow the rules.
Your parents will probably know the school’s policies for appropriate behavior, including the dress code and appropriate language for reference. If you are unsure about something, talk to them to make sure you are following the rules., To help make sure you have time to do all of your work outside of school, make sure you have time set aside every day to do homework. It needs to be long enough so that you can get all of your work done, and maybe even have your parents check it for mistakes.During your homework time, make sure you don’t have any distractions. Turn off the TV, video game, cell phone, anything that will take your attention away from your homework. This can also mean your parents, siblings, or pets, really anything that might distract you from working. If you aren’t paying attention, that makes it more likely you’ll do something wrong.
One thing that will really help is to make sure this homework time happens at the same time every day. This will help you get into a rhythm of doing your work at the same time, so you’ll always know when you should be doing homework.
Don’t forget to think about other activities when you plan your homework time. It’s okay to do other things like soccer practice, dance lessons, or even playdates. Just remember that you need to make sure you have time to do school work in addition to those things.
 Your teacher will probably give you homework, assignments you need to do after school. The goal of these assignments is to help you learn the material, so making sure it gets done before school will help you learn and get better grades.You’ll probably get lots of different assignments covering different subjects. When you get home, it is a good idea to list all of your assignments, and think about how much time you need to spend on them and the order you should do them.
Along with doing worksheets and reading books, this can mean other things, such as making time to practice an instrument if you are in the band. Just because you don’t have something to turn in doesn’t mean it isn’t important to get done.
 When your teacher tells you that you will have a test or quiz, make sure you prepare. Read your notes, any books you have been given. The goal of tests and quizzes is to see how well you understand the material, so it should just be information you already have, or have seen.You should start studying as soon as you can when you know a test is coming. Waiting until the last minute means you’ll be cramming. You won’t be able to review as much information, and you’ll remember less of it.
 When you finish your homework and are ready for bed, pack up your bag and put it somewhere you can get it quickly. That way, you’ll be ready to go in the morning, and not scrambling to get all your stuff ready. When you do that, there’s a good chance you’ll forget something important, which will hurt your grade.When your school stuff is ready to go, that also means you’ll be able to spend time getting a good breakfast. You can also spend a little more time doing fun stuff like choosing your clothes for the day.
 Breakfast is an important meal that will fuel you up each morning, making you ready for school before it starts. Make sure you get a healthy breakfast with whole grains, fiber, and protein. Talk to your parents about the best kinds of foods, and ask them to make sure those foods are in your house for breakfast.Good foods include fresh fruit, whole grain, low-sugar cereal, yogurt, or trail mix. The nice things about some of these foods are that they are also easy to eat and make. Also, they benefit if you and your parents are in a rush early in the morning (which will probably happen a lot!).
If you don’t feel hungry when you wake up, make sure to take some breakfast food with you so you can have something a little later in the morning when you are.
 You want to make sure you get plenty of sleep every night, as many as 10 to 12 hours, so you are awake and alert at school the next day. If you don’t get sleep, you’ll be tired or irritable during the day, meaning you won’t pay enough attention during school. If your parents set a bedtime for you, follow it.Getting a lot of sleep can be tough with so many electronic distractions available. It might be a good idea to shut off phones, TVs, and computers an hour before your bedtime, and make sure there aren’t any such devices in your bedroom.
 Make sure your parents know what is going on at school every day. Talk about the books you are reading, stuff you find interesting, and even stuff that’s boring. The more they know about what you are working on, the more they can help you keep your work organized, and provide extra help when you need it.Make sure your parents aren’t busy doing their own work when you try to talk to them. Family meals are a good time to talk, as is riding together in the car (maybe on the way home from school), or while walking the dog. You want to make sure they can pay attention.
 Once you have finished with your assigned work, find other stuff to read. Reading more can help you become a better reader and writer, which will help keep your grades high. You can also learn more about subjects in school that you think are interesting. You never know what kind of fun information you can learn and share with the class and your teacher.This doesn’t just mean finding things online or reading comics. Talk to your teacher about books that are good for your reading level and interests so you can find good things to read.

