 Goldfish love to swim around the bottom of the tank. Because of this, you need to make sure your stones are large so that they cannot be swallowed. Also make sure the stones have no sharp edges so the goldfish don’t cut their mouths.Make sure that your rocks are treated so they don’t change the chemistry of your tank water.An easy way to do this is to purchase rocks at a pet store.
If you must gather rocks from your property, boil them before adding them to the tank. Also make sure they are large and smooth.
 Goldfish like to be near plants.However, they also like to eat them. When you are setting up your goldfish aquarium, use plastic plants from a pet store.Avoid cheap plant décor because the plastics can leach chemicals into your goldfish tank water., Wood will add interest and a natural appearance to a goldfish tank. Since wood needs to be treated so it doesn’t affect the water, do not use wood you find on your own. Purchase either treated wood or artificial wood purchased at a pet store.You can add branches and small, hollow logs to a goldfish tank.
Wood can give your fish something to swim around during the day.
 There are many novelty fish tank accessories available on the market. However, purchasing these cheap plastic toys can be hazardous for your tank water. Make sure you purchase plastic novelties from reputable aquarium retailers.Novelty examples include sunken pirate ships, colorful corals, a diver, etc.
 Having caves and holes through objects can be fun for a goldfish. However, you must make sure that the holes aren’t too small. If a round opening is too small, your goldfish can scrape its belly or sides, which is harmful to their skin.Instead, estimate how large your goldfish will get by talking to your pet store sales person. The length a goldfish gets depends on its variety.
Goldfish can be as small as six inches or as large as 16 inches long.Purchase caves and holes that have a larger diameter than your goldfish will be at full size.
 Goldfish grow fast and produce a lot of waste. Because of this, you should provide one gallon of tank space for every two inches of goldfish. It’s good to provide a ten-gallon tank for one goldfish, even though this may look sort of empty.Goldfish reach full size in two years. Consider this when purchasing your tank.
A large tank is good for doing tricks as well. It provides plenty of room for the fish to move around.
Goldfish can grow to anywhere between 6 and 16 inches, depending on the variety., Goldfish like to play with other fish.However, since goldfish are very sensitive to the water they live in, you cannot place them in the same environment with fish who need warmer or saltier water. For example, goldfish should not be placed in the same water with tropical fish.Tropical fish are bad partners for goldfish because they need warmer water and eat more protein than goldfish.
Keep in mind that with goldfish, you don’t need a fish to clean the tank by eating algae. Goldfish love to eat so they will eat algae themselves.
 There are many things that goldfish don’t do. Knowing can prevent you from hurting your goldfish or being disappointed when they don’t do what you think they should. For example, goldfish don’t like small fish bowls. They need space to perform well.Goldfish also don’t like being touched on their bodies, bright lights, or loud noises.
Do not tap on the tank to get your goldfish's attention. Goldfish hear through vibrations in the water, and tapping on the glass creates loud vibrations that will bother them., Goldfish enjoy exploring their environment. Giving them wide spaces, a varied diet, and other goldfish to swim with helps them enjoy their daily lives. Once they are used to you, you can use food to interact with them.Try holding food over one side of the tank, then moving it to the other before feeding them. This will encourage the goldfish to follow you.

