 In many cases, you can walk away from someone you don't like. However, what if it's someone you work with who drives you crazy? Then the issue becomes a little more complicated. When you are dealing with an unpleasant coworker, try to figure out the root cause of your dislike. Take a little time to reflect on what, exactly, bothers you.
You might discover that the annoying person simply reminds of you that girl from college that you didn't get along with. If that's the case, try to separate your opinions of the two people. Your dislike for your coworker might not be legitimate.
Maybe after some thought you realize that you don't like the person because they gossip about other people. In that case, you have a legitimate concern.
Once you have identified the issue, you can figure out the most appropriate way to behave. For example, you could say to the gossiper, "I would appreciate it if you don't talk about people's personal issues around me at work.";
, Sometimes you just plain do not like someone. Maybe you've reflected on the issue, and you can't pinpoint any actual personality flaws. They're simply not your cup of tea.It's perfectly normal to just dislike certain people. However, in the workplace you can't let that control your mood or your day.
Acknowledge your emotions. Say to yourself, "Sarah really annoys me. But I know that's not actually her fault. I need to learn to deal with it."
If the person in question has never actually done anything offensive, just try to treat them the same way you treat others. Be courteous and respectful. You can blow off steam later.
 The best rule of thumb in any workplace is to always behave professionally. Even if you dislike another team member, you should not let it interfere with your work. Remain calm and respectful at all times.Keep the conversation focused on work. If your annoying coworker starts complaining about her problems with her boyfriend, you have every right to say, "We are beyond deadline on this project, so we really need to stay focused."
Use a professional tone of voice. Avoid yelling or being sarcastic, even if you feel the impulse.
Be discreet. If you have a problem with someone at work, take them aside and tell them quietly. You can say something like, "I've noticed we haven't been working well together lately. Let's try to solve the issues before our boss notices."

, Just because you work together doesn't mean that you have to spend every moment in close proximity. Personal space is important. Make sure there is an area of the office that you can retreat to.Maybe your desk is right next to the person you don't like. When you feel yourself getting angry, take a break.
Get up and move around for a little bit. Volunteer to take some packages down to the mail room, or go to the break room and make a fresh pot of coffee.
If you're in a particularly rough patch, try working from home. Many companies don't mind if you take a day out of the office every now and then.
 Keeping a positive attitude is one of the most effective ways to behave around someone you don't like. It can be difficult, but worth the effort. Look for something good to focus on.Most people have at least one positive trait. Spend some time looking for something about your coworker that you can appreciate.
Maybe you realize that her presentations are really fantastic. You can say to yourself, "Karen might be really rude, but her Powerpoints have helped win us a lot of clients."
When you are feeling annoyed or angry, try to focus on the good. You can also focus on something good in your own life. For example, try thinking, "Wow, this person is hard to be around. At least I have a birthday party to look forward to tonight."

