 Because lemons don't really ripen once they are picked, it's best to pick the right lemon from the start. This section will give you a few tips on what to look for when selecting lemons. Once you know what to look for, you will be less-likely to choose and be stuck with an under-ripe lemon.
 Keep in mind, however, that lemons ripen from the inside. This means that the lemon's skin will be the last part to ripen. You can still have a lemon that is ripe and juicy on the inside, and greenish on the outside.Myer lemons will have a deeper yellow color; some might be more orange.
 This means that the lemon is filled with a lot of juice. Most lemons will be between 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.62 centimeters) long., The ideal lemon should be firm, yet somewhat tender. A lemon that is too hard will be either under-ripe or shriveled inside.Myer lemons have a thinner skin than regular lemons. They are ripe when they are soft. If you can push the skin of the lemon in more than ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) it may be over-ripe., Lemons that have too much of a bumpy texture will be under-ripe or not juicy enough. Another thing to look for is a waxy shine on the surface of the lemon.Watch out for wrinkling. This is a sign your lemon is overripe.
 If you are harvesting lemons from a tree, you might want to put on a pair of gardening gloves; lemon trees often have thorns that can scratch you if you are not careful. Find a ripe fruit and grasp it in your hand. Gently twist it.The lemon should come off easily If it doesn't come off easily, then it probably is not ripe yet.
 If you are looking to harvest a bunch of lemons, but aren't sure whether or not they are ripe, you can always cut one in half and taste it. Most lemons will have a sour, but not bitter, taste to them. Meyer lemons, however, will be a little more sweet and less sour.


Use a refractometer if you don’t want to test by taste, sight, or touch. Squeeze a drop of juice from the lemon onto the refractometer and look at the Brix scale. Pick lemons that have a sucrose level between 6 and 12, with 8 to 12 percent being the best.

