 Thoroughly go through your documents, pictures, music, and other personal files that you may need. Back it all up in an external device. Connect that external device into an alternate computer to make sure that everything is there and opens up properly.;
,, Typically it tells you the required key pressed to take you to BIOS (F1, F2, F10, DEL, or ESC). Once your into bios go and change your boot priority to boot to the dvd drive with the windows disk first. Save settings and restart your computer. You will then see the message "Press any key to boot from cd or dvd". Press the space bar or another key of choice.
 Click on "My language is English" or one of the other options  to your language preference. You will automatically continue to the next page, if you chose English in the previous screen then make sure you choose the next 3 options accordingly for Language, Time, and Keyboard or input method. Now press "Next".
 Wait for the setup to load. Now choose your Operating System that you want to install. NOTE: Please only install the exact version of windows that you have a key for or else you will run into issues. Now press "Next".
 Now press "Next".
, Click on the first partition and click "Drive options (advanced)" and a format option should come up. Click "format" for each of the partitions. Then click on delete to remove all of the partitions. You will then be left with a single "Unallocated Space" option. Click it and press "New" then "Apply". Now look for the disk option that has "Primary" under the "Type" field on the right hand side. Select that and click "Next".
 Please do not remove your disk or discontinue power to the pc during this process.
 Remove the disk once the PC has restarted and go back into bios just as you did in step 3 and change the boot priority back to normal (your HDD being first). Save settings and restart.
 Please enter a Username and Computer Name. Now press "Next".
 The more length and variety in character choice, the more secure your sensitive information will be. Click "Next" once your all done.
 If you don't have a product key you can still continue as a trial until you purchase one. Usually purchased desktops will have a sticker physically attached somewhere on the desktop computer tower itself. Once you have entered your product key, check "Automatically activate Windows when I'm online" and press "Next".
, Click "Next".
,, Go to that manufactures website and look for "support" or "drivers and download". Enter the exact model number or service tag. Download all of the drivers for your specific computer and install them. Your computer will restart for most driver installations, that is expected.
