 Another effective way of killing a bug on the spot is to use an insect spray. Insect sprays such as Raid target multiple types of bugs and are effective in killing pests. These sprays can be found in major supermarkets and drugstores. Sprays can be used to target the bug directly, or can be sprayed near cracks, around windows and doors, or other points of entry through which bugs have gotten into your house. To use the spray, hold the bottle about a foot and a half from the bug and spray until the bug is weakened or killed.
When killing hardy bugs such as cockroaches, sometimes the spray alone is not enough. After spraying, the most effective way of killing the bug is to hit it with a heavy, flat object like a book to ensure that you have finished the job.
 Although commercial sprays are highly effective, many prefer to use natural sprays which are healthier for humans, especially if you are spraying a large area. Insects such as roaches, termites and ants among others are repelled by strong scents and essential oils.


Tea tree oil, lavender oil and peppermint oil are just a few oils that have been shown to repel and even kill insects.
To make a spray out of these oils, add 6-10 drops of essential oil in a small spray bottle along with two ounces of water and two ounces of white vinegar. Combine and spray areas such as your kitchen or around your windows to target bugs and insects., Natural pesticides are a powerful and safe way of killing insects. Look in the store for a natural pesticide made with orange oil.


To make an orange oil pesticide at home, mix about 5% orange oil with 95% water or 10% orange oil with 90% water (not orange cleaner) in a small spray bottle.
Spray the orange oil pesticide directly on the bug or around the area that the bugs are living. Orange oil pesticides are extremely effective for not only killing solitary bugs, but for killing colonies of insects. , Boric acid is another natural ingredient that is relatively safe for humans but toxic for bugs. It can be found at major pharmacies and home-improvement stores. To use boric acid powder, sprinkle the powder around the refrigerator, stove, or any other places where bugs congregate. Bugs will walk through the powder which they pick up on their legs or bodies. Later, when bugs are grooming or cleaning they ingest the boric acid powder, which kills them., Another organic earth product is food grade diatomaceous earth (uncalcinated - i.e., not heat-treated), a powdered form of an absorbent abrasive that kills insects through dehydration. Sprinkle this substance around the kitchen and other problem areas in your house. 