 It's the white ghost icon on a yellow background.


If you aren't logged into Snapchat, tap Log In and enter your username (or email address) and password.;
, Doing so will take a picture or video, respectively.


Don't tap the smaller circle, which is the Memories button.
Tap the camera icon in the top right corner of the screen to change the direction in which the camera faces (e.g., toward you).
 You can add items, drawings, or text to your snap before sending it by tapping the following icons:



Pencil - Draw over your snap. You can change the pen color by dragging your finger up or down the color slider on the right side of the screen.

T Icon - Add text to your snap. Tapping the T button while text is selected will change the text's size and allow you to change its color with the color slider on the right side of the screen.

Sticker - The box-shaped icon to the left of the T Icon allows you to add emojis or custom stickers over the top of your snap.

Scissors - Select an area of your snap to cut out as a custom sticker.
 It's at the bottom of your screen, right next to the timer. Doing so downloads your snap to your memories.


"Memories" are photos and videos you've saved in Snapchat.
Snapchat stores your Memories in an album within the app by default.
 It's in the bottom right corner of the screen.
 Each person you select will receive your snap when you send it.


You can also tap My Story at the top of the page to post the snap for all of your friends to see.
 Doing so will send your snap to your selected friends (or your story).
 You'll return you to the camera interface.
 Doing so will open the Memories screen. From here, you can do a few things:


Tap your most recent snap. This will bring it up to full-screen.
Swipe left or right while viewing a Memory in full-screen mode. You can scroll through your memories like this.
Swipe down while viewing a Memory in full-screen mode. This will return you to the Memories page.
You can also save your Memories to your phone.

