 Choose a piece of fabric in the base color of the flag you wish to make. If you're making an American flag, for example, you can stick with plain white. To make a large flag, try to use a piece of fabric measuring 5 foot (1.5 m) by 3 foot (0.9 m). If you want a smaller flag, a smaller piece of fabric (or even a pillowcase) will do.
 It doesn't matter what type of fabric these pieces are, they can be nylon or cotton like the flag, or they can be felt, silk, polyester, velour - whatever you can find around the house! Pieces of old clothing, or old tablecloths are perfect for this.
 For a DIY flag, the flag handle can be made from whatever you choose - it could be a tree branch or an old broom pole - as long as it's strong enough and long enough to hold your flag.
 Before you can attach your flag to its handle, you will need to make a pocket for the handle to slip into. To do this, spread your flag out on the table and lay the handle along the shorter, vertical edge of the material, on the right hand side.









Fold the edge of the material loosely over the handle and pin the material in place.
Remove the handle, then you can use a sewing machine or some fabric glue to secure the material in place.
Sew or glue the top of the pocket together, so the handle cannot slip through. This will allow the flag to sit on top of the handle.
 Now comes the fun part! Use markers, rulers and stencils to draw patterns on the colored fabrics, which you can cut out with a sharp scissors. Once all the pieces are cut out, you can glue them into position on your flag, using fabric glue.









If you are making an American flag, for example, you would need to cut a small rectangle from a piece of blue fabric, seven long stripes of equal width from some red fabric, and a collection of five-pointed stars from a piece of white fabric.
If you want to spell something, such as "Go Team!", you can draw bubble letters and cut them from a piece of white, black or colored fabric.
 Once you have finished decorating, you can slip the flag handle into the pocket you created earlier. If it feels loose, you can secure it with a little glue or a couple of small stitches to hold the bottom of the flag in place. Now you can wave it to your heart's content!








