 Even if you wear earplugs at every concert, you only increase the risk of hearing damage with every concert that you attend.Try to limit the number of concerts that you attend, and consider decreasing the number if you attend concerts frequently. If you attend over 12 shows a year, try cutting the number back to 5 or 6.


Drinking alcohol at concerts presents a further risk to your ears. Intoxicated individuals may not feel the painful effects of hearing damage, or may dull your sensitivity to the ringing in your ears.
For this reason, avoid intoxication at concerts. If you want to drink, do so moderately, and be sensitive to pain and ringing in your ears.
 If you’ve attended a loud concert, your ears have doubtless been exposed to loud sounds for an extended period of time. Even if you wore foam or custom ear plugs at the concert, it will help your ears recover to give them a “hearing detox.” This is a period of time during which you avoid all loud noises to give your ears time to recover from the concert. Give your ears about 16 hours without any exposure to loud sounds after every concert.When on a “hearing detox,” avoid listening to loud music—whether at live shows or through your headphones—and avoid loud construction zones, heavy traffic, and seeing movies in the theater. It may seem surprising that movies can damage your hearing, but many action films reach peak volume above 100 db.
 If you’re employed by an amphitheater, sports arena, jazz or rock club, or other type concert venue, you will frequently be exposed to potentially harmful levels of sound. Plan to purchase yourself a high-quality pair of custom earplugs as soon as possible; considering using a pair of earplugs similar to those that professional musicians use. Check out—online or in-person—the HealthDoc HiFi earplugs or LiveMusic HiFi earplugs.You may also decide to purchase a pair of over-the-ear hearing protectors to wear even when your earplugs are in. Avoid using foam earplugs, as these will provide inadequate protection to someone who works in a music venue., If you’ve ever been to a loud concert and afterwards (when in the quiet of your car driving home or in your bedroom that night) still heard a ringing sound in your ears, you’ve experienced hearing damage. This phenomena is called “tinnitus.” After the first several times you experience tinnitus, the ringing sound goes away after a while. However, tinnitus can develop into a permanent condition, which can diminish your hearing permanently.Having a full feeling in your ears may also be a sign of hearing loss. This may feel similar to the pressure feeling you get when you are flying on an airplane.
Ear discomfort after exposure to loud sounds, such as a concert can be another sign of hearing loss. This discomfort or painful sensation can include an aching deep inside your ears.
 Your ears are sensitive, delicate instruments that can be damaged when exposed to sound volumes higher than 85 decibels (db) for long periods of time. The volume at most concerts registers between 100 and 140 db, meaning that your hearing is at risk at nearly every show you attend.If you don’t take measures to protect your hearing, you risk causing permanent damage to your ear drums or to the fine hairs in your inner ear.
 Hearing loss is a serious issue, and its effects are irreversible. If you attend concerts frequently or are worried about your own hearing, talk to your doctor. Also you’re your doctor if you notice hearing-related symptoms, including: some sounds sounding louder or quieter than they usually do, you have to keep turning the TV and radio up, or if people’s voices sound slurred or indistinct.Your general-care doctor may refer you to an audiologist (ear specialist) if the doctor fears that you’ve already suffered from hearing damage. If you’re referred, set up this appointment immediately.

