 A well-designed tablescape should be in dialogue with everything around it. When creating a minimalist tablescape, you should try to work with, rather than against, the primary color of the environment.For instance, if you have white walls – which are ideal for minimalist design – you could complement them with a set of navy napkins or a navy table runner.
If you have colorful walls, you might have a harder time finding a good way to achieve a minimalist tablescape. Focus on incorporating wood and white-colored elements into your tablescape.
 Rustic-looking tables of unpainted wood tend to be favored in minimalist tablescapes. Ideally, the wood will be medium or light in hue, though darker woods can also work in the right environment (for instance, in a space where the walls are white)., Unlike a more traditional tablescape that might feature a big vase of flowers or a cornucopia, a minimalist tablescape should have just one single, clean-looking centerpiece. If you have a very long dining table – for a wedding, perhaps – it would be okay to incorporate one other repeated element that complements the plant. You could alternate the plant with, for instance, a series of white candles in clear glass.Take a long black serving dish and place a couple small bricks of floral foam in the bottom of the dish. Place a series of low cups – either plastic or clear glass – inside the dish. You should be able to get four to sit on the floral foam. The others can sit directly on the floor of the long serving dish. Stuff the cups with a lush green plant like selaginella until overflowing.
Other examples include a single white candle in a plain-looking copper candlestick holder, a succulent in a squat, black pot, and a single white rose or tulip in a small black or clear vase.
Make your centerpiece seasonal, if possible. For instance, in the fall you could choose a few small pumpkins or squashes.
 A table cloth detracts from the color and texture of the table itself. If you choose to use anything, use a long runner – thin strip of cloth that goes from one end of the table to the other, and drapes down slightly over the ends of the table somewhat.


If you absolutely must have a tablecloth, select a white or light-colored tablecloth. If you can pull off a darker tablecloth – a navy, for instance – try it out. You can always remove it if you decide later it doesn't work.