 New and improved manufacturing techniques have introduced a wider range of guitars at the lower end of the market. There are many options to choose from even if you have a tight budget. For instance, one can get a decent guitar for $300.If you have a bit more to spend (e.g., $500 – $1000), there are a wide range of moderate to higher priced guitars.If you are a new player, you may want to purchase a lower end model. You can learn to play on lower end models and eventually work your way up to pricier models once you know the basics.
Be honest with yourself. Simply buying expensive or signature models won't make you a great guitarist. You need to practice.
If you already own a guitar or two, consider spending a couple hundred dollars more this time around. If you spend a little bit more, you will ensure you are improving your overall collection of guitars.;
, First, you will need an electric guitar. This is a guitar that needs to be plugged into an electric amplifier for any sound to be heard. They are often completely solid and very heavy. You can also buy hollow ones but they are not as good for heavy metal.In addition, you will need an electric guitar with the right pickups, strings, and wood tones.Choose an electric guitar with humbucker or active pickups. Humbucker pickups give the guitar a thick and beefy tone, which is great for the genre. Active pickups allow you to have more control of the sound.Figure out the scale length you need. If you prioritize playability or are a newer player, go for the 24.75 inch scale. If you want a tighter response, go for the 25.5 inch scale.Examine the electronics on the electric guitar. There are many options available such as phase switching, coil tapping and kill switches.Decide on the bridge you want. The main choice is between fixed versus tremolo-equipped bridges. Tremolo bridges have springs to adjust spring tension, which allows you to raise and lower the pitch of all the strings at once. A fixed bridge is better for beginners., You will need to think about stylistic choices when choosing the right guitar. For instance, you should ask yourself the following questions: Do I want a six string or an eight string instrument? What colors do I want?


Decide on the colours and profile you want. Edgier profiles are more associated with the genre.Decide whether you want a six string guitar or a seven or eight string instrument. Seven and eight strings are becoming popular amongst more experienced players. They allow for a greater range of notes.Don't use hollow body guitars for extreme genres. It is better to buy solid body guitars because they sound better for heavy metal.
 You should examine the wood used in the construction of the guitar body, as well as the shape and wood used for the guitar neck.Choose a mahogany or basswood guitar. Mahogany is a great wood for heavy metal because it has deep and resonant tones. Basswood also sounds great and is less expensive.Pay attention to the wood used in production of the neck. Rosewood, Maple, and Ebony are some woods that won't easily get clogged with dirt.
Look at the neck of the guitar. Thinner necks can be a good choice if you are a new player., Some of the brands that are respected for this genre include Ibanez, Gibson, Schechter, Charvel and Dean.Read guitar reviews in heavy metal magazines. By familiarizing yourself with the heavy metal scene, you will become familiar with the leading brands of heavy metal guitars.
It is not recommended to buy a Fender with single coil pickups for heavy metal, although it is otherwise one of the best guitar models.
Consider brands that are typically less expensive like Yamaha, Cort, Aria, Fernandez, Squier, or LTD. Don't forget the goal is to learn to play the guitar, rather than boasting.
If you are a first time buyer, avoid purchasing expensive models with crazy shapes.

