 Introduce yourself and get friendly with these people. Bring up goth music or vampire lore when you’re around them at school to get conversations started.


Take mental notes about what the other vampire kids are wearing to get additional ideas for your wardrobe.
Investigate whether or not your school has any goth social groups or meetups. If so, check them out.
 There are tons of goth bands out there and goth music itself is highly varied with many subgenres, so if you’re new to the game, it can be a little overwhelming. However, you can’t go wrong with classic goth bands like The Cure, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Bauhaus, Joy Division, The Damned, Sisters of Mercy, Christian Death and (early) Depeche Mode.Check out the bands on goth-friendly record labels like Projekt, Cleopatra, Anubis and Tess if you aren’t sure where to start., Vampires are known for their air of quiet mystique, and smiling is a rarity for them. Act a little broody and pensive around others. Avoid being talkative and glide around as though everything you do is effortless for you.


Maintaining a straight face doesn’t mean looking angry or upset. Focus on looking indifferent to what’s going on around you and relatively emotionless.
Be aware when people are looking at you, but don’t look at them. Act as gracefully as possible when you’re being watched.
Demonstrating impeccable manners and a reserved demeanor are also a big part of the vampire mystique., The classic German film Nosferatu is a must-see.


Other important vampire films are The Hunger, The Lost Boys, the Underworld series, the Blade series, From Dusk Til Dawn, Dracula (1931 film featuring Bela Lugosi as Dracula), Bram Stoker’s Dracula (1992 film featuring Gary Oldman as Dracula), and Interview With A Vampire.
Other vampire references to check out – the comic book series (and film) 30 Days of Night, as well as the following television series: True Blood, The Strain, Buffy The Vampire Slayer, Angel, The Originals and The Vampire Diaries.
For goth references outside of vampires, check out popular sci-fi/fantasy/horror writers like H.P. Lovecraft, Ray Bradbury, Caitlin R. Kiernan, Mary Shelley, Edgar Allen Poe and Neil Gaiman.