 If you’re in protection mode for your fish, the first thing to think about is the location of the fish bowl or tank. Is it easy for your cat to jump up and peer inside? If so, find a spot that at least delays your cat’s intrusion into the fish ecosystem long enough for you to rescue the fish, such as up in a cabinet or on a high mantel.


Exploration is the name of a cat’s game, especially for a kitten. Try keeping the fish bowl away from surfaces cats like to jump on: tables, sideboards, cabinets, and bookshelves.;
, If you have any doilies on hand, put them to use over a fish bowl. Take a large rubber band and stretch a doily over the top of the fish bowl, snapping the rubber band in place under the lip of the bowl.You can sprinkle fish food into the bowl without having to remove a lid this way.
The doily should have a tight weave so that no cat could fit its paws or snout through the holes.
 If you don’t have any doilies or your fish container is too large, consider adding a lid. Test out any lid you already have on hand to see if the cat can penetrate it. Make sure the lid is very heavy or snaps onto the edges very tightly so that even you have a hard time getting it off.


Don't just place a heavy plate over the top. Cats can be very resourceful with a plate or other covering that isn’t secured in place.
Make sure there is a hole in the lid for airflow.You may be able to find a lid that fits your fish tank at a store that sells containers.
 If your current setup doesn’t allow you to place a secure lid on the fish container, consider purchasing a tank with a lid. Many pet stores and big box stores sell fish tanks and bowls with lids. , One sure-fire way to keep your cats out of the water of a fish bowl is to move the fish to a room where the cats don’t go. If you like looking at your fish, designate a room you frequent as a no-cat zone.


You could start blocking off a bathroom.
If you like the fish more as a decoration, you could lock it in an unused bedroom. Just be sure to go in this room everyday to feed the fish.

