 Make sure you know what form the project should take, what it needs to include, and exactly what your teacher will be grading it on.;
, Also one on which you can find enough information. For example, it will be easier to find out about houses in Ancient Greece than how the Ancient Greeks felt about bugs.
 Work backwards from the project due date to plan when you will work on each step: Your research, building your model, or writing your cue cards.
 Collect any information from the books, Websites, and encyclopedias, taking notes as you work. And stay focused on your topic. If you are researching Ancient Greek houses, don't spend time reading or making notes on Greek medicine.
 Make an outline. Divide your information on Greek houses into subtopics, such as building materials, room arrangements, roof design, and courtyard form and function.
 Write each main idea of your speech at the top of a cue card, then list the details below to support the idea.
 Your first card should contain something grabby. A wacky but true statistic is always a good lead-in.
 A speech is really a show that you put on. You have to hold your audience with your voice, you manner, and riveting content.
 Your parents, a friend, a sibling or in front of a mirror. Listen to their feedback and their questions. Do you know the answers? If not, go back and do a little more research.
 You want to know most of the content by heart so you're not reading off the cards. The cards are there just to jog your memory and keep your speech on track.
 Be heartfelt. Throw in some questions for them now and then. For example, "Do you know how long it takes for a new layer of skin to form?" Take guesses from the audience. Then tell them the correct answer.
 Stand straight; don't wiggle. Try to maintain eye contact with the members of the audience.
 But don't deliver your speech like a zombie. Put animation into your voice. If you sound happy and excited by the information, your audience will catch your fever.
 At an exciting part of the presentation, don't be afraid to wave your arm in emphasis, for example.

