 It is essential that you warm up before you stretch, in order to avoid injury and maximize your natural flexibility.











Try doing jumping jacks or running on the spot for a few minutes before you begin your stretching routine.
Alternatively, do your stretching at the end of a cardio workout . You will get the double benefit of increasing your flexibility while preventing muscle stiffness after your workout.
 Achieving the center splits requires a high level of flexibility, and flexibility is something that needs to be worked at consistently over time. In order to achieve the flexibility required for center splits, you need to be stretching every single day, or as close to it as possible.








Begin by stretching for 15 minutes a day, using a routine comprised of the stretching exercises outlined above. After a couple of weeks, increase the time spent stretching to 30 minutes a day, if possible. You can break this up into two 15 minute sessions a day.
Remember that the more stretching you do, the faster you will achieve center splits.
 When stretching for the center splits, it can be very useful to enlist the help of a friend.



Your friend can help by observing your posture, which can be difficult to correct by yourself. Ask them to make sure that your hips are in line and your shoulders are even. This is important as poor posture can affect the quality of your stretching and even cause injuries.
A friend can also help you to deepen your splits by pushing down lightly on your shoulders or legs as you stretch. This can help you to get a fraction or two deeper into your stretch than you could on your own. Just make sure that they will respond quickly if you ask them to stop.
 One simple tip that can help you to deepen your splits is to wear socks while you stretch, rather than stretching in your bare feet.



The socks will allow your feet to slide easily along the ground, helping you to get deeper into the stretch. This is more effective on wooden floors than on carpet.
However, make sure that you slide into the stretch in a careful and controlled fashion. Sliding too quickly may cause you to pull a muscle or tear ligaments.
For safety, most of your body weight should be supported by your arms as you slide into a center split.
 When working towards the center splits, it is important that you find a suitable environment for stretching and practice. The type of environment that works best for you will depend on personal preference.



Some people prefer to practice their center splits in a quiet, peaceful environment. They consider their stretching routine to be a type of meditation, where they can clear their mind and focus only on the sensations of their body.
Other people find stretching a chore and need something to entertain themselves as they go through their routine. For example, some people like to watch television to distract themselves as they stretch.
 The ability to perform the center splits is an impressive physical feat which requires discipline and perseverance to achieve. However, it is also important that you know your limits and refrain from pushing yourself past them in order to achieve your goal.











Pushing yourself too hard will only result in injury, which could potentially prevent you from ever being able to do the splits.
To safely yet effectively achieve the center splits, perform each stretch slowly and carefully, paying close attention to maintaining the correct posture. Listen to your body and you will soon achieve your goal!

