 Your body needs keratin to make your hair and nails strong, and your body creates keratin from protein sources.Your body may stop hair growth for a period if you aren't getting enough protein. On average, an adult male needs about 56 grams of protein per day, while an adult female needs about 46 grams of protein. As a reference point, 3 ounces of meat has about 21 grams of protein, while a cup of milk has about 8 grams of protein.Eggs are also a great source of protein.;
, Red meat is a good source of iron, and if you're anemic, iron is a must, as your hair can thin out over time. You should be getting a serving of (lean) red meat once a week.If red meat isn't something you're interested in, try eating a iron-fortified cereal.Many vegetable sources also contain iron, from spinach to lentils.You should get at least 18 milligrams of iron per day.Three ounces of oysters has 8 milligrams, while a half a cup of lentils and a half a cup of spinach both have 3 milligrams each.Even if you are not anemic, you may suffer from accelerated hair loss if you are not getting enough iron.
 Fish such as salmon, mackerel, and sardines are high in omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids encourage your hair grow and make it shiny.You should eat fish high in omega-3s at least twice a week. You can also eat albacore tuna, catfish, and halibut. Also, incorporate walnuts, tofu, and canola oil into your diet., Your body produces vitamin A from beta carotene. Vitamin A is essential in keeping your skin healthy over time. It also encourages your hair and nails to grow.Carrots, leafy greens such as spinach and broccoli, and peas are great sources of vitamin A.Sweet potatoes are also a good choice.Your body needs at least 5,000 international units of vitamin A per day.A half cup of carrots has 9,189 international units per serving, while a whole, baked sweet potato has 28,058 international units., Greek yogurt has more protein than regular yogurt, making it a good choice for keeping hair and nails healthy. It's also rich in vitamin B5, which increases blood flow and helps your hair grow.Try incorporating Greek yogurt into your breakfast routine. Eat Greek yogurt with some fresh fruit, or mix is with some honey and muesli.
Another great option for increasing blood flow is cinnamon. Try sprinkling a bit over your yogurt to make it more effective., Dark, leafy greens such as spinach and kale provide a wide variety of vitamins, from iron to folate and vitamin C. They keep your hair and nails healthy, and they also keep your hair from being too dry.Try using baby spinach or kale as a base for a salad, or add them to a morning smoothie. You can also use them in stir fry.
 Almonds are rich in magnesium, and magnesium helps keep your stress levels down. Because stress can thin out your hair, you should try to keep your stress down for beautiful hair.The U.S. Government recommends that you eat 400 milligrams of magnesium per day.An ounce of dry roasted almonds has about 80 milligrams.Other good sources include spinach, which has 78 milligrams per half cup, cashews, which have 74 milligrams per ounce, and soymilk, which has 61 milligrams per cup., Oysters are a great source of zinc, and zinc is essential for creating proteins in your body. Since your hair and nails are essentially made of proteins, you need to make sure you get your daily intake of zinc.You need about 15 milligrams of zinc per day, according to the U.S. Government.You can also try eating pumpkin seeds, which have 2.57 milligrams per 1/4 cup. Try sprinkling them on a salad or eating them as a snack., They may also help your hair to grow.The government recommends 400 international units of vitamin D and 1,000 milligrams of calcium per day.One cup of milk has 300 milligrams of calciumand 115-124 international units of vitamin D.