 You can download uTorrent for free from utorrent.com. uTorrent is available for Windows, Mac, Linux, and Android.There are other torrent clients besides uTorrent that you may want to consider. Popular torrent clients include qBittorrent, Transmission, Deluge, and Tixati. The process for installing and using these clients is very similar to uTorrent. Most of these clients are ad-free, which may be more appealing than paying for an ad-free version of uTorrent.;
, Click "Get uTorrent" and then click the link for the free version. The download will begin after a moment.
 You'll likely be prompted by your operating system to confirm that you want to install the program.
 Make sure that "Add an exception for uTorrent in Windows Firewall" is checked. You'll also want to associate uTorrent with the .torrent file type.
 You'll be prompted several times to install additional software along with uTorrent. You do not want to install any of these, as they will hijack your browser and redirect your searches.


If you want to use a torrent client that doesn't include any adware with the installer, try qBittorent or Transmission.
 Once you've declined the offers for additional software, the installer will proceed with the uTorrent installation. After installation is complete, uTorrent will open. You'll also see a uTorrent icon on your desktop.
 Before you start downloading torrents, there are a few settings you'll likely want to adjust. Click the "Options" menu and select "Preferences."

, This will allow you to set where your torrent files are saved to after downloading. You can check each of the boxes and set locations for new downloads and finished downloads. Click the "..." buttons to browse for folders on your computer.


Set your completed download folder somewhere easy to find so that you can quickly manage your finished downloads.
 You'll be setting some connection speed options here which will help optimize your experience.
 If you leave your upload rate at "0" it will not be capped. If your upload speed is maxed out, it can make loading web pages very slow. Setting a limit here will prevent uTorrent from maxing out your upload bandwidth.


Set the upload limit to 50% of your upload speed or lower. This will ensure that you can easily load websites and do other things online while uploading torrent data.
You can see your maximum upload speed by using a site like speedtest.net. Run the test and see what your maximum upload rate is, then set uTorrent's to half that value.
 This section has BitTorrent options, including encryption.
 This will help disguise your torrent traffic so that your internet service provider cannot tell that you're transferring torrents. It will not make you anonymous, but will help protect you from your ISP finding out what you're using bandwidth on.
 There are countless websites that you can find torrent links on. A torrent file is a small file that points to the actual file you are trying to get. For example, a torrent file for a movie will allow you to connect to other people with the same torrent and download the movie from them. The torrent file itself does not contain any part of the file(s) you are downloading.


There are a variety of torrent trackers you can find that host tons of different torrent files. You can use the search fields on these tracker sites to look for specific content. Search "torrent tracker" on your favorite search engine to find a few to try.
If you're looking for an episode of a TV show, it's helpful to know the common numbering system used for shows. Shows are typically labeled with the season number and episode number. For example, the third episode of the eleventh season of a show would be labeled "s11e03."

, The torrent tracker will display the number of "seeders" (S) that the torrent has. These are clients that have the entire torrent downloaded and are sharing it with others. The more seeders there are, the easier it will be to max out your transfer speed. If there are no seeders, or only a few, you may not be able to download the files.
 Depending on the tracker, you may have to search a bit to find the correct download link. Many trackers have ads that are designed to look like Download buttons to try to trick you. When you click the correct download button, the torrent file will download to your computer. This should only take a moment, as torrent files are very small.
 If you associated .torrent files with uTorrent during installation, uTorrent should open automatically when you open the torrent file. If you didn't, you'll need to select uTorrent when asked what program you want to use.
 When you open the torrent file, uTorrent will attempt to connect to other clients sharing the same torrent. The more clients you connect to, the faster your download will be (generally). It may take a while for uTorrent to connect with other clients, and the download speed may take a while to ramp up.


Older torrents with a low number of seeders may fluctuate speed instead of maintaining a fast connection, or may not connect at all. Try to find torrents with lots of seeders.
 Torrents live through the community, and it is considered good torrent etiquette to share at least as much as you download. This is especially true with private torrent trackers, where members are regularly checked for their download-to-upload ratio.
 Use your file explorer to find the folder you set for completed downloads in uTorrent. You should see all of your finished downloads here.
 Many videos that you download through torrents will not be compatible with Windows Media Player or QuickTime. For the best playback results, download and install an open-source video player like VLC or MPC-HC. These video players can play just about any video file, and don't come with any adware.
 It is common to package large numbers of files or large files into archives, with RAR being one of the most common. You can't open RAR archives without an extractor. One of the most popular free extractors is 7-Zip. You can download it from 7-zip.org.


7-Zip is also used for its own archive format, .7z.
 Allowing an EXE file to run from an unknown source puts your computer's security in jeopardy. It is highly recommended that you avoid running EXE files downloaded through torrents unless you absolutely trust the source.
 To be safe, make sure you have an antivirus active whenever you're downloading torrent files. You can take the extra precaution of scanning each file you download, but most antivirus programs will detect viruses automatically.

