 You can use your own staff at the moving or hire a professional office removal service. In both cases, it's crucial that the organization which has control of the moved documents knows that it is responsible for the secure moving of all personal and confidential information from the start to the finish. While your office movers may be responsible for the mechanics of the move, they are not ultimately responsible for your documents' privacy. An adverse action by the mover that creates an opportunity for a data breach is a big problem for your office. The good news is there are professional office movers that also are in the business of records management. These "hybrid" movers employ trained, background checked employees that are trained in handling protected material.;
, When you move company records from one location to another, it is important to sign a formal contract or agreement with your moving company. This is even more important when these records contain confidential and personal information. Ensure that your movers fully understand their responsibilities and extra tasks after the move is complete.


For example, if your company is organizing centralization of its operation in one location, the moving company may be asked to re-sort all documents and records containing the personal information.
 When a company is moving, usually it's the perfect time to dispose of any documents that won't be needed anymore. Don't throw the documents in the garbage! Any paper or other hard copy records must be shredded or burned. It is your responsibility to destroy any confidential documentation prior to the office move.
 All documents which will be moved in the new location must be packed in sturdy boxes. Don't forget to log the contents of each box, both manually and digitally. Once all documents are packed and ready for the movement, they should be stored in a secure location with controlled access.
 If there is need for permanently destruction of electronic confidential data during the move, you should take extra precautions. Simply reformatting doesn't guarantee permanent disposal of the confidential data. There are many commercial software options to restore the erased information thoroughly. You must use special utilities and tools for permanent destruction of all data from hard disks and portable drives. Always test afterwards, to check that everything is completely erased.
 Make sure that you have booked adequate storage facilities for long term storage of your documents. They must be secured and they should have proper climate-control standards. You must be sure that these documents will be in good condition in several years.
 Ensure that all the electronic data and storage media which will be moved in the new office is logged. These logs will ensure you that nothing has been tampered with and that everything is moved properly.
 Keeping track of your documentation all the time will ensure that you won't lose any information. Worst case scenario – if something is missing – you will be able to organize the moving company to quickly locate the lost records. Assign someone to ensure that all the documents are secured all the time. Make sure that you check your logs at any point of the office relocation:


When they are loaded in the van/truck;
When they arrive at your new destination;
After they are unloaded in the new building or storage unit.
 If the worst does happen and any information is stolen by or disclosed to unauthorized parties, your company should advise every person affected by the leaked information. This will help in both averting potentially embarrassing situations and provides for the fast organization for recovering/creating new documents.
 All confidential and personal records should be moved in secured and locked trucks. It's best to separate them from the rest of the removal materials (such as furniture, equipment, supplies).
 Never leave confidential documents in an unsecured location! The first thing you should do when they arrive at the new location is to move them directly to their new secure area. Ensure that they are stored in secure location with limited access. Every entry and exit should be recorded, even if the person entering is pre-approved personnel. Privacy breaches often occur at this time, so be sure everything is under constant control.
 Ensure that all equipment for the document storage is in good order. All desks and file cabinets should have working locks. All keys must be available and checked, and accounted for.
 Be sure that every electronic storage which contains confidential data is secured and that access by unauthorized person is not possible.
 When you are moving your office, there are numerous tasks that need to be done by various service staff, such as installing telephone/internet networks, painting, furniture assembling and computer installation. These activities are often not possible before the personal records arrive. These tasks are usually done by service personnel during work hours, when the company staff can supervise them. However, there are cases when these tasks are done after work hours. If this is your case, hire extra guards or assign this job to someone from your staff, so that you can supervise all service personnel and ensure that no unauthorized person has access to any confidential information.
 Every company has operational procedures and policies for secure storage of confidential data. However, the new location you are moving in could (and probably will) be different from your former place. Ensure that you revise, update and change all policies to suit the new place.