 You may find a book confusing, especially if it was written more than a hundred years before you were born. You can do research on the historical context to find out more about the book itself. You should also search for the author's biography. This may help you understand what events are occurring in the narrative or why the characters do the things that they do.
 If you struggle with reading classic works, especially historical works, you can find a brief summary on the internet. This will help you process the difficult language as you work your way through the novel. It can also help you with understanding symbolism, imagery, allusions, foreshadowing, and other literary devices.
 Classics were generally written in the distant past. They may contain phrases or words that are no longer used, and their sentences can be long and confusing. Annotated books may have updated the spellings of the original text, and they will have plentiful notes to help guide your reading.
 Literary scholars are trained to understand books critically. You can gain keen insight on a text by researching what critics and scholars have to say on the matter. They can explain the historical context, provide a biography of the author, and connect motifs to philosophical theories. By getting someone else's opinion through a critique, you can obtain a better analysis of the book.


Don’t be afraid to disagree with literary critics. Reading their analyses are supposed to help you think more critically about the book. You should not accept anything they say blindly.
 As you begin reading classic literature, pay attention what is being described. You may find that the language is vague, but you can discover what it means. Literature often uses figurative language to signify something other than its literal meaning. Knowing what literary devices are being used can help you interpret the text.Metaphor: a phrase that describes one thing by comparing it to something else or by referring to something entirely different. For example, the phrase “an elephant in the room” signifies that somebody is ignoring an important problem.

Hyperbole: an extreme exaggeration. “Her eyes were as big as dinner plates” is hyperbole.

Allusion: a reference to another work of art, person or event. The title of the novel Ulysses by James Joyce is an allusion to The Odyssey.


Metonymy: a word that has associations with a larger institution but is used to signify the whole. For example, the White House is metonymy for the US Presidency.

Irony: a phrase that should signify one thing but actually means the opposite. It may also represent a situation where things occur differently than anticipated. In Samuel Coleridge’s Rime of the Ancient Mariner, “Water, water, everywhere,/Nor any drop to drink” is an example of irony.

