 Instagram is supported on Apple, Android, and Windows platforms., This will take you to the sign-in screen.
, Make sure this is a valid, accessible email, since you'll need it to verify your identity if you forget your password.


You can also log in with your Facebook credentials, which will sync your Facebook and Instagram accounts. If you aren't logged in on Facebook when you do this, Instagram will prompt you to do so.
, From here, you can add your name, profile picture, and a brief description of yourself.
 This information is not required, but it helps make your profile stand out.
 You now have an Instagram account!

,, You may also have to enter your email address, so make sure it's the one you used to sign up for Instagram.
 This will take you to your profile page.
 On iOS and Windows platforms, this resembles a gear.On Android, the settings menu is indicated by three vertical dots.
 This will allow you to select from your Facebook friends' Instagram accounts, your contact list, or a list of suggested accounts courtesy of Instagram.


On Android, this option is labeled "Find Friends".
 You should now be following their account!

, This will allow you to manually search for Instagram accounts.
 Accounts with identical or similar names to your typing will appear as you type.
 This will take you to that account's page.


If the account is endorsed by Instagram, its name will have a white check mark in a blue background next to it.
 It will change from a blue-background "Follow" to a green-background "Following", indicating that you've successfully followed the account!


If the user account is restricted, your follow status will say "Request Sent" until the user approves you to view their page.
 After you follow them, all of their subsequent posts will appear in your feed.
, It should be the first ".com" site that comes up.
 This will take you to the sign-in page if you don't already have an account.


If you do already have an account, sign in with you Instagram username and password. You may also have to enter your email address, so make sure it's the one you used to sign up for Instagram.
 Make sure your information is accurate and memorable before proceeding.You can also click "Log in with Facebook" to use your Facebook credentials. If you aren't logged in on Facebook when you do this, Instagram will prompt you to do so.
 This will finalize your account creation and take you to Instagram's main page.
 You can use this to find accounts, content, and trends.
 Start with something simple, like Instagram's official page--for that, you'd just type in "Instagram". Accounts with identical or similar names to your typing will appear as you type.
 This will take you to that account's page.


If the account is endorsed by Instagram, its name will have a white check mark in a blue background next to it.
 It will change from a blue-background "Follow" to a green-background "Following", indicating that you've successfully followed the account!


If the user account is restricted, your follow status will say "Request Sent" until the user approves you to view their page.
 After you follow them, all of their subsequent posts will appear in your feed.

