 This can be done one of two ways:









Place the turkey still in its wrapper on a large tray, such as a cookie sheet, to catch any juices. Slide the turkey-laden tray onto the bottom shelf of the refrigerator. Allow one day of thawing per four to five pounds of turkey. Start defrosting a 20 pound turkey on Saturday to ensure it will be ready to cook Thanksgiving morning.
Place the turkey still in its wrapper in the sink and cover with cold water. Change the water every 30 minutes. Allow 30 minutes per pound (a 20 pound Turkey will take 10 hours to thaw). Cook immediately. The USDA also provides the following information on how to defrost a turkey safely.;
, Stick your hand in the cavity and remove any packages, or liver, heart, neck, and other things you may find inside of the bird. If desired, save everything but the liver for giblet gravy. Fry the giblets or, except for the liver (which has a non-turkey-like flavor that, although pleasant to many, would make the drippings or gravy taste odd), just leave them to roast and eat them. The gizzard and heart are tough, so cut them up––do not give them to a small child who could possibly choke on them.
 Hold the turkey under room temperature or cold water and rub it gently with your fingers. Make sure there isn't any dirt, pieces of feathers, etc.
 Use a cloth or paper towel, pat it dry; don't rub it. Make sure you dry the whole bird, inside and out, as much as you can. If you use a cloth towel, put it straight into the washing machine afterwards.
 Try to keep it centered to promote even heating.
 Spread a tablespoon or two of olive oil over the skin of the turkey. This will help brown the turkey nicely, as well as promote a really crispy skin.
 Sprinkle oregano, rosemary, garlic powder, and pepper lightly over the top of the turkey. Put some on the inside as well.









Quarter the onion and put it all inside the turkey. Put the three garlic cloves in with the onion. Make sure that both are peeled. After this is done, pour in broth until it is surrounding the turkey (about 1 cup).
Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of a thigh making sure it does not touch the bone. An electronic thermometer with a cord extending to the outside of the oven and an alarm for a particular temperature is particularly convenient. Even with these, leave the pop-up thermometer to help confirm that you are not long overcooking the turkey due to a measurement error.
, When the oven is at temperature, place the turkey in oven (bottom rack) and until meat is 161°F (72°C). Allow about 15 minutes per pound.





If you're using a roasting bag, shake a turkey size oven bag with 1 tablespoon of flour. Place the bag on the roast pan. Slide the turkey breast side up, in the bag. Twist tie shut. Cut slits in the bag. Do not add any broth. Make sure the bag isn't hanging over the edge.
If you're not using a roasting bag, put about a quarter-inch of water in the pan and cover the pan with its lid or some foil. Basically the turkey should steam for most of the cooking time. Check on the turkey every hour or so and replenish the watery liquid if it is almost all gone.
 Uncover the turkey and turn your oven to Broil for ten minutes. Make sure to keep a close watch on it during this time as ovens vary and broil is usually a very high temperature. If you are using a roasting bag, open the top completely before broiling.









Start this process when the turkey is still a few degrees from done temperature, because it will continue to heat.
You may wish to remove a meat thermometer, especially a more expensive and probably more fragile electronic one, so the intense radiant heat does not destroy it. In that case, err on the side of potentially warming the turkey a few degrees more than you expected, to make sure it's safe.
 Remove the turkey from the juices and place on a cutting board. Remove any stuffing. Loosely cover with tinfoil and wait 20 minutes before slicing to prevent the turkey from losing all of its juices. Use this time to make gravy.








