 As soon as you are served with the plaintiff's lawsuit, you should strongly consider hiring a qualified real estate lawyer.Specifically, look for a lawyer with experience litigating property boundary disputes. A lawyer will help you negotiate a settlement, effectively cross-examine plaintiff witnesses, and retain a quality expert of your own. Start the search process by asking friends and family for recommendations.


If your friends and family cannot offer any leads, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering some questions about your legal dispute, you will be put in touch with qualified lawyers in your area.;
, A lot of surveying companies will offer expert services during boundary disputes. If you choose to hire an expert reviewer, they will look through the plaintiff's survey and review the accuracy of the information to make sure it complies with statutes, rules, and standards of practice. The reviewer will then prepare an expert report identifying their findings.You can then use this report as evidence that the plaintiff's lot line survey is flawed in some way.
 After you hire a lawyer, they will go over the validity of your survey disputes with you. At that point, your lawyer will likely reach out to the plaintiff's lawyer to discuss a possible settlement. During these preliminary discussions, each party will bring deeds, home transfer documents, title insurance documents, existing surveys, and maps of the area. You and the plaintiff will go back and forth sharing this information to help make your case.For example, if you think the plaintiff's surveyor measured incorrectly on their survey, you might bring past surveys to the table and show where you think the error occurred.
If an agreement is reached, get it in writing and submit it to the court for approval.
 If your deed is inconsistent with the plaintiff's deed, and if two or more surveys have noticeable discrepancies, you and the plaintiff might agree to hire a surveyor together. Before you have the surveyor complete their work, figure out what role the surveyor's final product will have on the dispute. For example, will the surveyor's conclusion be binding on both parties? Will the survey simply be a tool to help move negotiations forward? In addition, work out how the surveyor will be paid. In most situations, you and the plaintiff will share the costs equally.


Once the surveyor has been hired, they will conduct a survey and submit a report that outlines the lot line in question., If informal settlement talks have stalled, discuss the possibility of using mediation. Mediation can have many advantages over litigation. For example, mediation is far less time consuming than litigation and is much cheaper than going to trial.During mediation, a neutral mediator will sit down with both parties to discuss possible solutions. Mediators have much more freedom than judges and can come up with unique ways to resolve a dispute.Mediators will not offer their own opinions and they will not take sides.


For example, a mediator might attempt to resolve a lot line dispute by getting both parties to talk about what is important about the particular area of the property. You might think the boundary is one place because you always liked having a specific pond on your property. The plaintiff might think the boundary is somewhere else because they like having the orange trees on their property. After hearing this, the mediator might propose drawing, and agreeing to, a new property line that allows the pond to be on your property and the trees to be on the plaintiff's property. In this case, the existing lot line survey that led to the dispute would be disregarded altogether.
 If mediation does not lead to a binding settlement, ask the plaintiff if they will submit to non-binding arbitration. During non-binding arbitration, a judge-like third party will hear evidence presented by you and the plaintiff. After both parties present evidence, the arbitrator will review it and draft an opinion. The opinion will state which party would likely win at trial and what an award might look like. While the opinion is non-binding, if it rules in your favor, you can use this as a strong negotiation tactic moving forward.


For example, the plaintiff might submit the disputed survey and you might submit an expert review that disputes the work of the plaintiff's surveyor.The arbitrator will look at this information and decide who they think is right.
 If negotiations do not lead to a resolution, you will have to file an answer to the plaintiff's lawsuit. If negotiations are taking longer than a couple of weeks, which is likely considering you will be hiring surveyors and and going through multiple alternative dispute resolution procedures, you may have to file an answer before negotiations conclude. An answer is a formal court document that responds to the plaintiff's lawsuit. It will admit or deny every claim in the plaintiff's petition and it might also include certain defenses.


Your answer will usually need to be filed within 20 days of receiving the complaint. If you fail to file before the deadline, the plaintiff may try to get a default judgment against you.
Once your answer has been drafted, it needs to be filed with the court where the plaintiff filed their suit. There is no filing fee for submitting an answer and all you need to do is give your answer to the clerk of court.Once your answer has been filed, you need to serve it on the plaintiff. Your lawyer will make sure this happens.
 If negotiations fall apart and no settlement is reached, the litigation will move into the discovery phase. During discovery, both parties will exchange information about the case in order to prepare for trial. You will be able to interview witnesses, gather facts, see what the other side is going to say, and determine the strength of your case. To achieve these things, you will be able to use the following tools:Depositions, which are formal in person interviews with parties and witnesses. These interviews are conducted under oath and the answers given can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to parties and witnesses. The questions are answered under oath and can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are written requests to the other party asking for relevant documents. Examples of things you might ask for include, pictures, text messages, emails, and anything else that might help your defense.
Requests for admissions, which are written statements the other party must admit or deny. These requests help narrow the focus of litigation and find out what is truly in dispute.
 As soon as discovery concludes, you should consider asking the court to end the litigation immediately and rule in your favor. You can do this by filing a motion for summary judgment. Your motion will have to provide evidence an affidavits that can convince the court that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, to be successful, the judge will have to be persuaded that, even if every factual assumption was made in the plaintiff's favor, they would still lose the case.


The plaintiff will try to defend against this motion by filing a response. In their response, they will try to convince the judge that there are genuine factual issues that need to be decided at trial., If your motion for summary judgment is unsuccessful, the litigation will continue. Because you will have already tried to settle your case, you might jump right into the trial. However, if you think that discovery and summary judgment have opened the door for more settlement discussions, you should do that here. Going to trial is incredibly expensive and time consuming, so it may be worth it to try negotiating again. If your trial begins, both parties will have an opportunity to present their case before a judge makes a decision.


The plaintiff will present their case first. After the plaintiff questions each of their witnesses, you will have a chance to cross-examine them.
After the plaintiff presents their case, you will have an opportunity to do the same. This is your chance to call your own witnesses, including expert witnesses, to try and make your case.
At the end of the trial, the judge will make a decision and the property line will be drawn by the court. If you agree with the outcome, you can accept it. If you disagree, you might ask your lawyer if an appeal is available. An appeal will ask a higher court to review the trial court's actions to see if there was any legal error that affected the outcome.
 If the legal action against you moves to trial, your first line of defense against the lot line survey will be through cross-examining the plaintiff's surveyor and/or expert witness. In a lot of cases, the surveyor will be called to testify as both a lay witness and expert witness. The surveyor may be called to the stand to discuss their survey and to provide testimony based on their education, training, skill, and experience. For example, an expert witness can be called in a boundary dispute trial to provide insight about surveying law, property boundaries, and surveying techniques and procedures.In addition, if the court ordered a survey to be completed, the court might call their surveyor to the stand to provide testimony. If this happens, you will have an opportunity to question the witness as if they were called by the plaintiff., Before trial begins, the plaintiff will be required to give your lawyer a list of witnesses they plan to use. If an expert witness is on the list, make sure you check them out. You and your lawyer should research the expert's qualifications, their standing in the community, the respect they have in their field, and their experience testifying in other cases. This information will give you a lot of information about how you can cross-examine and question the witness.


For example, if the expert has testified in other boundary dispute cases, look back at those cases. If you're lucky, maybe a judge has rejected the expert's testimony in the past because of their methodology. If this happens, you will know that attacking the witness's methodology in your case might lead to positive outcomes., Most survey experts will review the plaintiff's survey in question and produce a written report. Get a copy of this report through discovery and study it intently. Find every error and make a note of them. During cross-examination, you will use what you learned to guide the expert through the error's that they made.For example, in most states, statutes will set out procedures and standards that must be followed when completing a land survey (e.g., measurements must be made using the US Survey Foot or Meters).When you look at the expert's report, you might find out that the surveyor/survey expert used the wrong form of measurement (e.g., inches instead of feet) or made some other error that calls the survey into question.
 You should already know what the general substance of an expert's testimony will be, which means you should be able to prepare your attack carefully. When you prepare a cross-examination outline, focus on three or four main points of contention. If you try to do much more, the jury and judge might get confused or bored. In general, experts tend to have the following points of weakness:Poor qualifications as an expert (e.g., the surveyor was not licensed in your state and does not have the requisite education to be considered an expert)
An incomplete analysis and report
Insufficient data to properly complete the report
Bias (e.g., the witness was paid for a specific opinion)
Incorrect methodologies (e.g., not completing the survey as required)
inaccurate work (e.g., the surveyor made poor measurements, didn't correctly identify boundary stakes)

, Do not assume the expert will simply regurgitate information from their report during direct examination. While the plaintiff's lawyer is questioning the surveyor, listen attentively for any inconsistencies in their testimony. Listen to see if the surveyor changes their opinions or the assumption upon which those opinions are based.


If you hear anything worth bringing up during cross-examination, quickly add information to your outline., During cross, you can ask leading questions so long as the subject matter of your questions was brought up during direct.Leading questions are questions that assume a particular answer. An example of a leading question would be, "Isn't it true that you never uncovered the boundary stakes before you performed your lot line survey?". This question assumes the answer is "yes".


Leading questions should cover the bulk of your examination because you do not want to give the expert an opportunity to say something you aren't expecting. In this way, you can maintain control of the examination and ensure you get the answers you want.
 When you hire an expert witness to testify on your behalf at trial, you want them to be able to discuss tough and confusing subjects in a clear and concise manner. An expert's role is to make sense of confusing subjects for the jury and judge. When you are discussing the use of an expert with your lawyer, you need to weigh the financial cost of hiring an expert against the potential advantage of their testimony.In a boundary dispute case, an expert witness will usually be worth it. Your expert will hopefully be able to describe the local surveying procedures and standards, how to apply those procedures and standards, and how the plaintiff's surveyor failed to do these things., When you hire an expert witness, you need to take your time and choose the best person for the job. While you need to take the expert's fee into consideration, it is important that the expert be able to speak professionally and knowledgeably about lot line surveys. The expert's qualifications should mirror the issues that will be brought up at trial. For example, if you are arguing about lot lines and boundaries, you do not want to hire a surveying expert that specializes in set-back violations and runoff concerns.


Before hiring an expert, your lawyer should make sure they are comfortable being on the witness stand. In most cases, you will want to hire an expert with courtroom experience. However, the more courtroom experience an expert has, the more their past can be picked apart by the plaintiff.
Most obviously, you need to find an expert that agrees with your position (i.e., that the lot line survey is in some way flawed) and can back up their conclusion with evidence., Make sure your expert understands the legal elements at issue in your case. Make time to sit down with your expert, and your lawyer, so your case can be discussed. Make it clear that the plaintiff has submitted a lot line survey that you do not think is accurate or completed properly. In addition, your lawyer should practice direct examination multiple times until the expert feels comfortable with the questions that are going to be asked.Your lawyer should also clue the expert in on what might be asked on cross. You do not want your expert to be surprised in court.


In this type of case, your expert should be able to apply procedures and standards to another person's survey to determine if those procedures and standards were followed.
 When you start the direct examination of your expert witness, your lawyer needs to ask questions that demonstrate the expert's expertise in land surveying. Introductory questions should focus on the expert's professional background. For example, your lawyer might ask what sort of degrees the expert has, how the expert is licensed, how long they have been surveying, and whether they publish technical articles on surveying issues. You should have the following goals in mind while you are qualifying your expert:Demonstrating to the judge that your expert has at least the minimum qualifications necessary to give opinion testimony on surveying
Persuading the jury that your expert's opinions are correct and that their judgment is sound

, During this part of direct, you want your expert to explain what facts and data they used to come to their conclusions about the plaintiff's lot line survey. The expert can do this by using the following sources of information:Personal knowledge, which might include their personal knowledge of how a proper survey is conducted.
Hypothetical questions, which your lawyer would use to tease out information. For example, your lawyer might ask, "If you assume boundary stakes were never uncovered, and past land deeds were never consulted, then would you be able to infer that a survey was incorrectly conducted?".
Expert opinions on other people's testimony. For example, if the plaintiff's witness testified that it is necessary to uncover boundary stakes in order to complete a valid survey, your expert witness can use this information if they choose.
 One of the most important stages of expert direct examination is when your expert asserts their actual opinion. Your expert's opinion will be based on their application of knowledge, skill, experience, training, and education.For example, your expert might say, "Based on my 35 years of conducting lot line surveys, on my being licensed by the highest authority in this state, and on my education at one of the top colleges for land surveying in the country, it is my opinion that plaintiff's lot line survey was conducted improperly and does not show the correct property boundary."

, The final step in your expert's testimony will require them to explain their opinion by teaching the jury and judge about the technical nature of land surveying. You might choose to have the expert get up and write on an easel or you might ask them to use exhibits.


Regardless, your purpose here is to help the jury to understand and comprehend the technical aspect of the expert's opinion.For example, you might ask the expert to use a map to draw out what the plaintiff's surveyor should have done (e.g., measured from this tree to that pond).

