 This is a classic gift choice for music lovers. You can create a specialized mix of songs that you have enjoyed together or even by choosing songs that center around love. You can use music softwares like Windows Music Player and iTunes to create a personalized mix-CD for your lady.Listen to the songs in their entirety before adding them to the mix. Sometimes a love song can turn into a break-up song by the end of the song. Keep the songs themed on love.
When in doubt you can always look up best R&B or rock love songs.
 Making baked goods is a great way to show your girlfriend that you are thinking of her. Think about sweets or candy your girlfriend loves, and make something similar. For example, if your girlfriend loves peanut M&Ms, search through the internet for baked good recipes with peanut M&Ms.You can also bake treats in the shape of hearts for an added touch.
 Compile all the pictures of you and your girlfriend, and find any ticket stubs you’ve attended together. Print off online pictures from a photoshop so your photos are higher quality. Use any other type of physical sentiments you’ve held onto like fortune cookie fortunes or drawings made by her or you.


Compile all the sentimental pictures and memorabilia into an organized scrapbook. You can organize the book by events or go through your relationship chronologically.
You can buy scrapbooks from craft stores. The only supplies you need is a pair of scissors and glue., You can get a lot of relationship points by creating a little coupon book of things you are willing to do for your lady. An example of a coupon is “Good for one foot massage” or “One free kitchen cleaning.” You also add coupons that cater to adult situations that take place in the bedroom., Complete the gift by adding a love note or some type of handwritten card of appreciation. This is the best way to ensure that your gift will be a success. If you and your girlfriend don’t openly say “I love you,” leave that out of the card. Write about things you like or love about your girlfriend. Be honest and write about the small things that go beyond her appearance.

