 6 Questions to ask yourself before you even start reading this.


Am I ready to commit to being an escort?
Do I enjoy the idea of being a companion to another and get paid for that?
Will I tell my family and friends? Am I prepared for their reaction?
Can I handle the emotional effects of being an escort?
Am I going into this field for the money or for the fun?

, There are shows on cable that show these people getting paid a lot of money to do something they love doing and have no problem doing it. So what are the benefits?


You may feel sexy.
You get paid to be pampered.
You pick the hours you work.
Dating a man and have no strings attached.
You get paid really good money.
 When becoming an escort, the rules are about being safe and staying confident in your choice. Below you will find a selection of rules and guidelines that can help you when you start working.


Safety is very important to both your body and for yourself. Make sure that you keep your body safe and also healthy.
Money should never transfer actual hands. The money for the services is normally called a donation and should be placed somewhere discreetly inside the hotel room.
Saying no is okay. Be prepared for somebody to be upset, when you say no, but also stay firm in your answer. It's okay to say so and ask that you not do it.
Enjoy the person you are with. You shouldn't feel that you are cheating or betraying the man you might love simply because you spent unforgettable time with your client.
 Being an escort isn't for most people because most people want relationships for love or commitment. It is important to be able to divide your personal wants from your professional realities.


Decide on what your limitations will be in terms of forming relationships, involving kissing, etc.
Look deep inside and be honest with yourself as to your ability to handle this type of work.
A role like this is more suitable for a strong individual who likes independence and distance from others, yet is able to communicate well and understand other's needs.
 Find reputable ones that are well run and can demonstrate to you that they put their employee's needs first and take good care of you.


Check security arrangements.
Check how they vet clients.
Check the income earned.
Check whether you click. This is a people business and you need to feel comfortable around the people you're working for, as well as with clients.
If you decide to do this alone, realize that it will be a lot harder and possibly dangerous.



Make sure you screen your client and check his info against a client blacklist database.
Know what to do if a client turns violent or asks you to do things you don't want to.
Know how to demand and ensure that protection is worn.
Know the etiquette of not discussing clients with other clients or anyone else. Also, don't try to pry into your client's private life; leave all of that well alone.
Learn to be patient and not poach other people's clients.

