 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “Splashtop” on the search field and tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search.
 Locate the app from the results and tap on it.


On the app’s page, tap on the button with the price of the app. It costs US$9.99. The button will change to a “Buy” button. Tap on it again.
Your purchase will be processed within iTunes Store. You will be prompted to sign in with your Apple ID. Enter your ID and tap the “OK” button.
A message box will appear confirming your purchase. Tap the “Buy” button here. iTunes Store will process your payment. Once done, the app will begin downloading and installing to your iPad.
 Visit the Splashtop website from any web browser on your computer.
 Click on “Products” from the menu and select “Downloads.”


You can also visit the page directly here.
 Select your platform and click the “Go “button. The Streamer setup file will start downloading.


The Streamer software is needed on your computer so that it can connect and communicate with the Splashtop app on your iPad.
 Locate the setup file and double-click on it. The setup filename is ‘Splashtop_Streamer_WIN*.exe’. Let the installation be completed.
 After the installation, let the Streamer run in the background. It needs to be active in order for the app on your iPad to find your computer., Locate the app on your iPad and tap on it. It has a purple app icon with a picture of an iPad and a monitor.
 Upon initial launch, you will be shown a Welcome screen. Read and follow the on-screen instructions. Tap on the “Go” button to proceed.
 The app will start scanning for computers running Splashtop Streamer.


Make sure both your computer and your iPad are using the same Wi-Fi access point. Otherwise, they won’t find each other.
 The list of computers detected will be listed. Tap on the one you’d like to connect to. The app will start connecting with your computer.


Once connected, your iPad will mirror the contents of your desktop. You can see and access your desktop’s contents right from your iPad.
 In order to switch the display from mirroring to extending, tap on the “Switch Display” button on the Menu bar. Your iPad’s screen will clear up and will now extend your computer’s display. You can now move items from your desktop to your iPad as if it is part of your computer’s display.