 Your doctor may recommend a surgical procedure to manage your stress urinary incontinence. These interventions are designed to improve closure of the sphincter or support the neck of the bladder. Surgery should always be the last course of action. Only use surgery if Kegel exercises, lifestyle changes, and other medical interventions do not work for you. Talk to your doctor to determine if you are a good candidate for any of these procedures and to discuss any associated risks.
 In this procedure, a doctor will use some of your own tissue (or, occasionally, animal or artificial tissue) to create a small “hammock” below your bladder. The extra support will give you more control over your bladder’s function, and reduce leakage during running.
 In this process, gels or other synthetic bulking agents are injected into the urethra to help you regain control over your ability to close your sphincter. This is not a permanent solution, but it is relatively noninvasive, making it a preferred course of treatment for many women.You may need two or three injections in order to produce the desired effect.Each procedure lasts about 30 minutes.
This procedure is best for women who suffer from intrinsic bladder deficiency, a subtype of stress urinary incontinence.Bulking will probably not be effective if your bladder neck is dropping or not well supported, or if you simply have an overactive bladder. Talk to your doctor to determine if you are a good candidate for this procedure.
You will not be able to eat or drink anything for 6 to 12 hours before the procedure.
 This procedure offers extra lift and support to your bladder neck and urethra. This procedure may be done laparoscopically or by abdominal incision. A surgeon will sutures the support tissues of your bladder neck, vagina, and urethra to ligaments or bones in your pelvis.You’ll need anesthesia before getting the surgery.
This procedure is typically used for incontinence caused by a weak or poorly supported bladder neck.
Retropubic colposuspension has been found to be effective in solving urinary incontinence in 70% of cases and is appropriate for many women.