 The best way to not be perceived as a loner is to join a social group and engage with a large body of people. Find a school, religious, or community organization that shares your interests and become a member. You will squelch the idea that you are a loner and make new friends in the process.For example, join the local soccer organization, find a reading group, or become a member of a Sci-Fi fan club.
Although it is easier to find commonality in this setting, you still need to pay attention other people’s interests. Be attentive and engage in the conversation. Ask specific questions that address the other person’s interests and explore other areas of shared experience. For example, “Oh you really like the original Star Trek TV series. Have you watched Star Trek: The Next Generation?”
Be an active member. Your loner status will not disappear if you join a group and then do not engage with anyone. Join the club and then work to be an active member in it.
 Being seen in public will help dispel the idea that you are a solitary person. If you attend these same events enough, you will likely meet other regulars and build new relationships.


The comradery around sporting events can be a great place to socialize. Buy a jersey or cap and attend a game or viewing party.
Concerts are a great way to be social. Some diehard fans of certain bands travel around the country to attend shows, making news arounds across the nation.
Gain some specific knowledge about the event and use it as a conversation starter. For example, “I can’t believe that U2 still has all of its original members! How does a band like that stay together for nearly 40 years!?”

, The underlying assumption that many people have about loners is that they do not care or are ambivalent about other people. The best and easiest way to challenge that notion is to give your time to others.


For example, volunteer to serve food in a soup kitchen, read to the elderly, or work on a political campaign.
Strike up conversations with other volunteers by asking them about other charity work they are involved in and the issues they care about. There is a good chance you will have some common ground.
 Physical activity is a great way to engage with other people. It provides you with the opportunity to meet others who share your interests while helping you feel better about yourself.


Joining a gym will provide you with the opportunity to meet new people, while helping you stay fit.
A sports club provides you the space to exercise with the bonus of a strong social group. A team sport can be a particularly good place to build strong social ties and dispel the idea that you are a loner.
For example, strategize with your teammates about a new play or approach to utilize in your next game or match.

