 When you are deciding to start an exercise program, you should talk to your doctor and/or a physical therapist about your plans. This is particularly important if you have mobility issues or trouble with physical activity, as your doctor can help you determine what is safe for you. No matter what your physical fitness level is, you can be more active and get on a program to strengthen your body.A physical therapist can help you come up with an exercise plan to help reduce your risk of falling.Your physical therapist may also assess your walking gait, which is the way you walk. He may provide exercises for you to perform to help your gait.Your physical therapist can also help you come up with activities to strengthen your lower body and improve your balance.;
, Studies have found that exercise is successful in helping prevent falls.The more you exercise, the more effective it will be.When you exercise, you strengthen your muscles and bones. Strong muscles will support you during your daily activities (from going up the stairs to getting up from a seated position), and stronger bones make it less likely you will suffer a break or fracture if you do fall.
Exercising helps improve your balance, your coordination, and can improve your flexibility if you include stretching., You don’t have to do high-intensity exercises like running to see improvement in your bones and muscles or your balance and coordination. Many exercises to help strengthen your body can be done in your living room and don't require you to be super fit. Ease into exercise and only do what you're comfortable with or feel safe doing.


You can do many of these exercises even if you have a cane, a walker, or a disability.
 When deciding to use exercise to help with fall prevention, you should come up with a well-rounded workout regimen. This means not just doing cardio or balance exercises. You should do multiple kinds of exercise to give your body an overall workout.


Try including strength training and flexibility exercises once or twice a week. Talk to your doctor about the possibility of walking gait training, which is usually done with the guidance of a physical therapist.Studies have shown a well-rounded plan helps with reaction time, walking gait, muscle strength, coordination, cognitive functions, and physical ability. Strengthening all these areas helps prevent falls.
A sample program might look something like:

Monday — Tai Chi class 45 minutes
Tuesday — 20 minutes walking with range of motion warm up, plus stretches after
Wednesday — Balance exercises 10 minutes, alternating upper and lower body work, alternating large muscle and small muscle groups
Thursday — Stationary bike, followed by stretching
Friday — Balance exercises 10 minutes, walking 15 minutes, stretching five to 10 minutes
Saturday — Pool exercises, stretching in the hot tub, upper and lower body (especially hip flexors, chest, anterior delts, hamstrings, calves)
Sunday — Rest



, For these exercises to build your strength, balance, and coordination, you should do the exercises two or more days a week. Talk to your doctor and decide how many days you should start off exercising.Most physicians suggest getting 30 minutes of cardio exercise at least four or five times a week, though you can work out every day. You may need to start with only two days of exercise a week and gradually work up to more. Discuss the frequency and length of your exercises with your physician.