 Before appealing the Engineering LEP decision, you have to get them to make a decision. The decision of whether or not to admit a student into the Engineering LEP is based on a few simple criteria. If you fall on the borderline of meeting the requirements you will be very likely denied on your first try, so go ahead and get started on Step 2. If you are already a student at UMD, skip to step 3.;
, Before you get excited and tell all your friends, check what major your nice acceptance letter says you have. If it says “LTSC Undecided,” then you didn’t meet the requirements for the Engineering LEP, but you still got into the University. Follow the instructions from the LTSC advising department, and sign up for as many classes as you can that will be useful towards the engineering major you so desperately want. After your first semester at UMD, go to step 3.
 The soonest you can apply is after one semester at Maryland, and you may not hear back before the next semester starts. Before you apply to the Clark School (again), try to predict whether or not your only remaining application will be denied. The Engineering LEP’s Transfer Coordinator should be able to help you guess what your final admission decision will be. The Transfer Coordinator is especially helpful if you have repeated any classes, which can cause you to be denied in certain cases. The Coordinator cannot, however, compute your official GPA. Your official GPA from any courses outside Maryland is computed by the Office Undergraduate Admissions. The Office of the Registrar then combines that with any courses you take at Maryland for your overall GPA. After checking your official GPA, if it looks you’re going to be denied because of your classes or grades at another school, you might want to check that they’re correct (see the Tips section).
 The deadlines are given here for Spring and Fall. Be sure to take the opportunity to practice your professional writing skills by including a resume and personal statement with your application. Your written statements will probably not carry as much weight as your grades, but take your time and use every opportunity to demonstrate your abilities. Now, sit back and hope for denial so you can begin the magical appeal process!

, Find out exactly why you were denied: You should receive an email within two weeks of the application deadline. The email will give detailed reasons for your denial and a link to the online appeal form. You must follow any instructions in this email exactly.
, Argue why you should be allowed to enter the Engineering LEP. Carefully address each reason that was listed in the email you received.
,, The letters should be from people you have known for at least two years. Proofread the letters of recommendation to make sure no-one is playing a nasty trick on you.
 Print everything out, take it to the Post Office, and send it Certified Mail to the Associate Dean of the engineering department as a backup.
 Students in the past have reported actual success with this somewhat underhanded tactic of constant badgering (see Figure 1).

