 Walk up to the other person's avatar and say, "Hello" or "Hi" or "What's up?" or something to that effect. I you are worried that they won't know that you're talking to them, then say their username or an abbreviation of it (for example instead of saying, "Hey PrincessSparkles1543" say, "Hey Princess.") unless somebody else in the area has a similar name (for example, if the avatar you wanted to talk to is named, 'CoolGuy10009' but someone else nearby is named 'CoolGuy276', you'd want to say the avatar's full name).
 Say things like, "So, how long have you been on Club Penguin/Animal Jam/Yoville etc?" Then respond if they answer. Read How to Have a Meaningful Text Message Conversation for more help.
 Almost all avatar sites have a friend/buddy system. If you aren't that sure that they'll accept your offer and/or you just want to be polite and respectful, then say, "Want to be Buddies/Friends?" or "Can we be Buddies/Friends?" They will probably say yes. If they don't, then they probably aren't really interested in talking with you right now and were just doing so before because they didn't want to seem rude. In this case say, "Okay that's fine. See you later!" if you asked them to be buddies beforehand, or say, "Anyway, I'm going to go play a game/buy some stuff/go back to my igloo/house/den now. So, I'll see you around!" if you didn't. However, if all goes well, move on to the next step.
 or, Can I show you my igloo etc? This step is optional, but you can follow it if you'd like. You can also ask them if you can visit their den etc.
 If you're using text basic smileys, then use flirty emotes like, :)/:-), ;)/;-), :-D/:D and so on. Also take advantage of the unique emotes that the website gives you. Just make sure that they are flirty ones and not gross ones like throwing up emotes.
 Make sure that it's something that they like if you give them a gift. If you want, tell them that you want to send a gift to them and tell them some things that they can have and ask them what thing(s) they want. However, if you take this approach, then they may think that you're creepy and Unfriend you, maybe Ignore you, and, if they're really paranoid, Report you.
 For example, you might type in "blushing/blushes" to show that you're blushing. You can also surround the phrase with two *'s to emphasize that it's an action that you're implying (for example, "*gasps*).
 There are a few tips for this in the first section of the article in How To Flirt.
 Simply say something like, "Hey I've got something to tell you...." When they say, "What is it?" or "what?" and so on, say, "I really like you. I was wondering if you possibly wanted to be my (virtual) boyfriend/girlfriend." If they say no, say "That's okay." If they want to leave, let them leave but if not, just hang out as friends. If they say yes, say "Great. So, do you want to go on a date right now maybe? We could go to the Pizza Parlor/Cocoa Hut/Movie Theatre etc."

