 Rabbits are active animals and they need to get at least two hours of exercise every day. Since a cage is not big enough for your rabbit to hop too far or fast, you will need to take your Florida white rabbit out of her cage to allow her to run around.Make sure to supervise him during this time.
 Your Florida white rabbit will chew on cords if he encounters them. Not only is this dangerous for your rabbit, it may also damage your electronic goods. To prevent your rabbit from chewing on cords, you can hide cords with hard plastic tubing, spiral wrap, or just keep them out of reach., Rabbits will chew on almost any wooden object, which includes wall trim, doors, chairs, and table legs. Your Florida white rabbit might also try to chew on loose wallpaper, carpeting, and sheetrock.Watch your Florida white rabbit when he spends time outside of his cage and stop him if he starts chewing on something that is off limits.
 A rabbit’s teeth never stop growing, so you will need to be sure that your Florida white rabbit always has something to chew on. If you do not provide things for your rabbit to chew on, then his teeth may grow too long and you may have to pay a veterinarian to trim them.If you catch your rabbit chewing on something that is off-limits, don’t punish him. Just give him something else to chew on. For example, you can give your Florida rabbit alfalfa cubes, cotton towels, untreated pine boards, cardboard boxes, or apple branches., Your rabbit needs to see the veterinarian once per year for a checkup. If your rabbit seems sick, then you should also take your rabbit to the veterinarian. Signs of a problem include:runny eyes and nose
watery diarrhea
not defecating
dark red urine
drooling
not hopping
fur loss
lethargy
fever of 105 degrees Fahrenheit or more, Spay and neuter your rabbits if you do not plan to breed them. Rabbits breed fast, so they may breed out of control if not spayed and neutered. Spaying and neutering your rabbits is also a good way to protect their health. Rabbits that are not spayed and neutered may engage in hormonal behaviors, such as spraying or fighting. Female rabbits that are not spayed are also at a much higher risk of uterine cancer than those that are spayed.Keep males and female separated if your rabbits are not spayed and neutered.
 Rabbits require regular brushing to remove dead hairs from their bodies. To prevent white hair from getting onto your furniture and clothes, make sure that you brush your Florida white rabbit at least once per week and more if she seems to be shedding her fur.Never give your rabbit a bath. Rabbits do not like to get wet and being wet can even lead to hypothermia for a rabbit.

