 If you want to make your guy friend date you, then you've already set a solid foundation for your relationship. But if you're not really friends with the guy yet, then befriending him can help you show him that you like him. If you don't know the guy at all and he barely knows who you are, it'll be tougher to show him your true feelings. Also, getting to know him as a friend will help you see if you're really compatible, and will give you a chance to show him how awesome you are in a low-pressure setting.


Start by being friendly. You shouldn't ask him to hang out or reveal your most intimate thoughts to him right away. Just take it easy and start building a fun and friendly rapport with him.
Ease into the friendship. Don't overwhelm the guy by always being around. Just slowly start increasing the amount of time you spend with each other.
Don't fall into the Friend Zone. You should try to be his friend, but don't develop such a deep friendship that it'll get weird if you try to take things to a romantic level.
 If you want to get to know the guy, you can start talking about all of the things you have in common, from your families to your favorite sports teams. If you don't have so much in common, you can learn from each other, and may find yourself picking up on some of his interests. And if you want to pretend to care a little more about his favorite sports team than you really do, then that's okay too.


Most guys love talking about sports. If you both like the same sports team or sport, you can talk about it; if not, you can read up on his favorite team and casually drop some facts.
Use music as a common bond. See if you have any of the same favorite bands -- if not, ask if he has any recommendations for you. If you've developed your friendship enough, you can even make him a CD of your favorite music to grab his attention.
Talk about your families. Keep it light and talk about your siblings or any pets you have or had growing up.
See if you like the same type of food. If he finds out that you love sushi too, he'll be more likely to ask you to go to the new sushi bar in your neighborhood.
 Find a common thing that the two of you can laugh about, whether it's the fact that one of your mutual friends never matches, or the creepy poster in the back of your math class. Whatever reason you both have for laughing, you'll develop a deeper bond with the guy and will show him how much fun you can be.


If you find something that the two of you can laugh about, then this will create a little inside joke and will make you grow closer.
You can even find the same pet peeve to laugh about. If there's an annoying teacher you both can't stand, or if you both hate a certain pop music star, you can have a good laugh over this together.
 The way to a man's heart is through the respect of his friends. If you get his friends to love you, then he'll be much more likely to love you too. Hanging out and being nice to his friends will show him that you're a cool person who can get along with anyone and it will also let him see that you're showing more of an interest in him. If you didn't care about him, then you wouldn't care about his friends.


You should get to know his friends, but make sure you're not "always around," especially during dude-centric events.
 Once you get to know him a bit, you can offer to give him a ride or to pick up lunch, if he looks like he needs a favor. If you can't do that, offer to carry something for him. Though this will be a small gesture of friendship, he'll also begin to see that you really care about him. Just make sure that he's offering to help you out from time to time too, so the relationship isn't all one-sided.


If he misses class, offer to take notes for him or to drop them off.
If you're picking up coffee on the way to meet him, ask if he wants something too.
Just remember to not overdo it. You're not his girlfriend yet, so you shouldn't offer to do his laundry or grocery shopping.
 If you've been friends for a while and are hanging out more, then it'll be natural to ask for his number. You should play it cool and not ask for it like you're asking him to go out on a date. Instead, just ask him for his number so you can text him about when everyone is meeting at the bar, send him details to your party, or whatever. If he's a nice guy, he won't say no or think it's weird.


Getting his number will increase the amount of contact you have with him. Now you can start chatting through text and can take your relationship to a new level.
Once you do get his number, make sure that you're not the only one calling and texting him.

