 Point the needle at the back of your fabric, positioning it just below the start of your line. Insert the needle into the fabric and draw it through to the top.


This will be the A point of your stitch.
Draw the needle and thread completely through the A point. Continue drawing it through until the knot at the tail of your embroidery floss hits the back of the fabric, preventing the floss from moving further.;
, Point the needle at a position a little further down the line. Only poke the tip of the needle through this point/


This will be the B point of your stitch.
Do not draw the needle completely through the B point. No more than one-third to one-half of the needle should poke through to the bottom of the fabric.
 Slide the tip of the needle along the back of the fabric. Insert the tip back through to the top of the fabric at a point along the line that lies halfway between A and B.


This is the C point of the stitch.
Do not draw the entire needle through the C point yet.
 Slide the tip of the needle along the front of the fabric and through the floss coming out at A. Draw the needle and thread completely through this position.Split the thread evenly. When using six-strand floss, there should be three strands on each side of the needle.
Draw the needle and thread completely through the fabric until the thread lies flat after splitting the stitch.
This step completes one split stitch.
 Point the needle at a position further down the line. Insert the tip of the needle into fabric at this point.


This will be your D point.
This step start a second split stitch.
Note that the distance between C and D should be roughly the same as the distance between A and B.
 Slide the needle along the back of the fabric, poking it out at the front of the fabric at a point halfway along your first stitch.


Make sure that the needle splits the thread of the first stitch evenly as you poke it back through to the top of the fabric.
Once the stitch is split, you should pull the needle and thread completely through to the top of the fabric, stopping once the thread lies flat.
This step completes a second split stitch.
 Each remaining split stitch will need to be made using the same technique practiced on the second split stitch.


Poke the needle into the fabric at a place further down the line.
Insert the needle back through the top of the fabric at the halfway point of your previous stitch, splitting the previous stitch in the process.
Draw the needle and thread through until the thread lies flat against the fabric.
 When you finish split stitching down the line, draw the thread through to the back of the fabric. Tie a small knot to secure the stitches.


Instead of tying a knot, you could weave the ends of your embroidery floss through some of the previous stitching to secure it.

