 When you begin looking for a hypnotherapist, you will want to find someone with accreditation from a reputable hypnosis program. A good place to begin looking is with your local licensing board. This will help you find licensed therapists, who also happen to practice hypnosis.


A mental health specialists with accreditation through the American Society of Clinical Hypnotists is a good first choice. The ASCH offers accreditation courses to health care professionals with at least a master’s degree.Ask them things like “are there any licensed professionals in my area” and “how can I contact a hypnotherapist?”

, Before you begin a hypnosis session, be sure that you are as comfortable as possible. Wear loose-fitting clothing and take out your contact lenses. This way your clothes will not distract you from concentrating and your eyes will not get too dry. You should also avoid eating a large meal and be sure to get enough sleep before your session. You will want to avoid being drowsy, which might make your fall asleep instead of entering hypnosis.Consider wearing your glasses to your hypnosis session.
If you are feeling drowsy, drink something with caffeine in it, like pop or coffee. This will give you a little energy and help you concentrate. However, try not to ingest too much caffeine, because then you will be too energized and unable to concentrate.
 Once you have selected a hypnotherapist, meet with them to discuss your goals.Tell them your problems and what you hope to achieve by undergoing hypnosis. The mental health professional will then work with you to develop a hypnosis plan that will treat your problems.If you want to get over your smoking habit, say something like “I want to stop smoking.”
If you suffer from anxiety, say something like “I want to get over my fear other people.”

, When you begin hypnosis therapy, the mental health specialist will have you recline in a comfortable chair. You will then focus on a spot on the ceiling or on a tool in therapist’s hands, such as a swinging watch or pendulum. Take deep breathes and focus on your breathing.


A common myth is that people surrender control during hypnosis. This is not true. The hypnotist is only a guide and you will only do things that you want to do., As you become more relaxed, concentrate on the hypnotherapist’s suggestions. They will gradually countdown, and guide your further into relaxation. Eventually, using one of three methods, the hypnotherapist will work with you to overcome your problems.First, they may use mental imagery or your imagination to bring about change. For example, if you want to overcome a fear of flying, a hypnotherapist may have you imagine yourself in a plane in an effort to confront your fear.
Second, the hypnotherapist may “implant” ideas or suggestions that are compatible with your goals. For example, if you are trying to overcome a fear of public speaking, the therapist may try to associate the act of speaking to large crowds with a fond memory in order to alleviate your fear. Third, hypnosis can be used as a means of unconscious exploration, or a way to examine past events or underlying assumptions that may be causing psychological or physical problems. For example, if you are suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), a hypnotherapist may have you imagine yourself in a theater watching a replaying of the event that resulted in your trauma., Once your hypnotherapist has completed their procedure, they will guide you back to full awareness. It may take multiple attempts to achieve the results you are looking for. However, you may also be someone who is incapable of being hypnotized and should continue with psychotherapy.Talk with your mental health professional about the benefits of hypnosis and continuing sessions.
Ask your hypnotherapist how many sessions you will need.

