 Since HD games with cache are not available in app stores, you will need to get it through other websites that offer downloading of apk files for Android games. You can use any web browser on your Android device to search for these websites.;
, In the address bar, search for the game you want to install. For instance, if you want to Temple Run Oz, just type it in and add “apk download” at the end. Press Enter on the on-screen keyboard or the magnifying glass icon on the screen to begin the search.
 The results will show several apk download sites for you to choose from, like play.mob.org or apkmaniafull.com, to name a few. Tap on a website to access its download page for the game you are searching for.
 Most apk download websites have the “Download” button near the bottom of the page, as are its instructions on how to download the files, so scroll down the page until you find the “Download” button (you should have a good adblocker in place to avoid nasty popup ads).
 For games with both apk and obb files, the website will provide basic instructions on how to download and run the games. Read through the instructions (usually above the “Download” button) to know what to do.
 Tap the “Download” button to begin downloading the files. These are usually downloaded as a compressed file (zip or rar) into the Download folder of your device.


If the apk file and the obb file need to be downloaded separately, look for the “Download” button for the apk file and tap that, and then look for the “Download” button for the obb file and tap that to download both of them.
 All devices have a file explorer app pre-installed. Locate it, and tap it to launch.
 The apk file you downloaded will be in the device’s Download folder. Use the file explorer to navigate to the Download folder and find the apk file there.
 If the file you downloaded is a zip or rar compressed file, you will need to extract it. Most file explorers come with an extractor feature; to extract, just long press on the compressed file, and select “Extract.” It should extract the file into the Download folder.


If your file explorer doesn’t have an extractor, you can get one from Google Play. There are many to choose from there, like RAR for Android or WinZip.
 Tap the apk file to begin installing the game. It will show you all the permissions it needs on the screen first; read it and then scroll down and tap “Install.”


Once the game has installed, a message will display “Installation successful.” Press “Done” at the bottom of the screen to exit this window.
 Open the file explorer again, and go to the Downloads folder. Locate the obb folder of the game. You’ll know it’s the obb because the filename of the folder usually starts with “com.” If you’re unsure, check inside the folder, the file inside should have “obb” at the end of the filename.


Long-press the obb folder to select it. Once it’s selected, tap the three-dot icon at the top right to open the menu, and select “Copy.”

, You will then need to navigate to this destination: Device Storage >> Android >> Obb. Once inside the Obb folder, select “Paste here” at the top.
 Locate the game’s icon on your home screen or app drawer, and tap it. The game should run, and you can now enjoy an HD gaming experience.

