 Spending time with supportive people is one of the most effective ways to care for yourself. Having quality social support increases your resilience to life stressors, boosts immunity, and provides a sense of community. Whether support comes from coworkers, family, friends, or members of a church or organization, you can benefit from these strong social ties.


In addition to offering you a host of advantages, being a part of a support system means that others will benefit, too. Just as you receive support, comfort, or encouragement, you will also give it to others. This comes not just from spending time with them, but from the things you will do as a result of prioritizing your relationships with them.
For best results, choose groups that make you feel valued, peaceful, and positive about life. Avoid people who are unhealthy influences or who bring negativity into your life.;
, A major aspect of a self-care plan is a balanced diet. Nourishing your body with whole, healthy foods helps you fight off stress, manage your weight, and live longer. Plus, you don’t have to feel selfish about adopting a better diet because everyone in your household can benefit.


If you are responsible for the grocery-shopping and cooking in your home, you can positively influence the self-care of your loved ones by selecting healthier choices to stock your fridge and pantry. Choose real foods over those that have been processed. Go for whole grains, fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and low-fat sources of dairy.If you aren’t responsible for your household’s meals, you might inspire healthy choices by committing to improving your own diet. Drink more water instead of sugary drinks. Fill your plate with more vegetables than bread or pasta. Avoid excessive snacking between meals., It may not seem like it, but refusing to communicate your needs can be detrimental to your own well-being and your relationships with others. Too frequently, we are quick to extend assistance to friends and family, but slow to make our own requests. Sometimes, asking for help can be a necessary tool to improve your self-care. And, surprisingly, your friends and family will reap the benefits from helping you.


Research shows that lending a hand to someone else can benefit the giver's brain in the areas of stress, reward, and caregiving—meaning when loved ones help you, they ease stress, satisfy their inner need to care for others, and receive the equivalent of a mental treat.The next time you need help moving, could use a night off from the kids, or don’t know how to solve a complex problem, reach out to your support group. Say, “I could really use an extra pair of hands with the move this weekend. Are you available?” or “Do you mind watching Cody this weekend for a few hours?”, You, too, can experience the same gains from helping others by offering your time and skills in your local community. Improve your social skills, make new contacts, add purpose to your life and improve your mood with community service.Consider tutoring or reading to kids at the area schools. Volunteer a few hours at a local animal or homeless shelter. Offer to do crafts at the nursing home. Think carefully about what types of activities or groups interest you and find an opportunity in your area.
 If engaging in self-care activities make you feel a bit selfish, have a loved one accompany you. By turning it into a shared activity that strengthens your bond, you won’t feel so guilty.


Fancy going shopping? Ask your best friend to come along. You may even try to surprise your friend by buying them something as a kind gesture. Treating yourself to a nice lunch? Insist that your partner meet you there. Go for a mani-pedi and bring your daughter, sister, mom or niece.

