 There is an old adage of if you love what you do, you will never work a day in your life. Find a job that speaks to your passion, and work will not seem so bad!


Try and make your hobby your career.Find ways to profit on whatever you like to do in your free time.
Try to volunteer first somewhere you would like to work to gain experience, and then move your way into a paying position. You’ll be more likely to get a job this way with experience of volunteer work.
 To make yourself look like an ideal candidate for a cushy job, you may have to invest some money up front. To get an interview, you want to have the best resume possible. There are many companies out there that specialize in writing resumes and getting their clients interviews.
 College jobs are often cushy and do not require much work or effort. They are often designed to allow students to study or work on homework.


These jobs may include receptions in a residence hall or a student liaison.
Talk to financial aid about a work study program.
 You can get paid for what you already produce. You can sell your blood, plasma, semen, or eggs for cash just by being healthy.You will have to pass a medical screening and a drug test before you can donate plasma. Donating your eggs may require more rigorous health screenings.
 You can get paid just to sleep. High quality hotels often hire individuals to test their hotel rooms for customer satisfaction.These jobs are highly sought after and sometimes hard to get. They are sometimes featured on online job boards.
 You can literally get paid for someone to study your sleep habits. Universities or medical programs often are looking for volunteers or patients to study.Check with your local university or hospital to see if they have a study job board.
 You can teach English abroad with little to no experience, or degree. Countries like China, Japan, and South Korea have high demands for teachers.Teaching English abroad has been often rated as a low-stress job, and it allows you to travel the world.
 Working from home allows you the freedom to wear whatever you want and may give you more opportunities to do nothing.

