


Flying in and out of which airports
The weather at the departure town and the forecast for the town you will be visiting.
Who are you traveling with? Family? Mates? Teen Girls?;
,,


You'll need casual clothes for hanging out during the day.
You may need swim or ski wear if you are planning sports and activities.
You'll need clothes appropriate for going out to party with friends.
, Find a big, rolling suitcase, and a small one that could be carried over your shoulder as well. There are lots at your local stores, and sometimes you can find cool matching ones, too! Don't be afraid to buy the largest suitcase option. You'll be bringing home gifts and souvenirs. Additionally, winter clothes are bulkier and require more room

, Find how many days you will be there.


Pack at least two shirts for each day (one nice, one casual, you can also include an additional shirt or two for taking to the pool or wearing to the gym.
 Put it in a large shave kit and pack it in your suitcase

,


If you are carrying your bag on the plane with you and going to have your luggage x-rayed you will need to observe the liquid carry on rules.
You'll be required to remove all liquid and gel items and put them into a clear 1 quart bag for inspection. No container can contain over 3 oz. so you better bring the trial sizes so everything will fit in the bag.
Pack several pairs of pants and jeans that will inter match with your shirts. Ties and sports coats may be added depending on the formality of your activities.
Pack any beach, athletic and dress shoes.
 To fill the spaces.
, Once you arrive you should unpack any items that easily wrinkle, hang them in the closet so the wrinkles can start falling out.
 Keep your MP3 player, ear buds/headphones, a book or magazine, light snacks since they don't feed you on the planes. Also take any prescribed medications you can't survive with out. What few snacks they do sell on planes they sell and require exact cash. You may like to have $20 in cash available and handy while you are flying.

