 If you have a bead tray, great – if you don't, work on a towel, large piece of felt, or even foam. Keeping the order of beads is pretty important, and you don't want them rolling all over the place.
 Here's everything you'll need:


Your beads
Clasp
A beading needle (a fine needle with a large eye)
Thread, either silk or synthetic
A match or lighter (for burning off loose ends of synthetic thread)
Super glue and toothpick (if using silk thread)
Scissors or clippers

, This isn't your normal "thread the needle" step. You're actually threading it to thread it. It'll all be clear in a second. Here's how it's done:


Take about 10" (25 cm) of your thread and separate it into finer strands.
Take one of the fine strands and thread that through the needle.
Tie a knot so the strand makes a loop that goes through the eye of the needle (this loop holds the thread that will be the string of your necklace. It enlarges the eye of the needle, making it much easier)
Cut off a strand of thread about 3x the length of your desired necklace.
Double it over and put the loose ends through the loop you've already made. Don't knot this string; just leave it be. Make sure it's pulled far enough to avoid the string slipping out, however. Now your needle is officially, albeit strangely, threaded.
 Take the clasp from your original necklace (or a new one) and loop the thread through it. To do this, just put the needle through the ring on the clasp and then back through the end loop in the thread.


You may want to tie a knot close to the clasp at this point. It will keep the loop from slipping up onto the ring incorrectly.
 Simply thread the beads onto the string with the needle, pushing the beads to the edge of the clasp. Go slowly so you get the pattern correct – you don't want all the beads on only to realize that you messed it up once halfway through.
 Tie a double knot at the end where there are two loose ends on your string (opposite the clasp). Then, push the beads to this newly knotted end.
 Take one bead and then slide it over to the clasp. On the side of the bead opposite the clasp, tie a tiny knot to keep it in place.


It'll be helpful if you hold the loop down on the bead and then tighten. Keep this tension as you pull the knot shut.
After each knot, separate the threads and pull them apart to move the knot closer to the pearl. You don't want the knot to be visible.
You could also put a needle through the knot and use it to guide the knot against the pearls.
 Grab the next bead and bring it next to the knot you just made. Tie another knot, keeping a finger over it as it's being pulled to keep it snug. Keep doing this until all your beads have been moved over and knotted to the side with the clasp.


This is a skill and you will get better with practice. It may take a few necklaces to get it right. They will get tighter as you go.
 After you've knotted each bead, cut off the end thread knot you made a while ago. Then, put those ends through the other side of the same clasp. Pull the thread tightly up the last knotted pearl and tie a good, sturdy double knot.
 If you're using silk thread, you can apply a tiny dot of super glue onto the end with a toothpick. Then, cut the thread close to the knot after the glue is dry.


If you're using synthetic thread, cut within 1/4" (.8cm) and melt the short, loose ends with the flick of a small flame. Note: be careful. It's possible you could melt your necklace.Be very, very, very brief with this.

