 Someone has to be the first one to die. Privately tell the person that they are going to die. Then put the other contestants in different rooms and make the crime scene., Almost every murder has a crime scene. For example, if someone got murdered by a stab to the back, then create a fake knife stuck in their back. You can use fake blood on the person and their surroundings. Makeup is also important. It doesn't have to be amazing makeup, but if their are supposed to be cuts or burns, make it look realistic., This is usually a bedroom. Maybe there is an alarm clock going off and a note saying 'meet me downstairs.', Once the contestants have seen the crime scene, move the body to the morgue., Scream or make a bang, depending on the murder. Whatever makes the contestants come to the crime scene. There they can see who is dead., They can only chose one place, either the crime scene, morgue, or victims last known whereabouts., This could also be a good time to start alliances. The contestants can share with other contestants what they found at the particular place., Encourage them to go ahead and look for the clues. You can give them an object that would help with the clue, but this is not necessary., Once someone finds the second clue, inform the others that it has been found., Allow time for the contestants to piece together what they think happened, then one by one state their case to a camera in private. Be sure to tell them to say who they think the killer is!, Explain to the contestants how the murder really happened. Then give out the "spared or scared" cards., Have someone who got a "scared" card die. Then follow steps 11-21 over and over again until you come down to the last 3 contestants., Have a mini game set up in front of them (a game that involves how they died) Put a note in their hand that describes how to solve the mini game or puzzle. For example, Don died of a mountain lion. For his game, contestants had to piece together the steps of how he died. Have the deceased give the contestant a piece of paper depending on if they were correct or incorrect. Once the contestant has gone to each dead person, tell them if they solved all of the mini games right or wrong. If wrong, have them go to the same place again until they get it right. When the first 2 contestants get it right, lead them to a separate room. The 3rd and final contestant to get it right is lead to another room where they die. The final 2 contestants say which one they think is the killer, with the killer congratulating the other for winning the game, and solving whodunnit.

For the 2 contestants to finish the mini games, one of them has to be the killer.

