 Biostatisticians need a strong background in mathematics before pursuing college degrees in this field. Before deciding to pursue this field, you should evaluate your skills, interests and affinities. Aspiring biostatisticians should ensure they have the following characteristics:


Capacity for teamwork and solo work.
Strong organization skills.
Affinity and interest for mathematics, statistics and biology.;
, A bachelor’s degree is the minimum education required for entry level positions, such as that of a research assistant.Some schools might not offer degrees in biostatistics, but a degree in statistics or applied mathematics can serve just as well.You should also ensure you pursue courses in your desired field of interest; for instance, choose health and political science courses if you intend to research trends in public health.
 While a bachelor’s degree is sufficient for entry-level work in biostatistics research, many positions require a Master’s degree or PhD. If you don’t want to be limited in your career choice, consider pursuing higher education. At the Master’s and Doctorate degree level, you can begin to focus your education and become more specialized:


If you intend to perform advanced academic research, a Master of Science is more beneficial.
Master of Public Health (MPH) programs if you are interested in the practical application of statistics to public health data.Doctorate programs allow for further specialization along both the science and public health tracks through academic research.
 Grants and fellowships are funding programs that provide the opportunity to gain valuable experience developing and carrying out various projects.Organizations such as Public Health Online provide a directory of grants and fellowships available to biostatistic students, ranging from $1000 scholarships to $30,000 research grants.The biostatistics department at your school can help obtain these in several ways:


They can guide you in finding the right grant or fellowship.
Some funding programs require that you be nominated by your biostatistics department.

