 It's important to learn about the governments of other countries, as well as your own, in order to understand how and why your country interacts with others. Learn the pros and cons of all the governments as well.;
, This goes from national government all the way down to city government. Voting and lawmaking is also included in this.
 In America, for example, people are guaranteed free speech. However, free speech ends where another person's rights begin. Threatening to kill someone, for example, is not covered under the freedom of speech. Learn what your rights are and how you can exercise them.
 There will no doubt be issues in the paper and media that are of political nature. This could include elections, social issues, the economy, other countries, or government-related problems.
 Look at how the event came to be, what the effects of the event are, and what people's opinions on the event are. Research all sides, not just one, and discuss it with your peers in order to gain better insight on it.
 Expanding your vocabulary is a good way to understand what politicians are talking about.
 If there's something you just can't find out by research, ask someone about the issue and what the background is.
 The economy is a hot issue in many countries, and affects your life. Politicians all have their own ideas and solutions about the economy and the struggles their countries face with it.
 There are usually websites that have a record of politicians and what they vote for. Google their names and see what kind of opinions they have and how they're voting. This is especially useful for when you begin voting for representative

, This is because the government officials often get letters from people whom they do neither represent nor have authority over their issues. Junk mail (propaganda or advertising) is a waste of time and effort for them as with anyone.
 Understand that democracy isn't perfect so there is much more to take into account you you really want to take politics seriously, i.e., if you really want to contribute to change the world. Read Marx, Rousseau, and so on.

