 In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the flour, salt, yeast, and sugar. Then add the water and stir the ingredients to barely combine everything.


It’s important to be precise about the amount of water when you're working with spelt flour. Adding too much water will make the dough sticky and weak, while too little will make the dough dry and dense.You can replace the sugar with an equal amount of honey if you prefer.;
, When the flour and water just come together but don’t quite make a proper dough, add the oil. Stir in the oil with a dough whisk or wooden spoon. When the ingredients are mostly combined, knead the dough in the bowl until it comes together to make a smooth but wet dough.The entire mixing process, starting when you add the water, should take about four minutes. Any less and the protein won’t develop properly, but any more and the proteins will start to break down.The consistency of spelt dough isn't the same as with regular flour. Don’t be surprised if the dough has a stickier and pastier consistency than what you're used to., Cover the mixing bowl with a damp towel or a piece of plastic wrap. This will prevent the dough from drying out as it rises. Place the dough in a warm place away from drafts. Let it rise for about an hour, or until it doubles in size.


A good place for rising bread is in an oven that’s turned off, but with the oven light on.
 When the dough has doubled in size, turn it out onto a floured surface. Knead it with floured hands for about two minutes. Shape the dough into a loaf or a flattened ball and transfer it to a greased baking sheet or loaf pan.


For a heartier bread, you can knead in nuts and seeds at this point. You can add up to 1 cup (about 140 g) of nuts or seeds, such as walnuts, pumpkin seeds, sunflower seeds, sesame seeds, and pine nuts., Preheat your oven to 425 F (218 C). Cover the dough again with the damp cloth or plastic and set it aside to rise for another 25 minutes.When the dough is ready, bake it for 35 to 40 minutes, until the crust is a light golden brown.
Before baking, you can brush the top of the dough with oil and sprinkle it with more nuts., When the bread is ready, remove it from the oven and transfer it to a wire cooling rack. Let it cool to room temperature or a little above before slicing and serving.


To keep leftovers freshest for a couple days, place the loaf in a paper bag and store it somewhere dry.