 There is a lot of girls who think you must be "perfect" to work in a strip club. This is not the case. You do not need to be perfect or anywhere near. You do however need to be toned. Most clubs will accept girls who have cellulite and stretch marks. So hopefully this puts your mind at ease. If you are unsure of your body, diet and exercise in a healthy way to get the figure you need. It is possible for almost anyone to have a body like the girls who work in strip clubs.;
, Ask them what their audition process is like and what you should wear including the type of underwear.
 Most clubs have an audition process where you turn up and dance on stage to song/songs and remove your clothes while the club is closed. If you do not know how to pole dance, don't worry, most girls don't know how to pole dance when they first start. Just sway and move sexily to the music using the pole to turn around and support you. Some clubs will want you to choose the music you want to dance to. Plan for this and choose songs which allow you to move sensually. A good genre of music to dance sexy to is urban music. Do not pick something too rock and roll or non sexy. It will be hard for you to get into the "role" of the sexy dancer and move seductively.
 Other clubs have auditions where they hold "amateur nights". This is a night where girls who want to be hired turn up and dance on the stage while the club is open and has customers there. They then are judged depending on how the audience reacted. Some even have competitions where you have to "win" a place to work in their club.
 Other clubs just ask you to turn up and eyeball you in your street clothes and tell you immediately if you are hired. If this is the process for the club you are going to, wear clothes which show the shape of your body. Something like skinny jeans and a tight top would be fine. 

, When you call the club to ask about their audition process, make sure you also ask them the dress code. Some clubs are strictly gown clubs and others are bikini clubs. So make sure you buy and wear the appropriate clothes.
 You can get them online or at local adult shops. Make sure they are at least 3 inches (7.6 cm) high and that you feel comfortable in them.

