 It takes a long time to get a sizeable philodendron from a seed, but you can buy them from online gardening suppliers or personally collect them during blooming time. Put the seeds about 1/3 of an inch (1 centimeter) deep in nutritious breeding soil and cover them lightly. Spray the soil regularly to keep it moist.Philodendron seeds do not need to be soaked prior to planting.
The seeds will take about 2 to 8 weeks to germinate when the temperature of the soil is kept between 68 and 73 degrees Fahrenheit (20 to 23 degrees Celsius).
When the seedlings sprout and become sturdy enough to handle, move each one to a small pot of its own to foster strong root development.;
, If you know someone who has a healthy philodendron or you find one growing wild, you can take a stem cutting from it. Make sure to cut at least 3 inches (7.5 centimeters) below a joint in a leaf stem and remove lower leaves near the cut. Place the cutting in a jar filled with water near medium light. When roots appear, plant the cutting in a small pot with potting soil.Orchid soil (with bark pieces) and a mixture of sphagnum peat and vermiculite or a mixture of sand and turf/compost can provide good nutrition for your newly planted cutting.It’s important to keep the cutting watered regularly.
Be sure there are drainage holes in the bottom of your pot, so that the cutting is protected from over-watering.
 Air-layering can be used when the philodendron you want to propagate from is too mature or thick to cut. Start by cutting halfway through a mature branch at a 45 degree angle. Insert a small piece of plastic (like from a bottle) in the semi-cut, wrap the cut site with a moist ball of moss, and then wrap and tie the moss onto the stem using plastic wrap and string.In about 2 weeks, you’ll see roots forming in the moss.
You may need to tie the semi-cut branch to a support if it’s unable to support itself.
Once you notice a healthy root system growing into the moss, you will be able to sever the stem about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) from the air-layering site.
Remove the plastic wrap and place the rooted moss ball into a small pot with rich soil. Make sure the pot has good drainage.
 If you want to enjoy a full-bodied philodendron right away, visit a local greenhouse and buy one there. There are many different varieties to choose from, and most of them aren’t expensive. Small philodendrons shouldn’t cost more than $10 USD, and they’ll come with their own custom care instructions.