 Most experts agree that the safest place to be during a civil unrest incident is in your home. Staying home keeps you out of the chaos and also allows you to defend your location, if you need to. Don’t go back out to find out what’s going on, and don’t delay getting home if you’re out.You can and should prepare for emergencies, such as civil unrest, bad weather, or any other mass incident. Staying home will allow you to effectively utilize your resources while keeping you safer from danger.;
, A safe room is a specially-designed room in your home that meets Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) standards and is virtually impenetrable to external problems, such as weather incidents, fire, or looters.FEMA’s guidelines primarily ensure that your safe room is weatherproof. You can, however, fortify your room for additional standards, such as fireproofing or bulletproofing.
 Many experts agree that you should also fortify your home, whether you choose to install a safe room or not. Fortifying your home means that you strengthen its barriers, just in case the unrest incident spills over to your location.Invest in a security system that includes outside cameras. This will offer you an additional line of defense.
A popular, basic fortification is replacing standard windows with impact-resistant glass.
 One benefit of our digital age is that we can stay connected pretty easily and have 24-hour access to the news. Make it a point to read up on or listen to what is happening globally, nationally, and locally. Staying informed about current events and any situations that may potentially devolve into civil unrest gives you more time to ensure that you and your family’s safety.Many news organizations have applications for smart phones that will send you alerts if big news is breaking in your area.
Make sure that you don’t just rely on the internet for your information. If a civil unrest situation persists, you may lose internet and cell access.
Consider purchasing a battery-operated or hand-crank operated radio to stay informed if you lose electricity.
A police scanner will allow you hear police radio traffic, which will alert you to any situations long before they are broadcast by the media.

