 There are various themes available in the game. You can choose a nice blue theme, set up a scientist’s lab, or even make it look like a really swanky cafe! In any case, it’s best if you make sure what you want is exactly the theme you want for your house.


Themed furniture have similar names, so if you liked the look of a certain chair and found yourself kind of happy with the matching table, then you’ll know what set to get.;
, Once you choose your theme, you can reliably gather the furniture for it by looking out for items that share names (blue dresser, blue bed, blue table, etc.). You can gather your furnishings by buying them from the town store. The furniture is displayed in full inside the store.


To buy your furnishings, head over to the town store (located randomly in town in most games and located in Main Street in New Leaf) or Re-Tail in New Leaf, and then walk up to whatever catches your eye and press A. Whoever is running the store will then ask you if you want it. Accept to buy the item.
Rare furnishing costs more, while cheaper or simpler sets cost less. Prices vary for each item, so at the very least, bring 4,000 bells every time you check out the store.
 You can also buy wallpaper and flooring at the town store. They’ll be displayed as a roll of wallpaper and a rolled-up carpet, respectively. Walk up to the flooring/wallpaper you want to buy, and press A. Whoever is running the store will then ask you if you want it. Accept to buy the item.


You can also choose to see what the wallpaper or flooring looks like before buying (it’ll be one of the options in the dialogue).
 If you’re lucky, you can get furniture (and only furniture) from shaking trees. They’ll just drop down on you! You can shake trees (the fruitless ones) by going up to them and pressing A. There are 2 pieces of free furniture hidden in the trees per day. Be careful though! There are 5 Beehives hidden in the trees every day, and you might get stung!

, Sometimes, when you interact with villagers (going up to them and pressing A), they will request some tasks, items, or simply ask you a few questions. If you deliver, they may give you a random item, ranging from clothes, to wallpaper, to furniture.
 Letters appear daily in your mailbox, usually with a tiny blinking icon above it. Once you press A on it, you can see if the letter has a present or not if it has a tiny gift box on the letter icon. To receive the present, go to your inventory, select the letter, then choose “Present.” The gift will be moved to your inventory, and you can open it by selecting it and choosing “Open.” Hopefully you’ll get the furniture, wallpaper or flooring that you wanted.
 Before placing your stuff in your room, try and figure out how you want things to look. Some themes have more furniture in their list, some have less. So depending how big or small your house is, you have to take into account how everything would go. It would be a shame to have a nice theme, but to be unable to go in and out of the house!


Wallpaper and flooring don’t take up space at all, since it just changes the look of the walls and floor.
At the very least, leave a path to the stairs and doorway free from obstruction.
 Once you’ve completed your collection, or at least gathered enough of it to resemble your theme, start decorating! You can place your furniture by going to the area of your choosing and pulling up your inventory (- on City Folk, X in New Leaf, and Y in both the original and Wild World versions). Select your chosen furniture, and then choose “Place in Room.”


You can turn or nudge your furniture around by pressing A, then pressing a direction on the D-pad.
If you don’t like where you placed your furniture, pick it up with B and place it somewhere else! Note that if you put something on top of your furniture, you pick the one on the top first before taking the one on the bottom.
 When selecting your wallpaper and flooring, pull up your inventory and choose “Spread on Wall/Floor,” instead of “Place on Room.” If you select the latter, it will just place the roll of wallpaper or flooring on the floor of your room.
 Once you’re done fixing up the interior, simply take the time to bask in the beauty of your new home theme!


If you chose to join the Happy Room Academy at the start of the game, come Sunday, you’ll get a good rating from them. While the points are simply bragging rights at first, you can get rewards if you gain enough!

