 Dog's with bloat deteriorate alarmingly quickly. A dog that develops bloat at bedtime, if left untreated, will most likely pass away by the morning. Sometimes the deterioration is even more rapid, and the dog may pass away in less than 2 hours after first developing symptoms. Because of this, it is absolutely imperative that you call your vet immediately, as soon as you notice the following symptoms.The key symptoms are a distended abdomen and non-productive retching (vomiting without producing any vomit). These signs alone should trigger an emergency phone call to the vet. However, other signs can also occur, as discussed in the following steps.;
, The abdomen (or belly) is the area behind the rib cage that extends back towards the pelvis. The stomach sits within the dome of the diaphragm, but if filled with air, it extends backwards into the belly. A gas filled stomach gives the physical appearance of a swollen belly.In some large breeds (St Bernards, Great Danes) the swollen stomach can be difficult to spot because of room for expansion within the dome of the ribs, therefore, an absence of swelling does NOT rule out gastric dilation. However, a swollen tummy is a significant sign.
If in doubt as to whether the tummy is a normal size or not, take a photo of the dog from a sideways angle. Take another photo at 10 minute intervals for comparison. If subsequent photos show the body walls bowing outwards more than previously, this is significant and you should immediately contact the vet

, The swollen stomach is often full of gas or foam. When you place a hand on either side of the swelling and press gently, the area feels hard and not compressible.If you gently flick at the swollen area with a finger (like flicking a drum skin) you may get the impression of a drum like noise due to the trapped air inside the stretched stomach.
 When the stomach flips over it is effectively sealed off. Gastric contents cannot escape; this also means that saliva, food, and water cannot get into the stomach. Thus your dog may drool saliva because he cannot swallow it down.
 The distension triggers receptors in the stomach wall that tells your dog to vomit in order to empty his stomach. However, the twisted stomach is sealed off and although the dog retches or attempts to vomit, he brings nothing up other than drooled saliva.


This is a serious sign and if present, contact the vet immediately.
 As the stomach swells it presses forward on the diaphragm and displaces other abdominal organs backwards. This causes abdominal discomfort which may cause the dog to stand in a hunched position with his back arched.


This is a general sign of abdominal discomfort, rather than specific to GDV, but if seen in conjunction with other symptoms, it should raise concern.
 A dog with a dilated stomach feels uncomfortable and nauseous. This makes it difficult for him to get comfortable and he will pace and be restless.


Some dogs repeatedly turn and look at their flanks, whilst others may even try to kick their belly with a back leg.
 GDV causes distension of the stomach and is a painful condition. Dogs differ in how they show pain but typical signs include:


Vocalisation (whining, groaning, or crying)
Dilated pupils
A worried expression
Changes in behavior such as increased aggression

, As the toxins build up, your dog may start to go into shock. This manifests itself as a weak pulse (the femoral pulse is located on the inner thigh, running parallel with the thigh bone.) A weak pulse can be difficult to detect because of low blood pressure within the vein and is easily lost when pressure is applied with a finger.


The heart rate starts to race and is above normal (greater than 100 beats per minute for a large breed dog, above 140 beats per minute for a regular or small dog).
The dog's gums will also be pale (normal color is pink, much like our own gums). If you press a fingertip on the gum and then release, it takes longer than 2 seconds for the color to return (a sign of circulatory collapse)
The dog may also have distressed or laboured breathing. He breathes more quickly (normal is below 35 to 40 breaths per minute) and takes shallower breaths than usual.
 Untreated, your dog may deteriorate, find it difficult to walk, and slump to the ground. As his abdomen becomes increasingly swollen, blood return to the heart is impaired by pressure from the stomach (which compresses the aorta and vena cava, much like putting your foot on a hosepipe) and the dog goes into circulatory collapse.

