 Right now, you can start making small changes. If you have glasses, get contacts. If you have braces, get some cute colors like black and pink or purple and teal.;
, Wear your best clothes, too.
 Throw out everything 'nerdy' in your closet, and keep only your best clothing. Buy tank tops, t-shirts, jeans, shorts, shoes, and anything else you need.
 Buy more clothing to suit your style.
 Make sure it suits your style, but keep it cute and fresh. Get highlights or streaks in your hair, too!

, Is it your placement in AP classes and having no friends? Or is it the fact that you know everything about computers? Figure this out during the 4th week of June and try to figure out a way to fix it. Keep your grades up and stay in AP classes if that's what's wrong, but make some friends. No matter what, don't drop any advanced classes because they will definitely benefit you in the future. Never let your grades suffer to gain popularity. Or, if it's computers, stay away from the computer for a week or two, but do not change yourself and avoid the things you love to improve your image. There is nothing more beautiful than a girl who does what she loves and is happy with her life.
 Look at some of the wikiHow articles on how to do your makeup for whatever style you like. Make sure to buy nail polish to keep up on your toes/fingernails.
 See if you can throw a big party with a ton of people from your school at a local swimming pool. If you can't, throw it at your house. Meet and greet people to show off the start of the new you. Keep having guests over and throwing parties through the end of summer.
 Buy some perfume, take nice, long showers, and shave your legs.
 Go out, buy a bikini (even if you aren't in good shape, it will help expose more areas to tan and you don't have to wear it out in public), some sunscreen, and a few magazines. Sit out in the sun and get a tan. Do this through the rest of the summer, also.
 Try to pick things you will really enjoy, and use these opportunities to meet new people and become friends with them. Sports are most beneficial because not only will you become super close with your new teammates, but you'll learn new skills and achieve a slimmer, more sculpted body!

, If you succeed in becoming popular, you're going to have friends over who will see your room. Take down any faded, unattractive, or outdated posters and put up some new things like prints of your favorite artistic pieces, photos of you and your friends, and posters of your favorite musicians and actors. Keep everything organized. Make sure it is color coordinated and attractive.
 For example, instead of plain, white binders, try buying different colored ones and decorating them yourself with multicolored sharpies. You could also buy ones that are already decorated in cute patterns. Try to get your supplies in colors that match your style. Have your friends sign them. Also, you should buy a curling iron, straightener, hairspray, blowdryer, and anything else you need to make your hair look nice.
 Clean your face really well to try to get rid of any acne you might have. Visit your doctor or dermatologist if you have a real skin problem. Put together your back-to-school outfit and buy something to carry your things. Try a pretty tote instead of a dorky backpack. Also, buy some cute purses to alternate throughout the school year.
 Get your hair trimmed and highlights touched up (if you need to) and take a bubble bath before going to bed so you have enough time to get at least 8 hours of sleep.
 In the morning, wake up at least an hour before your bus arrives. Put on makeup, eat a healthy breakfast, brush your teeth, do your hair, and take a quick shower if you need to. When you get to school, strut the new you!

, Get a good nights rest, too. Make new friends and join fun activities, and try to forget about the old nerdy you.

