, Pin exactly on the line and fold the cream fabric back. Is it covering the outer lines? If not then reposition or cut a larger piece and try again.



 

, Press open. Repeat for the other cream piece and press well. Remove the papers if using., Our version has matching fabrics but you could mix and match if you wanted.,,,,
Four 3-3⁄4in squares of dark red.
One 2-3⁄4in square in cream for centre.
 Repeat for the other two sides.,,, Cut two in half on the diagonal for the centre unit
One 2-3⁄4in square in cream for centre.
 Pair the squares RS together with a dark red square and sew 1⁄4in away from the line on both sides., These are half square triangle units.
 Piece the half square triangle units into blocks of four with all the triangles pointing the same way as shown in the pictures.,, Measure the length of your table and add narrow sashing strips between the blocks if needed to bring the length to match your table. Or you may need some extra blocks.
 Lay the backing WS up on the table and place the wadding and then the top RS up onto it. Pin or tack together.
 This top was quilted on the Super quilter using a monofilament thread and has vermicelli quilting on the red squares and a diamond pattern inside the diamonds. The cream areas were left unquilted. If you had less time for quilting you could just quilt in the ditch between the blocks. Add binding cut to required length., Using the template cut twenty four triangles in the red fabrics with a seam allowance and twelve pieces of wadding without seam allowance., Turn the right way out and poke the corners out. slip the wadding inside and ladder stitch the gap closed., Sew six small shirt buttons to the ends of the table runner on the WS and sew six corresponding button loops to the top row of triangles., End by passing through a large bead, a seed bead and then back up round the seed bead, back through the large bead and finally through the string of beads. Complete by sewing through a few times in the seam allowance. Make three of varying lengths for each end of the runner. Lay in pride of place on your table.