 Look for the Facebook app on your mobile device and tap on it.
 If you logged out of your previous Facebook session, you will be asked to log in. Enter your registered email address and password onto the fields provided, and tap “Log in” to continue.
 Tap on your name on the header toolbar. You will be brought to your Timeline or wall. Tap on the About box, right below your cover photo, and you will be brought to your page, with all your details.
 Tap on “More about you” from your page, and you will be brought to another screen with more details about you. Swipe up until you see the “Family Members” section. Tap on it to expand the section, and you will see your current connected family members.
 Select from the list of family members which one you’d like to update. Tap on the downward arrow beside the name, then tap “Edit family member.” The “Edit Family Member” screen will appear.


Changing relationship status—Under the name field of the selected member is a drop-down list. Select from this list the relationship of the person you’re updating. You can choose from Grandmother to Stepdaughter, Uncle to brother-in-law, or even Pet. Facebook maintains a huge list of possible family relationships, so you should be able to find out that fits.
Adding a family member—At the top of the “Family Members” section is a link “Add a family member.” Tap on it, and you will be brought to another screen where you can add a family member. Key in the name of the family member you’re adding on the field provided. He or she should already be connected to you on Facebook in order for his or her name to appear. Select your relationship from the drop-down list below the name.
Removing a family member—If you’d like to remove a family member, tap on “Remove family member” instead of “Edit family member” from the options shown by tapping on the downward arrow. A confirmation message will appear. Tap on the “OK” button to remove the selected family member from your profile.
 Your family will receive a notification about the change you’ve made. He or she should accept, and once he or she does, this will be posted on both your walls, making it official.

