 You can find it easily by searching it into your Start Bar, or by downloading the version I have provided in Things You Need.;
, If you are using iTunes, open My Music, select the iTunes folder, then iTunes Music, and find the artist and song you’d like.
 You can zoom in on the graph itself with the (+) magnifying glass see the changes in more detail. The places where this graph spikes and dips sharply are good candidates for syncing opportunities, whether you are simply transitioning between two clips, or adding flashes and more complicated effects.
 For windows, there is also a Video’s Folder.
, If you are using a longer video, it is often easier to add the video in its entirety and clip each segment you will use individually. Regardless, start focusing on your first video clip.
 You can insert a still image of a plain black picture (easily created in Microsoft Paint or other comparable programs. Simply use the Paint Bucket Tool to create a solid black background, then under "Import" on the side of Windows Movie Maker, select picture) at the very start of the video, and then simply merge your first video clip into the black picture. Make sure the merge point is close to the point where the audio kicks in. To change the timing the black picture, simply click and drag at the edge of the picture on the timeline until it is the desired length.
 Find the next large bass beat, cymbal crash, lyric change etc on the audio graph.
 Or, under clip, scroll down until you find the “Split” selection. This will split the video segment you have into 2 sections at exactly the point where you have the cursor.
 By right clicking on the video clip, a menu will open up where you can select “Effects”. Under Effects there is are two options for both speeding up and slowing down your clip. Click “Add” on the desired one to change the length of your clip, but keep all the desired video. Make sure the clip once again ends close to the beat you’ve chosen.
 The longer the transition, the smoother it will look. The following picture will demonstrate where the clips will align with an audio spike for the best sync.
 Notice how the old clip extends a bit past that drum beat. This is to allow a bit of material to fade out to. If the video ended abruptly at the beat, then you would get an abrupt fade as opposed to a smooth one. For the same reason, the new clip is faded in to a point just before the beat. This way, the completed fade has an equal distance on each side of the beat, with the beat resting directly in the middle.
 Creating these takes a little more effort, but it gives off a sharp, quick effect for fast transitions.
, From these effects, choose either “Fade Out to Black” or “Fade Out to White” depending on which color flash you would like. Then once again click Add.
 This will create a brief flash right on the beat between the two clips you have chosen. The shorter the clips, the quicker the flash.
