 Stroke the ball to the front wall with sufficient judgment to make it bounce at the back of the court behind the service box. The ball should never hit the back wall on the full or fail to hit the back wall, ideally after one bounce and die. Develop it, as a reflex action with practice, by hitting hard below the front wall service line, or soft above the service line. The objective is to confine your opponent to the back of the court, moving him out of the dominating position at the T.;
, Your opponent's options are reduced when you play in the back corner. Thirty feet away he can't attack and his swing is restricted. While playing a cross-court you should hit wide so that he cannot reply with a volley.
 As a routine, keep the ball straight, in the corners, along the sidewall (easier said than done). This will cause your opponent to move away from the T and hinder him from attacking or volleying. He will be on the defensive and there may be a possibility of a weak return.
 This will allow you to move and pick up your opponent's shot, be it a drop to front court or a shot to the backcourt. Generally take long strides to the ball, so the body is in the recommended position when playing the stroke, and can also recover quickly for the next rally. The player controlling the T will invariably control the point. Even after playing a drop or front wall boast you should move back to the T, to await your opponents stroke. Practice correct movements by on court shadow (ghosting) routines and shot specific drills.
 Some players find it hard to watch the ball, especially when the ball is hit behind the player, they just watch the front wall. Players also tend to lift their head to see their opponent's position, before playing their own stroke. Make it a practice to watch the ball until impact on your and your opponent's racket. This will give you the extra milliseconds to respond and can also avoid injuries of being accidentally hit by your opponent, their racket or ball., It sounds simple, but most players tend to play strokes mechanically without relation to their opponent's position. Strike a balance between trying to hit winners or just defending and returning every ball. Try to spot your opponents strengths and weaknesses by watching their previous matches and also during knock up. Use this info to frame your game plan. Move your opponent to all four corners and especially if they have a weaker side, which should be exploited.
 There is no perfect diet, as everyone has different needs and requirements. The best diet is one that provides adequate fuel and is balanced with nutrients in the required amounts. If you eat healthily, you will train harder, and be in better physical and mental condition. Water and proper hydration are very important. Unreplaced fluid losses can impair performance. Please drink water as required by your system during training and matches. Eat well during tournaments, preferably carbohydrates., Squash is a mental as well as a physical sport. Analyze your strengths and weaknesses and Try to improve upon them. Even if you do not have a coach take the advice of a friend. Also learn from the pros by studying their matches on TV or video for tips and traps. Check out the squash sites on the net.
 You have to be fit to play squash, not play squash to get fit. Balance your on and off season training with a mixture of flexibility, aerobic, anaerobic and strength training and conditioning. Training must be combined with appropriate diet and also provide adequate recovery periods for your body to rebuild and develop. Stick to your training schedule, avoid short, hectic training and concentrate on longer and systematic training to avoid injury and build up your body's reserves. Everyone needs a specific training program, dependent on your genetics, physical shape and training history. This will determine how much training you can do now and your body's response to the training. There are some top junior squash players in South Africa.

