 You will need sturdy paper, wooden skewers, clear tape, scissors, and a writing utensil.If you'd like to customize your umbrellas by decorating the paper, you will also need some type of media to decorate with. Rubber stamps and non-toxic ink are a great choice.


Paper of medium thickness, such as construction paper, works best. However, thinner paper like printer or origami paper or thicker paper like cardstock can also work. Tissue paper, however, is much too thin.
Decorative patterned paper and stationary will look great.
These little umbrellas are great for decorating drinks.
 If you'd like, decorate one side of the paper using pens, stamps, or some other media. Matching the decorations to the theme is great if you're making these for a party. If you have a printer that can print on thick paper, try printing out patterns. If you will be using these umbrellas to decorate anything edible, avoid using materials like glitter that may fall off into your food and drink.
 Using a coaster or the bottom of a glass tumbler as a guide, trace non-overlapping circles onto the undecorated side of your paper. Cut out each circle using your scissors., Fold the circle in half and then unfold it. Make sure the decorated side of your paper is facing out. Fold it in half again to create a crease that is perpendicular but folded in the same direction as the first. Create a third crease in the same manner, this time with a diagonal through the first two creases. Do this for a total of eight creases creating 16 equal slices within the circle.Repeat this folding pattern for each umbrella.
 Using your scissors, cut out a small almond shape from the edge of each of the 16 wedges. This will mimic the folded panels of a real umbrella. Do this for each of your paper circles., Select one crease and cut half of it, making a slit from the edge to the center. This step is necessary to create an umbrella that holds its shape. Repeat this for each umbrella., At the site of the slit, take the section on the left and bring it underneath so that the panel to the right overlaps it. Lay a small piece of tape flat down the underside of the umbrella to hold the two sides together together. Repeat this step for each umbrella., If you have trouble getting it through, use a toothpick or pen to make a tiny hole first. Don't make it too big or the umbrella will slide too far down its handle.


If you don't have wooden skewers, you can use plastic ones or long toothpicks instead. Either one will be easier to poke through the paper.Stick the bottom of the umbrella handle into drinks or food to create a festive atmosphere.

