 Writing is a form of communication, and all communication is between more than one person. Aside from a journal or diary, writing is meant to be shared with other people, and, most importantly, the reader's response to your writing matters. This is why criticism is so important-- you get to see exactly how your work affects an audience, which will help you hone it into the best work it can be.


Your professors, workshop, friends, and bosses are only trying to make you a better writer, not belittle you. Taking their criticism gracefully is about remembering this end goal.;
, You will not be in the room with a publisher, investor, professor, or reader to preface sections or provide explanations. What you write is what they get, and you should treat your critique the same way. Imagine that you are just a fly on the wall during a book-club meeting over your writing. Do they react well to chapters you like? Where do they get hung up or confused? Is all the information needed to understand the writing in the writing, or do you have to explain it yourself?


Ask questions about criticisms you don't understand -- "can you elaborate on why the thesis wasn't clear?" "where did the plot get confusing?" -- instead of trying to fight the criticism.When asked a direct question you should politely answer, but be brief.
 It bears repeating, but writing is communication. If multiple people "don't get it," the fault lies in how you wrote it, not how they read it. It is easy for something to seem clear to you, it's your idea, after all, but that doesn't mean people encountering your idea for the first time will pick it up instantly. Your job as a writer is to make the idea as clear on the page as it is in your head, without explaining., It may seem like people briefly mention the parts they love and then move on to 30 minutes of hate, but that makes a lot of sense when you think about it. You need to work on the parts that aren't good, not the ones you've already got down. A critique isn't useful if people simply go on and on about stuff you've already done well-- you need to learn how to fix the things that need work.


That said, good critiques will always find a way to mention the positives, at least briefly.
 At the end of the day, you asked this person (by handing them the work or signing up for the class) to give a critique on your writing. They are not out to destroy you, hurt your feelings, or break your will to write, even if they feel harsh at the time. They are doing their best to make your work better. At the end of the day, their opinion is just that: an opinion. You may agree or disagree, but it is not a personal attack. It is just a critique of your writing., You have to stay true to your own vision, even as you find ways to share your vision with others. Do not let a negative critique force you to abandon your own style and ideas. People will naturally give suggestions that fit their own personal style, but that doesn't mean you should adopt their style in return.