 This prank involves transmitting spooky sounds to a place of your choosing, to scare people of your choosing. You don’t need much for this — just your voice, a spooky setting, and a baby monitor set (transmitter and receiver)., You could do this to your friends, family, or even your kids, if you have them and are confident it won’t scar them for life., Think about where it would be really frightening to hear scary voices coming from. Imagine what would terrify you if you were alone at night and began to hear frightening noises.

What if you heard frightening noises coming from under your bed? Would this scare you?
What if you heard noises coming from your closet, or maybe the bathroom down the hall?
You could even do this outside at night if you’re camping, but it might be a bit more tricky!

, Make some noises into the transmitter to get a sense of how you sound. You might try out different creepy voices to see what works best., You’ll be speaking into the transmitter (the unit a parent would leave next to the baby to monitor it), and the sounds you make will come out of the speaker (the unit the parent would normally have).

Possible locations for the speaker include under the bed, in the closet, in the bathtub behind the shower curtain, or anywhere else where you’re planning to have the scary noises come from.
Be sure that no one catches you hiding the speaker, and that it’s well-hidden, or the prank will be over. Remember that at night, the speaker’s light might glow in the dark, so you’ll want to make sure it’s properly hidden.
Make sure the speaker is on and that the batteries are well charged when you hide it.
 Make sure the transmitter is off until you’re ready to use it, otherwise every sound you make will be transmitted to the place where you’ve hidden the speaker!, This prank works best at nighttime when it’s dark and quiet, and everyone has gone to bed but isn’t yet asleep., Whispers are a great way to start, and are especially frightening when they build up into a loud exclamation.

Example: “Where is she where is she where is she I know she was here I know it I saw her … … yes that’s her name, that’s her — Shhh shhh shhhhhh. I think she hears us!” Then be quiet for a few moments, then shout “LET ME OUT!” then start whining or crying, or laughing maniacally.
Ideally you don’t want to stop until you can hear the person freaking out.
If you’re trying to scare children, keep it tame — for example, “What’s that smell? What’s that smell? I smell smelly feet … they make me hungry, I’m going to EAT THEM!”

, If you’re too far from the speaker, your voice might not transmit to it clearly. If you’re unsure of the transmission distance, double-check the instructions for your baby monitor set., You can also do this prank without the monitor, just by hiding beneath someone’s bed, in their closet etc. The thing is, it’s scarier if they see you before they go to bed — that way they won’t expect that you're in the room trying to scare them.