 Ask a parent or guardian before starting any sort of gymnastics training in the house. Your guardian should be home and available to react immediately in case you are injured. Ideally, an adult should be in the same room with you to act as a spotter.;
, You will need to make sure your garments are not baggy enough that they impede your movements but also not so tight that they cause chafing.


If you are a girl, the best thing you can wear for gymnastics is a leotard.
Singlets are another specialty sports garment and can be worn by gymnasts of any gender. Like the leotard, you may also choose to wear athletic shorts over top of your singlet.
You can also wear a T-shirt or tank top with athletic shorts instead. Make sure that your clothes are free of buttons, zippers, or snaps.
Do not wear socks. Exercising barefoot will prevent slips and falls.
If your hair is long, tie it back securely.
Only wear glasses if they are especially made for sports and won't slip. If not, leave them in a safe place where they won't get damaged., You will need a large area free from clutter. Preparing a room for gymnastics will help you to avoid serious injury.


Only practice on a soft surface. Do not practice on bare hard wood, tile, or laminate flooring. You can also ask an adult to buy a home athletic mat.
Ask an adult to move all furniture against the wall. Make sure that the furniture is free of sharp corners. If necessary, cover sharp edges with a pillow or thick comforter.
 Pull-up bars are relatively inexpensive and easy for an adult to install.There are also athletic bars and balance beams you or an adult may buy for your home.However, these take up a lot of space and are best left for a dedicated exercise room.
 To get the most out of your training, you will need to get warmed up properly. Warming up will boost your performance and prevent muscle soreness.


Start by stretching your whole body. Tilt your head slowly from side to side, and gently roll your head backwards. Stretch your arms by holding each across your chest for a few seconds and then raising it back over and behind your head. Do a few lunges to stretch your legs and lower back. Lift each leg slightly off the ground and roll each ankle. Flex each of your toes. Roll your wrists and flex your fingers.
After stretching, get your heart rate up with a quick aerobic exercise. This can be any kind of simple high-intensity workout you can do on your own in a small space. Examples of these include jumping rope, running in place, or doing jumping jacks. Do this for a few minutes until you can feel your heart beating quickly but not for so long that you start to feel winded.
 Make sure the floor, mat, or rug you'll be exercising on is flat and free of bumps. If you're using a balance beam, get comfortable on it first. Make sure that it doesn't wobble before standing up on it. If you're using bars, try shaking them to make sure they're stable before you put any weight on them.

