 The word desert can be used in a few different ways, functioning as a noun or verb. Keeping the meanings and uses of this word associated with its spelling will help you remember when and how to use it.Desert can function as a noun, indicating a hot, dry, and arid climate. Sometimes, it is used metaphorically to signify something that is dull and uninteresting or lifeless, such as "My hometown is such an entertainment desert."Desert can function as a verb, meaning to abandon or run away. This meaning comes from the Latin word desertus that meant "left waste." An example of this usage would be “Fear made him desert his position”.
Desert can also be used to indicate that someone or something deserved a punishment. For example, “They got their just deserts.”This meaning comes from the Old French word deservir, from which we also get the English word "deserve.";
, Although the difference in pronunciation can be subtle between the words “desert” and “dessert”, learning this difference can help you remember when and how to use the word “desert”. Memorizing the pronunciation can also help you to communicate clearly when using this word while speaking.When describing the climate or geographic region, the stress is on the first syllable of the word desert. It is pronounced DEZ-urt.
When using the word desert to indicate someone abandoning a post or someone getting something deserved, it is pronounced dez-URT.
 The only difference between these two words, “desert” and “dessert”, is that the word desert has only one letter “s”. Memorizing this fact will allow you to keep these two words separate and use them accurately and appropriately. Look over some of the following examples that use the word desert to help learn when to use this spelling.They traveled through the desert.
The soldier deserted his post.
They got their just deserts.
 A mnemonic is a "trick" or device that helps you remember something.To help you remember that there is only one "s" in desert, you could think of a person being solitary in the desert. Or, you could imagine a desert full of Saguaro cacti, since Saguaro also has only one "s."


A desert is an empty and dry place, having little water and only one letter “s”.
One letter “s” deserted the desert.
 The word dessert is a noun that refers to a food item, usually very sweet tasting, served after a meal as the last course. By associating the meaning of the word with the way it is spelled, you can learn when to use the correct spelling.The word “Dessert” comes from an old French word desservir that meant “clear the table”. This association may help you remember when to use this word., Remember that the words dessert and desert are pronounced differently. Keeping the correct pronunciation in mind will help you remember how to spell the word. When used in speaking, proper pronunciation will also help you clearly convey your meaning.The stress is on the last syllable of the word dessert.
Pronounce the word “dessert” like dez-URT.
 When it comes to spelling the word dessert correctly, always keep in mind that this word has two s's. You can memorize this spelling by using it in sentences:I ate the delicious dessert.
After dinner, we ate dessert.
 To remember that "dessert" is spelled with two s's, think of something that will help you associate that spelling with the meaning, such as "I ate a super sweet dessert" or "Strawberry sundaes are my favorite dessert."


Tasty desserts are so good that they need two letter “s”'s.

