 All aerobic activity has positive effects on circulation and health. One research study concluded that moderate exercise improves blood circulation to the brain in older women.Walk for 30–50 minutes at a brisk rate of speed, three or four times per week.


The results of the study indicated as much as 15% higher blood flow to the brain.
Many studies suggest a connection between exercise and overall brain health, though there's no definitive research suggesting that that increased blood flow may prevent or reverse cognitive decline.
Aerobic activity is any physical activity that causes you to breathe harder, and raises your heart rate. Swimming, bicycling, dancing, and even sex are all aerobic activities. Find one that best suits your lifestyle, and engage in it with enthusiasm!;
, It's not necessary to commit to a lengthy exercise session to reap the benefits of walking. Taking short walks will also help increase the blood flow to your brain. Even a walk of three to five minutes will have a positive effect on your blood's circulation.


Use a timer throughout your day to remind yourself to take walking breaks. If you work at a desk, schedule short walks.
Take advantage of naturally occurring opportunities to walk. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Park at a distance from your destination. Get off the bus or train before your exit, and walk the remainder of the route.
 Stretching improves overall circulation, and prevents stiffness in the joints and muscles.Set aside a few minutes every hour to stretch your body.


Stretching increases blood flow to the muscles. While it's not possible to truly "stretch" your brain, by enhancing blood flow throughout your body, circulation will improve and increase.Simple stretches that result in increased blood flow to the brain include touching your knees or toes from a standing position. Alternatively, sit on a clean area with your legs outstretched, and touch your knees, shins or toes from this seated position. Be careful not to do anything that causes pain or discomfort in your back.
 Yoga poses often encourage putting the head below the heart. This directly benefits blood flow to the brain.Simple inversions include simply laying on the floor, perpendicular to a wall. Scoot your body forward so that your legs are resting on the wall, and your buttocks is close to or touching the wall.


More advanced inversions include raising your body above your head in a headstand or handstand. You may practice doing this by using a wall to help your balance. Remember, yoga should never be painful. Work with a trained yoga practitioner for more advanced inversions.
Inversions don't have to be vertical. Plow pose and fish pose are both poses that directly benefit the blood flow to the brain. Plow pose stimulates the thyroid, increasing blood flow to the brain. Fish pose stimulates the neck, throat and brain.

