;
, This is optional. Removing the existing fabric can be time-consuming, using a screwdriver and pliers to pull up each staple. Unless there is an odor or padding has escaped the cushion, it is not recommended that you remove the base layer of fabric on your seat. Recovering a bare seat pad is trickier and may require additional steps. If the batting or foam cushion is decaying, for example, you may need to replace it.
 If the seat is rounded or curved, measure the longest length and the widest width. Add three times the depth to the length and the width, and that is the size of fabric you will need for a single seat. For example, if the seat is 10" x 12" x 2" (25cm x 30.5cm x 5cm) then you will need a piece of fabric that is 16" x 18" (40.5cm x 46cm).
 Look for upholstery fabric that will hold up to daily use. You can also use fabric from an old jacket, skirt, or tablecloth, as long as it's durable. If you use the chairs only occasionally, or if you like to recover to meet different needs year to year, a lighter, stretchy fabric can make your job easier.
 Place the seat on it, with the side you sit on against the wrong side of the fabric. Align the seat with the pattern on the fabric if necessary, especially if there are stripes.
 Usually, between two to three times the thickness of the seat will do. Save any leftover fabric for other projects (see Tips below).
 Make sure the fabric is smooth and tight, without bunches between your staples. See the Tips below for an alternative stapling technique.
 Pull firmly against the first row of staples to be sure you've gotten rid of any wrinkles or bunches. Again, start stapling at the center and spread outwards. When you encounter curves, fold the fabric, making sure all the bunching occurs under the seat and is not visible from the top. Secure the folds with staples. If you make a mistake, pull out the staples and start over.
,


Point the corner towards the center of the seat (along the diagonal).
Fold one side down so that the folded edge runs along the diagonal.
Fold the other side down in the same manner so that you now have a pleat along the diagonal. Staple.
 Hammer down any staples that aren't flush.
 Set up some milk crates or other support structure outside and spray the seats according to package directions. Let them dry overnight in a protected but well-ventilated area. If you can put them in a porch or garage this will protect you from the vapors while also protecting your shiny new seats from dangerously well-fed birds.
,