 Developing emotional strength is not the same as becoming invulnerable. In fact, vulnerability is crucial in developing your ability to connect with others and to fully experience and accept yourself.Vulnerability means being open to experiences, and also accepting that they may not work out as you hope.


Without vulnerability, it is hard to be open to experiences that have a fundamental element of uncertainty to them, such as love, trust, creativity.Try to reject perfectionism. Perfectionism is often confused with healthy ambition or a desire for excellence. In reality, perfectionism often comes from a fear of vulnerability, the desire to “be perfect” so that we don’t experience loss or fear. Perfectionism holds you to an impossible standard and demands that you get others’ praise. Vulnerability will allow you to strive for success and achievement while understanding that setbacks happen., In order to become stronger emotionally, you have to understand what your thoughts about yourself and the world are. These thoughts have grown up over time and shape your emotional responses. Sometimes, core beliefs are too rigid and can hold you back from developing emotional strength.Look for beliefs that use words such as always or never. Most situations in life are somewhere on a scale. Maintaining core beliefs that rely on all-or-nothing thinking can keep you stuck trying to live up to an impossible standard.
For example, consider how you believe about responsibility. Do you believe you are responsible for your actions and behavior? That’s healthy and helpful. Do you also believe you are responsible for others’ actions and behavior? It’s common to believe that we have the responsibility to manage the experiences and behavior of everyone around us as well as our own, but that’s actually a fallacy., The phrase "shoulding on yourself" was invented by psychologist Clayton Barbeau to describe the cognitive distortion of feeling like you are obligated to do something. It usually happens when you compare your actions or feelings to an external standard.When you use “should” statements, you can end up feeling guilty and ashamed of yourself, instead of having the energy to change your behavior in ways that satisfy your values. When faced with “should” thoughts, examine why you feel like you “should” do this or that. For example, if you are considering going on a diet because you “should” lose weight, think about why you “should” do that. Is it because you have a particular health goal in mind? Has your doctor talked with you about your weight? Do you want to look a certain way? Or do you feel this “should” because you feel pressured by others to look or behave a certain way?
Society often pressures individuals with many “shoulds” that we may feel we need to conform to: You should look like the people in magazines. You should wear a certain clothes size. You should have a lot of/no sex. You should be happy. You should be a “good” partner/parent/sibling/student/employee/employer. Giving in to that pressure from others, rather than doing things for ourselves because they align with our values, can leave us feeling emotionally wiped out.
 Sometimes, people feel emotionally weak because fears have crowded out other thoughts about themselves, such as being worthy of love, acceptance, and happiness. These fears contribute to anxiety (“Will others accept me?”) and depression (“I’m not worth anything”). Practicing self-compassion will help you learn to love and accept yourself, and that will make it easier for you to become stronger in your emotional interactions with others.According to psychologists, self-compassion involves three elements: self-kindness, common humanity, and mindfulness., This is the opposite of self-criticism. We’re often taught to strive for perfection, and that a lack of perfection is a failure. However, it's much kinder to view yourself (and others) as a "work in progress." Research has actually showed that perfectionism can hold you back from true achievement.Emotional strength comes from extending to ourselves the same understanding that we would to a friend. After all, if a close friend made a mistake, you would probably acknowledge the wrongdoing but still respond with forgiveness and love. Try doing this for yourself, too.
 This is the opposite of self-isolation. It can be easy to believe that we are the only ones who have experienced pain from our mistakes and life experiences, as though nobody else has experienced the same grief or done something as wrong as we have. Acknowledging your common humanity means recognizing that pain and suffering are part of the shared human experience, and that allows you to approach your own experiences with less judgment.For example, it can be easy to lapse into negative self-talk that isolates you and your experience from others, e.g., "Nobody could ever be interested in me because I'm such a failure." This language unfairly totalizes: you are not "a failure" simply because you may fail at something. It also does not acknowledge that everyone fails from time to time. It holds you to a higher standard than anyone else, which isn't fair to you (or them).Instead, try reframing this self-talk. "I did not accomplish such-and-such a goal when I had planned to. Everyone has setbacks from time to time, including me."

, Mindfulness is the opposite of self-absorption. Rather than getting stuck in a cycle of denying or focusing on negative emotions, mindfulness allows you to recognize and accept all of your feelings, without judgment, as you experience them.


For example, if you frequently experience the thought, “I’m so unattractive, nobody will ever want to be in a relationship with me,” try reframing it through a mindfulness lens: “I am experiencing the thought that I’m unattractive. This is just one of many thoughts and feelings that I’ll experience today.”
Another good technique is to practice mindfulness meditation. This type of meditation is focused on being “unconditionally present,” i.e., aware and accepting of what is going on at that moment. It can help alleviate anxiety and can help you be more aware of how you experience yourself.The UCLA Mindful Awareness Research Center offers free guided meditations to download online.These are organized according to situation -- body awareness, sleep preparation, etc. -- and run between 3 and 19 minutes. There are also several mobile apps, such as Calm, that provide guided mini-meditations.
 Identifying your best possible self requires two basic actions: visualizing the "future" you that has achieved your goals, and considering what characteristics you will need to employ (or develop) to get you there.Start by imagining a time in the future where you are the “you” that you want to be. Consider what would be the most meaningful developments to you. (It’s important that this is the self you want to be, not one you feel pressured or like you “ought” to be.)
Visualize your best possible self in a positive way. Imagine all the details of the situation. You can think of this as imagining a life dream, a milestone, or other big goal for yourself. For example, if your best possible self is an entrepreneur with her own successful business, imagine what that looks like. How many employees do you have? What type of boss are you? How much do you work? What do you sell or invent?
Write down the details of this visualization. Think about what characteristics your best self is using in this imagined scenario. For example, if you are running a business, you will likely need creativity, problem-solving, networking skills, and perseverance.
Think about what characteristics you already have. You'll probably surprise yourself! Then, think about which characteristics need further development. Imagine ways you can build those skills and traits.
It’s very important that this not turn into an exercise in self-judgment. Don’t judge yourself for where you are now! Instead, imagine you are who you wish to be.
 You cannot control others’ thoughts or actions, but you can control your own reaction to them. Remember that much of the time, what others say or do is not about you, it’s about them and a projection of their own reality.Taking things personally gives others power over you that they should not have.“Personalization” is a common cognitive distortion. It happens when you interpret anything that happens to you as a direct, personal response to something about you. This can lead you to feeling that others “have it in” for you. It can also lead you to take responsibility for things you are not responsible for.For example, if someone cuts you off in traffic, you can choose to take it personally and stew over how rude the driver was to you. Or you can interpret it as your fault for “allowing” it to happen. These are both personalizing responses that are unhealthy. A stronger response would be to remember that you are not in control of that driver’s behavior or actions, and you don’t know why s/he did what s/he did. Maybe the driver is having a bad day. Maybe they don’t care about others’ feelings. You did not cause this behavior.
Not taking things personally doesn’t mean you can’t feel hurt by what others say. However, refusing to take something personally will help you distance yourself from the immediate negative reaction.

