 Ask your teen questions about classes, areas of difficulty, and study habits.Discuss learning goals with your teen in order to get them involved in the process and to establish the primary goal of tutoring: are they struggling in one specific subject, with time management, with preparing for a specific test like the SAT or ACT?


Check with a teacher. Tutoring is not only suited for addressing low grades. Look beyond grades to get a full picture of why tutoring may be appropriate. Classroom and study habits may provide important insight into the issues that your teen faces.
A student struggling to keep up with material has different tutoring needs than a student that needs to be challenged. Talk with the student and with teachers to develop a full understanding of the situation.;
, In some cases, a need for tutoring may be connected to a learning disability. The student’s teacher may be able to identify possible problems that your teen faces, or they may be able to suggest an individual screening if it is appropriate.A student with a learning disability may need a specially trained tutor. With proper notice, non-specialists may be successful in one-on-one settings. Do not hide the student’s needs from potential tutors as this will complicate the learning process., If you are hiring a tutor rather than using a public school resource, cost will be an important factor. Typical rates for tutoring vary by location, subject, and experience. Check local tutoring services for their rates before negotiating with independent tutors. Based on your budget, the value of tutoring may or may not match its cost.You can use a salary information website like payscale.com to determine a range for the appropriate hourly rate in your area.
 Determine whether you will need the tutor to provide a meeting place or whether you want a private tutor to conduct sessions in the student’s home. Estimate how frequently and for how long you will need the tutoring service. Only consider candidates that meet these needs.