 Keep your head up and eyes forward. Your spine should be straight and your shoulders thrown back. Lean forward slightly to maintain balance as you run, but don’t hunch over. Keep your trunk stable and face forward. Keep your facial muscles and hands relaxed. Bend your arms about 90 degrees at the elbows and pump them in an alternating fashion as you run. Your hands should pass your body at roughly the level of your hips.Avoid bobbing your head or letting your head bounce from side to side. This wastes energy.
Ensure your toes point forward when you run. Avoid pointing your feet out toward the side at an angle, as many people do when they walk.
Maintaining proper form will help you run efficiently and minimize risk of injury.;
, Drinking water before you run will protect you against heat cramps, heatstroke, and heat-related exhaustion when running (or doing any vigorous exercise). This is doubly important when exercising in hot weather. On exceptionally hot days, bring water with you. You could just clutch a water bottle as you run, or invest in a hands-free hydration system like the CamelBak.
Signs of heat-related illness or overheating include nausea, dizziness, fatigue, and and irregular heartbeat. If you experience these or any other unusual physical activity, stop your run and head home to rehydrate.
 While it was once thought doing static stretches before exercise could help prevent injury, this has shown to be incorrect, and it may even impede your performance.Instead, focus on warming up with a walk, which warms up the muscles you will actually be using while you run, and include some dynamic stretches. A dynamic stretch might be to rotate your hips clockwise for 10 seconds, then switch direction and rotate counterclockwise for 10 seconds. Try warming up with some lunges, doing eight to 10 on each side.
Swing each leg forward and backwards as if it’s on a pendulum 10 times.
Try jogging backwards a few steps, or do some high knees and kick backs.
 As you get closer to home, slow your speed. Once you get home, slow all the way to a walk and spend five to 10 minutes walking around. This will help your muscles relax as you come out of the run.You can also incorporate some stretches to help you cool down and increase your flexibility., It is important you wear supportive, well-fitting shoes to avoid injury and pain from blisters and sore feet. Look for shoes with tread and breathable fabric. You can go to a sports store or a running store and the staff can help you choose the shoe that is best for your gait.


Replace your running shoes every 300 to 500 miles or sooner.