 Your glove becomes an extension of your hand when catching a baseball. It must fit your hand properly to work efficiently. As a general rule of thumb, players under the age of 12 will use a glove in the 10–11 inch (25.4–27.9 cm) range. Older players will use something between 11 and 13 inch glove.


Before playing regularly with your glove, it’s important to beak in your glove. One of the best ways to break in your glove is by practicing your catch.;
, Catching a baseball relies heavily on your stance and body position. You should be in the athletic position to prepare catching a ball. The athletic position takes the following into effect:








Bend your knees slightly. This will give you the flexibility to lung for the ball and keep your mind focused.
Keep your shoulders positioned towards the target. This will make it easier to visualize and react once the ball comes towards you.
Stand on the balls of your feet instead of standing flat-footed.
 The key to catching a baseball is to never let the ball out of your sight. Keep your eyes fixed from the time the ball leaves the thrower's hand until it lands in your glove. By watching the ball, you can track the ball’s flight plan, and prepare for the right stance to catch the ball.









”You can’t catch what you can’t see,”meaning it'll be difficult to catch the ball if your eye is off the ball.
 Don’t feel inclined to stay anchored in one place, but instead move to catch the ball. If the ball is thrown and you can tell it will land behind you, run backwards while watching the ball. In baseball, catchers play by zone defense. When the ball enters your zone, it’s your job to move to it.
 Hold your glove with your palm facing outwards in front of your body. Position the glove in the direction of the target who is throwing the ball. If the ball is thrown above your belly button, you can use this stance to catch the ball with little adjustment.


If the throw is below your belly button, rotate your glove so that your fingers are pointed down.
When the ball is thrown above your body, use the first position mentioned, but extend your arm upwards.
 Catch the ball in the pocket of the glove. The pocket is another name for the palm of the glove. Close your hand immediately once the ball makes contact with your glove. Get into the practice of using your second hand to secure the catch.









Using your second hand will also prepare you to throw once you become a catcher. Your free hand needs to have quick access to the ball.
 Be careful not to obstruct your vision with your glove when going for the catch. If a ball is heading towards your face, move your glove to the position at the last second. This might take some practice, but the goal is to watch the ball till the final second.


Practice throwing with a friend to avoid a black eye on game day.
You can usually reposition yourself to avoid your face crossing the ball’s flight path.

