 Tracking popularity of the website can be useful in cases where there is a canonical website that people go to in order to consume or engage with the topic. This is not the case for many topics.


For instance, Shakira's website gets negligible traffic compared to her online fame, because people consume her products on video websites or by purchasing her music. In contrast, for an information website such as WikiHow, the primary mode of consumption is via accessing the website.



You can see the statistics that Alexa has for a given website by typing the website's name in the bar at Alexa Internet, or appending the site URL with a URL structure of the form alexa.com/siteinfo/sitename (you can omit the leading www.).
Alexa estimates every website's global and country-wise traffic, as well as traffic rank. It does so using a panel of users for which it tracks the websites they visit.Since the user sample is small relative to the total set of Internet users, Alexa can be unreliable for small sites, but it is more reliable for more highly trafficked sites.What Alexa does a good job of is giving a crude estimate of the global rank as well as the rank in a few top countries.
It is also possible for websites to sign up to have their metrics certified by Alexa Internet (here, the website allows Alexa to track users on the site and in exchange Alexa can present a more reliable estimate of the website's traffic and traffic rank). Certification costs the website some money, and information on whether the website is certified is presented along with its statistics.
Slightly less censored versions of Alexa data, as well as some other related estimates, are presented by HypeStat. To see information on a website in HypeStat, use the URL structure hypestat.com/domainname (you can leave out the www.).
If the website is quantified (i.e., its sends data to Quantcast), Quantcast maintains rich information on the site's total traffic volume as well as the demographics and other attributes of the traffic. For many websites, this data is available to the public, although some sites restrict access to the data. Whatever data is publicly available can be accessed using quantcast.com/domainname (the leading www. can be omitted). Quantified sites will have a checkmark (black with white background). Note that Quantcast tries to estimate the traffic volume even to websites that do not send data to Quantcast, but this data tends to be unreliable since it relies on a rather small panel of people who have Quantcast installed (this is similar to how Alexa works). Websites' main motivation for being quantified is that Quantcast data on demographics and traffic can be used to approach potential advertisers.Another that can be used is SimilarWeb (URL structure: similarweb.com/website/ followed by your domain name). There are detailed online comparisons of Alexa and SimilarWeb.Full lists of such tools, and their strengths and weaknesses, are covered in many online discussions.