 If you slouch all the time, you will have back problems in the future.;
, If something can be easy, do it in the simplest way. Don't take 15 steps to solve a problem that requires 2 steps to solve. Now this doesn't means that the simplest way is always easy - work smarter, not harder.
 If you don't have anything to say, then don't say anything. If you do have anything to say, think about what you're saying to avoid making further embarrassment and stupidity of yourself.
 Simple people are the most productive people because they have the 5 life senses (book sense, common sense, street sense, fashion sense, and business sense). Not everyone is going to have these senses in equal amounts, but try to improve yourself in all of them.
 Don't go for anything too colorful or too dull. If it's a formal event, wear some dark slacks, a decent white dress shirt, a red tie, and some black dress shoes. It's as simple as wearing a T-shirt and blue jeans. But your style is you.
 It won't kill you and good manners will take you very far in life.
 Stand up for what you believe in. Simple people also think before mental and physical argument.
 This is by far the most important thing to have. A good attitude is worth more than a billion dollars. If a simple person is told to do something, he does it, but he doesn't get pushed in the wrong direction either. He doesn't get used or taken advantage of.
 You can try to get things done by yourself such as cleaning your bedroom, doing your homework, maybe cooking or cleaning. This will show you are responsible and independent.
 Don't drink, smoke, do drugs or party all night. These things aren't important, they won't help your future-and they're definitely not good for you or your health. Stay away from it! If moderate alcohol use is traditional in your family, ask an adult for advice on responsible drinking. Stick to a curfew hour even if your parents haven't set one for you, like always be home by midnight or earlier. (This is an example of good business sense.)

