 This will depend on whether or not you have pre-existing problems with your vision. There are two different kinds of colored contacts: Prescription and Plano.



Prescription contact lenses are used on people who are near-sighted, far-sighted, or have an astigmatism. Prescription colored lenses change the color of your eye while also correcting your vision.Color lenses will not be able to treat astigmatism, however, so your vision might be blurry if you have this condition.

Plano contact lenses are purely for cosmetic purposes. These contact lenses do not alter your vision in any way.;
, You can either choose an everyday color that mimics the look of a natural eye, or spice up your halloween costume with patterned lenses.


Everyday lenses come in a variety of colors, including blue, green, hazel, brown, and purple.
Costume contact lenses come in all sorts of crazy colors and patterns like spirals, checkers, at-eyes, zebra, Xs, white-out, and even tie-dye!

, Both prescription and plano contact lenses are classified as medical devices by the FDA, and you will need to be given a prescription., Remember that not everybody can safely wear contacts, as it depends on the shape and health of your eye.


Your optometrist will give you proper instructions on how to insert and take care of your lenses to avoid damaging them and harming your eyes.
 Always wash and dry your hands before handling your contact lenses, and keep your fingernails short to avoid scratching your eye when inserting them., This will avoid getting any makeup on your lenses.
 Doing so can spread infections or particles from one eye to the other., Be sure to follow the instructions that have been given to you by your optometrist. Be sure to use new solution every time you store your contact lenses. Never reuse your solution.
 Cases should be changed every three months.,, Doing so won't damage your eyes, but may be uncomfortable.To make sure you are inserting it the right way, hold the contact lens on your finger and view it from the side to see which way it folds.


If the top edge of the lens flares out then it is inside out.
 Sleeping with contact lenses in your eye may cause irritation and dryness in the morning.
 If you experience eye redness, stinging, burning, or pain, this is a sign that something is wrong. Remove your lenses and stop using your contacts until you have talked to your optometrist.

