 iExplorer is an app that allows you to manage files and data on your iOS device and transfer music over to iTunes. This method is useful if you no longer have access to the computer with which you initially synced your iPod with iTunes.


If the music on your iPod is already saved to iTunes on your computer, skip to Part Two of this article to transfer the music over to your iPhone.;
,, The application will install itself on your computer.
, iExplorer will take a few moments to detect your device.


Click on “No” or “Cancel” if iTunes opens and prompts you to sync your iPod with iTunes. This prevents iTunes from deleting all existing music and media saved on your iPod.
 iExplorer will automatically detect and display your music files on-screen.
 Later on, you’ll be syncing your iPhone with iTunes so these same tunes can be copied over to the iPhone.


If iTunes is not already installed on your computer, follow these steps to install iTunes. This application is required to transfer and sync music between iOS devices.



If you selected a playlist, select “Export Selected Playlist to iTunes.”, iTunes will launch automatically upon detecting your device.
 Multiple content tabs will display in the left sidebar of iTunes.
, Selecting “Entire music library” will transfer all existing music in iTunes to your iPhone, whereas selecting “Playlists, albums, artists, and genres” allows you to choose and transfer specific songs, playlists, artists, etc.
 iTunes will copy all selected music to your iPhone.
, Your iPod music will now be saved on your iPhone., This can help rule out problems related to hardware if your devices fail to show up on the computer.
 In some cases, restarting your devices and computer can help resolve problems with connectivity and device detection., Installing updates helps ensure you’re running the latest version of software, and can help resolve various problems and errors.
 Installing new iTunes updates can help resolve syncing and detection problems.


Launch iTunes and click on “Help” in Windows or “iTunes” in Mac OS X.
Click on “Check for updates,” then follow the on-screen instructions to apply available updates to iTunes.