 You probably play video games just because you enjoy playing. But if playing video games is causing you to have recurring anger, then you might not be enjoying yourself as much as you used to.


If you experience chronic anger as a result of the games you’re playing, think about taking on a new hobby to replace gaming for a while.
If you are not having fun, it’s not worth continuing your “relationship” with certain games.
 Playing (or even watching) violent video games may lead you to feel to increased feelings of anger and aggression, especially if you already have some anger issues.If you feel angry after playing or watching violent games, try switching to games that are not as violent.
 Not being able to get past a difficult level or obstacle in a game might also cause you to feel angry.Think about why you tend to get angry when you play and whether or not failing a level or getting killed in the game is what sets off you anger.


To deal with this type of anger, try playing a game that you have already mastered for a while and enjoy your success. Or, if you have the option to choose the difficulty in a game, try selecting a lower difficulty level to help prevent yourself from getting angry.
 If someone is trolling or harassing you on a MMO (massively multiplayer online) game, block or report the other player. It’s not worth engaging with someone who is just trying to get a rise out of you. Be sure that you are aware of the game’s community or user guidelines before reporting a player so that you are sure that they are acting inappropriately based on the MMO’s expectations.
 Sometimes you might feel anger (towards people or inanimate objects) when you are dealing with difficult problems in your life. If you find yourself getting angry about a video game (particularly if it is unusual for you to become angry), try to determine if other aspects of your life may be bothering you.


For example, if you have just lost your job or gotten in trouble at school, you may feel frustrated and out of control of your life. Failing to master a new level of a video game on top of the other experiences may lead you to blow up about the video game, even though it is not the primary cause of your feelings of powerlessness.
 This may not be what you want to hear, but if there is a particular game that causes you chronic anger—whether it is from violence in the game, an inability to master new levels, or even an annoying character—you may want to hide the game from yourself for a while or even consider trading it in a for a different game. It’s okay to put away a game for the sake of your emotional well-being.

