 Tea tree oil is renowned for its antibacterial, antiviral, and antifungal properties, making it an excellent option for fighting dry scalp and the effects of dry hair. Tea tree oil smells great, moisturizes even better, and should be considered by anyone who is serious about treating dry scalp.


Use tea tree oil in your conditioner. Buy tea tree oil in essential oil form and simply add a tablespoon or so into your conditioner. This is a fast and inexpensive way to fortify your conditioner.
Find products that contain tea tree oil as an ingredient. Many shampoos and conditioners contain tea tree oil. Make sure you find one that is gentle and suited to your hair type.
 Honey, although sticky, can be mixed into an incredible (inedible) conditioner if you know what you're doing. Here are some natural conditioners to try if you're feeling experimental.


Mix 4 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, 2 tablespoons pure vegetable glycerin, and 2 tablespoons pure honey. Shampoo, then use the honey conditioner as you would a normal conditioner.
Combine honey with your natural conditioner and use as directed. Combine two parts conditioner with one part honey and condition your hair after shampooing. Be aware that honey can lighten hair so be careful.
 Apple cider vinegar can be a great weapon in the fight against scalp dryness. Try this recipe for a dandruff-busting vinegar rinse.


In a saucepan, combine 3 cups water and a handful of rosemary. Bring mixture to a boil, lower heat to a simmer, cover, and slowly cook the mixture for 45 minutes.
Strain mixture into a bowl or bottle and let cool. Add 1/2 cup apple cider vinegar, with 10 drops each of essential oils of rosemary and peppermint.
Put into a spray bottle, keep in the shower and use generously after shampooing. Either rinse out or leave in. The apple cider vinegar should help feed your dry scalp with moisture and smell good to boot.
 It will work from the first wash.


Gather ingredients:

Horse shampoo, biodegradable (believe it or not!), 1 cup
Apple cider vinegar, 5 big spoonfuls
Olive or coconut oil, 3 teaspoons.


Mix it all together and wash hair as normal shampoo.
You can even shower with this mixture, as it helps for eczema as well.
Every second or third night, go to sleep with either olive oil or coconut oil rubbed into your scalp. Next day, just wash with the above mixture like normal shampoo.

