 Your bratwurst will probably char and crack open if you place them on the highest possible heat immediately. Furthermore, they will probably still be raw in the middle. Give them a chance to heat up a little more slowly on the grill., If you use very low heat and try to cook the bratwurst, you might get overcooked interior meat. In addition to having to cook it for a long time, the bratwurst might look like it’s done on the outside but has cooked too long. It will shrivel up when it cools., Use the heat of the grill to poach the bratwurst before putting them directly on the grill. Get a disposable aluminum pan at the grocery store.


Put your bratwurst in these, along with some chopped onion, red or green peppers, or other vegetables. You can also put a bed of sauerkraut in the bottom of the aluminum pan.
Pour some beer over the brats (about 6 ounces) and let this simmer with the grill lid down for about 15 minutes. Check the internal temperature of the brats with a meat thermometer. They should be about 160 °F (71 °C).
Remove the brats and place them directly on the grill for about 5-7 minutes. Be sure to turn them over about halfway through the grilling time.
 Use a medium setting heat on the grill. Let the brats cook for a few minutes on one side. Turn them over and let them cook for a few more minutes. If you have not poached or boiled the brats before grilling them, then you’ll need to grill them for about 25 minutes total. Be sure to turn them over a few times while they cook to ensure they are cooked on all sides.


Do not poke holes in the bratwurst, as this will let all the juice escape from the casing and result in a dry bratwurst.
 If there are too many bratwurst on the grill, you raise the potential for causing a flare-up or grease fire. Spread out the bratwurst and give them some room to cook.
 As the bratwurst are cooking, you can spritz them with water or beer to keep them from burning. Put water or beer in a spray bottle. Carefully and quickly spray the liquid over the bratwurst. Alternately, you can brush water or beer on them with a pastry brush., Use a pair of tongs to remove the brats and place them on a plate. Do not use the same plate that held the raw bratwurst, so that you don’t risk cross-contamination. Check the internal temperature with a meat thermometer to make sure they are around 160 °F (71 °C).

