 Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 C). Spray a 10x15-inch jelly roll pan with cooking spray and set it aside. Wash 2 1/2 pounds of apples and peel them. Core the apples and cut them into thin slices. Place these in a large bowl.You should have about 7 cups of prepared apples.
 Place all the filling ingredients into the large mixing bowl that has the sliced apples. Stir the filling ingredients with a spatula or spoon until the apples are completely coated. You'll need to add:2/3 cup (150 g) of granulated sugar
2/3 cup (80 g) of dried cranberries
1/4 cup (30 g)of all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon of ground cinnamon

, Thaw two sheets (one package) of puff pastry according to the manufacturer's instructions. Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and unfold one sheet of the puff pastry. Use a rolling pin to roll the puff pastry into a 10x15-inch rectangle. Lay the rectangle in the bottom of your jelly roll pan. Roll out the other puff pastry into a rectangle and set it aside.You should roll the top puff pastry rectangle slightly larger so you can crimp the edges. Make it about 11x16-inches in size.
 Spread the apple cranberry filling onto the puff pastry in your jelly roll pan. Use a spatula to spread it evenly across the pastry, but leave a 1-inch border around the edges. This will let you seal the top and bottom layers of puff pastry.If you spread the filling to the edges of the pan, you may have trouble sealing the pastry and the apple cranberry filling might bubble out of the pie.
 Lay the second rectangle of puff pastry over the apple cranberry filling. Dip a pastry brush in a little milk and spread it along the pastry border. Fold the bottom puff pastry layer over the top pastry layer and crimp the edges together. Cut a few slits in the top of the pastry and brush it with more milk. You can sprinkle coarse sugar over the pastry for a slight crunch and decorative look.Ensure that the pastry layers are tightly sealed. This will keep the filling from bubbling out and burning.
 Place the slab pie in the preheated oven and bake it for 50 to 55 minutes. The pie will be done cooking when the puff pastry puffs up and turns golden brown. You will also see the filling bubble up through the slits in the top.If the puff pastry starts to darken before the slab pie finishes cooking, you can lay a sheet of aluminum foil over the top during the last 15 minutes of baking.
 Stir together all the icing ingredients in a small bowl. The icing should be loose enough for you to drizzle it over the warm slab pie. Let the slab pie cool and the icing will set up. For the icing, stir together:1 cup (125 g) of powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon of vanilla
1 dash of salt
4 to 5 teaspoons of milk

