 Heat cramps are the mildest form of heat-related illness. Heat cramps are painful muscle contractions, usually occurring in the legs or stomach.Affected muscles might feel hard or tense to the touch. Other symptoms of heat cramps can include heavy sweating, fatigue, and thirst. Quick treatment can often prevent heat cramps from worsening into heat exhaustion, so stop activity, rest in a cool place, remove any damp or unnecessary clothing, and drink cool fluids.Your body temperature may be normal at this stage of heat stress., If you take a break and still feel weak or overly fatigued, it's time to quit for the day. Go home or head to the gym locker room to take a cold shower or soak in a cool bath.Surrounding yourself in cool water will help you lower your body temperature more quickly than just resting.
 Heat exhaustion may develop suddenly or over time, especially with prolonged periods of exercise. Heat exhaustion might be coming on if you experience faintness, weakness, dizziness or lightheadedness, fainting, nausea or vomiting, blurred vision, headache, a weak and rapid pulse or an increased heart rate that seems too high for your level of exertion.Stop exercising immediately and try to lower your body temperature quickly by placing ice packs on your forehead and under your armpits.At this stage of heat stress you may experience excessive sweating, cool moist skin with goose bumps even when in the heat, or you may stop sweating entirely. These are serious signs for concern., If your symptoms worsen once you stop exercising or do not improve within the hour, seek medical treatment. You may be given intravenous (IV) fluids to help you rehydrate. Your doctor might also do a simple blood test to check your electrolytes like sodium and potassium, which can affect your health., The most severe form of heat illness, heat stroke, can actually be life-threatening. This occurs when your body temperature reaches 104˚F (40˚C) or higher. Heat stroke requires immediate medical care to cool the body in order to prevent permanent damage to your brain and other organs that can result in death.You may need to call an ambulance or alert someone to do it for you.


Symptoms of heat stroke include the absence of sweating or hot, flushed dry skin, fast heartbeat, difficulty breathing, strange behavior like being disoriented, clumsy, irritable, or confused, and seizures.

