 If your ganglion is very painful or is interfering with the natural movement of your wrist, you may need to seek expert treatment to resolve the issue. A medical professional will be able to aspirate, or drain, the cyst, getting rid of the bump under your skin and stopping the cyst from rubbing painfully against nerve tissue.


Your doctor may check the cyst by shining a light through the growth – if the light shines through, then your doctor knows it is fluid-filled and is a ganglion cyst.
 This will help you stay calm and relaxed during the appointment.


The doctor will apply a topical anesthetic to numb the area around the ganglion.
He or she might inject the cyst with an enzyme that makes the jelly-like liquid easier to remove.
The doctor will poke a needle into the cyst, then draw the liquid out from it. The liquid is biological waste that the staff will dispose of lawfully and safely.
 However, administering steroids to the site of the drained cyst has proven far more successful, with 95% of cysts still cleared 6 months after treatment.
 Ganglions have a very high rate of recurrence, so you may find that home treatment and even aspiration is not a lasting solution to your problem. If you have a persistent ganglion that keeps coming back, ask your doctor about the possibility of having the cyst removed surgically.


This is typically an outpatient procedure, in which the doctor administers anesthesia through an IV.
Rather than simply draining the liquid from the cyst, they will remove the entire cyst, as well as the stalk that attaches it to the tendon or joint. Through complete removal, you reduce the chances of another cyst growing back., As with any surgery, there is a chance of something going wrong during the procedure. In rare cases, surgery might damage the nerve tissue, blood vessels, or tendons in the area around the cyst.You may also suffer from an infection or excessive bleeding.
 The area surrounding the cyst site will be sore and possibly painful during the healing process. Ask the doctor to prescribe a painkiller, like Vicodin, to help you manage the pain until it fades. Rest the affected limb as much as possible for at least a few days. For example, if the cyst was on your wrist, avoid activities like typing and cooking for a while. Ask your doctor for a recovery plan that includes:An estimate of how long it will take to recover.
What specific activities to avoid during the recovery process.
What symptoms to look for that might indicate problems with the procedure.

