 To make a canvas on a wood frame, you will need the following supplies. You can find these supplies at your local art store.A long piece of art canvas. You should get a canvas that is long enough to create your ideal canvas size.
Four stretcher bars. These are wooden bars that have notches on one end. You should get two stretcher bars that are the ideal width you want for the canvas and two stretcher bars that are the ideal height you want for the canvas, for example, 16 x 24 or 11 x 15.
A hammer.
A staple gun.
A pair of scissors.
Acrylic based gesso.
A paintbrush.
Sandpaper.
Palette paper.;
, Take one long stretcher bar and one short stretcher bar. Slide the notched ends of the stretcher bars together, pushing with your hands until the two ends side together. They should be flush with each other, forming a diagonal line where the two ends meet.








Repeat this with the two remaining stretcher bars until you have built a wooden frame composing of all four stretcher bars.
 To ensure the sides of the canvas are fitted properly and securely, you can use the hammer to tap the sides. Do this on the outside of the wooden frame and tap lightly so the ends are firmly joined together.
 Spread the canvas out on a flat surface, such as a table. Then, place the wooden frame on top of the canvas. Gently fold the canvas so it covers the length of the wooden frame and the ends fold over the wooden frame so the stretchers are covered by the canvas.








Use the scissors to make a cut and then use your hands to tear the canvas so the excess canvas comes off. Do this by holding down one half of the canvas and tearing the excess canvas off at an angle. Repeat this on the other side of the wooden frame until the canvas fits the wooden frame.
 Use the staple gun to attach the canvas to the frame. Fold over one short side of the canvas so it covers the stretcher bar and then staple the canvas to the stretcher bar. Place one staple on one end, one staple in the centre, and one on the other end for a total of three staples.








Rotate the frame and pull the canvas very tightly on the opposite end. Then, attach the canvas to the other short side of the canvas with three staples. Leave the centre staple for last.
Turn the frame to the longer side. Fold the canvas over the frame. You will notice a notch of canvas that sticks out when you fold the canvas over the frame. Use your index finger to gently push in this notch so it tucks into the fold. Then, pull the canvas up as tight as possible and push it down over the frame. Attach the canvas to the frame with a staple over the folded corner.
Repeat these steps for the other corner, making sure to push down the notch, pull the canvas tightly and fold it over. Secure the canvas with a staple.
Finish attaching the rest of the canvas to the frame by pulling tightly on the canvas and staple it down. You can put six staples on the longer ends of the canvas to ensure it is secure.
 To make the canvas smooth, tight, and ready for painting, you will need to prime it. Do this by applying acrylic based gesso to the canvas so it dries stiff and taunt.








Start by shaking up the acrylic based gesso. Then, pour the gesso onto a sheet of palette paper.
Use the paint brush to paint the entire area of the canvas. You should do one thick coat of the paint, making sure to get the sides of the canvas as well.
Let the gesso dry. Then, use the sandpaper to sand the canvas. Sand the canvas using small, circular motions. Do one layer of sanding on the canvas and don't worry too much about making it very smooth.
After one sanding session, pour gesso onto the palette paper and use the brush to add another layer of gesso to the entire canvas. You can use a hair dryer to dry the gesso faster.
Once the gesso is dry, sand the canvas one more time. Try to make the canvas really smooth. After a good sanding, the canvas is ready for use.

