 CPR, or Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation, is a very important lifesaving technique for anyone who plans to spend time around the water. CPR allows a rescuer to circulate a drowning victim's blood throughout their body and, sometimes, even restore their ability to breathe. While CPR alone can sometimes save drowning victims' lives, it can also help stave off death until emergency services arrive. CPR classes are usually brief and today can even be completed online, making it easier than ever to get the skills needed to save another person's life.If you don't know how to do CPR, most sources recommend only attempting chest compressions, not more advanced airway-clearing techniques or rescue breathing.To do chest compressions, kneel next to the unconscious victim on a hard surface and place both your hands on top each other on his or her chest. Use your upper body weight (not just your arms) to compress the person's chest about two inches. Perform compressions at a rate of about 100 per minute until paramedics arrive or the person regains consciousness.
 Perhaps the single most important thing you can do to ensure water safety is to make sure there is always someone watching the swimmers in the water who is ready to jump in at a moment's notice. Trained lifeguards, of course, make the best water monitors, but even an ordinary strong swimmer can make do in a pinch.


If your water monitors are worried that they won't be able to join in the fun, try taking shifts! Just don't let anyone who's drunk or otherwise impaired be your monitor — saving someone from drowning can be a game of seconds, so you don't want anyone with a slowed reaction speed to be your lifeguard.
 On the individual level, a person's swimming ability and the conditions they're swimming in usually determine whether or not a person is at risk for drowning. When dealing with very large numbers of people, however, it's possible to observe certain demographic trends with regards to drowning rates — essentially, certain types of people are more likely to drown than others. Below are just a few different types of people that, statistically, are more prone to drowning than the baseline average rate:Children: Very young children (ages 1-5) are especially susceptible to drowning. In fact, drowning is the leading cause of death under the age of 5.
Men: Men make up more than 80% of all drowning fatalities. It is unclear if this is due to a greater preference for risk-taking behavior, biological abilities, or simply a greater preference for swimming.
Urban poor/minorities: In the United States, certain socioeconomic groups have disproportionately high rates of drowning deaths due to factors like lack of access to swimming pools and lack of water-based recreational activities. For instance, African American children 5-19 drown in swimming pools almost six times more often than whites.
 If a person has a medical condition that may give them decreased motor function or otherwise impair them while they're in the water, this is information that should definitely be told to the water monitor before swimming begins. For instance, conditions like epilepsy can leave someone helpless in the water if they have a seizure, so the water monitor should keep an extra-close eye on these people. In addition, if there is any sort of equipment that's necessary for quick, lifesaving treatment of the condition (for instance, EpiPens for people with severe allergies), you'll want to have this equipment available in the event of a worst-case scenario.
 Drowning often doesn't occur the way it appears in movies — as a loud, violent, chaotic struggle to stay above water. In fact, someone who's in the process of drowning may be unable to get their head above the water long enough to even call for help. Because of this, there usually won't be any sort of warning sounds that a drowning is occurring.A person may even drown without the people next to them knowing that anything is wrong until it's too late. For this reason, it's extremely important for the water monitor not to let their visual attention wander from the swimmers they're supposed to be watching. Know the following warning signs of silent drowning:Stiff, upright body with arms pushing down against the water (not waving or signalling for help)
The inability for the drowning person to speak (they are focusing on breathing)
Periods of intense struggling on the surface followed by submerging underwater with breath held
The inability for the drowning person to keep their mouth above the water consistently

