 A party animal is not at the whims of every person who comes up and asks to do a shot or play a game. The party animal knows that he knows how to party and that he makes the party. Be confident. Even if you're just faking it, confidence attracts attention, so "fake it 'til you make it." Inject your own personality into the party by:


Rounding up groups for games that you want to play
Introducing yourself to new people
Dancing
Mixing up new "cocktails."

, Party animals are not sloppy or too drunk to function, they are in control and having fun at all times. Know your limits and accept them, otherwise you'll tip over from party animal to annoying nuisance in no time. Being a party animal is not about being the drunkest person at the party, or showing off how cool you are to others. It is about being a blast in every situation, helping others loosen up and fun and driving the party energy up.
 Let go of your fears, even if it takes a few drinks to get you to play air guitar on the dance floor, so accept that fact. A party animal isn't the one who stands quietly in the corner; he is the one dancing on the tables, making everyone have more fun. You are in control of how much fun you have at a party, so stop wishing things were more lively and make them lively.Being a party animal is not about thinking and planning, it is about acting. So go dance, ask that girl if you can buy her a drink, play a game, and get a little rowdy.
 Get the whole party on the same level, you party animal. You could be the first one to cut up the dance floor, DJ a "party playlist," or lead a group sing-along to a favorite like "Don't Stop Believing" or "Twist and Shout." Whatever you do, try and get other people involved in your shenanigans.
 Own up to the theme, hit the dance floor with everything you've got, and stay involved with the games you play. You should be willing to step outside of your comfort zone, too, and let yourself live in the moment. As long as you stop from time to time to make sure you're not hurting or endangering anyone, a party animal knows how to spice things up and is willing to be a bit goofy to do it., You don't want to take yourself so seriously that you're not having a fun, but you also don't want to be an annoying, overly idiotic party-goer begging for attention. Remember the old expression and make sure people are laughing "with you, not at you." This should be easy if you just act like yourself and have fun, but never do something at a party just because you think it'll make you look cool -- it will almost always backfire.