 It all comes down to the amount of money, space and time you are willing to invest in your new hobby. Goldfish are surprisingly not the easiest beginner pet that everyone thinks they are! In fact, they require a tank capacity of at least 20 gallons or 75 litres for your first goldfish, plus an additional 10 gallons or 37 litres for each subsequent goldfish added! These measurements are for fancy goldfish; common goldfish require at least 110 litres or 30 gallons in order to sustain a healthy active lifestyle. It really goes to show that these beauties are not meant for bowls after all!;
, Again, this is all up to you, but some would suggest getting smaller decor and fewer of them as it does takeaway a lot of swimming room for your fish. If your fish are slightly on the territorial side, more decorations will make good hiding places.
 Filters are vital as these fish are extremely messy and huge waste producers. Also people will often overfeed these fish too. It's best to get a filter that turns the water 4-5 times every hour (this information will be on the filter box; if you're still unsure consult a fish retailer as it is better to be safe than sorry). Don't ever change the filter media, as the helpful chemical eating bacteria live here.
 Cycling is a huge step many people miss. It is a complex and fascinating biological system that can take a while to process but is vital to fish keeping. You can purchase bacteria to give your filter the boost it needs to get the filtration going. Also never set up a tank without  a water conditioner as it removes chlorine which is deadly to fish. See How to Do a Fishless Cycle for more information on this.
 When you see that nitrite and ammonia are at 0 and that nitrate is under 15, you can then pick out your first fish. Make sure your tank is at room temperature at 65-75 degrees F.
 Picking fish is important because you have to make sure that the fish are healthy. Check their scales, fins and gills and compare to fish in surrounding tanks. If there is any white spots or illness or if you are unsure ask a member of staff. A healthy fish should also interact with your finger against the glass, so avoid fish that just sulk at the corners. Also, do your research on certain fish you would want to see if their species is right for your tank.
 Getting your fish acclimated to their environment is a very important step people often rush. Start off with one or two fish until your tank is within the stocking guidelines. Firstly, float the transport bag that your fish retailer will have put your fish into in the tank for 10-15 minutes. Next open the bag and add in a cup of tank water. Wait an additional 5-10 minutes. Now gently net your fish into their new home.
 Only use enough fish food that they can eat within a minute. Overfeeding them can lead to serious problems with the tank and your fish. Also, perform weekly water changes of about 10%-25% to keep the tank clean. Make sure the new water has been dechlorinated.

