 Let your guard down, and share something about yourself that is real. Showing that you are willing to be vulnerable is a great way to bond with someone. With luck, they will reciprocate by sharing something personal with you. This will help deepen your friendship.When you take a risk and trust someone, they will often surprise you.
Not everyone will respond the way you want. Some people just won't get you, which can be very disappointing. But this is the way you find out whether an acquaintance has the makings of a true friend.;
, It's not necessary to fake being happy all the time, but when you don't know someone very well you should try to keep things light and positive. Try to see the humor in every situation and your would-be friend may enjoy being around you more.If you like to make people laugh, don't be afraid to make jokes. A sense of humor is an attractive quality!
Just be sure you're not making jokes about other people, which always comes across as meaner than you intended it to be.
 Point out things you both genuinely like – the other person may not realize that you have so much in common. It's okay to open with something like, “I heard you like 90s music...so do I. What's your favorite band?”


Don't pretend to like certain things just because your acquaintance does. This always comes across as fake, and it's a big turnoff to most people.
 The best way to deepen any relationship is to create memories together. Be inventive, and come up with a way to spend more quality time with your soon-to-be friend. As long as the activity is something you are genuinely interested in, this will be perfectly natural.

If your new friend belongs to a book club, chess club, or theater group, see if you can join.
If he or she participates in charity work, volunteer your time and help out.
 Your acquaintance may invite you to do something, but you will also have to take the initiative to invite him or her to do some things as well. Consider your acquaintance’s likes and dislikes to find something that he or she would really enjoy.


If one of your acquaintance's favorite bands is coming to town, buy tickets and invite him or her to go with you. He or she will probably be thrilled. If he or she can't go for some reason, you can always find someone else to take the other ticket.If you invite the person to go see a movie, have a specific movie in mind that you think the person might like to see based on his or her interests. This shows you've been paying attention to what the person likes.Watch for other possible opportunities to spend time with the person. Pay attention to upcoming events, especially things your acquaintance has expressed interest in. See if he or she wants to go with you to a game, a gallery opening, a flea market, or a big sale.
 Is there something that you and this person would both like to learn more about? Taking a class together is a great way to bond with your acquaintance and become friends. Try checking local event listings or your local community college to get some ideas about what classes are available.


For example, you and your acquaintance might enjoy learning a new style of dance, taking a pottery class, or learning to play the ukulele., If there is something that you and an acquaintance enjoy doing together – like seeing a movie, or going bowling – try to get into the habit of getting together on a regular basis. Go bowling on the first Saturday of the month, or see a new movie every weekend. People love rituals, and the predictability factor may make you feel that you are closer friends.
 One of the most unattractive qualities in a person is being stingy with your time, money, or emotions. Offer to help an acquaintance if you know he or she needs something – don't wait and force the other person to ask for help. Think about the people around you, and try to find ways to make their lives a little better. Small, sweet gestures often take people by surprise, and are always well received.

If you are heading to the vending machines, ask the people you are with if you can get them anything.
If you see that an acquaintance is struggling in a class that you take together, see if he or she would like to study with you sometime. Don't act like you're smarter than this person are; just say that you could use a study-buddy.

