 Hunting dogs and their owners need to have a special bond that is built on mutual trust and respect. In the beginning, you’ll need to start building this bond by spending time with your dog. Pet your pup to make it happy. Show your dog some affection by petting it and spending time with it. Let the dog know it is your companion.Take the dog with you places and put a bed for it in your bedroom to sleep in at night.;
, Establish a regular feeding routine for your dog. If your dog learns to rely on you for its meals, it will trust you in other aspects of its life as well. This means that your dog will listen to you more effectively and follow commands, which is a very important skill for hunting dogs to learn.Feed your dog once in the morning and once in the evening, following the advice of your veterinarian.
 Your dog needs plenty of exercise, especially if you want it to develop into a good hunting dog. Strengthen your bond with your dog by taking it for walks. This will let the two of you spend more time together while also teaching your dog to follow commands – like walking on a leash and following your lead. These skills will be important in the field, so you need to help your hunting dog master them early on.Most hunting dogs need about 30 minutes of exercise every day, depending on the breed.
 Let your dog familiarize itself with the great outdoors by taking it outside on short excursions. Let it smell the foliage and run around off leash (if you can allow your dog to safely run off leash). This will help your dog get used to being outside like it will be when you take it on hunting trips later.Try to take your dog specifically to places you intend to hunt so it can get accustomed to the landscape. This will help your dog be less distracted once you actually take it hunting.
 When you take a dog hunting, your dog may have to run through some creeks, rivers, or streams – or even swim out into a lake. To help your dog feel comfortable with this, you should encourage it to encounter water from an early age. Teach your dog to swim by taking it to places you can help it learn to swim. Try it at a swimming pool.Don’t push your dog too hard at first. You may need to pick it up and carry it across the water the first few times. Let your dog go at the pace it wants.
 Help your dog learn how to go off-leash by training it, teaching it to come, teaching it to stay, and by using positive reinforcement.You’ll need your dog to be trained to go off-leash if you want it to work for you as a hunting dog.
 Gather a really drippy treat, like a small slab of raw meat, lunchmeat, or cheese dipped in water. Do not dip meat in water as this will dilute the smell. Let the dog smell the treat and figure out that it wants to eat it.


Eventually, you’ll be able to transition to using dry treats. But you’ll probably need to start off with wet treats to entice the dog even more., Have someone hold the pup at the far end of your lawn or a large field. Put a long string on the drippy treat. Standing next to the person, let the dog smell the treat. Drag the treat along the ground – around obstacles and under bushes or crops. Make sure the dog can still smell the treat, but have the person holding the leash keeping the dog put.Be careful not to let the dog catch the treat yet; you want to make your dog practice following the scent.
 Leave the treat on the ground at the end of the trail, but make sure you remove the string. Come back to the dog and unleash it. Let your dog follow the scent trail until it finds the treat.Once the dog finds the treat, reward and praise it accordingly.
 Do this in many short sessions, gradually moving to dry treats as the dog gets better. Frequency is more important than length of the training, as the dog will soon see the pattern and begin to expect, then know, what to do next.Focus on short, but frequent, training sessions that will help your dog learn how to react and what you expect from it.
 When your pup is very young, try to make as much noise around it as possible. Start slow so as not to scare your pup and build your way up to louder noises. You want your dog to grow up being accustomed to a variety of loud noises, voices, and sounds.Once you are ready to start training your dog in the field, start bring the gun with you on walks. Then move forward to firing some shots while the dog is far away in the field looking for birds.
Continue this practice while you keep getting closer and closer to the dog.
Begin with a quieter handgun (like a .22 pistol) and then work your way up to a louder shotgun.
Make sure your dog sees your guns on a regular basis before you start training it for hunting. You don’t want the first association the dog has with the gun to be the loud noise it makes.
 To start the transition from treats to animals, you’ll need to spend some time practicing with your dog. Hide some birds in the open field and let your dog track them on its own. Allow your dog to bite and play with the bird the first few times so that it gets used to the sensation of the bird in its mouth.Once your dog has started getting used to the procedure, you can incorporate some gun shots in to the tracking routines so that your dog begins to associate the sound of the gun with the hunt for the birds (or other animals).
 One of the most important commands to teach a hunting dog is the “hold” command. This means that the dog should hold the prey in its mouth until you come to physically remove it.Begin teaching your dog while it is right next to you. Tell your dog to “hold” until you are satisfied. Keep moving farther and farther away each time you practice. The dog should only stop holding when you have reached its location and have taken the prey out of its mouth yourself.
Once he has mastered this command, you can switch to “release” which will indicate to your dog that you want it to drop the prey out of its mouth.
Be sure to use positive reinforcement while teaching this command.

