 This basic method provides you with several decorating options, including:

Simple polka dots. Use your bobby pin to evenly disperse dots over one or multiple nails. For extra color, use different colors for different dots, making sure to have a separate bobby pin for each color.
Flowers. Drop five small dots of the same color in the middle of your nail, making a circle with one dot in the middle. While the polish is still wet, use a toothpick or small decorating brush to pull the outer dots toward the side of your nail. This will form the petals.Paw prints. Use the bobby pin to make either one or two larger dots (depending on if you want one or two prints) on your nail. Then use the toothpick to place three smaller dots over each larger one.
 Once your base color is completely dry, apply a piece of tape to your nail so that you can easily add a second color to the nail.

The easiest blocking pattern to do is a simple diagonal. Place the tape so that your nail is separated into two triangles, and then paint two coats of your second color on the untaped half. Allow time for each coat to dry, then add a top coat.
You can also create a more unique effect by cutting the tape with special scissors that create a line of zigzags on the edge of the tape. Place the tape either at the base of your nail, or across the diagonal.
 Apply two or three coats of a light-colored base coat, such as pale blue or turquoise. Once these coats are completely dry, paint your crumpled plastic wrap with gold polish, and then quickly sponge the polish onto your nail with the plastic wrap., Permanent markers, such as Sharpies, come in many different colors, including silver and gold. These markers are much easier to control than polish brushes, allowing you to draw a variety of dots, lines, zigzags, or even hearts on top of your base coat. You can also experiment with different size marker tips.If you make a mistake with a Sharpie, the design can be easily removed with rubbing alcohol, a material that won’t strip your base coat. Once you’ve got a design you love, add a top coat for full protection.
 These stickers will allow you to leave the base of your nail unpainted. The circular shape of the sticker placed at the bottom of your nail results in a reverse french manicure or half-moon effect.

Place the sticker at the bottom of your unpainted nail. Then, paint two coats of your chosen color, removing the sticker once the second coat has set for a few minutes. Use a Q-tip dipped in nail polish remover for any necessary touchups., After your base coat is dry, cut out a square of the loofa and place it over your nail. Keep the loofa in place by putting small squares of tape on the edges. With an old makeup sponge, dab a second color over your nail and the square of loofa, which will act as the perfect stencil.