 Your doctor can use this information to better understand your medical history and develop a treatment plan for you.


In addition to a list of symptoms, get information about your family’s medical history. Spondylosis may be inherited, so if others in your family have a history of spondylosis or other back troubles, your doctor might use this to make a diagnosis.
 However, even if you do not have spondylosis, it is important to get these conditions checked out by a medical professional, since they could indicate another, equally serious condition.


Many people with spondylosis experience no symptoms at all. It is important to get regular health checkups, especially after the age of 60, when most people show some signs of spondylosis in x-rays and medical examinations.Let your doctor know of any medications you’re taking as well.
 The doctor will ask you to simply extend your neck and laterally flex and rotate it to the side. This will show your doctor if there is bulging in your neck, or what kind of pain response you get when performing this simple movement.
 The Hoffman reflex is a reflex response test. Doctors perform the test to identify a number of illnesses, including multiple sclerosis, spondylosis, and ALS.The Hoffman reflex is tested by pulling your fingers into a tight fist, then flicking the thumb, middle, and index finger.


Your doctor will place your hand at rest and then stabilize it between his index and middle fingers.
Then he will pinch or flick your middle or ring finger, and watch for contraction of your index finger and thumb.
If your reflexes show an incomplete contraction, it may indicate spondylosis.
 A neck x-ray can detect bone spurs, disc injuries, fractures, osteoporosis, and wear on the spine, all of which are indicative of spondylosis.


Neck x-rays can also identify other changes that occur in the spine, and can rule out other conditions that are similar to spondylosis.
This test is done in the hospital’s radiology department by a radiologist.
A neck x-ray can help evaluate neck injuries, numbness and pain.
 In this test, magnetic fields and radio waves produce detailed cross-sectional image of the bone and tissues. An MRI or CT scan is usually indicated if there is no improvement with medications, education, and physical therapy after a number of weeks or if there is a sudden increase in pain or other symptoms.


MRIs can identify areas where nerves may be pinched.
Don't eat for 4 hours before the MRI scan.
Remove metal objects from your body, because MRI scanners produce strong magnetic fields.
An MRI scanner looks like a short cylinder that is open at both ends.
You will enter the scanner either head first or feet first. Sometimes a frame is placed over your body to pick up signals sent out by the body to create a better quality image.
Be sure to be still during the scan to produce a quality image.
 A CT scan uses x-rays from multiple directions in order to produce a cross-sectional view of the neck. These scans are used to better understand the condition of your bones.


Before a CT scan, you must remove all your jewelry and wear a hospital gown.
The CT scan is done while you are lying down on a table which moves back and forth while the camera takes a picture.
It is important that you remain still during the procedure to produce a good picture.
 When combined with a CT scan or x-ray imaging, doctors can track the movement of the dye to better understand the condition of your spine.


Areas where the spine is injured will appear in the myelogram.
 Nerve function tests can help determine if nerve signals are travelling properly to the muscles. There are two nerve function tests that could help diagnose spondylosis:An electromyogram (EMG) is a diagnostic test that measures the electrical activity of the nerves while transmitting messages to the muscles.
This test is done both when the muscles are contracting and when they are at rest. EMGs can assess the function of the muscles and the nerves.
Another type of nerve function test is the nerve conduction study. This test is done by attaching electrodes to the skin above your nerves. A small amount of electricity is passed through the nerve to measure the strength and speed of nerve signals.
 There are a variety of medications available to help you manage spondylosis. These drugs can help you relieve pain and reduce inflammation in your back and neck.Anti-seizure medications like gabapentin and pregabalin can help reduce your pain.
Corticosteroids like prednisone have also been shown to relieve acute pain, and they are usually given for a short period of time due to the side effects. Oral steroids are typical, but in extreme cases your doctor might recommend injection steroids.
Muscle relaxants like cyclobenzaprine and methocarbamol might reduce muscle spasms in your back.
Over-the-counter medicine like ibuprofen are also useful for pain management.

