 Alternatively, you can access the Camera from the Control Center, which can be opened by swiping up from the bottom of the iPad screen. You can open the Control Center and access the camera when the iPad screen is locked.;
, Your display will show what the camera sees. You can move your iPad around to get the perfect image in your frame. The iPad will attempt to automatically focus on faces.


You can set a lock on the exposure by pressing and holding the screen until the square turns orange. The message "AE Lock" will appear at the top of the image, indicating the the camera's exposure settings have been locked.
You can turn on the grid overlay to make it easier to frame your shots. To do so, return to your Home screen, and tap Settings → Photos & Camera → Grid.
 By default, your camera is zoomed all the way out. You can zoom in by spreading two fingers apart on the screen. This will bring up the zoom slider at the bottom of the screen, which you can use for more fine-tuned control.


The iPad 2 camera does not zoom particularly well, and you may notice the image getting blurry if you zoom in too much.
 Your iPad 2 comes with two cameras: one on the back and one facing front. Tap the "camera" icon in the upper-right corner of the screen to switch between the front- and rear-facing cameras. The front camera is great for selfies, because you can see yourself when you take the picture.
 In the bottom right corner of the screen, you will see three words: "Video", "Photo", and "Square". Ensure that "Photo" is selected by swiping the list. Press the large, white Circle icon to take the picture.


If you want to take a square photo instead of a rectangular one, select the "Square" option.
Keep the iPad steady while taking your picture. The camera takes a moment to process the picture, and moving the iPad can lead to a blurry shot.
 Swipe the list in the corner to select "Video". The white Circle icon will change to red and a timer will appear above it. Press the red button to begin recording. When you are finished recording, press the red button again, which has changed into a square.


If you're planning on sharing your video, try to keep it under 30 seconds. Long videos are very large and will take a long time to upload and download.
Avoid quick movements while recording video. The iPad does not record at a very high quality, and too much motion can make the video hard-to-watch and blurry.
 Once you have taken a photo or video, it will appear in the small preview box in the lower-right corner. Tap the box to open the photo or video in your Camera Roll. You can share it from here by tapping the Share button (a box with the arrow coming out of the top) in the lower-left corner.


You can delete your photo or video by tapping the trash can icon in the lower-right corner.
 Your photos and videos are saved to your Camera Roll, which can be accessed at any time by opening the Photos app. You can browse through your images sorted by date, and create albums to organize them.
 FaceTime is a video chat program that uses your iPad cameras to allow you to see the person you're talking to. As long as both parties have FaceTime and an Internet connection, you can voice chat anywhere in the world.


If you haven't yet, you will need to log in with your Apple ID.
 You will need to have the other person in your iCloud contacts list, which means knowing their Apple ID. If you chat with someone using iMessage, chances are you can FaceTime with them as well.
 After connecting with the other person, your FaceTime chat will begin. The person you are calling will be shown on your screen, with a smaller box showing what your camera is recording. By default, FaceTime will start by using the image from your front-facing camera.
 If you want to show the other person something, or want to let other people in the room say "hi," you can switch to the rear camera by tapping the Camera icon on the left side of the row of icons along the bottom. Tap the button again to switch back to the front camera.
 You can do this from your Photos app or from the preview square in the Camera app.
 This is located in the upper-right corner. This will open the image editing options.
 This is located along the bottom of the image, and has an icon of an eye with a line through it.
 The iPad will only correct the red eye if it detects it. Tapping on other parts of the image will have no effect. If you aren't happy with the changes, tap the eye again to undo it.
 If you are happy with the changes to the red eyes, tap the "Apply" button in the upper-right corner of the screen.


If you can't get the red eye to go away effectively, you may need to use a more powerful image editing program.
 There are dozens of apps that allow you to create all kinds of crazy or cool effects with your camera. You can even download apps that let you take panoramic or 360° photos.
 You may have to scroll down a little to find it.
 This will open the store page for all the photography and video-related apps. You'll be able to find camera apps, image editors, video mixers, and more.
 There are a variety of featured and new apps that will be displayed on the Photo & Video page. Tap the "See All" link to see a list of all the recent, featured, and top photo apps. It can be a little more difficult to finder older, more obscure apps. These will have to be searched for by name.

