 Talk to him/her about your idea of a new uniform before you go ahead and do anything! You could get into serious trouble for doing something without their approval. Make an appointment and bring your design portfolio if you already have one. Talk to them about the kind of style you like and ask them what style they like and decide on both. Also, find a colour scheme that you both like.;
, If you can't afford it, maybe ask for a sketchbook for your birthday or Christmas present. Use your portfolio like a scrapbook diary for your inspiration and ideas - drawing up design pages, dress patterns, rough sketches, magazine cutouts, collages, photos...anything.
 Vintage clothing is any clothing that resembles the 1920s - 1960s time period. For example, you choose the 1950s. Take careful note of the particular kind of style, popular fabrics and the trends. Keep in mind that the fashion style depends on the country - American 1950s was very different compared to French 1950s. Scribble down any other information of what was considered fashionable in that time period - and it's a smart idea to do some rough sketches.
 Don't forget to compare them with the current uniform. If you're lucky, you may even get to see real samples of the old uniform...When you do, scribble down the colors, so you have some inspiration.
 Don't forget to bring a notebook and a pen so you can write down the fabric used, sewing technique - see how you can reference it to your fashionable time period. Draw the uniform and annotate it. Make sure your annotations are meaningful.
 Alternatively, copy a still life object. For example, you choose a flower. Draw that flower in a variety of different ways. Do a couple of pencil studies and don't forget to do some colour studies too. And then after that, draw a stylized version of that object.
 Look at the different fabrics. Do you want the fabric to be patterned, tie-dyed or a solid block of colour? Touch it. Do you like the feel? Take note of the cost. Is it expensive? Will it be a crisp white linen? Cotton? Polyester? Rayon? What colour will it be? White? Red? Green? Blue? Navy?

, Be as creative as you like - but keep within that colour scheme that you and your principal decided on. Fill up the entire page. The pages should have a 1950s flavour about them or a sense of whatever time period you have researched.
 If you can, use an artist's colour wheel, as it will really help you in working out what colours go well together.
 Make sure each annotation is meaningful - ask yourself questions. Does it enhance the sense of style - yes or no? Does it match the time period? Does it have line? Have you used a good colour range? What motifs are you using? Where are you going to put the motifs? What silhouette does it have? Which body shape does it best fit?

,, If you are terrible at sewing with a machine, either hire a sewing machine (if you can afford it)and teach yourself how to use it. Or, borrow one from someone who knows how to sew - and get them to teach you how to use it. Know how to set it up, know the different settings, types of stitches.
 Yes, I said sew it! Many fashion designers do this, believe it or not. Make adjustments if you need to.
 But if they don't like your uniform, keep drawing new designs and keep sewing doll-sized uniform replicas until they are satisfied.
 Send the word around school.
