 You might find yourself feeling sad, depressed, anxious, exhilarated, and guilty...all within the same afternoon. These feelings might be intense and uncomfortable, but they’re all a normal part of the sadness felt after a separation.Remember, there’s no right way to feel during a separation.
It can help to remember that these feelings, while difficult, will pass.
 Recognize that surviving a separation isn’t an easy matter, no matter how necessary the separation might be. If this is a long-term relationship, the two of you will have built a large portion of your lives around one another. Don’t feel like you have to rush through the healing process.Each person heals at his own pace. There’s not a set timeline within which you should be “better” or “fixed.”
You might be helped by talking with a counselor or professional at any point along the healing process.
 Sadness is a natural stage of grief, and it’s different from clinical depression. Allowing yourself to cry when you need to, and to talk about your feelings with trusted people, will help you through the separation.You might feel temporarily immobilized, as if stunned, by sadness during the initial stages of a separation. Trust that this will pass in time.
Feelings like resentments, anger, and blame will rapidly drain your energy and attention. Rather than try to suppress these feelings, notice that they’re present, and try to recognize that they’re usually a form of fear.
Watch for clinical signs of depression, such as inability to leave bed, crying for long hours of the day, sleeping too much or too little, and no improvement in your mood after several weeks of time. If you think you might be becoming depressed, talk to a professional or counselor.
 Talk to them about what you’re going through if you can. Talking with others can help you feel better, and you’re likely to feel less alone once you’ve shared your experience. You may find that others have had similar experiences, and you can learn from their hard times.While talking with your friends is important, try to avoid getting “stuck” in patterns of sadness where you talk incessantly about your unhappiness. If you find yourself in this situation, you may benefit from talking to a counselor or a professional.
Sometimes spending time with a friend doesn’t mean talking. You’ll likely feel better after doing any activity together with someone you trust.
Taking a walk with a friend, or seeing a movie, can help you feel more confident in yourself regardless of whether or not you have intense conversation.
 Getting involved with the attractive man down the hall might seem like a good way to cheer yourself up, but chances are it will only make your pain worse. Spending time with friends you already know and trust is a better way to practice self-compassion.If you have children, realize that a re-marriage can be as disruptive in their lives as divorce.
Finding yourself in the arms of another person won’t mean you can’t renew your relationship with your separated partner, but it won’t make it easier.

