 Engaging your pet's mind and body in an activity that it enjoys can help take its mind off of its loss. Try positive training, a method rich with positive reinforcement, to keep your pet focused on an activity other than grieving.Work on teaching your pet a new trick. If you haven't trained your pet at all, start with basic commands like "sit" and "come." If your pet already knows the basics, try more difficult commands like "jump" or "roll over."
Make sure to use positive reinforcement for good behavior. This can include providing physical attention like petting and scratching, as well as giving your pet a treat when it performs a behavior correctly.
Try not to express anger when your pet does not perform a behavior correctly. Simply do not offer them reinforcement. If you have trouble providing a proper training environment yourself, seek help from a professional trainer.;
, Another way to keep your pet's mind off their grief is to engage them in an activity they already love. Many dogs enjoy walks, playing with their toys, or trips to the dog park, while pets like birds might enjoy a new toy in their cage.Try to keep your distractions as consistent as possible. This gives your pet a sense of normalcy. Walk your pet at the same times each day, or allow it space out of its cage or enclosure at regular intervals.
If your pet likes being around other people, invite friends or family over a couple days a week to play.
 Your animal will benefit greatly during a time of rough transition from a routine it knows it can count on. Help your pet by setting aside time each day to care for it and provide for its needs.Try to keep feeding and walks on a schedule, but make time for things like attention, too. For example, you could plan 15 minutes every morning and 30 minutes every evening to simply sit with your pet and pet or scratch them, play with them, or allow them to perch.
Your routine may vary some depending upon your personal schedule. This is normal. Just try to keep as many of the same elements in your daily routine as possible to help give your pet things to look forward to each day.

