 Place 3 ¾ cups (450 g) of flour and 1 teaspoon of fine sea salt in a food processor. Dice 30 tablespoons (425 g) of chilled butter and cover the food processor. Blitz the dough ingredients until the mixture becomes crumbly. Add one tablespoon of water at a time and pulse the mixture until it starts come together. You'll need about 6 to 8 tablespoons of ice water.Since there's so much butter in this pastry dough, it's recommended that you use a food processor. This will make it easier to mix together than cutting in the butter by hand.;
, Remove the dough from the food processor and divide it into two balls of different sizes. One ball should be about 2/3 of the dough and the other ball should be the remaining 1/3 of the dough. Flatten each ball into a disk about 1-inch thick and wrap them tightly in plastic wrap. Refrigerate the dough for at least 1 hour.You can chill the dough for up to 2 days before you're ready to roll out the slab pie.
 Sprinkle your work surface with flour and roll out the larger disk of pastry dough. Roll it into a 12x16-inch rectangle while the smaller ball of dough chills. Place the rolled pastry to a 9x13-inch baking dish and press the dough so it comes up the sides of the pan. Crimp the top edges of the pastry so they look decorative.Refrigerate the pastry-lined pan while you make the filling and roll out the top pastry pieces.
 Roll out the smaller ball of pastry dough on your work surface. Roll it to a rectangle that's 10x13-inches in size. Use a cookie cutter in any shape to cut out the dough into shapes. You can reroll the pastry dough and cut out more shapes until you run out of dough. Place the cutouts on a baking sheet and refrigerate them.You can use apple, leaf, heart, snowflake, or pumpkin cookie cutters.
 Turn the oven on to 425 degrees F (218 C). Peel, core, and slice 6 ¾ pounds (3 kg) of apples into 1/4-inch slices. Place the apples in a large mixing bowl along with the filling ingredients and stir them till they're combined. Let the mixture sit 10 minutes. For the filling, you'll need to add:1 ½ cups (300 g) of packed brown sugar
¾ cup(255 g) of maple syrup
1 cup (150 g) of dried cranberries
6 tablespoons (75 g) of instant tapioca
3 tablespoons of dark rum
1 ½ teaspoons of finely grated lemon zest
2 tablespoons of lemon juice
1 tablespoon of grated fresh ginger
1 ¼ teaspoons of fine sea salt
2 ¼ teaspoons of ground cinnamon
¾ teaspoon of grated nutmeg

, Spread the filling onto the pastry in the bottom of the baking pan. Cut 2 tablespoons (28 g) of butter into small pieces and scatter it over the filling. Lay the pastry dough cutouts over the apple filling. The pieces should overlap to cover the filling. Brush the cutouts with the egg wash and sprinkle the top of the pie with 1 1/2 tablespoons (20 g) of coarse sugar.To make the egg wash, simply beat 1 egg with 1 tablespoon of heavy cream in a small bowl.
 If you'd rather use a quick streusel crumble instead of a pastry to top the slab pie, mix up a few ingredients. Combine 3/4 cup (60 g) of rolled oats, 3 tablespoons of flour, 7 tablespoons (87 g) of packed brown sugar and 1 big pinch of salt in a mixing bowl. Mix in 6 tablespoons (85 g) of unsalted butter, cold and cut into 1/4 inch pieces. Combine the mixture until it's coarse and crumbly like sand. Sprinkle it over the top of the slab pie.You could also add chopped toasted nuts for extra crunch. You might use chopped almonds, pecans, or walnuts.
 Place the pie on a baking sheet and set it in the oven. Bake the pie for 20 minutes. Turn down the oven temperature to 375 degrees F (190 C) and bake the pie for another 40 to 60 minutes. The pastry should become golden brown and the filling will bubble up before you remove it from the oven. Cool the pie completely before you cut and serve it.Placing the pie on the baking sheet will keep the filling from bubbling up and onto the floor of the oven, where it could burn.

