 As part of taking control of your emotional responses, when you feel you are about to cry, tell yourself that you can't cry now, but you will allow yourself to cry later. Take a deep breath and focus on de-escalating the emotions that are causing you to tear up. While this may be difficult at first, cognitively recognizing your emotions and conditioning your body to respond in appropriate ways at appropriate times is a long-term solution to crying at inconvenient times.


Note that it is never a good idea to put off crying all together, as suppression can create lasting emotional damage and exacerbate the symptoms of anxiety and depression. Always remember to create opportunities to express your emotions., Meditation is an ages old way to reduce stress, combat depression, and relieve anxiety. It doesn't take finding a yogi to benefit from meditation, either. Simply find a quiet spot, close your eyes and focus on your breathing, taking long, deep breaths and exhaling in a slow, measured fashion. You'll notice your negative feelings melting away almost immediately., Find something other than negative emotions to focus on. Think about something that makes you happy or makes you laugh. Watch funny animal videos on the internet. You can also try to focus on something you are looking forward to. If you are a problem-solver, work math equations or take on a small project. If these don't seem to work, mentally imagine a calming, restful place. Let your mind focus on the details of that place that bring you happiness. This will coerce your brain to feel an emotion other than sadness, anger, or fear.
 Music has varied benefits when it comes to managing stress. Soothing music can calm us down, while listening to music with empathetic lyrics can empower and reassure us. Choose what is right for you and banish tears with a well-crafted playlist., Focus on your present self, the way food tastes, how the breeze feels on your skin, the way the fabric of your clothing feels when you move. When you focus on the present and really pay attention to your senses, it can relieve mental stress and help you see that the problem you are facing isn't quite so imposing., We often cry because we feel overwhelmed by what we see as wrong with our life or because of problems that we face. Take a deep breath and consider that the problem you are facing is less severe, relative to other problems you could be facing or have faced in the past. Remind yourself of the good things you have to be thankful for. Keep a journal to remind yourself of your blessings and to help you through particularly trying times.