 Buy pre-made cinnamon rolls from your local grocery store. Cut each roll in half, then shape the halves into heart shapes by hand. Bake these on a baking sheet according to their package instructions, then remove them from the oven. Allow the cinnamon rolls to cool, and enjoy.

Beyond the heart shape, you can increase the Valentine’s Day appeal of this treat by adding a layer of pink frosting on top of each baked roll.
Allow your rolls to cool completely before frosting them. While they’re still hot, the frosting will melt, which could ruin your design.
Add edible toppers, like colorful sprinkles, heart shaped candies, and so on, to your cinnamon rolls to decorate them.;
, Purchase graham crackers, pink buttercream frosting, and Valentine’s themed sprinkles. Break the crackers into squares. Use the pink frosting to form the filling between two cracker pieces.

Dust the exposed frosting on the sides of your graham cracker sandwich with sprinkles to finish off the decorations for this treat., Gather pretzel rods, candy coating (like Candiquik), parchment paper, and Valentine’s themed sprinkles. Pink and white chocolate would work well for the candy coating. Melt your candy coating according to its directions. Lay out parchment paper on a flat surface. Then:

Dip your pretzel rods into the candy coating to cover them half in chocolate.
Allow excess chocolate to drip off the pretzel, then dust sprinkles on it.
Lay pretzels on wax paper for roughly 30 minutes to dry and enjoy., Gather together popped popcorn, white chocolate bark, sprinkles, and conversation hearts. Layer a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Melt the chocolate bark in a microwave by heating and stirring it every 30 seconds until it is creamy. Then:

Spread your popcorn in an even layer on the baking sheet.
Drizzle your melted chocolate over the popcorn. Toss it to distribute the chocolate evenly.
Before the chocolate hardens, add sprinkles and hearts to the popcorn.
Toss the popcorn one last time to distribute the sprinkles and hearts. Allow everything to cool and enjoy your sweet and salty treat.