 Open your packet of frozen corn and pour it into a large microwave-safe bowl. If you like, you can break up any clumps of frozen-together kernels to ensure the corn cooks more evenly, but this is not required.
 At this point, you can add a small amount of water to the bowl if you would like your corn slightly softer when it's done. The extra water will boil and steam the corn as it cooks, breaking it down a little more than it would from ordinary cooking and giving it a softer texture.


You may add as much or as little water as you want — you can always drain excess water after you're done if you add too much. A good general rule is to use about two tablespoons of water for every pound (16 ounces) of frozen corn you use., Set your microwave to "HIGH" or your preferred cooking setting and let the corn heat for about four or five minutes. Every minute or two, pause the microwave and stir the corn to ensure even heating.



Note: These directions assume you're using about one pound (16 ounces) of frozen corn. If you're using significantly less, you may want to shorten this cooking period to about two or three minutes to ensure your corn does not burn or dry out., After the first cooking period, check your corn. Depending on how much corn you used and the strength of your microwave, it may or may not be evenly-heated at this point. If you detect cold spots, stir the corn and return it to the microwave to cook in two-minute intervals. Repeat this pattern until your corn is all the way cooked.
 When your corn has heated evenly and no icy spots remain, it's ready to eat! At this point, you can add whatever seasonings you want and enjoy.


For one pound of corn, about a tablespoon and a half of butter and salt and pepper to taste will give an excellent "classic" savory flavor.
There may be some excess water at the bottom of your corn from the melted ice when you finish microwaving. If this is the case, you can carefully pour it into the sink (taking care to avoid touching it, as it will likely be hot) or toss the corn in a strainer to remove it.
