 Your first step to being your own mentor is to take a self-inventory. In order to put yourself in the right frame of mind for mentoring, you need to take an honest look at yourself. Take some time to reflect on your habits. Track the ways you spend your days.Take notes. Jot down how much time you spend each day on work, socializing, exercise, etc.
Keep track of your activities for a week or two. At the end of that period, evaluate how you spend your time
Consider which habits are good, and which you should get rid of. For example, if you see that you are spending hours each day on social media, consider making a change to that part of your routine.
You can also make a list of what your perceive to be your strengths and your weaknesses.;
, When you mentor yourself, you need to be a major part of your own support system. Try to speak positively towards yourself. Build your self-esteem from within.Try a daily affirmation. Each morning, you could say something like, "Today, you will find a new way to be successful."
Leave yourself notes. Place encouraging sentiments posted around your home and inside your desk at work. You could also try sending yourself a positive e-mail.
Avoid negativity. When you have a set-back, don't berate yourself.
 A good mentor often chooses to focus on the positive. As your own mentor, you can adopt this mental habit, too. Take time to be grateful for the good things in your life. They can be personal or professional.Try keeping a gratitude journal. Each day, write down things that you are grateful for. Study the patterns of how you express gratitude.
 Mentoring yourself is all about finding ways to make positive changes in your life. Whether you are looking for personal or professional growth, expanding your network can help. Meeting new people is a great way to learn new skills and find out about new opportunities.Go to a networking event. If you are trying to enhance your career or break into a new field, this is a great way to go about it.
Before you go, remember to give yourself a pep talk. Tell yourself that you will act confident and outgoing.
 A good mentor will encourage you to avoid being around people who have a negative impact on you. As your own mentor, it is up to you to figure out if you need to limit contact with certain people. Take some time to evaluate those relationships that might not be positive.For example, maybe you have a co-worker who constantly complains about the corporate culture. That's probably not a good person to spend a lot of time with if you are working on advancing your career at that company.
Find someone new to sit with at lunch. That negativity is not what you need to help motivate you to make positive changes.

