 If you want a beard yet still need to keep a tidy appearance, only start trimming after a couple months.


This is subjective due to the simple fact that all men’s hair grows at different paces. However, a few months of growth should give enough thickness to the hair that it will be able to keep your face and neck insulated during harsh winter temperatures.;
, This step takes patience, as there may be an itchy phase as your beard hairs grow out longer and your skin gets dry.This usually occurs during the first week or two of growing.


There is no proven way to make facial hair grow faster. Do not believe the myth that shaving more often makes a beard grow in quicker and thicker.A beard sometimes doesn’t always fill in the way you want it to. Genetics decide the beard so if your dad can’t grow one, you’ll probably have trouble as well.
 Leave extra space below the jaw, giving a nice ending to the beard that’s pleasing to the eye every way you turn your head.


A common mistake new “beardsmen” make is trimming too high up on their jaw. It makes some men appear to have “double chins” because the beard doesn’t cover below the jaw line.
This will give the beard a more natural look as opposed to sharp-edged.
 Drop some beard wash in your hands and rub them together. Slowly rub the beard and make sure all hairs have been covered. Rinse the beard out with warm water. Dry the beard by patting it with a towel.


The best place to wash your beard is in the shower, although it can also be done at the bathroom sink.
Do not use shampoo. The hairs on your head are different from the hairs on your face. The chemicals in regular shampoos can damage these hairs and ruin the “body” of the beard. Use beard wash instead.
Be gentle with the towel otherwise hairs may be pulled out.
 After the beard is dried off, rub the jojoba oil in your hands and apply slowly to the beard, running your hands through each strand of hair.


All-natural jojoba oil is useful for giving the beard some handling while styling it after it’s washed.
This will also add some playfulness to the beard.
 Grab your fine-tooth comb, and comb your facial hair down and out. Make sure to go slow so no hairs get pulled out. You can form the shape of your beard after you have combed it.
 While the beard is completely dry, slowly pull outward with the comb so all hairs are loose. Pull downward once on all sides of the beard, allowing for the natural shape of the beard. This will expose all the extra scraggly hairs that do not fit into the beard. Take the scissors and slowly chop away at each individual hair until it corresponds with the shape of the beard.


After the few months of initial growth, trims should occur about once a month to maintain a clean look.
 Walking in the winter weather should be a bit easier with a beard covering your face. Growing and maintaining a beard should be something to be proud of, and a clean appearance at work will surely make your employer happy as well. Just be sure to routinely wash and trim your beard.

