 If you or people in your employ do not know much about how your website can be changed and structured, then it is important to hire someone to implement changes. Establish a budget for hiring a SEO professional.;
, Finding out which keywords are the most profitable and popular for your site will be useful for SEO and paid search advertising.


Conduct searches using what you consider to be your most popular keywords. Judge the relevance based on your competition. If that search pulls up competitors and products that offer what you offer, then you may try to get a larger share of that market. If the search terms don't bring up similar products, change your terms to try to find more specific words that will be more profitable.
Do some paid advertising for research. Set up Pay-Per-Click campaigns using your top keywords on Google AdWords and/or Microsoft adCenter. Determine the number of sales you achieve for your ad to get a percentage.
Analyze the profitability of your keywords by establishing the profit you get from the clicks you receive. Determine how many dollars you reap per 100 visitors. For example, if you receive 1000 clicks from a PPC campaign and you make a profit of $4000, then each click is worth $4.
 Each site should have at least 1 static text link. In order for a link to be popular and achieve high search engine ranking, it should be easy to find, remember and access.
 While Ajax, Adobe Flash Player or JavaScript might improve the look of your website, the information in your site will be encrypted so that search engine crawlers cannot see it. Choose straight forward web design whenever possible.
 Each page of important content should contain at least 1 of your profitable keywords. Simplify your URLs before you post content to your site.
 Articles, videos, tutorials and other content should contain your profitable keywords in the URL, headline, first sentence and first paragraphs. This concentration will create a higher ranking on search engines.
 Creating an attractive page for your content that addresses your customer's needs will increase your conversion rate. Landing pages can be set up to track important search engine data, so that you can evaluate them next to your general website homepage.
 Most search engines recommend that you invest in high-quality, customer oriented content. The more you encourage people to return to your website, the more popular the link is and the ranking will be higher on search engines.
 These are the attributes that are often hidden from view, but they describe your website content to the search engines. Each piece of media should contain your lucrative keywords and be both descriptive and simple.

