 Staying positive in school is easier if you have a clear plan of what you want to accomplish. Have clear benchmarks and deadlines for your goals, so you’ll know when you’ve accomplished them. If you don’t meet your deadlines, try to adjust your goals, but don’t beat yourself up too much.Create a list of things you want to accomplish in school. Maybe you want to take better notes or participate more in class. Think of things that you are struggling with and want to do better on.
Develop a plan for how you’ll accomplish your goals. Find little ways you can improve on a daily basis and work towards achieving your goals.
Set clear deadlines by which you’ll achieve your goals. They should be reasonable deadlines, since your goals may take a while to achieve.
Review your action plan on a regular basis. Remind yourself of what you’re trying to accomplish
Change your plan of action if necessary. If you are struggling to reach your goals, update your action plan. Don’t think of this as a failure, but instead think of it as an adjustment to how you’ll achieve your goals.
 Being organized lets you keep things in order and feel more in control of what’s happening. You'll be able to find everything quickly and easy when it's time to study.


Put all your assignments, notebooks, and class information for each class together. You want to be able to look at everything for each class at one time. Don’t have your class information in too many locations. If you carry just one binder, make sure you have different sections for each class.
Buy organization tools like binders, planners, and book bags. Have places where you can store your class materials and take them with you to different events. Take notes during your classes. It may be useful to recopy your notes after class, since this helps you retain the information better.
Find the best way of organizing your school work that works for you. If what you’re doing isn’t working, then change your method of organizing into something that does., Wherever you do most of your work should be clean and ready for you to work. You need to feel comfortable when you’re working on your schoolwork.


Find a work place that’s free of distractions. Studying on your bed or in a noisy area may not be the best spot. Study somewhere where you feel the most productive.
Put similar school supplies together. Keep the paper together and the writing utensils together. Everything at your work area should be easy to locate when you need it.Keep supplies in stock. Don’t run out of paper or pencils at your work area. Stay well-stocked so getting supplies does not become a distraction to avoid doing school work.
Get rid of any unnecessary items. Avoid too much clutter in your work area. Remember that they main goal of any work area is to get school work finished.
 Try to keep motivated by staying busy. Avoid getting distracted too much by extracurricular activities or your personal life.Keep to a consistent schedule to complete your school work. Give yourself enough time to complete assignments.
Look ahead to see what’s due soon. Plan out the best way you can start working on assignments now, instead of at the last minute.
Being busy can motivate you. Not having enough to do can sometimes make you lose momentum.
Try not to be overwhelmed by being busy. If you find you’re overwhelmed by extracurricular or personal commitments, consider reigning these commitments in. Being busy should make you productive and not distract you from your tasks as a student.

