 If a specific medical condition such as migraines, an autoimmune disorder, or an ear injury is suspected to cause hyperacusis, treating this underlying condition might relieve hyperacusis or improve symptoms.Since the causes of hyperacusis are not well-known, it’s best to work with a doctor or medical professional to determine if it’s appropriate to treat for a potential underlying condition.
 Many therapists recommend that patients with hyperacusis undergo sound therapy to slowly reintroduce sound to their lives so they can resume their daily activities. This method of therapy is designed to desensitize the ear by listening to machines that emit pink noise, a specific frequency of noise.Retraining therapy is often performed with hearing-aid type equipment or bedside sound generating machines that emit a specific frequency of noise. Patients are often exposed to this noise for two to eight hours per day.
Many hyperacusis patients have reported that this treatment improves their noise tolerance levels.Work with a therapist or counselor your audiologist recommends so that you can make sure he has experience treating patients with hyperacusis.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy, or CBT, is also recommended for patients with hyperacusis because it helps desensitize you to the uncomfortable sounds so that you can live a more normal life. CBT therapy can also help hyperacusis patients deal with the anxiety and depression that is often a product of their condition.CBT therapy emphasizes relaxation and mindfulness techniques that have been shown to help hyperacusis patients cope with their condition.
CBT therapy is often used in conjunction with retraining therapy.
Your audiologist should be able to recommend a therapist or counselor experienced in using CBT with hyperacusis patients.
 Treatment for hyperacusis is a process, so don’t expect immediate results. If you feel better with a timeline, ask the medical professionals you are working with about when you might expect to see improvement in your condition.
 While many hyperacusis patients report that retraining and CBT significantly improved their condition, experts warn that there is a potential for relapse when exposed to new noises or different noise levels. Talk with your medical team and therapists about the potential for relapses and how best to cope with them.
 Coping with hyperacusis is challenging, but many people are working to research this condition and develop more effective treatment options.

