 You don’t want to break your video game controller in a fit of anger, so the best thing to do when you first notice you are feeling angry is to gently put your controller down. You may want to shut down your game system as well to remove the video game images and sounds from your environment.;
, You might show signs of anger in your body, even before you realize that you are feeling angry. Pay attention to how you are feeling physically. You might be headed toward an angry outburst if you are experiencing any of the following symptoms:


Tense muscles and clenched jaw
Headache or stomachache
Increased heart rate
Sudden sweating or shaking
A dizzy feeling

, If you have become angry, you should take a break from playing the game. Distract yourself from the aspect(s) of the game that made you angry by doing something else for a little while. Taking time to cool down may allow you to return to the game with fresh eyes, and you may find yourself more successful upon returning to the game later.The next time you need a distraction from your frustration you can:


Call up a friend (or meet with one in person!)
Make yourself a meal or snack
Clean your room, the kitchen, or the bathroom

, Getting a change of scenery by going outside is a great way to calm yourself down in a hurry.To keep recurring anger under control, try to balance your video game time with some daily outdoor time., Exercise is another great way to help improve your mood.Getting physical exercise can make you feel happier in as little as five minutes.What you do for exercise does not matter. Just make sure that you raise your heart rate and your body should release some endorphins to make you feel better., Becoming angry can elevate your heart rate, cause you to shake, and make all of your muscles tense. You can counteract these effects with deep breathing. You can also use deep breathing along with meditation to help control your emotions.But using deep breathing techniques alone can offer benefits that are similar to meditation as well.To practice deep breathing, count to three as you inhale. Then, hold the breath in your lungs for three more seconds. Then, count to three again as you exhale. Try to focus only on the numbers as you do this.
Be sure that each breath in fully fills your lungs, causing your chest and belly to expand. Exhale fully each time, and pause between the exhale and the next inhale.
Keep breathing until you feel that you have regained control.

