 One of the biggest improvements you can make playing rugby is your technique. The best players use their bodies efficiently, wringing out every ounce of energy to gain an advantage over the opponent. One of the best things you can do, in almost any situation, is flatten your back. Not only is a curved spine dangerous, it cuts your power down significantly. There are several ways to work on proper back technique:


Keep your butt down by bending at the knees and waist, not through your back.
Never let your head and shoulders dip below your hips.
Do a low-key rucking or scrumming drill, then lock in your "driving" position. Stay in place and have a teammate place a ball horizontally on the small of your back. It should not roll off.
 Rugby is much more fluid than football, so you don't want to keep the ball locked up under your arm like a running back. Instead, you need to adapt your hold depending on the situation:



General Play: Hold the ball with your fingertips right near the center of your chest, with the point facing up. This allows you to quickly pass , fake or kick in any direction.

Under Pressure / Being Tackled: Grip the ball horizontally with both hands and forearms. Your left forearm is on the top of the ball, your left hand gripping the right end, and your right forearm is on the bottom of the ball, with your right hand gripping the left point. This is for the moment you know you'll be tackled or someone tries to steal the ball, and is usually used by forwards.

Open Field: Tuck the ball into the crook of your elbow, gripping it with one hand. This gives you plenty of speed and mobility for a one-on-one or open field run. As you get tackled, you place your other hand over the ball to protect it, turning away from the tackler., With all the focus on "huge hits" and the best tackling form, many players forget how often they are the ones getting hit. Learning to take a tackle well helps your team win more rucks, helps you gain ground on a defender, and protects your from injuries.



Turn the ball away from the defender. As you approach, pick a side to run at and turn the ball away, lowering your shoulder slightly towards the opponent.

Keep moving your feet forward. This might seem terrifying, but you want your momentum running through him, not the other way around. The player that eases up or slows down is almost always the one who gets hurt.

Fall "in order." You should hit the ground first with your knees, then hips, then shoulders to distribute your weight when you fall.

Place the ball back towards your team. You have 1-2 seconds after going down to place the ball, so do your team a solid and reach back. Remember that any defender is going to need to step over you to get the ball, so placing it far back gives your team crucial time to run.
 You want, at a minimum to make a 10 yard pass to either side of you, hitting your teammate in the chest every time. The only way to get there is to practice, so make sure you spend time every single day throwing a rugby ball to both sides.


Spiral or spinning passes are great, but unless you're accurate the beauty of your spin doesn't matter.
 The offload is when you pop the ball up to teammate as you're going down, allowing them to dodge your tackler and keep running. Most beginners are told not to offload, and for good reason: it is very easy to make a terrible pass while you're being pulled violently to the ground. However, as you get better you'll notice how often the pros offload, keeping a run alive and slowly chipping past the defense. To perfect the offload--


Ensure that your teammate is ready for the ball my making eye contact with them.
Do not spin the ball, it is too difficult under pressure. Instead, use a a short, quick 1-3 yard "pop" to toss the ball to them.
If you're in doubt, go into contact. If you don't think you can pull the pass off, or if a 2nd defender is coming in, just take the tackle. Remember-- possession is more important than on good run., You do not want to be caught standing in rugby, as this is the easiest way to get lit up with a huge hit. You want your passes to lead your teammates so that they can keep their momentum up as they catch, and you want to be in full stride when your catch the ball. This keeps the defense guessing your movement, makes you more painful to tackle, and helps your team gain ground quickly. Once you can pass accurately, you need to learn to pass accurately on the run. A line of 4 players, running and passing simultaneously, is very difficult to contain, especially if you can "swing" the ball from one pass to the other.


Adjust your grip on the ball as you catch it.
Drop the ball towards normal hip-height for a throw.
Open your hips up towards the direction you're passing.
Swing the ball across your body, pointing with your hips.
Follow through with both hands pointing at the target., Each position is different, and the best rugby players carve out extra time to get better at their specialty. Spend 10-15 minutes after practice working on your skills. If you don't know what to work on, ask your coach.


Kickers should hit penalties for at least 10 minutes every day, from all points on the field.
Forwards can hit the scrum sled, focusing on their scrum, ruck, and tackling technique.
Fly-halfs and backs should work on kick and catching punts.

