 The March of Dimes considers each of their more than 3 million volunteers leaders and full partners in the March of Dimes mission. If you want to volunteer, contact someone at the nearest local chapter for more information.You must fill out a written application that provides information about you, your interests, your background and experience, and why you want to volunteer for the March of Dimes.
Let your local chapter know if you have any past personal experience with premature birth, such as if you or a close friend or family member has given birth to a child prematurely.;
, Specially trained March of Dimes volunteers work in hospitals across the country to provide support and assistance to families with premature babies in intensive care as part of the organization's NICU Family Support program.This program is open to parents who have had experience with a child born prematurely and cared for in NICUs (Neonatal Intensive Care Units).
 If you've had personal experience with premature birth, birth defects, or the loss of a child, you can tell your story in the online forums provided by the March of Dimes on its website.To join this online community, visit http://share.marchofdimes.org.
In addition to sharing your own story, you can also offer comfort and support to parents and other people in the forums who are struggling or dealing with loss.
 If you're still in school, you can educate your peers through involvement in Team Youth. Members range in age from elementary school through college students. Team Youth also is active through social media.As a college student, you also can apply to be a member of the organization's National Youth Council.
Contact your local March of Dimes office or email teamyouth@marchofdimes.org for more information about this opportunity.
 The March of Dimes makes parent care kits available that provide parents with information about various health complications and birth defects, and how they're treated.These kits are available from your local March of Dimes chapter office. You also may be able to download or order materials online.
Network with your local hospital to schedule times when it is appropriate for you to visit the parents with children in NICU.
 If you are a college student or recent graduate, you may be able to secure an internship working in the national office of the March of Dimes, or in certain larger regional offices.Student interns can earn college credits as well as working closely with March of Dimes staff and gain practical experience.

