 A healthy diet provides the nutrition that you and your baby need. While your caloric needs will vary depending on your age, weight, and level of physical activity, you need to ensure that you eat the right nutritious foods.Consult your doctor, but as a guideline you should eat about 75-100 grams of protein, 6-11 servings of grain, 2-4 servings of fruit, 4 or more servings of vegetables, and 4 servings of dairy products each day.You do not need to drastically increase your calorie intake while pregnant. Even during your second and third trimesters, you will only need to eat about 300 more calories each day., Beyond the main nutrient groups, you need to receive adequate amounts of calcium, iron, vitamin C, and folate during your pregnancy. Many women choose to take prenatal vitamins to supplement their diets. Here are the vitamin guidelines and a few foods where you can find these nutrients:1000-1300 milligrams of calcium. Dairy products and dark greens are good sources of calcium.
27 milligrams of iron. You can find iron in meats, beans, and spinach.
80-85 milligrams of vitamin C. Citrus fruits, broccoli, cauliflower, and green peppers are good sources of vitamin C.
0.46 milligrams of folate. Folate, also called folic acid, can be found in dark green leafy vegetables and legumes.
 Medical professionals recommend that you drink at least 10 cups (2.4 liters) of fluids each day during pregnancy. Water should be the primary fluid that you drink. Water helps to relieve some pregnancy symptoms, like constipation or excessive swelling. Too little water can contribute to premature or early labor, so be sure to monitor your water and fluid intake., Gestational diabetes occurs when your body cannot make and use all the insulin that it needs while you are pregnancy. It affects up to 9% of pregnant women and can be dangerous for both fetuses and mothers.You can lower your risk by limiting your fat intake to less than 30% of your daily calories, maintaining a healthy weight, and exercising regularly while pregnant.


To treat gestational diabetes, you will need to eat special meal plans and to schedule your physical activity., Your diet should be primarily comprised of nutritious and low-processed foods, like whole grains and vegetables. Processed foods, like soda or candy, contain chemical additives like artificial sweeteners and preservatives. In particular, avoid any processed meats like luncheon meat, hot dogs, and processed seafood., Unpasteurized dairy products, like Brie, feta, bleu cheese, and Camembert are made from raw milk and put you at risk of contracting listeria.Listeria is a type of bacteria that can cause a condition caused listeriosis, which is dangerous to you and your baby. Pregnant women are 20 times more likely to contract listeriosis than a non-pregnant women, so it is important to avoid unpasteurized products to reduce your risk.Avoid any products made with raw milk or that are labeled as unpasteurized.
 You should avoid all raw and undercooked meats in general, but seafood poses an even greater risk. Raw or undercooked products may contain harmful parasites, bacteria, and viruses that pose a serious health risk. You should also avoid eating certain seafood. Large fish, like tuna, kind mackerel, shark, and tilefish, all contain higher levels of mercury.According to the FDA, pregnant women can eat up to 12 ounces of seafood that is low in mercury, like salmon, tilapia, and shrimp each week.

