 When reading fiction, readers want to follow characters who have some sort of need, goal, or conflict. Don’t make your characters perfect. Instead, have them struggle to reach success because of an inner character flaw. Give them some emotional issues that they have to overcome over the course of the story. In choosing a specific flaw for a character, try giving them a few emotional imperfections or some sort of troubling secret. Perhaps your character has a long lost childhood love or a dark past involving crime.
One way to show your character’s flaws is to have them make bad decisions. Getting your character into trouble generates conflict and helps hold a reader’s interest.
 Dialogue is one of the best ways to show a character’s personality. Use distinctive vocal characteristics such as accents, use of slang, or vocal tremors to make a character unique.


Give your character an accent to show where they’re from. For example, a character from Germany will have a different way of speaking from a character from the deep South.
Consider age when writing dialogue. An older character will have a much different speech pattern from a teenager.
Use or invent slang. Make up slang that fits in with the world you’re building. In Harry Potter “mudbloods” is a term that refers to wizards whose parents are non-magical. You can make up universal slang or dialect, and you also can have specific characters use slang terms., Don’t fall into the trap of making your characters clichéd. Try instead to continuously subvert your reader’s expectations by giving your characters unexpected personality traits or having them make surprising decisions.


For example, make your villain have a soft spot for baby animals or an unquenchable sweet tooth.
Since you are writing fantasy, you can subvert expectations by making popular fantastical figures such as elves, wizards, witches, or vampires have unusual tendencies. For example, you can have an elf who hates Christmas, or a wizard who desperately wants to become an investment banker.
 Determine what factors influence your character’s thoughts and actions. Often motivations are grounded in the emotional. Establishing a clear motive will help you to generate conflict and plot arc.For example, perhaps your main character’s child was kidnapped, and now he/she must get the child back.
The motivation doesn’t have to be too dramatic. Maybe your character simply wants to tie their shoe and in the process falls into a pothole that sucks them into a magical world.

