 If you have infants or toddlers, you will most likely need to bring a diaper bag that contains certain needs.


Pack a bag with diapers, baby wipes, changing mat or blanket, juice boxes or sippy cups, snacks, and other items as needed for your infants or toddlers.
Bring games or toys to keep your toddlers and older children occupied during your errands.;
, This will help you with mapping out a driving route and may result in a shorter outing.


Schedule appointments at places near other errands on your list. For example, if your errands include getting a haircut and an oil change, visit a shopping center that contains both a hair salon and oil change service station. You may be able to get your hair cut at the same time the oil is being changed on your automobile.
Order the errands on your itinerary according to driving routes. This will reduce the time you spend driving between each location to complete errands. For example, if your home is located in a centralized part of your city and you must drive several miles both north and south to complete your errands. Complete all your errands north first, before traveling south to complete the remainder of your errands.
 This will help keep your children positive about the experience, which may influence them to behave nicely and follow your directions.


Say positive phrases such as "Hooray!" or "I'm excited to run errands!" when you explain to your children that you need to run errands.
Explain to your children how they can help you with the errands. For example, if you need to deposit money into an ATM, tell your children that you will allow them to place the envelope into the ATM slot.
 This will keep your children occupied and excited about the errands that need to be completed. For example, if you are waiting in the lobby of a dentist's office or at a pharmacy, ask your children to point out as many items they can see that are blue.


If you are shopping at retail stores, give certain non-breakable items to your children to hold onto, which will make them feel as if they are contributing to the errand and helping you out.
 This will prevent you from having to remove your children from their car seats or go inside the store to perform errands that can be done from your car. For example, pick up your prescriptions from drive-through pharmacies or use the drive-through ATM at your bank.
 This will reinforce positive behavior and may excite your children for the next time you need to run errands.


Buy your children an inexpensive toy or take them out for dessert after you have finished running errands to show your appreciation for their behavior and cooperation.

