 Find your local marriage license office through the county recorder. You and your fiance will need to appear in person to get the marriage license. To apply for your license, you'll each need to:Be at least 18 years old
Show picture identification (like a driver's license)
Provide social security numbers
Provide your parents' full names and where you were born
Give social security information
Pay $15 in cash ($30 for both of you)
Show certified documentation that you're no longer married, if you were previously married

There's no waiting period between applying and receiving your marriage license

;
, Once you've gotten your marriage license and are married, make sure the license is signed by your officiant. Your officiant can be a justice, judge, lawyer, notary public, ordained minister, cleric, or licensed preacher.This is the first legal document you'll need to get in order to change your name, don't lose any copies you pay for after filing the license.


In most counties, your officiant will need to officially file the license with the county. At this point, you'll need to pay for $7 for each certified copy of your marriage license at the municipal level (and $3 for extra copies.), 1 certified copy costs $6 and each additional copy is $6. If you need a replacement certified copy, you have several ways to purchase them. If you'd like to get it in person, go to the Vital Records Office at 220 Capitol St. in Augusta, ME. You'll need to pay by cash or check. You could also mail your request to their office, including a check or money order, copy of your photo ID, and a long, self-addressed, stamped envelope. If you'd like to order them online, you can purchase them from an independent company that has partnered with the state: VitalChek Network.You can order certified copies of your marriage license through their website or by phone at 1-877-523-2659.The certified copy costs $15 for the first, plus a $13 processing fee, and shipping depending on your address.
 From there you can pick up and fill out the Official Form SS-5. You'll need to show the certified copy of your marriage license, which includes your old and new names.If it's been more than 2 years since your marriage, you may need to give other documents proving your old name.Once you've shown documentation of your new legal name, fill out an application for a new Social Security card.


There's no fee to apply and you should get it in the mail within 2 to 4 weeks., You must change your name in person at a BMV office within 30 of changing your name. After paying the $5 fee, you'll need to show a document that proves your name change, like your marriage certificate or updated Social Security Card., After you change your federal and state issued IDs, you need to change your name on your other important accounts and documents. Don't forget to change your name at businesses you frequently work with, including any medical/dental files, or post office boxes. Examples of accounts you'll need to update include:


Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases, mortgages, or loans
Car titles
Passport
Voter registration
Utility services

