 Locate the label on your pants, usually in the middle back of the waistline, and read it carefully. A label that gives machine washing instructions will generally do well with a gentle wash and dry cycle. If the label states “Dry Clean Only” or “Not Washable,” then you may want to consider taking it to a dry cleaner or leather specialist.If your pants do not have a label, or if you’ve cut it off, and you know the manufacturer, then you may be able to contact them directly for cleaning advice. Go to the manufacturer’s website and look for customer information or help contact information.;
, Before you expose your pants to any cleaning process, it is a good idea to apply a damp cloth to a small, less noticeable part of your pants. Then, wait to see if you notice any discoloration, fading, or wrinkling. This will let you know how well your pants will tolerate being wetted down via steaming or in a washing machine.If your pants do wrinkle or stain in the test area, it would be a good idea to take them to a leather specialist for cleaning.
 Turn your pants inside out and place them directly into the washing machine. Add a small amount of color-safe liquid detergent and nothing else. Choose the “delicate” washing cycle and set the water temperature to cold. If you can choose the spin speed, set it to the slowest setting.For extra protection, place your pants into a garment bag and then toss this bag into the washing machine. The bag will help to minimize the wear on your garment from the washing machine’s agitations.
 If you aren’t comfortable using the washing machine, then set your pants out on a towel. Get a damp microfiber cloth and gently run it over the surface of pants. It is best if you use warm, not hot, water. Resist the urge to scrub and keep your movements light., Get a clothing steam machine and adjust the setting to gentle. When the machine is ready, pass the wand lightly on top of the pants. It should make them damp, but not wet. Repeat until you see fewer signs of wear. This is another gentle alternative to using a washing machine.A simple way to steam your pants, and other clothing items, is to hang them up in your shower, then run the water to warm. The water should not touch the clothes directly, but the steam will. This is an especially good way to remove strong odors, such as smoke., The safest way to keep your pants shape post-washing or steaming is to lay them down on a dry towel or to place them on a drying rack. The drying rack is the best option, as it allows the air to pull the moisture away from your garment. Some people suggest machine drying, but that can destroy certain types of leather pants., It is not necessary to clean your pants after each time you wear them. Instead, go by the appearance of the pants and whether they appear dirty or in need of an odor adjustment. Cleaning your pants too often can change their shape and make them lose that supple leather feel.