 These are financial programs designed for long-term growth and profit. Because these accounts are open for a long time, even small contributions will becoming meaningful after decades of gaining interest. If you begin investing $200 a month when you are twenty-two, your nest egg can reach $1.2 million by the time you are 67. Many employers offer matching 401(k)'s, meaning that they will put some money into your retirement every time you do.
401(k)'s with employer-matching donations are preferable, but IRA's are great choices if your employer does not offer a 401(k) option.
 Besides cutting into your future savings, pulling money from your retirement accounts can lead to fees and forfeiting the money you made on interest. You may, in some cases, need to pay new taxes.


When you change jobs some employers will offer you a check for your 401(k). Instead of accepting, ask them to roll the money into an IRA or your new job's 401(k) plan.
Always have a small "emergency fund" ready in times of need instead of using your retirement savings. , Student loans have fixed interest rates, so you don't have to worry about getting slammed out of nowhere. More importantly, you can deduct up to $2,500 in taxes from interest on student loans, so pay your loans on-time and and regularly without trying to get rid of them all at once. Your money is better spent in savings. , Avoid ringing up large credit card bills, especially if you have a mortgage, car payments, or student loans as well. Being trapped in credit card debt can suck a lot of your paycheck away into huge interest rates and long-term debt. When you buy unnecessary things now instead of investing you skip out on earning interest and chip into your own paycheck when you retire. Only make purchases you know you can pay for.
Make a habit of depositing money as soon as you get your paycheck so you can't spend it.
 Most 401(k)s will automatically take out a percentage of your paycheck, and many banks will transfer money once a month to a savings account if you sign up for it. Automatic deductions create a commitment to your financial future that doesn't make you remember to save every month. If you are serious about retirement, this is a great step to give you the money for future investing. , Stocks are more volatile than bonds or savings accounts, but they also earn much higher returns. Stocks are meant to be a long-term investment, making it easy to weather a downturn over time. By investing now you can reap the benefits of the stock market while surviving any temporary crashes.


A common rule is the "Rule of 100," where the percentage of money invested in stocks equals . For example-- If I'm 25, I should place 75% of my investments in stocks rather than bonds. Remember, however, that there is no guarantee of profit in stock market.

