 This is a messy project so find an area that can cope with getting a little messy, or work in an area that can be covered thoroughly with newspaper (such as the kitchen counter or table). You can skip the messy newspaper if you do the experiment outside on gravel.Another suggestion is to do it in the bath tub (during a bathtime is even better since the lava will start to change the color of the bath water)., You want to add about a cup of baking soda inside your volcano. You can use an empty yogurt cup or other plastic container to hold the baking soda underneath the volcano shell. Just be sure that the cup is clean and dry., Start by using a screwdriver to open up one or more of the holes on the top of the coconut. Drain the coconut water out through these holes. Then, you can use the blunt end of a knife to break the coconut in half along the groove that wraps around the middle of the coconut (in most store bought coconuts). If there is no groove, you can make one with a knife or other sharp object. Clear out the flesh of the coconut, and place the side with the three holes upside down over your baking soda cup.Any steps involving a knife, screwdriver, or other potential safety hazard should be done or supervised by an adult.
 You can set some plants or toy trees around the volcano. Then add a few dinosaurs or forest animals to the scene. This will help kids stretch their imaginations and make the volcano even more fun. You can also make up a story to go along with the erupting volcano., A plastic cup will be fine for this step, too. You will need to put about one cup of vinegar in the cup.This will make enough lava solution for several eruptions.


Since vinegar is an acid, it will react with the baking soda (which is a base) in what is known as a neutralization reaction. This releases gasses and ultimately causes fizzing and bubbling that these volcanoes are known for. The gasses released also build the pressure necessary to force the “lava” out of the volcano., Adding a little bit of dish soap will help make the more bubbles. As the vinegar and baking soda react, they release gases that must move through the soap to escape. This causes the soap to bubble up, much like when you blow bubbles outside. About one teaspoon of soap should work well, but you can experiment with more or less to change how your lava looks., The food coloring doesn’t contribute to the reaction, but it does give your lava the red color that kids might expect (unless you use a different color). You should only need a few drops, but again, you can try adding more or less to see how it changes your lava. Just be careful not to get the food coloring on any easily stained surfaces or clothes.Using washable paint is a good alternative to using food coloring. It is less likely to stain surfaces or hands, and still gives your lava a fun color!, Do this near the coconut to minimize spills and drips from transporting the lava solution to the coconut. Wearing gloves during this step can help minimize stains on your hands and fingers., Remember the three little holes that you used to drain the water? Now you can stick the syringe in one of those same holes and squirt in your lava solution. This will bring the lava in contact with the baking soda and start the reaction!, Pull the syringe away quickly and step back to watch the volcano. The vinegar solution and baking soda should start to react, sending bubbles and liquid out of the holes at the top of your coconut volcano. The kids love this part, and it’s a great time to explain the science involved., The best thing about the coconut volcano is that it is easy to replicate. Just lift the coconut up and put more baking soda underneath. Then, get some more of your lava solution and make it erupt again.When you are finished making your volcano erupt, you can save it to use as a normal toy volcano., Watching the volcano erupt is great, but actually helping create and carry out the experiment will make your kids love it that much more. Using the syringe to suck up the lava and squirt it into the volcano will give them a chance to work on their fine motor skills. Also, seeing that they can cause the volcano to erupt will make them more receptive to learning the science behind their new entertainment.