 Most cropped pants are known as ankle pants, capris, or “clamdiggers.” These pants are designed to hit you below mid-calf, where your lower leg begins to narrow. This is the most attractive part of your lower leg, and you should use your cropped pants to draw attention to it.Cropped pants should not end at mid-calf, which is the thickest part of your lower leg. This is the least flattering part of your leg’s profile and not what you want to emphasize.;
, As a rule of thumb, even the longest cropped pants should fall no less than about 2 fingers above your ankle bone. This differentiates cropped pants from typical trousers. The shorter hemline not only allows you to show off your ankle, it’s also perfect for having fun with your shoes!, Petite women with shorter legs have a harder time picking the right cropped pants than tall women. Cropped pants can make short women look even shorter by causing their legs to look stubby. A slim-fit leg with either a tapered or straight fit will create a sleek look that avoids the stub effect.If you want to go with a wider leg and you’re a shorter person, try pairing these types of pants with a tucked-in top and heels., Even for taller women, the biggest drawback of cropped pants is their shortening effect. Choosing a pant that cinches above your waistline can combat this problem at the other side of your leg. These may be some of the most flattering options for women of all heights.Pair high-waisted pants with a tucked-in shirt to maximize the lengthening effect of these options.
Pay careful attention to the fit of high-waisted pants. They shouldn’t be uncomfortable to wear when you’re sitting or standing, and they shouldn’t pinch you when you button them up. You may need to take these pants to a tailor to get the perfect fit around your waist and groin area.
 If you have long legs and a short torso, you may be more worried about the top part of your silhouette. To balance the proportion of your legs and torso, pick mid-rise pants pants that sit right at your waistline. This will prevent your pants from looking like they’ve swallowed your upper body., Cropped pants let you show off your footwear with their above-the-ankle cut. Heels and pointed-toe flats are some of cropped pants’ best pairings. These shoes elongate shortened legs while also accentuating the wearer’s ankle.You can also have fun with other unique footwear. If you have a pair of cool sneakers you’re dying to show off, wearing cropped pants can be the perfect way to do so.

