 If you can afford it, buy a high-end dryer from a beauty supply store — some of them are so sophisticated they have a dial that lets you control the actual temperature of the hair. Most people won't want to splurge like that, though, so just make sure you buy a dryer with cool, warm, and hot settings. Do not buy one of the low-end dryers that only has a single setting.


Make sure you also buy attachments to help you style your hair, including a nozzle to distribute the air flow evenly and a diffuser to spread it out over a large area of hair.
If you don't know where to find a beauty supply store, ask your stylist when you get your next hair cut.;
, Thicker or curly hair might require a higher heat setting to get the job done, but don't over-expose any hair to heat.










A trip down the haircare aisle at your local grocery store will give you more heat protections options that you know what to do with.
These products come in a range of delivery methods, from creams to sprays — try out a few different kinds of products to figure out what works best for you.
While you don't want to break the bank, you also don't want to skimp on these products. They're available in a wide price range, from $5-6 to $50.
Look for products that contain silicone, which is especially good at protecting hair.
 You don't need to physically separate your hair, but at least mentally plan out how to plan to dry your hair. You might begin with the hair on the left side of your face and work around the back to the right, or you might begin with the bottom layer of your hair and work your way to the outer layer.
 Make sure to work your way through the hair sections you mapped out in the previous step. Work through your hair until it's about 40% dry.









Massage your hair at the roots to encourage it to take on volume.
Flip your hair upside down by bending forward, and direct the air flow at the back of your head to more easily dry the bottom layer of your hair.
 This will help spread the more intense heat over a larger area, in turn reducing the damage.
 A good way to use a diffuser is to drop your hair into its fingers and letting the air blow up through to the roots.









Continue this until your hair is about 90% dry.
 Cooling your hair back to a normal temperature keeps it from getting frizzy, and also feels great on your skin after you just blasted yourself with hot air for a while.









Flip the heat setting on your dryer to cool, or use the frost-boost button if your model of dryer has one.
Run the cool air through your hair until it is cool.
Allow it to air dry the rest of the way.

