 Play the games, collect figures and cards, read magazines, and learn about Pokémon. Learn all the names and moves. It may take some time to get used to, but it's definitely worth it. If you have a Pokémon game, try to complete it and beat the champion. Gather a good team of Pokémon, which will help later. It is recommended that you have a team of 3-6 Pokémon, with balanced types and moves. With less Pokémon, you can train them more. With more Pokémon, you can have more favourites/types. It's up to you. Get to know as much as you can.;
, It doesn't have to be the normal fire/grass/water types from the games; you could have a favourite. If you do want a starter from the games, here's a list of them:


Generation one: Squirtle, Charmander, Bulbasaur, Pikachu (Pokémon Yellow)
Generation two: Totodile, Cyndaquil, Chikorita
Generation three: Mudkip, Torchic, Treeko
Generation four: Piplup, Chimchar, Turtwig
Generation five: Oshawott, Tepig, Snivy
Generation six: Froakie, Fennekin, Chespin
Generation seven: Popplio, Litten, Rowlet

, The in-game team will help, try to stick to those Pokémon with minor changes to help you remember. If you want to try a different team, that's OK. You could use a trainer card creator to make a trainer card with your sprite, Pokémon, and pretend wi-fi code on it. It will help if you forget your Pokémon. Make a note of their moves. Try to stick to real moves that the specified Pokémon can actually learn.
 You don't need to, but it's more fun. Most trainers wear sporty, outdoor clothing. If you want to, carry and sporty bag/purse or backpack with you. For other clothing and accessories, you can wear baseball caps, beanies, scarves (mostly girls), jeans, trainers, sweaters, and hoodies. Try to get these items in white and red and trimmed in black. Sometimes you can find trainer costumes made for Halloween or fancy dress. Using these outfits might be fun.
 Use spray bottles with coloured water inside for medicine. Make sure to label them. For HM/TM's use old, unused, blank CD disks. You can spray-paint them and label them if you want to. You can buy or make Pokeballs. Most of them are pretty easy to make if you can't buy them, but you may need to look them up on Google images for designs. For the actual Pokémon, you can use figures or pure imagination. Try to find look-alike items for other objects. You're all set!

, Wake up early so you have a lot of time to start. Get washed and dressed and groom yourself as you normally do (brushing hair, applying makeup, etc.) before you set out on your adventure. You can go anywhere, from your backyard, to the park, or even the mountains or somewhere on holiday if you feel adventurous. Pick up your starter Pokémon, and put it in it's Pokeball, or let it walk with you if it's like Ash's Pikachu, who doesn't like it's Pokeball. Walk around a while, battling 'trainers' and wild Pokémon. If you want, you can hide Pokémon figures and 'catch' them in Pokeballs, after weakening them of course!

, Pretend to battle gym leaders and earn badges. Carry on and beat the elite four, and maybe the champion with your Pokémon. Just because it's pretend doesn't mean you can't have fun with it.
 Battle them by calling out moves and instructions. Win to get stronger. If you want, you can trade figures and items. You could even play the games together and have Wi-Fi battles. You might even find a new friend.
 Create new concepts. Have new adventures. Pokémon never gets old. You can play it with friends, you can play it on your own. Watch some movies with friends, or make some Pokémon food, like cakes and cookies. Battle with Wi-Fi. Become a Pokémon Master. Go to Pokémon clubs (they might have one at a local hobby store). You may make it to finals and win. The possibilities are endless. Just remember, You gotta catch 'em all, Pokémon!
