 You will need to purchase the money order before you fill it out. You should know exactly how much money you need to send the recipient before you go to the MoneyGram location. MoneyGram will charge you a small fee for the transaction, so be able to cover that cost as well.


MoneyGram accepts cash, debit card, credit card, or check for the purchase of money orders., Once you’ve paid for the money order, it’s as good as cash. If you leave the fields blank, then lose the money order, anyone who picks it up can make it out to him or herself and keep your money. To prevent this, make sure to fill out the form immediately upon purchase., This is the first line on the money order, and it is clearly marked as “Pay to the Order Of/Pagar de la Orden De.” The money order labels its various fields in both English and Spanish for the benefit of MoneyGram customers. On this line, you should write the name of the person or company who will receive the money order. Always ask the recipient what name should be provided on the money order, as you must use a legal name rather than a nickname. For example, you may know your landlord as “Jane,” but she may need to deposit the money order as her corporate name, which might be “Smith Properties, Inc.”

, Underneath the “Pay to the Order Of” line, you’ll find the “Purchaser, Signer for Drawer” line. Write your signature on that line. You don’t need to print your name legibly. You should use your official signature — the one found on your license and on the back of your credit cards, and the one you use to sign checks.
 Beneath the signature line is a line labeled “Address.” You may not be able to tell, from the money order, whether the address should be yours or that of the recipient. However, the address you include should be for the person who purchased the money order.Fill it out completely and accurately, including your street address, city, state, and postal code.
 Bend along the perforated line to make sure you can remove the receipt stub without tearing the actual money order. Be sure to save the stub until you’re sure that the money order has been received and processed by the person you’re sending payment to. In the event that your money order is stolen or lost, the information on the receipt can be used as proof of purchase, or to track the status of the money order.

