 Make sure to apply the makeup evenly to create the right pallor. You can also add a white face cream or powder — the kind sold at Halloween — over the concealer to lighten it up even more.


To make your skin tone look more even and convincingly pale, apply the concealer/white makeup to your chest, hands and any other skin that’s showing.
Lightly dust all of the areas where you’ve applied the white makeup with a translucent powder. This will “set” the makeup and make it last longer.
 Add a little bit of gray eyeshadow beneath your eyes to give the look dimension.


For a slightly more extreme look, apply the eyeshadow to the inner corners of your eyes, your eyelids and creases of your eyes.
Apply a very small amount of black eyeshadow to the inner corners of your eyes, in addition to the purples, browns and grays, for an extremely dramatic look., This will give your face a gaunt, malnourished look. Blend the makeup well.


The goal is to look very unhealthy, but not to look like you’re wearing any makeup to achieve that look.
The contour line you create should begin at your hairline at the top of your cheeks and follow the cheekbone down, stopping about 1 inch from your mouth on each side.
 Apply a pink, maroon or red lip stain or eyeshadow to your eyelids, the inner corners of your eyes, and beneath your eyes. Add a little of the red color to the tip of your nose. Use a red lipliner pencil to redden your lower waterline (the inner edge of your lower eyelid, above your lashes), which will make you look sickly and exhausted.


Blend the red makeup on your face well so that it looks a little more natural. You don’t want it to look too obvious that you’ve applied makeup.
Once you’ve applied the red lipliner to your waterline, use the end of a Q-tip to smudge it slightly. This will blend it a bit and give it a more natural appearance.
 Focus particularly on the lines that run from the sides of your nose to the sides of your mouth and the lines that run down from the ends of your mouth when you frown.


Don’t forget to darken the lines that appear between your eyebrows when you push them together, as well as the lines that appear on your forehead when you raise your eyebrows as high as you can.
Defining and deepening your facial lines with dark makeup will make you look haggard, exhausted and angry.Apply it so that the makeup doesn’t look too dark or obvious.
 Use small angle brush and blue or green eyeshadow to lightly draw veins on your cheeks and forehead. For a creepy flair, let your hand wobble a bit as you draw the veins in.


If you want the color to really pop, wet the angle brush slightly before dipping it in the eyeshadow.
Blue or green gel eyeliner or cream eyeshadow are also great options to draw the veins.
 This will make your newly drawn “veins” look like they’re sitting beneath your skin. The powder will also help set the rest of your makeup and remove any shine from your face.Use a large, fluffy powder puff or blush brush to apply the powder to ensure you get a very light, even dusting.
 Pucker your lips and fill in the lines with a dark eyeshadow or eyeliner pencil. Apply some pink/red/maroon eyeshadow to the inner edge of your lips. This will enhance the dehydrated look of your lips, and it will also make the inside of your mouth look a bit bloody and mottled.
 Spritz your hair with water/hairspray and/or gel, and work it into sections with your fingers so that your hair looks messy and hangs down in your face. Wear your hair as long and messy as possible.


If you can go a few days without washing it, this will definitely help further the illusion.
 Drag the eyeshadow down your fingers so that the “dirt” is heaviest at the fingernail and gets lighter as it moves down your finger.


Paint a small amount of reddish brown liquid lipstick around a few of your cuticles for a slightly bloody look.

