 You should train your bird to step up on your index finger. Place your index finger in front of it, say “up,” and give it a treat every time it steps up. Practice this even when you aren’t putting it back in the cage, so it doesn’t assume that step up practice will translate into going back into the cage. In fact, sometimes you should put it in the cage and let it come back out, so that it does not know for sure that returning to the cage translates into a prolonged period of enclosure.You can try practicing with things other than your finger, includes sticks. Ladders can be particularly useful because birds naturally like to walk up them. Training your bird to do this can be an easy way to get them back into the cage.
Because birds like to move upward, your bird will often grow fonder of this trick if you begin to lift your finger slowly after it steps up.Some people recommend that you perform this procedure every time you return your bird to its cage. The idea is that, if you allow it to fly back on its own volition it might come to believe that it sets its own schedule for outside time., Once you have it on your index finger, you need to secure your bird so that it can’t fly off, but also so that it is still comfortable. One way to do this is to press your thumb lightly against your index finger, securing the birds feet to your finger. Alternatively, you can hold your other hand over its back gently, so that it will not be able to extend its wings out.You should practice these positions during regular training, so that your bird becomes accustomed to them and does not anticipate that it means a return to the cage. Also, if it becomes second nature, you will be less likely to forget to secure it and allow it to fly off when it is someplace foreign or dangerous., If you are having trouble controlling your bird, you can have its wings trimmed, permitting it to fly only a little or not at all, depending on how short they are clipped.This can, however, be counterproductive, because your bird will not tire itself outside of the cage and might be less willing to return.