 India is host to a number of snakes, many of them venomous, but the Big Four are widely distributed and quite venomous.
 When you think of snake charmers and snakes in a basket (vs. snakes on a plane), the snake you're thinking of is the Cobra.


They range in length from about 3 feet (0.9 m) to about 6 feet (1.8 m) in length, and have a broad head. They can spread a hood behind their head, which gives them their famous, very scary appearance.
Their body color varies based on their geographical location. Generally, cobras in southern India range in color from yellow to brown. Northern India cobras are usually dark brown or black.
Cobras are shy—they'll threaten when provoked, but would prefer to back away. If they attack, they will strike quickly—and sometimes repeatedly. Larger cobras may latch on and dig in, releasing maximum venom!
In the event of a cobra bite, seek medical attention immediately—the common cobra is responsible for a large number of human deaths across India.
 The krait ranges in length from about 4 feet (1.2 m) to about 6 feet (2 m). Their head is depressed, slightly broader than the neck, with a rounded snout. Its eyes are small and entirely black.


The krait's body is black, with single or double milky-white bands. Its scales are hexagonal in shape, and the subcaudal scales (those beneath the tail) are undivided.
The krait is nocturnal, and during the day can be found in dark, dry places. They're docile and shy during the day, but at night will attack if provoked.
 The Russel's viper is a stout snake, with a brown body mixed with reds and yellows. The body features three longitudinal rows of eye-like spots of dark brown or black, that start from the head and fade out towards the tail. The spots on either side are smaller and more rounded than the top spots.


The head is triangular, pointed at the snout, and much broader at the neck, and features two triangular-shaped spots. Its eyes have vertical pupils, and it's tongue is purplish black.
Russel's viper is venomous enough that you should seek treatment immediately. If you provoke one (and not just step on it accidentally), it will warn with a high-pitched whistle like a pressure cooker.
 These are the second most common vipers in India, after Russel's viper. They range in size from about 15 inches (40cm) to about 30 inches (80cm). Their body ranges from dark brown to red, gray, or a mix of those colors. Light colored spots of light yellow or very light brown, with dark-colored lines woven through.


The saw-scaled viper is very aggressive when provoked, and makes a saw-like sound by rubbing its side dorsal scales together. Don't stick around if you hear that sound—the saw-scaled viper is one of the fastest-striking species in the world!
If bit, get treatment. It may dry-bite on occasion, but only a medical expert can say for sure.

