 When a perfectionist boss makes demands of you that you know are impossible to accomplish, assert yourself without sounding argumentative or disrespectful. For example, when your boss doubles your workload without extending your time frame, you could say something like, "I can complete the extra work, but I will have to delegate the other job to someone else if you want both jobs completed at the same time.";
, It can be difficult to decide whether to take a stand when your overly picky boss is critical of your work or to let it go. When faced with this dilemma, it is important to remember that your reputation at work is at stake. In order to keep a positive relationship with your boss, only bring up criticisms that are overly unreasonable or unwarranted.Ask your boss to meet with you to discuss the problem. Be clear about what is bothering you, yet maintain a polite and professional manner.
 Your boss has likely been operating with the same nitpicky approach for a long time, and it has likely worked because employees are usually hesitant to question or disagree with their supervisor. But, it’s perfectly okay to agree to disagree with your superiors as long as you have something valuable to bring to the table.


You may earn your boss’s respect by consistently standing up for yourself and for the quality of your work. After all, if your boss hired you for your skills, they ought to value your input and know-how when it comes to your job., Creating and maintaining a little emotional distance will help prevent a negative situation from escalating. Always try to stay cool, calm and collected when faced with the drama that your perfectionist boss may create.


By remaining professional at all times, and not letting yourself get riled up or defensive, your boss may realize that their tactics are not going to work on you., Perfectionism often causes procrastination, as a fear of making mistakes can freeze the decision-making process. Asking your boss for specific deadlines not only brings an awareness of time constraints to your boss, but also provides you with a more concrete definition of your assigned responsibilities so that you can avoid disagreements down the line.


If your boss routinely expects you to turnaround a spectacular product but doesn’t allow enough time to work on it, you need to first release your frustration, then have a candid conversation with them about it. Perhaps it’s possible that your boss doesn’t have a clear idea what is required of you to complete the work, and a conversation with them will help clear the air and set more realistic expectations for the future.If you run into unforeseen obstacles that will prevent you from meeting your deadline, meet with your boss and come prepared with plenty of potential solutions to the problem. Your boss will appreciate your effort to provide a resolution to the unmet deadline rather than just presenting another problem for them to solve. This proactive approach will also help reassure your boss that you have just as much at stake as they do to make sure projects are completed on time., If your boss gives you an assignment with an unrealistic deadline, explain that the work can’t be done to an acceptable standard in the allotted time. Your boss will likely appreciate your dedication to producing high-quality work, and will be more willing to emphasize a higher priority on one aspect of the project over another.Once you have decided which parts of a project to concentrate on first, reiterate the decision by creating a spreadsheet that you can share with your boss so that you are both on the same page.
 Many times you may think you understand your assignment, when your boss may have an entirely different idea about what the project entails. By asking questions, you can clarify what is being requested of you, and the conversation may give your boss the opportunity to give you more specific instructions so that you don’t start off down the wrong path and have to start all over again.Asking questions about a project also gives you an opportunity to exhibit your enthusiasm for your job, and to make suggestions regarding the way a project is handled.
One of the most powerful questions an employee can ask is, “What if...?” Your ability to speculate shows that you are looking ahead and anticipating any issues that may arise., Don’t wait for an assignment to come your way; impress your perfectionist boss by anticipating their requests ahead of time. If you’ve worked for your boss long enough, you are likely to have a good sense of what is expected of you and your work products. If you can beat your boss to the punch and deliver an outstanding result without having them micromanage you, you will both be better off., Perfectionists can get stuck on analyzing of all the small parts that make up the whole, and this can slow your productivity. Consider every aspect of a project and think ahead to identify every detail that might need extra attention. That way, you can head off issues before your perfectionist boss notices them.Keep track of details by using checklists to manage your daily tasks. These days, there are so many distractions in the form of emails, instant messages popping up, and text messages beeping, it can be difficult to concentrate on the task at hand. Checklists can help you stay on task and make sure that you haven’t forgotten to do something important.
 In order to avoid a miscommunication of what your boss expects versus what your understanding of an assignment is, keep your perfectionist boss up to date at all times. That way, your boss won’t have to come to you for an update, and you can make sure that you are on the right track.Your progress reports can take the form of a daily email, a brief in-person meeting, or a phone call.
 Keep attendance records, client referrals, positive reviews, customer recommendations and any other proof of your value as an employee. In the case that a demanding boss unjustifiably questions your dedication or aptitude, you can defend your position with tangible evidence of your hard work.
 Adopt a strategy to “manage up” your boss by assuming a similar style of communication. If you write long drawn-out emails, and your perfectionist boss replies with a one-word sentence, it can be incredibly frustrating. Instead, try only including the most important information in your emails in the form of bullet points, so that you can get your point across more efficiently and succinctly., Your boss is a perfectionist because they have a high set of standards for their work as well as yours. If your standards are set lower than those of your boss, you are setting yourself up for frustration and stress, because your work will never be deemed good enough. The trick is to always be one step ahead of your boss in terms of the quality of your work.When you are assigned a new project, take a look at what is expected as the deliverable, then figure out if there are ways that you could take the project from acceptable to outstanding. Your boss will come to trust that your standards are on par with their own, and will hopefully take a step back from micromanaging you.
 Arrive on time, all the time. Whether it be the start of the day, a return from lunch or break, a meeting or a business party, make it a point to be on time or early. Make sure that you tend to personal business on your own personal time, not while you’re on the clock. Also, respect the company dress code, and always try to keep a neat and professional appearance.
 A demanding boss is likely a motivated, high energy type individual. Therefore, asserting yourself as an enthusiastic go-getter can help you stand out amongst your coworkers and gain favor in your boss's eyes.A good way to increase your level of enthusiasm is to dwell on the aspects of your job that you enjoy, and to focus on those first. Find a project that speaks to your passions, and let it become your showpiece. Your boss will notice your enthusiasm, and will be more likely to assign you similar projects in the future.
 A perfectionist or demanding boss likely suffers from insecurity. Verbally acknowledging your boss's strengths can work for you, in that increasing your boss's self-esteem may also help your boss learn to be more accepting of others. Communication is key: reassure your boss on a regular basis that your projects are coming right along on schedule.
 You may have to work harder and be more conscientious to work for a boss who aims for perfection, but you can also learn a lot about self-discipline, reliability, maintaining high standards and paying attention to detail.