 Choose from 1 of the following based on your computer and Internet access.


Use Microsoft Office's Excel program. This is most commonly used by businesses who buy a license for all of the computers in their office. It is user friendly and there is a large amount of helpful advice for its use available on the Internet.






Download Apache Open Office. This is the open source spreadsheet program based in many ways on Microsoft Excel. Many of the Excel tutorials can help you use Open Office Calc. The program is free for personal use.






Use Google Docs/Drive spreadsheet program. If you want cloud access to your spreadsheet or multiple users who can edit, then this is the best choice. This is a free service associated with your Google account. Go to Google.com/Drive






Use Apple's iWork program. The spreadsheet program is called "Numbers." It may not be as powerful of a program as other spreadsheets, but it will work for most people who are using them for personal use.





;
, This can be anything from finances, like a budget, to inventory to tracking completed work. The success of your spreadsheet will depend upon how clear and useful it is.


If you need to make a spreadsheet about something that is new to you, you can also search online for an Excel template for your subject. You can also look under the "File" heading and see if there is a "Template" option.
 You may need to gather receipts, log books and other information at your desk, in order to complete your spreadsheet.
 Click "New" or "Create" in most programs.


If you see the need to have a description section, you can leave several rows of space below the title for other descriptive areas.
 You can return later to format this and merge cells.
 Make sure to be accurate and use common sense, so that you do not confuse the reader.


Try listing your metrics that you would like to track after you have gathered data and before you start inputting it into the spreadsheet. You may choose headers like date, product, expense, cost, budgeted cost, savings, discount or vendor.
Make sure that the left most column identifies the line item that you will use to separate and fill in the spreadsheet. It is how you will break down the spreadsheet into meaningful rows.
For example, if you are doing a budget, you might include the category of expense in the left column. Then, you can input cost information in the other columns or month information. If you are tracking sales from sales reps, then the left column may be "Sales Rep Name."

,


If you are totaling your expenses for a month, you would want a row labeled "Total" below the spreadsheet, where you can add up items in the columns. If you are totaling the sales reps contributions, you may place a column at the end of the other columns that will total up sales.
 Leave the Total columns blank for the time being.
 Highlight all of the first row. Choose "Font" or "Formatting" and click "Bold," to make the headers bigger.


Highlight your title. Choose a font size and formatting, such as bold or italic, to make it stand out.
 Select all of the cells in your worksheet. Click the right align button to place your data at the right most part of your cell.


You can also choose to align it to the center or to the left. Right align is most commonly used with spreadsheets.
 Click on "Landscape" if your spreadsheet is wide and keep it on "Profile" if your spreadsheet is tall. This will allow your reader to see more on 1 page.
 Click on "Format" and choose "Cells."


Choose the "Number" tab to identify certain cells as those containing dates, numbers or currency. Format the cells to "number" if you want to include math formulas in your spreadsheet.
Scroll through each of the tabs to change the border lines, fill, shading, font and more. Experiment with the different options to learn how to improve the look of the spreadsheet.


,,,,


This will be the cell, such as C4, where the data starts and continue to the end of the data. It will appear like this "(C4:C12)" to express the addition of a large range of cells. Subtraction is written as the addition of a negative number.



To multiply, enter the first cell, then an asterisk, then the second cell. If you want to divide, enter the first cell, then a backslash, then the second cell.
 The spreadsheet should automatically do the math.
 You can also create a sum of totals at the end of the column.

