 Choose a color that suits you, and apply it along or just barely on top of your cheekbones. How you apply your blush will depend on the type of blush you bought: cream or powder. If you are using a powder blush, then you can apply it with a powder brush. If you are using a cream blush, then lightly dab it onto your cheeks with your fingers, and then softly blend it outwards. Do not apply too much blush, however; you want just enough blush to give you a healthy glow. Here are some guidelines for finding the right shade of blush:








If you have light skin, go for soft pinks, light corals, and peaches.
If you have medium skin, go for rich pinks, warm mauves, and deep peaches.
If you have dark skin, go for deep fuchsias, warm browns, and tangerines.
 For a healthy, sun-kissed look, you can apply some bronzer.









Bronzer usually doesn't go on the nose, unless you're contouring, and then it's in very specific areas of the nose.
Generally bronzer can go all over the face, but defines the face more when applied along jawline, under blush, and along the top of the forehead.
 Choose a color that matches your lipstick color. If you wish to have fuller lips, then make the line just outside your natural lip line. If you want to make your lips appear less full, then draw just inside the lip line.
 You can run the lipstick directly over your lips, or you can use a lipstick brush. If you are using a lip brush, simply sweep it across the lipstick, and then run it over your lip. Be sure to stay within your lip lines. Once you have finished applying your lipstick, you can get rid of the excess by pressing your lips down on a piece of folded tissue.









If you have really dry lips, then put some chap stick or lip balm before you put on your lipstick. This will help soften your lips and prevent too many creases.
You can make your lipstick last longer by placing a tissue over your lips, and then dusting translucent powder over the tissue. Just enough powder will seep through the tissue to seal the lipstick in.
For extra glimmer, apply a coat of lip gloss.
 If you are going for a neutral, natural look, you can omit the lip liner and lipstick, and brush on a coat of lip gloss instead. Lip gloss works well for the day time, because it is soft and light; lipstick works best for evenings.








