 If you are in a relationship, you should talk to your partner about whether or not you should retire to a warmer climate. Your partner might also want to retire to a warmer climate, but they might not want to. To be respectful to your partner, engage them in conversation about the possibility of moving to a warmer climate when you retire.Since the retirement process – which involves evaluating warm-climate locations, analyzing the financial environment, and moving from one residence to another – can take time, it’s good to have a conversation about retiring to a warmer climate at least 10 to 15 years prior to your expected date of retirement.
To kick off the conversation, you could say to your partner, “Would you like to move to a warmer climate when I retire?”
If your partner says, “No, I am not much interested in retiring to a warmer climate,” you might ask, “Why?” in an open and interested way. Listen carefully to your partner’s explanation. If you agree with their reasoning, say, “I see what you mean. That’s a good point. I hadn’t thought of it like that.”
If your partner says, “Yes, retiring to a warmer climate is something I’ve always dreamed of,” say, “Great. I have a few ideas about warmer climates where we could retire.” Share your list of warm-climate locations with your partner. If they seem interested in any, say, “Why don’t we visit some of these warm-climate locations we’re interested in to determine if we might enjoy retiring there?”

, If you have family, friends, and colleagues whose company you enjoy, you might miss them if you retire to a warmer climate.Before moving to a warmer climate, ask yourself if you would be alright without this support network.If you believe that you don’t need them – or if you never had a support network to begin with – moving to a warmer climate will be easier for you.
But if you believe you will miss your support network and find it hard to build a new one, you might want to reconsider retiring to a warmer climate, or identify a warmer climate where you already have friends, family, and colleagues.
Some people find that staying connected to their support networks via voice-over-IP services (Skype, for instance), phone calls, and e-mails is enough. But remember, nothing can replace the quality time you can spend with your family and friends during face-to-face interactions and experiences.
 If you no longer drive in your retirement, you will need to closely consider your options for transportation when retiring to a warmer climate. Even if you do still drive, there might come a time as you grow older that you are no longer willing or able to. If you doubt that you’ll be able to achieve or maintain the level of mobility you desire when retiring to a warmer climate, you should not do so.For instance, if you relied on rides from friends or family, you must remember that they will not be around to transport you to where you need to go when you retire to a warmer climate.
Bus and taxi services might not be readily available in the warmer climate you retire to.
The best warm-climate locations you could retire to will have robust public transit systems.Research the public transit opportunities in the warm-climate locale you’re thinking of retiring to. For instance, check out the Department of Transportation page of the municipality you’re retiring to and find out if bus routes are offered in the area.
Look for places to rent or buy that are highly walkable and/or offer bike lanes. These places offer greater convenience and opportunities to reduce your carbon footprint.

