 There are several brands of underwear (like Thinx or Fannypants) that are designed to absorb any leaks. They are even available in sporting versions so you can wear them while you run. Visit your local undergarments shop or search online for a specific brand's website to try out this option.If you’re too embarrassed to talk about your incontinence and need for special undies, just order online.
 If you feel your bladder start to leak and cannot contain it, look for an area off the jogging trail to relieve yourself. Look ahead of you and behind you to ensure you’ll have adequate privacy. Head off the trail about 20 feet (6 m) (seven meters) and avoid any thorns, brush, or roots that might trip you up. Don't disregard your safety in your rush.


Try to situate yourself behind some large trees or bushes so that you’ll be hidden from anyone passing by on the trail. Try a women’s urination device like GoGirl or Shewee to make it easier to urinate off the trail. You could pack these small devices in a fanny pack when you go running.
If you are wearing safety vest, remove it when you head into the woods. That way, even if someone runs by you while you’re urinating, you will be harder to spot.If you’re running in an urban environment, your situation is much easier. Just look for a restaurant or public bathroom in which to do your business.
 Not only can they cheer you on and offer moral support, but they can also hold a spare pair of bottoms for you. That way, if you do end up peeing, you can change once your race is run.


You probably won’t be able to change into the clean shorts or pants while running. The best option is to have someone meet you at the end of your race with a clean pair of bottoms.
Don’t forget to pack underwear, too.
If you’re by yourself out on the trail while running, you probably won’t have a change of shorts or pants handy. Your best move is to just head home, freshen up, and change there. Or, you can keep a change of clothes in your car if you are driving to a trail or track.
 They are used to maintain healthy, clean skin and avoid irritation from bodily substances. If you run, stuff a small package of sanitary wipes in a fanny pack.


Typically they are used by women during menstruation, or by parents changing their baby’s diapers.
If you wet yourself during a run, simply remove a sanitary wipe from the package. Use it just as you might use a napkin or disposable tissue to clean up a spill. Wipe away the urine on your legs and discard the sanitary wipe in a trash bin.

