 Think of any kind of relationship as a video game. You start off at the easiest level, and as time goes on and you improve, you go to more difficult levels and achieve a greater sense of satisfaction. When you first meet someone, you're on level 1, and you're not supposed to proceed to level 2 until you get past level 1, and so on. People who come off as creepy tend to accidentally skip to level 15.


You can build your way up to talking about more personal topics, but start with the simple and inoffensive stuff, such as your college major, or your favorite band.
Don't talk about your loneliness, depression, or past mental breakdowns, if you've had any -- this will definitely come off as creepy.
 Extended, direct eye contact is something lovers usually do. It's something you can do if the person you're talking to is noticeably romantically interested, but even then it's risky because the creep factor is high if you're mistaken. Look someone in the eye while they're talking, but also be sure to pull your gaze away periodically and shift your interest to other things.


And check to make sure you don't have a tendency of staring at someone's body (chest, hands, shoes, whatever), even if in admiration or curiosity. In general, you don't want to make someone feel like they're under a microscope.
 What's too personal? It depends. Your best bet is to pay attention to other people's conversations. Notice what people feel comfortable talking about when they first meet. Know which topics to steer clear of: romantic experiences, politics, religion, illness or disease, and anything dark like murder or death (this is not the time to explain how the sword you have on your wall was designed to pierce someone's intestines in a particular way).


Asking, "Are you dating anyone?" can be appropriate if you're having a conversation about being single. Asking, "Have you met the love of your life yet?" or "Have you ever dealt with a traumatic breakup?" is not.
Keep up a fair balance of questions. Asking too many questions when the other person is asking none can come off as creepy too, even if none of them are too personal on their own.
 Don't invite someone you’ve just met into your home or any other private area any more than you would your basement, a cabin in the woods, an abandoned warehouse, or another setting where horror movies take place. This kind of invitation shows that you expect someone to trust you completely, which someone you’ve just met shouldn't (unless they, too, are creepy).


If you're going to extend an invitation, make it to a public place where there are plenty of other people.
Your invitation may also come off as inappropriate if it's to an intimate event. You wouldn't ask a girl to be your date to a wedding as a first date, for example.
 Ultimately, everybody has different standards for creepiness. The only way you can figure this out on a case-by-case basis is by paying attention to signals that a person's ready to go to the next level, or you're making them feel uncomfortable. Still, there are a few basic rules to follow when it comes to not having creepy body language.


For example, if someone is looking away a lot, or toward an exit, or they appear to be turning or edging away from you, it's probably a sign that they want to end the conversation. It'll take some practice and attentiveness, but once you get a grip on body language, you'll start to account for it subconsciously.
You can scare another person away if your own body language is awkward or uncomfortable, like if you lean in way too close, or talk while spitting in the person's face.
Don't touch a person you've just met unless you're feeling really comfortable. Avoid reaching out to touch the person's hair or touching his/her hand when you laugh unless you're really sure you've made an intimate connection.
 If people continue to rebuff you despite your best efforts, you might need to take a different approach. To start, it helps to pinpoint why someone is treating you poorly. If the “problem” seems to lie with you, you might need to commit to really changing your behavior. People who get classified as creeps are often just unapologetically unique. It's easy to feel resentful towards people for labeling you as creepy just because you're not acting like everyone else. And this feeling might make you resistant towards changing your behavior.


Accept that people judge each other – and sometimes they're off, but that's the way it goes. It’s all you have to work with, so don't assume that changing the way you act in order to change people's perception of you is somehow violating your pledge to be yourself.
If anything, it increases the likelihood that people can get to know your true self, making your uniqueness shine all the brighter.
Be okay with being rejected. Regardless of how expertly you approach others, some people simply won’t give you the reaction you were hoping for.
Your conversation can't always go as expected. Maybe you’re trying to strike up a conversation with someone who is having a terrible day, is nervous, would prefer to be alone, or is simply rude. Take it in stride, turn around, and try again with someone else.

