 The best offensive line can be small but you need to have lots of strength. Always know your assignment in any football position but especially with the offensive line because you could cause a sack.;
, Before the ball is snapped, get braced for assault by the D line and the linebackers.
,
pass block - you're dropping back a bit and helping the quarterback from getting sacked by creating a pocket.
for the guards, this is one other type of movement called a pull. A pull is used on a run play or certain pass plays.
 If that is done correctly it should feel as trying to push someone over and flatten them.
 The good old D Line has many different tasks based on the team players and the offense. First, learn about the D line players:


Defensive Tackle or DT - these guys are the big guys trying to get a push on the O Line.
Defensive End - these guys can be big or small same with the Defensive Tackle. The DE job is to either rush the quarterback drop into zone coverage or play man coverage and stop the run
Note that there are many penalties associated with playing line and some are worse than others.
 The 2 most common defensive books are 3-4 or 4-3 3-4, which means 3 D Lineman 4 Linebackers and 4 Defensive Backs 4-3 means 4 D Line 3 Linebackers and 4 Defensive Backs

, Now is when you have to be paying attention or you are going be pummeled by the O Line or get called for a penalty.
 Get a good rush on the O Line whenever possible but don't go offside and encroach or get a neutral zone infraction. Everyone on defense should be a "heat seeking missile", especially the D Line. Look for whoever has the ball and find the best way to get there and punish the ball carrier

,
Second option is to cover your man if playing man coverage.
Third option is to drop into zone coverage.

The second move is to swim which is like the rip in a way but more of a finesse move. To swim, have your hands on the same positions as with the rip, then with your non-dominant hand push the lineman the direction of your dominant hand and at the same moment raise your dominant hand over the head of the O lineman.
The third move is the spin, which is self explanatory.
 The fullback is a combination O lineman Halfback and Tight End. As said above, the fullback has multiple roles which are pass blocking run blocking running the ball for short gains sometimes receiving the ball and even more rarely returning punts and kickoffs. Because of this, the fullback is required to have a different skill set then most players.
 When you are running a pitch or I form offense, the fullback is in front of the halfback and behind the QB and his job is to stay ahead of the running back to try to get a good block so the running back can get more yards.
 When pass blocking, remember to stay around the QB to try to create a pocket.
 If you are running, you most likely are only 1 to 3 yards (0.9 to 2.7 m) short of the first line or 5 yards (4.6 m) from the goal line. When playing fullback and running, your one and only job other than not to fumble, is to run the ball straight down the defense throat or dive for the touchdown.


Do not fumble the ball tuck it away and don't think about fumbling or don't even think about having the ball.

