 Determine what size cage you'd like to make and find a bowl that is the diameter of what you need. Wash and dry the bowl. Spray the inside of it lightly with a little cooking spray so you can easily remove the sugar cage.Make sure the bowl you use can handle the high heat of the sugar syrup. Avoid using flimsy plastic or styrofoam bowls.
 Pour the somewhat cooled sugar syrup into a microwave-safe bowl. When the syrup is thickened to the consistency of honey, dip the tines of a fork into the syrup. Wave the fork over the bowl so that the syrup strands begin to cover the bowl and drape over the sides. Keep spinning the sugar until the cage is as thick and even as you'd like it.You'll need to be careful when handling the hot syrup, but work quickly. If the syrup in the bowl hardens too much, simply microwave it briefly so that it becomes syrupy again.
 At this point, you'll have a spun sugar cage nestled inside your bowl with long strands draping over the sides of the bowl. To clean up the look of your sugar cage, trip the edges of the bowl. Take a sharp chef's knife and trim along the edges of the bowl.To strengthen the sugar cage and make it easier to remove, you'll need to let the sugar cage set up for about 5 minutes.
 Once the cage has completely hardened, you'll need to unmold the sugar cage. Place your thumbs on the outside of the bowl and rest your other fingers on the inside so they're touching the sugar cage. Gently apply pressure so you can pull the cage up and away.If it seems like your sugar cage may break, move your hands and fingers to another point along the bowl. Applying even pressure can prevent the cage from breaking as you remove it.
 Set the sugar cage on top of your dessert and serve it immediately. The sugar cage will begin to absorb moisture from the air and it may fall apart if you wait too long to serve it.If the sugar cage is still too warm, it will collapse. If it begins to do this, place it back into the bowl so that it keeps its shape while it hardens.

