 Nearly all species of ivy will grow well in anything from full sun to deep shade, and all will provide excellent ground cover and erosion control. The most common species is English Ivy (Hedera helix), although another popular variety is Algerian Ivy (Hedera Canariensis), which sports broad, 8 inch (20 cm) leaves. You should plant the ivy in spring.;
, Ivy works well in nearly any location, but it is especially useful for addressing difficult gardening spots. Steep hills, which are hard to plant with grass or other plants due to erosion concerns, are perfect for ivy. Ivy also works well in very shady areas that would otherwise need to be mulched. You can also consider planting ivy to grow up a wall or trellis.
 New ivy plants will grow best in soil that is very moist.
 For planting English Ivy and most other species, the holes should be about 12 inches (30 cm) apart and about 6 inches (15 cm) deep. The depth of the hole should be just enough to accommodate the root of the new plant.
 Place the root of each new plant or trimming into a hole, and fill the rest of the hole with soil. Ivy will grow best in loamy soil with a high concentration of organic matter. Prune the visible section of the plant to about 6 inches (15 cm).
 Once they are established, fertilize them every 2 months (during spring and summer) with an all-purpose fertilizer. Adding compost to the surrounding soil will also boost the ivy's growth and improve the soil.
 Ivy multiplies very readily, so you may not need to do any propagating. If you do, you can simply pin any portion of the ivy's stem down to the soil, and it will develop new roots at that point. You can also propagate ivy from leaf cuttings, but pinning the stems down is generally more effective.
 Ivy reproduces very rapidly, and is considered an invasive species. If you are planting ivy, you should make a commitment to keep it contained within your garden. If ivy is allowed to spread freely, it can disrupt the nutrient cycles in your local ecosystem.

