 You might associate boredom with a dull environment or feeling sleepy and lethargic, but people can also appear to be bored when they are overwhelmed by outside stimuli or when they are feeling really energetic on the inside and cannot focus as a result.For example, you might feel bored if you are at a busy café with loud music and lots of people talking around you. This might be the result of external stimulation from all of the noise overwhelming you or distracting you from completing a task.Or, you might think you are bored because you are bursting with energy and you can't seem to focus on one thing for more than a minute or two. Excess energy can come from normal sources, such as being well-rested or feeling nervous about an upcoming flight. When you feel this internal overstimulation, you might mistake it for boredom.
If you are feeling overwhelmed by outside stimuli, then try to reduce it. For example, if your environment is too loud, then you could put on headphones and listen to some music or white noise. Or, you could try to go somewhere with fewer distractions.
If you are overly energetic, then try doing something to expend some of your energy, such as going for a walk. Then, return to what you were doing after the walk.
 Unless you've got a show you really want to watch, avoid using TV or social media to fill time. This can lead you to start fantasizing about what you'd rather be doing. Studies have shown that this can make boredom seem more intense., Daydreaming about other places and more desirable activities will intensify boredom rather than alleviate it. Catching yourself in the middle of a daydream will likewise give you the impression that the activity you're engaging in is boring, even if you would normally find it stimulating.


If you enjoy the occasional daydream, repetitive tasks like scrubbing the floor or mowing the lawn are a good opportunity for daydreaming. Tasks that require little "presence" won't be noticeably affected by daydreaming.
 If you notice any large gaps in your schedule, try to fill them in with something that interests you. You may notice you feel bored and frustrated around the same times each day. It's a good idea to try to schedule in a particular activity during these times to prevent boredom., You can join a club or a youth group to have structured time or make plans with friends on your own. If you're feeling like there's nothing to do, there's no better way to overcome idle boredom than being with people. Call your friends and organize an outing, or bug one of your neighbors for a pickup game of basketball. Even if you're just walking downtown together, or getting coffee, you're doing something new. Hang out with your regular friends, or reconnect with old acquaintances to shake up your routine.


There's no substitute for face-to-face socializing. Avoid using social media sites to replace socializing, and meet with people in person.
Go to camps. What's coming up? Spring Break? Christmas Break? Summer? Look up fun camps to plan to go to during free time such as Cpacstudios.com.
 A recent study found that subjects who took two-minute breaks in the middle of a boring 50-minute task felt more focused, relaxed, and productive at the end of the task.If you're setting out on a long project, give yourself something to look forward to by queuing up a YouTube video, song, or article you're looking forward to reading and reward yourself for thirty minutes of work with a short two-minute break.


Get out of your work space for a quick minute. Even if you just walk to the kitchen for a glass of water, those few minutes can be refreshing. Go out to the garden and smell the flowers to get some fresh air.
 It's a common misconception that leaving the radio or television on quietly in the background will create a relaxing and productive workplace. Unfortunately, this tends to divide your attention on a subconscious level. You end up feeling more bored than if you were to work in total silence. Focusing on one task entirely, even if that activity is "boring," is a smarter idea than dividing your brain with competing stimuli.


Use music or radio as a reward, rather than a distraction. Taking measured breaks over the course of a boring activity will end up making you more productive than trying to push through without one, but letting radio chatter along in the background throughout.
 Keep healthy snacks like nuts or fruit available in your work desk to keep your brain functioning at its highest level. Reward yourself with a bit of chocolate for finishing a particularly difficult homework assignment or series of memos at the office.


Energy drinks and other caffeine sources are popular, but the "crash" associated with high-sugar caffeine drinks will end up affecting your productivity in the long run. Avoid these stimulants to keep from falling back in the bored rut.
 Some people like working on exercise balls instead of computer chairs, or using other ergonomic office gear to stay active, but you don't have to spend a lot of money to get moving. Popping out of the office for a quick walk, or taking fifteen minutes to do a light stretching routine in the bathroom will increase your energy levels and keep your attention from waning.


If you have a treadmill, try working on a treadmill desk. Standing up and working has proven to be a healthy and efficient way to stay focused.
 If you consistently find yourself with too much free time, consider getting a part-time job or volunteering. Making money or helping people will fill up your free time in a productive way that leaves you feeling fulfilled. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Retail, such as stores and cafes, are great places to get a part-time job. They tend to offer flexible working hours, making them ideal for students.
Hospitals, nursing homes, soup kitchens, and animal shelters are almost always looking for volunteers. Aside from being rewarding and emotionally fulfilling, volunteer work like this looks very attractive on resumes or college applications.
Consider being self-employed. You can offer to mow people's lawns for them, walk their dogs, or babysit. If you are crafty, you can even make things, such as scarves or bags, and sell them online.

