 Look into the training requirements for the Certified Nursing Assistant programs in your area, as they vary from state to state.Most states require applicants to have a high school diploma or a GED equivalent- Florida, for instance, requires applicants to have a high school diploma or its equivalent, and be at least 18 years old. Alternatively, some states allow CNA licensure as young as 16, and some high schools offer CNA training programs., A clean record is generally necessary to maintain a career in nursing. At some point you will be screened to make sure you don't have a criminal record, history of drug abuse, or mental health conditions that would impair your ability to do your job. Criminal convictions will show up in a background check so be sure to be upfront about them if asked. Small offenses (traffic tickets, etc.) or criminal violations more than 7 years old may be overlooked when applying for a CNA training program, but keep in mind that they may still be an issue when you are looking for a job later on., While not always an official requirement, a certain level of physical strength is generally required for a career as a CNA. CNAs provide basic care services to patients such as bathing them, transferring them to wheelchairs, and other body intensive tasks.If you are concerned that you will not meet the physical requirements for CNA training, exercise to try building your strength.
 CNA training courses typically last from 4-16 weeks, depending on the institution giving them. Make sure that you have the time to devote to the course, as well as to studying. Keep in mind that training from a health care provider might include a provision that you work at said institution for a period of time after receiving your certification., You can receive your CNA training through long-term care facilities, home health agencies, and certain hospitals. Some health care providers will provide your CNA training with the understanding that you will work for that institution for a set period of time, often with the possibility of extending your tenure. To complete this training, a certain number of class time and hands-on work hours must be completed, varying by state and institution; strict attendance requirements generally apply., The Red Cross offers CNA training courses across the U.S. that last 4-8 weeks and combine lectures, in-class work and hands-on experience. The course aims to prepare students for work in a variety of health care environments and includes a clinical training component once classwork is completed. The structure of Red Cross training courses varies from state to state, given different requirements for hours of study and hours of hands-on training., Trade and vocational schools offer CNA training, the duration of which may be longer than that of other institutions (between 4-12 weeks). This training incorporates classroom and clinical learning, with an emphasis on preparing students for a competitive job market. Completion of these programs varies between institutions based on state requirements., You can access a state-specific application form for the CNA exam online, which is usually 1-2 pages. The form asks for information like name, address, social security number, date of birth, etc. You will also be asked for information about your CNA training program, and will likely have to submit proof of completion of the program.The Arizona state CNA exam, for example, asks for information about the applicant’s training (including the training facility code and completion date, as well as proof of completion), offers a choice of locations at which to complete the exam, and also offers several choices for methods of payment of exam fees: https://www.azbn.gov/Documents/applications/Experior%20CNA%20Exam%20App.pdf


, When applying for your CNA certification, you will have to submit your fingerprint so that a thorough background check can be conducted. In some states, this is a requirement before you can even apply to take the test. The background check will reveal any criminal convictions, however old, so make sure to be honest and consistent when divulging information during the application process., When applying for your CNA certification exam, you will have to pay the appropriate fees involved. These fees include an application fee, examination fee and fingerprint check fee. In most states, you can pay online by credit card if you are also completing your application form online.The fees differ from state to state- for instance:


in Oregon, the fee to apply for the CNA exam is $106.00in Arizona, applicants must pay $50.00 for the exam and an additional $50.00 fingerprint feein Wyoming, applicants must pay a $60.00 fee for the exam and a $60.00 “criminal background check/ fingerprint” fee, The CNA exam will be split between a theoretical, written exam and a hands-on, clinical exam. While it varies from state to state, the written section is generally made up of multiple choice questions that test knowledge, empathy, and good judgement. Study the training materials thoroughly (handouts, textbooks, and practice books) to prepare, and look up practice exams online. , The practical, clinical portion of your exam aims to test your on-the-job skills. You will be asked to treat a patient, or an actor portraying a patient, and evaluated on five skills routinely employed by CNAs (out of dozens of skills that are integral to the position). Be mindful of practicing and thinking about these skills, which may include:


the ability to use and help others use mobility aids such as walkers, crutches, prostheses, etc.
knowledge, tact and compassion in dealing with patients’ particular mental health needs and issues
ability to assist with personal care (e.g. bathing patients)
maintenance of a clean, hygienic environment

, A large part of getting prepared for a big exam like your CNA state exam is to make sure that you’re able to stay calm and composed to perform at your best. In addition to studying thoroughly beforehand, make an effort to think positively about the exam to avoid self-doubt while writing it. To stay sharp and focused, make sure to get sufficient sleep the night before your exam, and eat a nutritious meal before it.
 To ease your exam day nerves, remember that you can retake the exam up to three times within a two-year limit following the completion of your training. You are only required to retake the section of the exam that you didn’t pass (i.e. either the written section or the hands-on skills section). If you fail all three attempts at the exam, you will have to go through CNA training once again to be eligible to retake the exam.While CNA certification is transferable between most states, some states require out-of-state CNAs to pass training and testing all over again in their new location (e.g. North Carolina, where applicants must complete a state-approved training program and take a North Carolina CNA exam).