 Many pregnant women get “mask of pregnancy,” also known as melasma and chloasma. This condition makes dark spots appear on your face, most commonly the forehead and cheeks. To help reduce your risk of this, wear at least an SPF 15 sunscreen.You should also wear a hat to help keep the sun off your face.
 Drinking plenty of water during your pregnancy can help keep your skin looking healthy. Drinking water hydrates the skin, which helps reduce itchiness due to dryness. Staying hydrated may also help reduce the chances of acne.Drink eight 8-ounce glasses each day.
 Stretch marks commonly occur on the abdomen, breasts, thighs, and buttocks during pregnancy. Lotions containing vitamin E and alpha hydroxy acids may help prevent stretch marks in these areas.In many cases, stretch marks cannot be prevented, but they often fade after you give birth.
 Standing for long periods may lead to an increased risk of varicose veins. While you may not be able to completely prevent them from occurring, taking breaks when you have to stand may cause less varicose veins.Try moving around a bit to get the blood flowing in your legs.
 Exercising may help with a few different skin problems during pregnancy. Exercise may help reduce the risk of getting stretch marks by helping you control your weight.Exercise may also help reduce the severity of varicose veins.Try light exercise, like walking, swimming, or riding an exercise bike.
Talk to your doctor before starting any new exercise program while pregnant.
 If you develop skin tags during your pregnancy, a doctor may remove them for you. They can use a scalpel or scissors to remove them. Another removal method is using an electric current to burn off the skin tag.Many skin tags will go away after you give birth.
 Many skin changes that occur during pregnancy are normal and will clear up after you give birth. If you have concerns about your condition, talk to your doctor. However, in many cases, being patient until after you give birth will cause you less stress.