 This type of compatibility is why getting to know your partner is of utmost importance. Watch out if either of you feels passionate about an issue, whether it be religious or political in nature, that the other disagrees with. It may not be much of a problem now but will likely result in serious friction down the road. This is especially important if you choose to have children.


Another type of value to keep in mind is lifestyle. Make sure you have similar goals about how your life should be in the future. One partner shouldn't want to be a world traveler while the other prefers to stay put. If one partner demands a luxurious lifestyle while another prefers a more humble existence, they may not be right for each other. Unlike issue-based disagreements, these are not generally deal breakers for a relationship, only signs that you aren't ready for marriage just yet.
 It's best if you and your husband want a similar number of children in the same general time frame. It's a bad sign if one partner doesn't want kids, while the other wants a large family. Likewise, if you want time to establish your career first while your husband wants to be a father right away, you should probably hold off on marriage. This is another factor that you may feel will simply resolve itself when in reality will likely be a major source of marital strife.
 This does not mean that you should marry a man for his money. However, if he has a large amount of debt, things may not bode well for your financial future. Additionally, if his credit rating is poor, you will need to rely on yours alone if you decide to buy a house.Make sure you are comfortable with these factors before you get engaged.
 Like financial problems, medical issues, both physical and mental, can seriously impact a marriage. Caring for an ill spouse is often extremely taxing, both emotionally and financially. By being informed, you will be able to make an educated decision about your future.


Knowing his family's health history is also very important if you choose to have biological children together. Even if he is currently healthy, he may be a carrier for serious conditions. This is especially relevant if the same illnesses run in your own family.Marriage has a positive effect on one's health, with married people on average living longer and experience less severe medical problems. However, divorce has the opposite outcome, further demonstrating the importance of picking the right man before marrying., If he is emotionally withdrawn, possessive or jealous, or has no close family or friends, be wary and make sure you are mature enough to handle potentially difficult situations. If he has cheated on you, abandoned his children, lied to you about major issues, been cruel to others, or repeatedly demonstrated financial irresponsibility, he is probably not marriage material.Under no circumstances should you marry a man who is emotionally or physically abusive. Find a husband who gives you the love and respect you deserve.

