 Rotational hitting involves putting your whole body behind a swing, as opposed to linear hitting, which focuses on the upper body.In rotational hitting, the batter moves the bat with his or her body, rather than ahead of the hips.Additionally, the swing of a rotational hitter starts low and moves high. On the other hand, the swing of a linear hitter starts high and moves low.Rotational hitters hit the ball right in the center. Linear hitters often hit the bottom of the ball, creating backspin., Be positive, and encourage a player to do his or her best. Similarly, teach your players to think positively about their hitting. For instance, help them learn how to visualize a positive outcome as they step up to the plate. These types of visualizations can help your players swing and hit better, as confidence boosts ability., Sometimes, the best way to score or to advance a runner is for a player to bunt. Bunting is when the ball is hit lightly into the infield so that the pitcher or infield players must run in to pick it up, giving a player time to advance on base.To bunt, the player should grip the bat with the bottom hand as normal but move up the other hand towards the middle. Hold the bat out over the plate, and essentially, allow it do the work by letting the ball hit it as it comes over the plate., Hit-and-runs are when a base runner takes off from the base as soon as the ball leaves the pitcher's hand. Obviously, the batter must hit the ball in some way for this to work. Nonetheless, it can make it easier for the runner to advance and get closer to scoring., If possible, study the pitcher prior to the game. By knowing what types of pitches are likely to come across the plate, you can better prepare your players to hit the ball well and win the game., That is, even if you don't have advanced knowledge of the pitcher, your players can learn about the pitcher before they step up to the plate.Look at speed, what types of pitches they're throwing, how their special pitches move, and what side of the plate they're pitching from. All of these can help your players be better prepared when they step up to the plate.