 Most viral infections can be managed at home with self care. However, under certain conditions you should see a doctor right away. It's especially important these symptoms are addressed in children. See a doctor if you notice any of the following symptoms:Urinating less than three times in 24 hours
Difficulty breathing
No improvement over three to five days
Worsening of symptoms, or severe symptoms
If you or a member of your household has a compromised immune system, you should be seen sooner to prevent complications.
 Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections and will not do anything to stop a viral infection. Doctors may not always prescribe antibiotics, even for bacterial infections, but they may be necessary if your infection is serious.The only way to know for sure if you have a viral or bacterial infection is to get evaluated and discuss options with your doctor. A doctor will collect mucus or do a throat swab and send the sample to a lab. Your doctor may want to test you for a bacterial infection if they believe you would benefit from antibiotics., If a viral or bacterial infection is causing you a lot of pain, ask a pharmacist about what over-the-counter pain medications may help. Make sure you use medications according to package instructions and ask a pharmacist whether they will interfere with any existing medications.If you are prescribed an antibiotic, ask your doctor about which over-the-counter pain medications are safe to use with your antibiotics.
 It is important to stay current with all recommended vaccines as they are meant to prevent serious complications from both viruses and bacteria. Get a flu vaccination to protect you from the virus that causes the flu. While the flu is a viral infection, viral infections can some time lead to a bacterial infection. A flu shot can reduce your risk of developing viral and bacterial infections.A flu shot will not protect from all viruses or bacteria. While it reduces your risk, you may still get sick.
Many people qualify for pneumonia vaccinations as well. Make sure to discuss this with your doctor.
Inform your doctor or your healthcare provider in the emergency department if you or your child has not had routine immunizations. You might have an uncommon virus, like whooping cough or the measles, and will need to take special precautions for yourself and others.

