 Check yourself out from eyes to toes, noting everything that makes you smile, no matter how small. The urge to be critical about things you don’t like will be high, but that’s okay! When you feel yourself getting critical simply move on down your body. Don’t even give these critical thoughts the time of day, and certainly don’t harp on them.If you’re convinced that “there is nothing to love” about your body, then you need to slow down. From beautiful rose cheeks to strong, powerful legs, really admire yourself instead of jumping straight to negatives.
Love yourself first, and loving your body will only get easier.;
, Start with your body, but don’t end there – cover all of your amazing qualities to see that it isn’t all about the your exterior. A big issue with people’s self-esteem is that they start to believe the only thing that matters is their body, putting too much weight on their appearances and not who they are overall. You don’t judge people purely on their body, and people don’t do the same to you.


Attractiveness is not determined by your appearance only. In study after study, participants are ranked as more attractive after people get to know them, and know they are a good person., Simply looking and smelling nice each day will do wonders for your self-esteem. Furthermore, take a few minutes each day to develop your own routine. It can be a facial cream, a slow, hot shave, or simply moisturizing before bed. When you treat your body like a temple, it will start to look at feel like one too.
 It is amazing how much the way you hold yourself dictates your appearances, and even self-esteem. Good posture isn't just about looking "strong," it actually aligns your spine, muscles, and even organs to work more efficiently, meaning you feel better too. In general, you want to think of being upright to improve your posture:


Chin up, parallel to the floor.
Ears line up over your shoulders.
Shoulders line up over your hips.
Hips line up over your knees.
Knees line up over your feet.
 A daily affirmation of how awesome you are is one of the best ways to simply, quickly, and easily reinforce the importance of you in your own life. Give yourself a smile and remind yourself not to hate on your own best friend. It may feel a little corny at first, but that’s okay! This isn’t about being perfect or cool, this is about you being you. And, paradoxically, this desire to just be yourself and not worry about perfection will make you more attractive!


At the very least, banish put-downs in front of the mirror. Don't criticize your reflection, and break the habit of doing so.