 You can't make someone laugh if they're not paying any attention to you. Make sure you have her attention before you try anything funny, such as walking up to her and saying "Hello" or making eye contact with her.
 Poking fun at yourself shows you don’t take yourself too seriously, and that’s an attractive quality. Plus, any time you can crack a joke, even at your own expense, will help to make a girl smile, and it can help lighten up any tension in the room that may be the cause of the girl's frown.This type of humor works especially well when you do something a little silly or clumsy. For instance, if you trip over your shoelaces when she's around, you could say, "If only someone had taught me to tie my shoes, I wouldn't be in this situation."
It can also work if she does something clumsy. You can take the attention off her by poking fun at yourself. For instance, you could say, "That wasn't clumsy. Let me tell you about clumsy. One time, I tripped on my own shoe and went tumbling down the stairs. Now THAT was clumsy. What you just did was just cute."

, Cracking a joke shows you have some confidence. Not every joke is going to be a winner, but just the attempt can make her smile. Some of the main ingredients of a good joke include finding the right target, having the element of surprise, exaggerating everyday life, and having the basis of truth.The "target" refers to what you tell the joke about. When telling a joke to someone, the target should be relevant to their interests. For instance, telling a combat joke to a teenage girl may not make much sense, since she's (likely) never been in combat.
The surprise is the twist to the joke that makes it funny. Exaggerating makes it funny because it takes it beyond the every day while still keeping an element of truth.
For example, if you're eating together in the cafeteria, try cracking a joke about the food. You could say something like, "This food is so terrible my dog would turn up his nose at it."

, Even in junior high and high school, being silly can make people smile or laugh. You can try silly voices, or you can attempt an impression of someone famous. You could even employ some slapstick humor, such as "accidentally" spraying yourself with the water fountain by holding your thumb over the stream. However, slapstick could backfire if the girl just finds it ridiculous.Think about what makes you or your friends laugh, as she'll likely find some of the same things funny.
 Another way to make to make someone laugh is to do a silly dance. Of course, you don't want to just run up to a girl and start doing a gorilla a dance. However, if you're standing near her, and some music came on, you could start doing a silly dance in time to the music.

