 You'll need to measure around your torso, arms, and neck. Add 2 inches (5 cm) or so to most of the measurements so that the shirt will have some "ease," or comfortable looseness. You will need to measure:


The half neck: loosely hang a string around your neck. Measure this string, add the ease measurement, and divide by two.
The half shoulder: measure the distance between your shoulders, add the ease, and divide by two.
The quarter bust: measure your bust, add the ease, and divide by four.
The quarter waist: measure the smallest part of your waist, add the ease, and divide by four.
The quarter hip: measure the widest part of your hips, add the ease, and divide by four.
The high shoulder point (HSP) to upper chest: locate the point between the base of your neck and your shoulder. Measure from this point to your upper chest, bringing the tape measure under your armpit. Add the ease.
The distance between your HSP and natural waist.
The distance between your HSP ad hip.
The bicep half: measure the fullest part of your bicep with the arm down, add the ease, and divide by two.
The sleeve length: measure from your shoulder point to the point you want the sleeve to end.
The underarm seam length: measure from the armpit to the point you want your sleeve to hit, then subtract 1 inch (2.5 cm).
The wrist half, if making a long sleeve t-shirt: measure the circumference of your wrist and divide by two.
 Unroll a piece of paper longer than your HSP to hip and quarter hip measurements. One edge must be perfectly straight.


Lightly draw a perpendicular line out from the straight edge, starting 2 inches (5 cm) from the top of the paper and measuring as long as your half neck measurement. This is your HSP.
Lightly draw another perpendicular line 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) below the first. It should equal the length of your half shoulder measurement.
From the HSP, measure down the distance of your HSP to upper chest. Mark the spot.
Draw a perpendicular line directly over the last mark from the straight edge of your paper. It should equal your quarter bust.
From your HSP, measure down the distance of your HSP to waist and mark the spot. Draw a perpendicular line over this mark from the straight edge of the paper, equal in length to your quarter waist.
From your HSP, measure down the distance of your HSP to hip, and mark the end point. Draw a perpendicular line over this mark, starting at the straight edge of the paper, making it equal in length to your quarter hip.
 You'll need to connect the marks you measured out in a specific way to form the front of your t-shirt pattern.


Draw a slight concave curve extending from the HSP to the straight edge of the paper. This will be your front neck drop. The line should be horizontally straight for at least 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) at both ends.
Connect the HSP to your shoulder point with a very minor convex curve.
Draw a concave curve between your shoulder point and quarter bust line to create an armhole. It should be fairly straight as it drops down from the shoulder, and the curve should sharpen once it goes into the side of your shirt.
Draw a line from the bustline to the waistline, then all the way down to the hip. If you want straight sides, make a straight line. For a more fitted look, make a gently inward curve.
Draw a slight convex curve from the hip line to the straight edge of your paper. The end point should be about 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) below your hip line.
Note that when looking at the straight edge of your paper, you should look at it as the “center fold.” In other words, it is the vertical center of your shirt. When you cut material for this pattern, you will fold it along this “center fold” line and cut out two layers of fabric.
 Use the same method followed for the front shirt piece to sketch out a pattern piece for the back of the shirt. When you reach the back neck drop, make the drop less dramatic.


While the front neck drop can be 2 inches (5 cm) or more, the back should only be 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm).
If your pattern paper is see-through, you may want to consider laying a second piece on top of the first and tracing your front pattern piece to get you started on the back piece.
 You'll need to fold a piece of pattern paper in half. The paper should be 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) larger than your bicep half and sleeve length measurements.


Note that this should be a height-wise fold.
Measure the sleeve length along the folded edge, marking both the top and bottom of the measurement. Start at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the top of the paper.
From the bottom mark, measure up the length of your underarm seam length, and mark the point.
Over this point, measure a perpendicular line out, making it the length of your bicep half. Mark the point.
 You'll need to plot the upper curve of your sleeve and the straight edges.


Measure your armhole distance on a measuring tape. Pinch the mark, then arrange the measuring tape on your pattern piece. Start on the bicep line. Allow it to come up at a perpendicular angle for 1 inch (2.5 cm) before curving it in and causing it to cross into the top of the fold at a right angle. Trace this line.
Draw another perpendicular line out from the bottom of the folded edge equaling the distance of the bicep half, minus 1 inch (2.5 cm).
Draw a straight line connecting the end of the previous line to the end of your first bicep half line.
Trace this plotted sleeve half onto the other side of the folded paper.
 Use your chalk to draw a second edge around all of your pattern pieces. This second edge will be your seam allowance.


The seam allowance should be 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) around the shirt front, back, and sleeve pieces.
At all of your hem lines, change this seam allowance to 1 inch (2.5 cm).
 Use sharp scissors to cut out each pattern piece along the seam allowance lines. Set aside until ready to use.


Make sure that each pattern piece is labeled accurately.
 For the neckband, you will need to measure out the front and back neck curves and draw a rectangle based on that.


Measure the front and back neck curves along the seam line, not the seam allowance edge. Multiply those numbers by two, then add them both together to get your neck circumference.
The length of your neckband rectangle should be 7/8 the size of this measurement.
The width of your neckband rectangle should be about 1-1/2 inches (3.8 cm), but you can alter this measurement based on how wide you want the neckband to be.
 Cut this pattern piece out, label it, and put it with the others.


This should complete the entire process.

