 Transfer the rinsed rice to a large bowl. Cover with water with about another 5cm or 2 inches of water above the rice, as this helps it to absorb better. Leave soaking for 6 hours.
 After rinsing the dahl, place it in a large bowl and cover with water. Once again, cover with 5cm to 2 inches additional water above the dhal, to aid absorption., This can be done using a wet grinder or a food processor/blender. Grinding or processing a handful at a time is best. Add extra liquid if needed. When the dahl is creamy, it is ready.

This takes around 15 minutes.
 Add the rice plus a cup of water to the grinder. Grind for 20 minutes or until it looks smooth but gritty., Add salt and combine with your hands. Cover with a cloth., Leave for 8 to 10 hours. The temperature should be around 80–90 °F (27–32 °C). In a warm climate, the room temperature may be sufficient. If not, leave in an oven with the oven light on; the bulb will produce sufficient heat without cooking the batter., If it has doubled in size and is frothy, it's ready. If not, leave a little longer. Batter that has thickened too much can be improved with the addition of a little water so that it can be poured., on the stove top. Drop some oil onto the pan surface, then rub a cut onion around the pan. One to two drops should be sufficient., Add pinch of salt to the batter. (Prepare this either before the dosa cooks or quickly as the dosa cooks.), Add a 1/4 cup of batter to the hot surface of the pan, using a ladle. Spread the batter across the pan from the middle, spiraling the ladle outward to spread the batter to the pan's edges. Don't press too hard., Add some pepper powder to the top of the beaten egg when poured on the top of the dosa.

The beaten egg should be added to the dosa before the dosa becomes brown.
 When the base of the dosa has browned, that side is done. The egg should be firm., Wait until the egg is firm enough before doing this., After cooking, serve the dosa on a plate. Accompany it with chicken or other gravy.