 If you see someone making a prejudiced remark or action in a public place like the grocery store or on the subway, don't turn away. Stand up for the person being made fun of by confronting the perpetrator. Tell them that it's not OK to treat other people this way.


You don't have to be rude or aggressive. You can say something in the moment to diffuse the situation, such as, "Hey, I can see why that's funny to you, but maybe it's not funny to everyone?"
You could also ask something that draws attention to the prejudice without being confrontational, like, "I'm sorry, did I miss something?"

, If you hear a prejudicial statement at the dinner table, whether or not someone of that demographic is present, you can challenge your family members. This behavior may be an old pattern that needs to be dealt with, or it may be the result of the influence of a new family member. No matter why this mindset is present in your family, you can challenge this thinking in ways that your family understands.Speak up every time you hear or see prejudicial behavior, reminding family members that you don’t like to be around it, saying something like, "Hey, when did comments like this become normal? I don't think we grew up talking like this."
You can walk away each time prejudicial behavior is performed.
 When you hear your friends using prejudicial language or performing prejudicial acts, say something. Asking them why they have this kind of mindset may reveal perspectives they didn’t realize they had, helping them to change.


Ask questions like, "Hey, I didn't know you believed things like that. Do you know how that can make people feel?"
Since you can choose your friends, you have the choice to end friendships when others refuse to change.
 If you encounter prejudice in the workplace, be professional in your reaction. Make it clear that you don’t take part in this kind of thinking. You can employ a few strategies to do this with without losing your job. You can do this by:Speaking up when comments are made in group or one-on-one settings, if you feel comfortable doing so. When you hear your boss make condescending remarks about women, you might insert a comment like, "I didn't realize that people believed that about women. Can you explain that a little more?"

Avoid a sarcastic tone here so that you don't create a negative situation. Be frank and earnest in your comments.


Reminding coworkers of anti-prejudice policies the organization has.
Talking to your boss if you keep seeing prejudicial behavior without change. It is wise to get other employees to join you in this request.
 An easy way to take a stand against prejudice is to stay stoic when others are laughing at a prejudicial joke or comment. Your unchanging facial expression will show others that you don’t agree with such behavior without even having to say anything.


Be sure to keep arrogance or superiority out of your demeanor, as this can trigger aggression in others, especially if your action makes them feel ashamed.
Be prepared to explain why you’re not laughing.

