 Go through your closet and pick out anything you haven't worn in over a year. After you've gathered all the things you don't want, choose some of the following alternatives besides throwing them away:


Have a clothes swapping party with your friends.

Donate your old clothes and shoes to a charity organization or thrift shop.
Ask a neighbor or family member if he/she would like to have your old clothes.

Hold a yard sale.;
, There are many wikiHows available for using old torn clothing to make things and recycle them instead of creating more trash for the environment.
 Don't let it take up valuable space in your closet if you don't wear it on a weekly basis.
 Chances are you're not wearing it because it's not ready to go out. If you don't take them to be repaired in one month, then you know you're really not that crazy about it.
, Your mistake could be someone else's party dress.
 The first thing to put back in the closet are those out-of-season clothes. Keep them separated to avoid confusion. A garment bigger will do the job.



If you have several outfits, consider putting them in another garment bag.
In the bottom of the bag, store jewelry, shoes, hose, and other accessories that are used only with this clothing.
Right in front of you when you open your closet should be only clothes you wear all the time.
, How many black shirts do you really need? Keep the higher quality, better made items.
 Install one on the inside of the closet door, or use a freestanding mirror. You need to see your clothing in its entirety to see if an item is really working for you.
 It is absolutely necessary to have a bright light installed in your closet. You need to see what you have in order to wear it. If that old pull string light bulb hasn't been changed since last Christmas, then now's the time to do so.
 Dump every cosmetic you own in a big pile on several layers of newspaper to prevent any loose particles and dirty mess from staining your floor. Separate everything by category. Lipstick should go in one pile, shadows in another, etc.


Toss anything you haven't used in six months. Old makeup contains bacteria. You don't want to get sick.
Get rid of anything that has an odor, is messy, or is running.
Dump foundation and any other cosmetic that has separated or is gooey.

