 Running is often the safest option for most people as it is simple and you don't need to join any special clubs (although having a running buddy makes it more fun and there are running clubs you can join if you prefer to socialise!). You don't have to run miles, but you should run until you at least feel uncomfortable (not unbearable). Gradually, you will realize you can run way further a lot more comfortably. You can also do cycling or swimming as a main, regular or basic exercise. Once you have chosen your basic exercise, do this exercise every two days, as well as other less strenuous sports, such as tennis, volleyball, etc. Visit the gym sometimes if there is one you can afford to go to - if you go to Uni or College, there may be a student gym you can take advantage of. A really good way to be fit and have fun is to dance. Even video dancing games (such as Just Dance) will get you to burn calories and have fun doing it. Just don't push yourself to hard on any of these suggestions. Know your limit.;
, Try to avoid eating sugary foods, white carbohydrates, all crisps sweets and ice creams, as well as full fat dairy products (although a little in moderation is okay!). Eat brown carbs (like whole grains and brown rice), nuts, fruits and vegetables, dried fruits, fresh salads, low fat dairy products and lean meat, fish and eggs. The good news is you can eat as much of those food as you like. If you just remember what you can and can't eat too much of. Treat yourself once in a while, but little; the last thing you'll want to do is slip up when you've come so far. You shouldn't need to take vitamin supplements if you eat like this. Stay away from carbonated drinks, even diet sodas are harmful with all of the aspartame in them. Also stay away from milkshakes, and if you need something sweet, get a smoothie. Drink tons of water, it is the best thing for your skin and you can get it almost anywhere.
 Don't try to copy a certain image, this will make people think you are fake and will be very embarrassing when you reach 18 or 19. You may want to follow a certain celebrity or singer's fashion. When it comes to shopping, shop for your size and shape. Make sure your hair and make up matches your style, and make sure you never buy dirt cheap stuff. Make sure your hair products and makeup come from brands you trust and are ethical (i.e. don't test on animals, harm the environment, harm you or come from companies that use bad methods). Be confident and have faith in your looks. Be proud and daring with what you wear, and you'll turn heads.
 Be happy, nice, and helpful. If you're asked to do something around the house or at school, smile and say, "I'd be happy to." If you need a hand, ask for one. Smile a lot; not all the time, but you want to appear happy. If ever something is lent to you, do what you needed it for and return it speedily, as this builds enormous amounts of trust. Be a flatterer, and if you're going to give a compliment, let it be genuine, and with a smile. Don't be friends with everyone, but be nice to everyone. If someone is mean to your face, take it on the chin. Once they've finished having a go, smile and brush it off - threatening them, being rude back to them or arguing with them only creates drama and makes you look as bad as them. If you are cool and mature, people will respect that and will either stand up for you when someone is being mean to you, or, if they are the one being horrible, get frustrated and back off. If someone is really bothering you and won't leave you alone, tell a teacher or a parent!

, Just because people say something about you does not make it true! Who cares what other people think anyway? How you see yourself matters more than what other people see - letting the haters get you down only leads to depression, anxiety, self obsession, stress and even developing eating disorders and dysmorphia. Teenagers can be very horrible to each other sometimes and say things out of jealousy or spite, and sometimes they're just downright immature. Learn to ignore them. Your worth is not based on whether boys like how you look or how many Facebook friends you have. Appearances and popularity are not everything - you can be a flawless, hot girl and not look like a supermodel or have a gazillion friends!