 If you believe someone has stolen your identity, or if your purse or wallet is lost and stolen, call every bank or credit card company potentially implicated as quickly as possible to get your cards cancelled.Not only will this help minimize the damage, but it is necessary that you notify them as soon as possible after you have knowledge that your account has been compromised if you want the full benefit of any legal protection.
Banks and credit card companies typically have a toll-free number you can call to report fraud or identity theft 24 hours a day, seven days a week. This number should be listed on the bank or credit card company's website. Tell the operator that you are a victim of identity theft and want your account closed or frozen. Note any suspicious transactions if any have already occurred.
 In the United States, a fraud alert requires any creditors to take additional steps to verify your identity before issuing any credit in your name. The fraud alert is free, doesn't impact your credit score, and can protect you if you're a victim of identity theft.You only have to call one of the three major credit bureaus. They are required by law to notify the other two.
Request a fraud alert by visiting one of the credit bureau's websites, or by calling Equifax at 1-888-766-0008, Experian at 1-888-397-3742, or TransUnion at 1-800-680-7289.
The initial fraud alert is good for 90 days. You can extend this period by providing an official identity theft report consisting of a police report and an FTC complaint.
 As soon as you have reason to believe your identity may have been stolen, take precautions to minimize the damage and change passwords for everything, regardless of whether they contain any sensitive information.This is especially important if a computer or mobile device was stolen, particularly if you stored log-in information on the device.
 If you're concerned your identity might have been stolen, review your credit report and note any suspicious transactions or entries, such as requests for credit in your name or new cards for which you never applied.In the U.S., there are three major credit bureaus. You're entitled to a free copy of your credit report if you activate a fraud alert.
Read through the report carefully, and dispute any inaccuracies with the credit bureau itself.
If cards were opened in your name, you also may want to call the issuing bank or credit card company and explain the situation.
 The FTC operates a Complaint Assistant website that will guide you step-by-step through the process of filing an identity theft complaint. You will need this complaint to prove your identity was stolen.Once on the website, click on the "identity theft" category to start the online form. Follow the prompts to enter information about your identity theft, including the types of accounts misused or opened in your name.
You also have the opportunity to list any suspects, if you have them. It's likely that you won't have any clue who is responsible for the theft – you can still file a report. Leave it up to law enforcement to track down the perpetrator.
Include as many facts and details as you know and can accurately remember. The more information you provide, the easier it potentially will be for investigators to track down the perpetrator.
 In addition to filing an FTC complaint, you also need to file a report with your local police precinct (or the precinct where the theft occurred, if you're traveling). Call the non-emergency number and tell the operator you wish to file a police report for identity theft.Just as with the FTC complaint, give the officer taking your report as many facts and details as possible. Answer all questions thoroughly and honestly.
Make sure you get a copy of the written report for your records. You may want to follow up in a week or two to check on the investigation, if you haven't been contacted by an officer in that time.
 While you're dealing with the aftermath of identity theft, keep detailed notes of everyone you contact and everything that is said. Send follow-up letters confirming phone conversations so everything is in writing.It can take a lot of effort to restore your credit and reputation after falling victim to identity theft. Keeping adequate written records provides you with proof of every step you've taken, and keeps you from having to repeat efforts.

