 There are two main types of tire swings: horizontal and vertical. Horizontal tire swings have three different attachment points to hold the tire level. In contrast, vertical tire swings hang from a single attachment. Both ways of making a tire swing are relatively similar, but there will be a few minor differences. In general, vertical tire swings are simpler and require less time to make.
 A branch for a tire swing has most of the same requirements as one for a rope swing. You'll need to find a sturdy hardwood tree, such as an oak, with a suitably-sized healthy branch.


The major difference is that more clearance away from the trunk is required for tire swings compared to rope swings, as tire swings are designed for more sideways movement. Allow at bare minimum 4 feet of space between the attachment point and the tree trunk. Even more space may be required if the branch you pick is higher than 10 feet., The main component of all tire swings is a tire. You can find cheap or even free tires from anywhere that recycles them, such as at a tire dealership. A tire with worn-down treads isn't suitable for a car, but it will make a great swing.


You will need a cordless drill for both types of swing.
For a horizontal tire swing, you will need four equal lengths of steel chain, four stainless steel quick links, one locking swivel hook, and three steel U-bolts.The chains should be at least 3/8 of an inch in diameter and between 3 and 5 feet long.For a vertical tire swing, the only other necessary item is a strong rope.
 Because you're most likely using a recycled tire, it will probably be covered in grime. Even a new tire has the potential to stain clothing and skin. Use a high pressure hose on your tire before making it into a swing. If you don't own a high pressure hose, consider making a trip to a car wash and using one there., When it rains, you will want the water to drain out of your swing to keep from making a mess. Position these holes at what will be the part of your swing closest to the ground.


For a horizontal swing, drill the holes into the center of one sidewall.For a vertical swing, drill one or two holes into one end of the wheel's tread.
 Before setting up your tire any further, go ahead and make sure it has a secure place to hang.


For a horizontal swing, simply hook one length of chain around the branch. Then, fasten it into a loop with a quick link. Finally, hang the swivel hook from the quick link with the hook portion facing down.For a vertical swing, Throw your rope over the tree limb. Tie a slip knot, such as a running bowline, onto one end of the rope and then thread the free end through the knot. Pull the free end so that the knot reaches the branch, attaching the rope to the tree., Once you've completed this step, your swing should be ready to use.


For a horizontal swing, begin by drilling three sets of two holes on the shoulder of the tire opposite of your drainage holes. Separate the three sets an equal distance apart so that the tire is split into even thirds. Space the pairs so that your three U-bolts can fit into them. Hook each U-bolt onto the last link of each of the three remaining chains. Place the bottom of the U-bolts through the holes you just made and fix them in place using the plates and nuts they came with.Finally, hook the last link of the chains' free ends onto the locking swivel hook. Your swing should be finished once the hook is locked into place.For a vertical swing, simply tie the free ends of your rope to the tire at the end opposite of its drainage holes. Use a square knot and double-check that the rope is secure.,