 The first major part of your transitioning will be accepting who you are. This is something you might have known your entire life or might have recently realized/come to terms with. Take plenty of time to think about everything, do some research, have a good cry, do whatever you need to do. Know that you're not alone - there are many people who are transgender.


Try to find a safe support group in your area so you can meet other people like you, hear their stories, gather more information, ask questions and come to terms with yourself.
Try to figure out what you need to do to be at peace. Some people who are transgender are perfectly content to dress in the clothing styles of the gender they identify with and be referred to using he/him pronouns or gender neutral pronouns (them/their). Others feel a need to do more to their body to be perceived correctly and accept themselves in the mirror, so they get hormone therapy (testosterone by injection or in gel or cream form). Some transgender people have dysphoria to such a degree that they need to completely transition which includes all the available surgery (top and/or bottom). Remember that you don't need to make any choices right away, in fact it's going to be a long road ahead of you. A lot of people get frustrated at just how slow it can go. (Hormones take months to years to do their thing, beards may not grow in full, surgeries in some countries are not covered by insurance and can be unaffordable, etc.);
, There's no "correct" time to come out to people as transgender and it doesn't necessarily have to go second in your transition steps. It is something to do with careful consideration, if you decide coming out is something you want for yourself. Know that you are under no moral obligation to come out to others, it should be something you want to do if you do it. This is going to be a very long process for you and a hard road to go down - you're going to need a support system in place and people who are there for you.


It's probably best to tell either a really close friend or your parents first (especially your parents if you live with them). Letters are perfectly appropriate if you're not good with talking or don't know what to say.
You can test your family's attitude on the subject by talking about a transgender man or boy in the news. Look for an interesting story like "the pregnant man" and get a family discussion going. Find out how they react to him before coming out to them about who you are, especially if you're under legal age. In some families there may be risk of physical violence. Don't come out unless you feel it's physically safe and have a "worst case scenario" plan if the situation turns violent.
Most people will have a lot of questions (especially family). Be knowledgeable. Know what you should do next and know some of the options for down the road that you're considering. Be patient with their questions and don't tease them for obvious things they say. Don't be wishy-washy, or appear to not be sure of what your plans are. This is because they may take it as a sign you have not really thought the matter through or that they can talk you out of transitioning. Expect that every example of your being transgender (such as being uncomfortable in an all female group, wanting to be buff, or maybe daydreaming of being a famous football player as a kid) will be met with their excuses why that is normal for many girls, as they are trying to find a way to show you that you are mistaken.
There are support groups for family and partners of transgender people if that's something they're interested in. PFLAG can be checked out online and has chapters around the USA. You could also take them to your meetings if you go to any that allow it (ask them first as it is generally confidential).
Transgender and gay often get confused or intertwined and may cause confusion when you come out. Remember that transgender refers to a person's GENDER identity- a transgender person can be any sexual orientation that a cisgender person can be: gay, straight, bi, asexual, etc. The confusion probably comes in on how to "label" a trans person during transitioning. So, as a transgender man, you are a male, which means you may need to explain to others that if you like guys you are (can come out as) gay, if you like girls you are straight, and if you like gay men and straight women you are bisexual, but no matter who you want to date, you are always a man. Another reason some may confuse transgender with gays could come from cross-dressers (who are portrayed by media as gay but are sometimes straight), butch lesbians who are definitely not men but dress like them, and gay (and straight) drag queens and kings.
Remember that no matter how confused or surprised someone may be by your coming out, they should always have as much respect for you as they always have, even if they don't fully understand. If someone is treating you like a burden or lashing out at you, you may want to strongly consider ending your relationship with that person.
 If you don't do this already, you'll probably soon want to start dressing like a male to show outside how you are inside. There are some places online where advice is given to "act" male, but you will probably discover that is counterproductive as you want to stop the acting and become your true self. Some advice given by well meaning transgender people include being crude, spitting, using vulgarities and cursing, taking up a lot of space by putting legs wide open even if it is on a bus, and swaggering. Most cisgender men around you probably do not do that, so it is better to just observe what actions you were taught to do that are feminine that you are still doing and quit.


Be careful and subtle in how you go about this. A very sudden complete shift at home before you come out may startle your parents and lead to tension or other uncomfortable conversations. Doing this at school, especially elementary or middle school, or work, could create a lot of problems with peers and co-workers. You may want to restrict "passing" to home at first, or to public places where you're unlikely to see people you know. When you are ready to try dressing normally in school or at work, try it in phases, such as getting a haircut that is androgynous and boyish clothing, then replace with some shirts and jeans or shoes from men's or boys department, and gradually get shorter haircuts if that is what you prefer. Slow transition may make it easier on you in the long run, how long a transition is completely up to you. You are the man in charge of your destiny now.
Feel free to educate your classmates or co-workers about being transgender to make yourself more comfortable at school or work with your new look. Again be aware that unfortunately not everyone in this world is as accepting as they should be, and could say things that are hurtful and untrue. Take it one day at a time and talk to a support group as needed, even if this is only online.
Remember that being a man doesn't mean you must reject all things feminine. If you have hobbies or traits or fashion choices that are considered feminine, you don't have to reject them entirely. Feminine men are men too. Less feminine men may have an easier time "passing", but it's always a good idea to be yourself unless you are in a situation where it is unsafe to do so.
 This is important for two reasons. One, there are experiences that often come with being transgender that can cause stress or anxiety, such as transphobic harassment/assault, or dysphoria. Transgender individuals are highly associated with depression and suicidal thoughts (about 50%). You may want someone to talk to just to help with these problems and feelings. The second reason is, before you can progress farther, you may need a psychologist to confirm that you are in fact transgender and from there they can refer you to an endocrinologist for hormones and surgeons for the different surgeries, although in some places this is becoming no longer true since the changes in DSM 5 removed transsexualism from the list of mental illnesses (note that homosexuality was removed decades ago). Surgeons in the USA (legitimate ones at least) will not perform bottom surgery without a doctor's or psychologist's note. Never try to buy testosterone online or do it yourself! The reason that the doctor or psychologist will send you to an endocrinologist is to get blood samples to test your current hormone levels. It is vital that they do not give you too much testosterone or it will be turned by the body into estrogen, which sort of back fires your plans, right? So if your state or nation requires you to see a psychologist do it, and be patient, and if you are lucky enough to live in an area that no longer does (such as DC) it will be faster but just as safe.


It's best to find a top surgery surgeon or a psychologist who specializes in or is often seeing transgender people. If you're having a hard time finding one, try going to support groups or checking online to find out who they recommend (and do not recommend).
Transitioning is a very serious life step and you shouldn't rush into anything. If you see one, it could take the psychologist a few sessions to make a confirmed diagnosis and from there they can continue working with you through the transitioning process.
 There are a lot of steps to consider, between hormones, surgeries, coming fully out to everyone you work/live/interact with, so having a basic guideline can be really helpful. It can put everything in perspective, keep you on track, help you keep track of resources, list names of good doctors, plan when to change your name on legal documents (Drivers license, passport, birth certificate, etc) and motivate you to budget your money (which will be a big one, since most insurance plans do not pay for everything you will need to save up a few thousand dollars).


Try to be realistic. As much as you're going to want to have this all done in a year, in reality it will take several to complete. If your plans include full transitioning, a realistic goal would be more like five years. This gives you time to adjust to every step, and it also gives your family, friends, and co-workers time to adjust. Your therapist can help empower you in your process in deciding how soon you'll be ready for each step, and in some states in the USA and other places around the world, you are also required to live full time as a male for one year before receiving hormones or some surgeries (although that is changing).
Your therapist will be the best person to ask for help coming up with a working plan. They know the approximate time periods to wait between steps and they'll probably have a good idea of what's realistic based on past experiences with other patients. If you do not see a therapist, ask your transgender support group members as they can tell you when they did these steps.
 Not all trans men choose to start Hormone Replacement Therapy (or HRT) for many reasons including cost or that their body can't accept "T"(androgen sensitivity), which does not make them any less men or transgender. Transgender males have a lot of luck when it comes to testosterone, also called "T", as it is very powerful really changes the body over time, unlike much milder estrogen used for MTF's. Testosterone makes your body look and feel more masculine by:


adjusting the fat distribution causing the fat to move off your hips, buttocks, thighs, and (slightly) chest, and moving it onto your stomach (you will not lose fat, just redistribute, so it is important to continue to exercise to lose weight).
increasing muscle definition (if you workout, it is not going to make you buff if you are a couch potato), broadening the shoulders, and perhaps thickening the hands and feet (may make them wider because of cartilage growth but no guarantee).

The increased muscle definition and fat movement usually squares out the face (if you are under 21, you may grow an Adam's apple as well).
Guys are able to lose fat quicker because they can gain muscle more easily (which burns a lot of fat) and thus you should be able to lose some of that stomach fat eventually (however you will gain a lot of weight first from becoming much more hungry and again you can't lose weight on Testosterone just sitting around, you must get your metabolism going regardless of your gender).
Most men report feeling a lot stronger soon after going on testosterone.


Increased body hair growth as well as facial hair growth (and loss of hair on the temples, sometimes it triggers male pattern baldness which is irreversible even if you stop using Testosterone or T.
Deepening of your voice (This can be similar to an adolescent boy's voice 'breaking' and you can lose vocal range if you sing).
Thickening of your skin and making you more tolerant of cold.
Changing your body odor and increasing sweating.
Testosterone may cause a small amount of growth if you haven't finished puberty and still have some growth left in your body.
Testosterone also stops your menstrual cycle, generally within 3 months (depending on your dose).
Your sex drive will likely increase, as will your appetite.
Your clitoris will also begin to grow. The clitoris and penis develop from the same cells in the fetal stage, and T triggers its enlargement. Usually it grows to become 2-5cm (about 1-2 inches).

This is important for metoidioplasty (one of the two options for bottom surgery), which uses the enlarged clitoris to form the penis.


Beginning hormone therapy is very much like going through a second puberty; note that if you had acne the first time around, you may once again develop acne or your skin may become more oily (get ready to dig out the Clearasil boys).
There is no exact time frame for physical changes, but your menstrual cycle should cease within 6 months. Your voice will likely be at its deepest around after 6 months to a year, the same is true regarding clitoral growth.
Most start by taking T via injections but can change to pills, patches, creams, or gels. Cost for testosterone therapy will vary depending on your dosage, method of delivery, and insurance (if you do not have insurance, you will have to pay the costs yourself; if you do have insurance, some policies cover hormone therapy for transition and some do not. Note that some universities have student insurance plans that cover some or all of the cost for hormone therapy, and sometimes will cover some surgery costs as well).
Some transmen choose to have top surgery before starting T. There are many reasons for this: some choose top surgery as the first step because continuing to have breasts once you start looking more like a male could be awkward or embarrassing; for others, top surgery is as much about psychological well-being as physical appearance - society at large holds the idea that breasts represent femininity, and for many transgender persons, they are the most uncomfortable and unwanted part of their bodies. In some instances, top surgery can turn out better before T usage, and in other cases it is better after T usage has begun, so be sure to consult with your physician and your surgeon for advice on what will be best for your situation. Still other transmen choose to use garments to minimize the appearance of their breasts while they save money for surgery; they may also start programs to lose weight in an attempt to reduce bust size and thus have more options for top surgery (there are three types based on bust size; note that weight loss does not reduce the size of breast tissue in all individuals).
 Most transgender people will start having their friends and family call them by their chosen male name at the beginning of transitioning. Usually by the time you start T, it's probably best to get a name change as you'll really start to look male. You'll have to check the laws for your state/country. Usually there is a monetary cost (as much as $200, possibly more) for processing fees.


Be sure to update your official government identification (driver's license, Social Security, Social Insurance, etc.) with your new name and new photograph, if applicable. You'll also want to notify your school or place of employment, especially if you are required carry to school and work ID cards (Note: If you live in an on-campus dormitory, there may be issues if you are residing in an all-girls dorm. Some schools accommodate transgender students by placing them in private rooms during transition, and still others will go ahead and place them in a dorm or with roommates of the gender they are transitioning to. Many schools, however, will not do this until a person fits the legal definition - of the country, state, or province- of the transitioned gender. Check with your school beforehand so that you won't have any surprises).
 As with HRT, not all trans men choose to have surgeries. If you are okay with the way your body looks without surgery, that's just as okay as if you're not. Trans men's bodies come in all shapes and sizes, just like cisgender men's. There are actually three types of surgeries you can elect to undergo to become physically more male.


Top Surgery: removes the breast tissue and makes the chest look more masculine. There are a few different procedures, which depend on chest size, skin elasticity, and what you prefer (i.e. scarring, recovery time, and risks/benefits). The three main surgeries are:


Bilateral Mastectomy or Bilateral Incision (if you have a cup size C, D, or bigger, this is your only option)

Subcutaneous Mastectomy or Keyhole (best for guys with hardly any tissue, such as AA)

Subcutaneous Mastectomy or Peri-Areolar (not as much scarring as Keyhole, but if you are bigger than B you can't do it)


Hysterectomy: is the removal of the uterus. This is often combined with Bilateral Salpingo-oophorectomy, removal of the ovaries and fallopian tubes.

Because testosterone stops menstrual cycles, some doctors speculate it could increase the risk of reproductive cancers (more studies are currently being conducted to determine if this is so). Your doctor may recommend getting this procedure within the first five years or so of starting testosterone. It is important to remember that once the ovaries and uterus are removed, your body will not produce testosterone on its own and you will be relying solely on Testosterone therapy. If you, for any reason, decide to quit hormone therapy, you may need to take estrogen and progesterone pills to prevent bone loss.
Many men choose to have hysterectomies so they can avoid having to see a gynecologist, as they find this embarrassing.
Some states/countries require genital surgery before a transgender person can legally change their gender.


Bottom Surgery: the construction of male genitalia. There are two types: metaoidioplasty or phalloplasty.

At the same time, surgeons can extend the urethra so the constructed penis can be used to urinate. The vagina can also be sealed during the procedure; as well, the patient can choose to have a scrotum constructed and prosthetic testicles inserted.


Some health insurance policies consider bottom surgery to be cosmetic, which means the patient is financially responsible for covering the cost, which can be expensive. Top surgery tends to run around $5,500-7,000; hysterectomy cost is similar. Bottom surgery can cost between $5,000-20,000 depending on the procedure that is chosen.
 Once again, each state/province/country has its own laws on what an individual needs to do to officially become another gender. Many require documentation from a psychologist or doctor confirming true gender. New York state requires an endocrinologist to confirm that a person has been on testosterone, as well as a surgeon to confirm that top surgery and a hysterectomy has been performed.

