 Get together everything you need to create a fireball using soapy water and flammable gas. For this trick, you’ll need a large, open container, water, liquid detergent and access to a valve or canister of flammable gas like butane or methane. You may also need a rubber hose to direct the flow of gas into the soap solution.Flammable gases, especially in compressed canisters, should only be used under the supervision of an expert or knowledgeable adult.
Butane can be purchased in small bottles with built-in nozzles for simple culinary use.
 Fill your container about ¾ with cold water. Squeeze in 1-2 ounces of liquid soap and stir until the soap is dissolved in the water. You don’t need to use a lot of soap—just enough to create a mild solution. The soap and water will form a protective layer on your skin to keep you from being burned.Any regular liquid dish soap will do the trick. Stay away from hand soaps and liquid laundry detergents.
The lipids in the soap solution will naturally separate from the gas bubbles, keeping them away from your skin.
 Begin infusing the gas into the soap solution. If you’re using a commercial butane canister, simply place the nozzle below the surface of the water and give it a few squeezes. If you’re using a large methane tank or gas valve, release the gas slowly into the soap solution until it begins to bubble. Gases like butane and methane are lighter than air, so the bubbles will continue to rise and grow larger the more gas you add.The bubbles themselves will be extremely flammable, so be careful and only use a little at a time. Methane bubbles, in particular, are light enough to stack up on top of one another interminably until the gas supply is shut off., Dip your hand into the gas-infused soap solution. Coat your entire hand to make sure the solution sticks to your skin. Most of the gas will be trapped in the bubbles, so scoop up a handful for a bigger flame that burns longer.Whatever gas bubbles come into contact with your hands will burn out before they reach your skin through the soap solution.
 Take a lighter to the gas bubbles and set them ablaze. Both butane and methane are extremely flammable, so watch out! The fire will burn intensely for a few seconds, but there’s no need to worry. The soapy water solution will act as a barrier between the flame and your skin.The bubbles and fumes from the gas will continue rising even after they’ve touched your skin. This means that they’ll catch fire as they’re moving away from you, making the experiment safe.Look out for drips and drifting bubbles. These can be ignited on their own!

