 It's a guarantee that if you mentioned wanting to get married once, it's burned into his brain. The more you talk about it, the less he hears it. If you're the one who always brings it up and the word "marriage" never comes out of his mouth, then you should take it easy for a while.
 You may think your friends are being helpful by casually slipping in marriage comments to him, but it will likely make him feel ganged up on. Let him come to the decision on his own, without the advice or urging of those in your life.
 Though you may think that giving your man an ultimatum is the fastest way to get him to spring to action, giving an ultimatum -- "Marry me or it's over" -- will actually make him feel too much pressure and won't make him propose any faster. Saying, "Propose in the next two months or it's over" will actually scare him off and will deter him from proposing.


However, if you really feel like you've been waiting around forever and are fully ready and think he is, too, then let him know without making a harsh statement.
 If you've only been with your boyfriend for a few months, or have been together longer than that but things aren't really serious between you if you have to be honest, then you shouldn't start pressuring him to marry you if he's beyond not ready. Doing this too early in the relationship, especially way too early, can end the relationship quicker than you can say, "I do."


Just because all of your friends are getting ready or you can't wait to try on a wedding dress doesn't mean that you should talk about your wedding from your second date -- or there won't be a third.
 Many magazines may give you the wrong message, making you think that if you want your man to fall in love with you, all you have to do is cook a five-course meal in a pair of hot high heels, stay up late to pick him up when he's on a bender with his buddies, or to generally be at his beck and call so he can see what an "amazing" girlfriend you are.This will not make him upgrade you to wife status. Men are much more interested in women who are confident and independent than women who serve their every need and will drop everything just to pamper and feed them -- especially if they're only doing it because they think it'll make him more likely to propose.







