 If you have to cancel a wedding, a birthday party, or a holiday event, you can use a less formal letter format. You should still maintain a professional tone but it does not have to be as formal as a business cancellation letter. You may be on a first name basis with guests to a party you are hosting so you can be less formal.You should still include the date you are composing the letter. You should also include a direct address, such as “Dear ”.
For example, you may write:

Dear Johnson Family, or Dear Aunt Bev and Uncle Sam, or Dear Hilary,



, Begin the letter by cutting right to the chase and letting the receipt know of the cancellation. Be specific and clear. You may also include a brief reason for the cancellation.For example, you may write:

We regret to inform you that the marriage of Janet Doe to Jack Smith has been cancelled. After some consideration, we feel it best to wait before making such a serious commitment to each other.


Or you may write:
I'm sorry to inform you that the birthday party for Jessica, has been cancelled due to a sudden passing within our family.
Or, you may write:

Due to unforeseen circumstances, I have decided to cancel the upcoming holiday party.
 Strike a considerate, apologetic tone in your letter, as you may be putting several guests out due to your cancellation. Make sure you acknowledge the planning and scheduling done by your guests to attend your event and apologize for any inconvenience you may have caused.


For example, you may write:

We know you have sacrificed your time and money to attend our wedding and we apologize for any inconvenience this cancellation may have caused.


Or, you may write:

I am aware that you have set aside time for the party and spent money on a ticket to attend the event. You will receive a full refund for your ticket. I apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused.


Or, you may write:

I know that you have made time for this party in your schedule and I apologize for any inconvenience that may have been caused.
 Make sure you wrap up the letter by expressing gratitude and appreciation. The cancellation may seem mildly upsetting to the receipt and you should end your letter by expressing warmth and positivity.


The final letter may appear as:

Dear Johnson Family,
We regret to inform you that the marriage of Janet Doe to Jack Smith has been cancelled. After some consideration, we feel it best to wait before making such a serious commitment to each other. We know you have sacrificed your time and money to attend our wedding and we apologize for any inconvenience this cancellation may have caused.
We appreciate your warm friendship and love.
Sincerely,
Janet Doe and Jack Smith.
 You should try to send out the cancellation letters as soon as possible, as you want to ensure the receipts can adjust their schedules accordingly. You may send the cancellation letters by express mail or use email for faster delivery.


If you use email, you will keep the same letter structure. You should also use the BCC option on email so the receipt list is not visible to everyone on the email.

