 Determine the type of attorney you need by evaluating what type of bankruptcy filing is right for you. In making this determination, consider:


Are you seeking to file bankruptcy for an individual or a business? A bankruptcy attorney will most likely have more experience in one classification or the other.
If you are having difficulty with personal finances and do not have the ability to pay existing debts, you may be looking to file a Chapter 7 bankruptcy.
If you want to restructure your debt so that you can make monthly payments, and you have a steady income, you may want to file for a Chapter 13 bankruptcy.
If you do not qualify for Chapter 13 bankruptcy because your debt is too great (with unsecured debt of more than $336,900 or secured debt of more than $1,010,650), you may be able to restructure your debt through Chapter 11 bankruptcy. ;
, Someone you know and whose opinion you value may know of a good bankruptcy attorney. A personal referral can let you know how it was to work with a particular attorney and whether they would recommend that person. , If you know any attorneys or tax preparers, you should ask them whether they can recommend a good bankruptcy attorney. Often professionals maintain a list of other professionals whose services their clients may need. They may be able to provide you several names of attorneys in your area whom they recommend to their own clients.
 There are a number of ways to find experienced attorneys in your area. Most state and local bar associations provide attorney referral services. Bankruptcy associations also maintain lists of bankruptcy experts. You can find a list of state and local bar associations at: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx.
The Consumer Bankruptcy Association maintains information about referrals and attorneys on its website at: https://nacbanow.com.
 In compiling your list of bankruptcy attorneys, you should narrow your list by area of practice. You want an attorney who specializes in the type of bankruptcy that you need. For example, if you need an attorney who handles bankruptcy for businesses, eliminate any attorneys who specialize in consumer/individual bankruptcy. , Once you have gathered the names of several bankruptcy attorneys, you want to examine their experience. Consider the following:


Focus not only on how long an attorney has been practicing law, but also how long they have been practicing bankruptcy law.
Whether bankruptcy is the main focus of their practice?
Do they have specialization certificates in bankruptcy?
Are they members of bankruptcy organizations?, You should be able to find a lot of information about attorneys online. Conduct an Internet search for each attorney’s name, and evaluate the search results with an eye towards whether or not the material indicates specialization, success, and experience in bankruptcy law.


Read through any client reviews.
Closely evaluate an attorney’s website for professionalism and indications of areas of practice.
Consider the attorney’s educational background.
Read articles or blog posts they've written. , Contact state and local bar associations to determine whether the attorney has ever been disciplined or if any complaints were filed against them. If unhappy clients filed the complaints, you may want to consider using a different lawyer.


You can also ask whether the bar association certifies bankruptcy attorneys and, if so, ask whether the attorneys you are researching are certified bankruptcy experts. , After you have completed your research, narrow your list to the top three or four candidates. You should contact the attorneys to see whether they offer free or discounted initial consultations. If none of the attorneys offer those services, begin by making appointments with just two of them (to save yourself some money).


When making your appointment, consider how you were treated on the phone. Was the staff courteous and professional? Their conduct reflects on the law practice as a whole. , In an initial consultation you'll probably have only an hour with the attorney, so come prepared with questions you want to ask (discussed below) and also with copies of your financial documents. When gathering these documents, be sure to:


Compile a list of all present and past debts, property that you own, and all of your financial accounts with balance information.
Bring a copy your tax returns and paycheck stubs.
Bring a copy of the deed to your house, if applicable. , When you meet with the attorney, notice how they are treating you, whether they meet with you personally (rather than having a staff member do it), and whether they answer your questions clearly. Additionally, evaluate their level of experience in handling bankruptcy cases like yours. Some questions that you should ask the attorney include:


Have they handled bankruptcy cases similar to yours?
How long have they been practicing bankruptcy law?
How many bankruptcy cases do they file each month? You want an attorney with significant experience in bankruptcy cases but not one who files a lot of cases a month, because they may not be able to provide you with individual attention. , Once you discuss your financial background with the attorney and show him or her your financial documents, you want to evaluate how the attorney would proceed with your case. The strategy may change once the attorney has more time to review your materials, but you can still get a sense of their approach, style and knowledge.


Ask the attorney what type(s) of bankruptcy may be right for you. This provides you with additional information about types of bankruptcy and gives you an opportunity to evaluate the attorney’s legal knowledge and demeanor in speaking with clients. Ask who would be handling your case and whether they would be available to answer your questions on a moment's notice. You want to make sure that the attorney isn’t going to pass your case to someone outside of the law firm. Some firms, known as bankruptcy mills, take more cases than they can handle and then retain outside lawyers to take over cases. You do not want to retain a bankruptcy mill. , When making your appointment, you can ask what the attorney charges for a typical Chapter 7 or 13 bankruptcy. Realize that many attorneys want to evaluate a case and meet with a client before discussing the particulars of their fees. When evaluating fees, you should:


Call several attorneys in the area and ask what they charge for a typical Chapter 7 or 13 bankruptcy. This will give you a starting point to evaluate the reasonableness of the fees.
When discussing a fee, ask what specifics the fee will cover. Generally for Chapter 7 or 13 bankruptcy filings, a flat fee should include: a consultation and evaluation of your financial situation; preparation of all court filings; and representation at the bankruptcy hearing. Most flat fees will not include representing you at a contested hearing.
If the attorney is offering a fee that is much lower than that of other attorneys, consider the possibility that s/he is quoting a fee without properly considering your specific case. Attorney’s fees vary by location. Nationally, between the years 2005 and 2009, average attorney’s fees for a Chapter 7 bankruptcy ranged from $1,080 to $1,200. Recently in Idaho, fees have ranged as low as $700, while in Arizona they've climbed to as much as $1,530. Generally fees between $1,200 and $2,500 are considered reasonable. In a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, attorney’s fees between $2,500 and $5,500 are typical depending on location.Most bankruptcy attorneys will expect you to pay your fees even before they file your Chapter 7 bankruptcy. In a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, attorneys may allow you to pay some of your fees through a payment plan after they have filed your case. , After meeting with the attorneys you should take some time to compose your thoughts on each one. It is important to consider the following for each candidate:


Whose background and skills seem most in line with your needs?
Who seemed to exercise the best judgment when offering advice?
With whom did you feel most comfortable interacting?
Whose fees seemed reasonable and fair compared with those of other attorneys?
Will you receive individual attention? , When choosing a bankruptcy attorney you must look for certain warning signs that indicate that an attorney may not be reputable or experienced. During your initial consultation watch for the following warning signs:


Was the initial meeting run by the attorney or by another staff member such as a paralegal? If you did not meet with the attorney, the firm may be a bankruptcy mill that will not provide you and your case individual attention.
How long did the meeting last? If the meeting was 30 minutes or less and the lawyer did not get into the specifics of your case, this may reflect a bankruptcy firm that will not provide you with individualized attention. Most initial meetings should last around an hour so that the lawyer has a chance to understand the specifics of your case. After the meeting did you understand your options for filing bankruptcy? If you leave the meeting without having a good sense of options, the attorney did not provide you with enough information. Did you feel pressured to sign a fee agreement? Attorneys realize that you may need time to consider all of your choices. If an attorney pressures you to sign a fee agreement immediately, they may continue to exert pressure on you throughout the case, which is not conducive to a good working relationship. , After you have weighed the pros and cons of each attorney, choose the one that will meet your needs, provide individualized legal services, and with whom you feel most comfortable.


Once you have decided on an attorney, sign the fee agreement and pay your retainer.
If you don’t feel comfortable with any of the attorneys you've visited, trust your instinct and interview others.

