 Regardless of whether or not you believe the rifle to be unloaded, you should go through the unloading process before attempting to measure the barrel.


Note that the measuring process is essentially the same for all rifles, including both bolt-action and semi-automatic rifles. There can be some differences in the unloading process, however.
For a bolt-action rifle:Point the gun in a safe direction, supporting the barrel with your dominant hand.
Click the bolt upward and back to open it, using your non-dominant hand.
Look down into the chamber and into the magazine. If there is any ammo in the gun, carefully slide the bolt into the magazine until it ejects the cartridges.


For a semi-automatic rifle:Point the gun in a safe direction.
Locate the magazine release latch at the rear of the magazine cover. Pull the latch back to drop the magazine open. The cartridges inside the magazine should drop out of the bottom.
 The length of the barrel spans between the muzzle and the face of the bolt or breech face. Do not measure any portion of the barrel that extends behind the bolt or breech face.


Close the bolt by sliding it forward and down.
Close the breech face by pushing the slide back and allowing it to snap back forward.
 Insert an appropriately sized dowel rod into the muzzle. Slide it into the barrel until it comes to a stop at the face of the bolt or the breech face.


The diameter of the dowel should be smaller than the diameter of the gun barrel.
 Draw a line just above the muzzle, keeping your writing instrument as close to the muzzle as possible for a more accurate reading.


Use a pencil, pen, or permanent marker for best results.
 Slide the dowel out of the barrel. Place the dowel in front of you and set the gun aside.


When setting the gun aside, make sure that it is pointing in a safe direction.
 Using a tape measure or measuring stick, measure the distance between the line and the end of the dowel previously inside the barrel.


The length of this section is the length of the gun barrel.

