 Being a caregiver is stressful, so it is important to keep your stress levels under control. Some signs that you may be overly stressed from your caregiving responsibilities include:Often feeling tired, fatigued, overwhelmed, worried, irritable, angry, or sad.
Not getting enough sleep.
Losing or gaining weight without trying.
Not feeling interested in doing things you used to enjoy.
Feeling achy or in pain much of the time.
Taking drugs (illegal or prescription) or drinking to feel better.;
, Reaching out for help when you have too much on your plate is an essential coping strategy for caregivers. If you feel overwhelmed, be sure to tell a friend or family member and ask for help.


Try saying something like, “I am having a hard time getting everything done today. Can you please some and help me for an hour or two?”
You might even consider making a list of your daily tasks so that you can easily delegate things to people who offer to help you.For example, you might include items on the list such as “make dinner,” “take out the trash,” “do the dishes,” “give Sue a bath,” and “tidy up the bathroom.” List as many of your daily or weekly to-do items as you can think of on the list so that people who want to help you can easily pick something to do to help you out.
 Talking to other people who understand what you are experiencing can help you to cope with your situation. Look for a stroke survivor caregiver group or a general caregiver group in your area. Connecting with other caregivers will give you a chance to share your experiences and hear about the experiences of other people.You may also learn about different coping techniques people have tried and gain insight for your own situation based on what has worked for other people.
Ask your doctor for information on caregiver support groups in your area.
 The emotional weight of caring for someone who has survived a stroke can be hard to handle on your own. If you are having trouble managing your emotions, then you may want to talk with someone who can help you, such as a therapist.Ask your doctor for information on therapists in your area.
 Your physical health can affect your emotional well-being. To ensure that you are as emotionally healthy as possible, make sure that you are doing things to ensure good physical health, such as:Eating healthy foods.

Exercising regularly.
Drinking plenty of water.

Getting adequate rest.
Making time for relaxation every day.

