 Seek supportive counseling if your child is upset by their bedwetting. Know that bedwetting is commonly cured spontaneously after a child reaches 5 years of age. Also understand that bedwetting is an entirely involuntary process; the child has no control over the behavior, and so your child should not feel guilty or be punished. Acceptance of the bedwetting by a child's parents is important and may speed up the spontaneous resolution of the bedwetting., If your child wets the bed, do your best not to blame them or make them feel ashamed. If they feel ashamed, they’ll be more likely to keep wetting the bed and keep it a secret from you. Shaming and blaming can lead to lower self-worth and lower self-esteem. Acknowledge any shame your child may feel. Acknowledge any frustration you might feel. You can say to your child, “I know you feel bad this happened again, and this is tough for me, too. But it’s not a big deal. We can handle this.”Remember to praise and acknowledge your child for any dry nights they have.
 Encourage your child to be involved in the cleaning-up process after bedwetting. You can ask her to help you change the sheets, put her soiled clothes away, or rinse her soiled underwear. This will help her start to take on some sense of control over her bedwetting.You can say, “It’s okay, honey. Why don’t we get you into some fresh sheets and clothes and you’ll feel better. Can you help me make your bed?”

, If anxiety or stress play a role in your child’s bedwetting, encourage them to express their feelings. Perhaps your child is anxious and wetting the bed because of a recent transition, such as a move, a divorce, or a new sibling in the family. Perhaps your child is stressed because of bullying or teasing at school. Talking to them about these stressors will allow them to feel more comforted, calm, and secure, which will reduce bedwetting behavior., The shame and embarrassment that comes along with bedwetting is worse for adults and young adults, who might think of bedwetting as a “kid problem.” However, it’s actually fairly common for both kids and adults, and both kids and adults tend to avoid social situations because of potential bedwetting. Remind yourself or your child that bedwetting is fairly common, involuntary, and unintentional. If your child has siblings or guests in the house, put a stop to any teasing that occurs because of bedwetting.If your child is attending a sleepover or camp, help them develop a plan to prevent bedwetting or deal with it once it occurs. Encourage them to go to the bathroom before bed and have a change of clothes handy. Teach them how to use a waterproof bed pad in their sleeping bag or how to dispose of things like pull-ups. Let the adult in charge know about their bedwetting, so that your child knows an adult is looking out for them if they need help when an accident occurs., Be understanding if your child or loved one does not want to talk about their bedwetting. Especially be understanding of their privacy by not talking about the bedwetting in front of others.
 If you have experienced bedwetting yourself in the past, talk with your child or loved one about it. This will help them feel understood and less alone. Normalize the experience for them, as it’s something many children experience and many children get through with time., Hypnosis, guided imagery, and psychotherapy have been helpful in some cases where bedwetting is more severe or when there is significant anxiety related to bedwetting.Finding a psychotherapist who specializes in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy will help you implement behavioral strategies, as well as talk through any anxiety, shame, and unhelpful thoughts associated with bedwetting.