 The recommended minimum size for your hamster’s cage is at least 18 inches (width) x 13 inches (height) x 25 inches (length), which is equal to 450 square inch floor space, which is the minimum for humanely housing a hamster of any type. The 13 inch height is to allows you to fit a 10-12 inch wheel for a Syrian hamster. However, bigger is always better, since your hamster will want plenty of space to run, climb, and play.Your hamster will also want to have separate areas to go to the bathroom, sleep, and store food, which will necessitate a very spacious cage.If you will be housing more than one hamster in the same cage, the cage will need to be even bigger to give each hamster plenty of room. A good guideline to follow is the minimum floor space times the number of hamsters to be put in the cage
Some Dwarf hamsters can be housed together in pairs, but only in same-sex pairs to prevent breeding. Roborovski and Russian Campbells are the best hamsters to be housed in pairs. Keep in mind that Syrian hamsters are very territorial and should never be housed together.However, they can be housed near each other in separate cages, so long as they can't be disturbed by each others presence. So a rule of thumb should be to separate their cage by 4-6 inches.;
, A poorly ventilated cage can lead to the build-up of ammonia, which is toxic to your hamster and can lead to respiratory problems.Poorly ventilated cages can also lead to bacterial growth, which could also make your hamster sick.Wire cages tend be very well ventilated, but aquariums and plastic hamster cages are often poorly ventilated.Your hamster may start to have trouble breathing if his aquarium or plastic cage is not well ventilated. If you notice that he is not breathing properly or looks unwell in general (not eating, playing as much or has physical signs of illness), consider cleaning his cage to remove soiled bedding. You may also want to consider purchasing a wire cage, that is of adequate size.
 You will need clean your hamster’s cage once or twice a week depending on your cage, so you will want a cage that will not be too difficult to clean. Wire cages are probably the easiest type of cage to clean. Aquariums and plastic cages may need more frequent cleaning because of their poor ventilation, but this most likely won't be an issue if your cage is the minimum size or above.Plastic cages are the most difficult to clean, since they often have many different components, are multi-level, and have twists and turns that could be a challenge for you to reach.No matter which type of cage you have, it would be helpful to have a secondary, smaller cage that you can put your hamster in while you are cleaning his main cage or away travelling with your hamster. , Your hamster’s nails could get caught in a grated or wire floor, which often leads to foot injuries. Also, solid plastic floors are easier to clean than grated floors., If you have a Syrian hamster, you will likely be fine with any type of cage, as long as it is the minimum size or larger and has places for him to play, sleep, and eat. However, if you have a smaller species of hamster (i.e., Chinese, Dwarf), you will need to be more careful with the type of cage you choose. For example, you will need to pay special attention to the spacing between the wires of a wire cage (no more than 1/2 inch of spacing), since a tiny hamster could squeeze through those spaces.An aquarium or plastic cage may be better for your Chinese or dwarf hamster, since he would not be able to escape easily., The fact that your hamster’s cage is an important investment does not mean that you have to find the most expensive one that you can find. Small wire cages tend to be inexpensive, but wire cages of the minimum size or more are extremely costly. Plastic cages are also expensive, and most of the time don't even come close to the minimum cage size. Aquariums or bin cages can usually be your best bet.