 Babies with RAD, quite frankly, won't be – physiologically, emotionally or cognitively. When they are not thriving it shows in various forms:



Physically. They do not show appropriate growth in form of weight, owing to their poor eating.

Emotionally. Even when they are distressed, they cannot be comforted, as they believe there is no person from whom they can draw comfort, support and warmth.

Cognitively. Based on their previous experiences, they manage to form more so accurate representations of how their mother/primary caregiver would respond to them and their needs.;
, Once more, babies with RAD don't engage in active play or activity. They are usually the "good babies" who are not difficult to take care of and who don't need a lot of control and monitoring. They don't do much of anything at all.


They tend to show dullness and lethargy in their physical movements, as well as play as little as possible with toys or don't bother to explore the world around them. Babies are naturally inquisitive, but babies with this disorder are not.
 They do not discriminate or differentiate between their primary caregiver and strangers. They have no special affinity to their mother and in fact tend to seek bonding and closeness from adult strangers. This is much unlike healthily attached children, who seek comfort in those they trust and love.


You can see how this is going to lead to problems later in life. If a child or teen can find refuge in strangers, the stage is set for problems to brew. This factor of RAD leads to impulsive, radical behavior later in life.
 A secure relationship between the child and the caregiver filled with great sense of affection, attachment and bonding helps the child develop empathy, social skills and skills to regulate emotions effectively. If the relationship isn't secure, these skills will not hatch. How does the caregiver treat the baby? When it cries, does he or she come running? Is there an environment of positivity?


This is what Freud felt and said about the relationship between a child and its mother: “The relationship between the mother and child is the prototype for all future relationships.” For this disorder, he wasn't wrong. The means of this relationship will likely determine the rest of the child's relationships throughout the course of his or her life.
 With this subtype of RAD, children fail to initiate as well as respond appropriately to social interactions and are inclined towards avoiding social contacts.When the child's needs are not met, they feel deprived of love and affection, making them perceive themselves as unwanted and unworthy of receiving appropriate care, attention and affection at appropriate times. This makes them feel insecure and unsafe, and when they feel unsafe, they are not confident with others. This gets projected in the self-esteem, which accompanies them at all times.
 Contrary to children with inhibited RAD, there are some other children with RAD who project their social preparedness overly and overtly. They try to seek comfort, support and love from almost all adults, regardless of how well they know them. This kind of behavior is mostly viewed as promiscuous, and may cause adults to take advantage of the child.


This is the type of child that has learned to not rely on those they are supposed to trust and instead seek fulfillment in strangers. Often, the differentiation between inhibited and uninhibited RAD doesn't become clear until later in life.
 Behaviors such as this can be mistaken for ADHD (attention deficit disorder). However, RAD also will showcase the following:


Compulsive lying and stealing

Showing indiscriminate affinity to getting involved with strangers and displaying age-inappropriate and risky sexual behaviors

It's important to note that these are not behavioral problems as they might appear to be, but rather the result of improper brain development owing to the neglect and abuse which they had to undergo during the initial months and years of their life.
 When the first part of establishing the bond itself is not achieved, then the brain – instead of focusing on intellectual aspects of growth – starts focusing on developing survival skills and strategies. This explains why they perform badly at school, in terms of studies. Their brain fails to cover the journey which could ensure its proper development in all aspects. Just as their brains, their learning too is delayed.


This slow brain development explains why a child with RAD displays behaviors such as aggression, manipulation, compulsive lying, controlling and withdrawal, as well as why they are so aggressive and are so bad at anger management. They resort to destructive behaviors and do not even show any remorse for their behavior because they just don't know any better.
 As the child grows, they develop a keen sense of detachment and abandonment and also lose all skills to trust themselves and others. This contributes to their failure to make friends and building long-lasting relationships. The feelings of inadequacy (unwanted, not worthy of being loved and cared for) which started from the time his physical and emotional needs were ignored continue to grow and eat into their self-esteem. This is a vast, vicious cycle that they can't seem to stop.


Since their self-esteem is at rock bottom, they don't see why anybody would be friends with them and behave as if they need nobody. This kind of behavior puts off people from befriending them. To fill the void, their loneliness and depression and as a way to calm down their nerves, they often take to alcohol and drugs.
 These children are very controlling, by either being manipulative, aggressive, or arm-twisting. Their brains are busy developing survival tactics and strategies; therefore, they lose the capacity to learn how to deal with others positively and to have positive interactions in order to get what they want.


This child does not trust others and their intentions and believes that since they will not come through, the best way to get what they want from others is by being manipulative, aggressive and resorting to some arm-twisting actions. Positive reinforcement and behavior is not something they're familiar with.
 The child will show tendencies of attention deficit disorder (ADHD), indicating low impulse control. They will not hesitate to do things which normally other children would not (or would at least give serious thought to) and will not even bother to think about the impact and implications such behavior could have on him and others.


Take note of their inappropriate and risky sexual behavior. Children with RAD sometimes show behaviors of promiscuity. They show a great affinity to and get sexually involved with total strangers – often multiple people at the same time.
 A normal child begins making eye contact from the initial days of their life. They learn it from their mother/caregiver(s) who have been there to look deeply into their eyes with abundant affection and love. Since this did not happen, the child does not understand the significance of maintaining eye contact and will show a lot of discomfort and finds such experiences overstimulating.


This is all intertwined with their lack of social skills and desire to not develop close relationships. Everything from their thoughts to their words to their little involuntary habits will indicate that in their world, people just aren't trustworthy.
 Reactive attachment disorder occurs in infants and young children. It is characterized by ongoing and persistent abnormalities in the child’s social relationships that are associated with emotional disturbance and changes to environmental circumstances. Children with this disorder do not display typical childhood responses to stimuli. For example:


They often respond to comforting with fearfulness and hypervigilance.
Children can often show interest in peer interactions, but negative emotional responses impede with any forms of social engagement.
The emotional disturbance may be evident with a lack of emotional response, withdrawal reactions or aggression when experiencing or witnessing distress.
An extreme form of reluctance to accept or initiate comfort or affection especially when distressed or excessive and indiscriminate attempts to receive affection and comfort from any adult, including strangers.
 As reactive attachment disorder is a response to an inappropriate environment that the child is reared within, such children do actually have a normal capacity to demonstrate appropriate social responsiveness, while autistic children do not. Symptoms of RAD resolve themselves over time if the children is given consistent appropriate caregiver responses, whereas autistic/developmentally disabled children require therapies to teach social skills.


Children with reactive attachment disorder may display impaired language development. However, this does not mean they exhibit characteristics of abnormal communication as seen in autism.
Children with RAD experience no persistent repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior, nor do they have the passionate special interests as seen in autism.
Autistic children are socially uncertain rather than socially aggressive, and are unlikely to exhibit manipulative behavior, stealing, or significant lying.
 Having a good understanding of the caregiver responsiveness your child has experienced in their development is not necessary for diagnosis of reactive attachment disorder, but it certainly is recommended for a health professional to draw informed conclusions.Reactive attachment disorder almost always arises in response to severely inadequate childcare. It can arise due to any or a combination of the below as an ongoing characteristic of the child’s rearing experiences:

Abrupt separation from caregivers usually between six months and three years
A frequent change of caregivers
A lack of caregiver responsiveness to the child’s communication efforts
Severe forms of neglect and abuse
Grossly inept parenting
Consistent disregard for the child’s basic physical needs



, It is true that children are usually resilient to any changes to environment and conditions. They are quite adaptable and flexible and do their best to get accustomed to the existing conditions and situations. However, the following situations may lead to RAD:


If the child has a history of having lived for a considerable period in an orphanage or a foster home
If the child has grown up in a home which was governed by incredibly strict principles, rules and rigidity
If they have grown up away from parents and other loved ones in hostels and boarding schools
If the parents were too busy to take care of their child and the child was left under the care of supposed-to-be caregivers
If the child lived/grew up/spent considerable time under the care of a primary caregiver and with whom the child bonded, but got separated from him/her
If the child happened to witness lot of quarrels, fights and arguments happening between the parents
If the parents were grappling with such issues as anger management, stress, depression, alcohol and drug abuse, or any other personality disorder
If there was physical, sexual and emotional abuse in the home

Again, all these are hypothetical situations. It cannot be said for sure that a child under these circumstances will develop RAD.
 Keep in mind that while having knowledge of the history of a child’s upbringing is important to help diagnose your child, just because a child has experienced any combination of the above does not mean that they will have reactive attachment disorder.If your child displays any of the above symptoms, too, it does not necessarily mean they this disorder.Try your best not to jump to conclusions. Rather, if concerned, take your child to a doctor, child and adolescent mental health professional or pediatrician who can better inform you of their expert clinical opinion. The child can start therapy and soon be on the way to healthy, adaptive behaviors.

