 Attend carefully to how you dress.How you look plays a big part in attracting the attention and admiration of folks in the office. Go for office chic and classics (tasteful suit and tie for a man, modest dress or skirt and blouse for a woman), while steering clear of outfits you might wear for clubbing or a bar night out with friends.


If you have to wear a uniform at work, consider dressing it up with accessories or sharp shoes. If that's not allowed, always aim for impeccable grooming.
Select designs that accentuate your shape, while still having a professional, business flair. If you wear scrubs or a specific uniform for work, the best way you can ensure you look good is to have it tailored to fit your shape. Otherwise, choose outfits that compliment your body type. Avoid wearing low cut tops or outfits that are too tight.
Avoid showing too much skin. While showing some cleavage or your bulging biceps at the bar may be the usual socializing way to attract someone you're interested in, doing so at the office is a no-no and may earn you an unwanted reputation. Refer to your common sense (and your employee handbook) to ensure you remain within corporate dress code, while accentuating your best features. Check out others around you if you're not sure where the line is drawn.
Regardless of your gender, wear red, even if it’s just a trim of red, or a red shirt with white blouse or dark suit. Both sexes are more attracted to potential mates wearing red than those in wearing other colors.;
, Men could consider getting a pompadour or Freeman’s cut. The Freeman’s cut leaves several inches on top while keeping it close, possibly fading up, on the sides. The pompadour evokes a classic, effortless cool like that of James Dean, with a longer, textured top and tapered sides. Don’t try to perfect your hair; a little messiness is masculine and sexy.


Women can wear any number of styles -- short, long, curly, straight -- but to attract a coworker, the important thing is to keep it looking nice.
Hair which is greasy, too loaded with hairspray or product, or dyed unnatural colors tends to turn men off.
Wash and condition your hair every couple days (washing every day can strip essential oils from your scalp).
If you want to dye your hair, stick with red, black, blonde, or brown., Women, especially, tend to use scent in order to determine whether a partner is compatible with them.
 Shave evenly on both sides of your face to ensure your facial hair is balanced. Alternately, when growing a beard or mustache, make sure it comes in evenly. Women might interpret patchy facial hair on an unconscious biological level as indicative of a man in poor health.Women should apply makeup carefully in order to achieve a balanced skin tone.


The one exception is your haircut: it’s okay to have an asymmetrical part, but don’t give yourself a dramatic comb-over.
Both men and women should think about tweezing their eyebrows. Bushy, uneven brows are not attractive.
 A diet full of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables will give your skin a healthy glow.Produce is loaded with antioxidants and natural pigments which add a rosy hue to your cheeks. Eat about two cups of fruit and three cups of veggies each day in order to meet the recommended daily allotment., Visit the gym to work out more.Do both cardiovascular exercises (like running and biking) and strength training (like lifting weights or doing squats). Becoming trim and fit is an easy way to make yourself more attractive. Even when you’re in a job where you can’t show off your six-pack abs or chiseled calves, people will notice when you’ve lost weight and gained energy.
 The level of attraction men and women possess varies with different facial expressions.Women appear more attractive to potential mates when they smile more. Men, on the other hand, appear more attractive to women when they look brooding, proud, and powerful. Place your hands on your hips when standing, walk with pride, and make eye contact with people. Pound your fist on the table to make a point when addressing people.


To look more brooding, furrow your brow. Imagine you’re slightly worried about something. Don’t frown, but don’t smile either. Keep your mouth in a straight, tight line.
To look more powerful, you could also practice power poses. Stand, don’t sit, were possible. Lean forward on the table with both arms splayed out in a “V” when addressing someone. Do not cross your arms or sit with your hands in your lap.Both men and women benefit from using open body language like uncrossing your arms and standing upright. Try using open body language to boost your sex appeal.While seated, gay men and straight women might employ the face platter -- a pose in which the hands are placed over each other and then under the chin, with the elbows resting on the table.Gay men should also try smiling or laughing more often to attract members of the same sex.