 There are many brands of engine degreaser you can choose from, but most of them tend to work in the same way. Spray the degreaser on the engine from the bottom up, as this will ensure total coverage.Most degreasers come in a spray bottle to make spraying it on the engine easy and simple.
Read the instructions on the degreaser you purchase to ensure you use the best method for the specific cleaner.
 Engine degreaser can remove clear coat from paint, so be careful not to overspray while covering the engine. If you do get any degreaser on the fenders or other painted areas, rinse it off quickly to avoid damaging the paint.Degreaser can remove the shine from automotive paint.
Rinse degreaser off painted surfaces as quickly as possible.
 Engine degreaser works by eating away at the stuck on grime on the engine. For fairly dirty engines, three minutes is sufficient to loosen up stuck on grease and oil. For especially dirty engines, allow the degreaser to soak for five full minutes before rinsing.If the instructions on the degreaser you chose states a different amount of time, follow the instructions on your bottle.
The longer the degreaser sits, the better job it will do.
After five minutes or so the degreaser will begin to drip off of the engine.
 With the degreaser still soaking on the engine, use a stiff bristled or steel toothed brush to scrub away at any large deposits of grease, burned oil or grime. It should break loose fairly easily with the degreaser already applied.Wear eye protection while scrubbing the engine to avoid getting degreaser in your eyes.
Wear gloves to prevent prolonged contact with the degreaser on your skin.
You only need to scrub the engine if it has unusually large deposits of stuck on grime.
 Do not use a high pressure hose to rinse the engine, as it may disconnect wires or penetrate the plastic you used to cover electronics. A regular garden hose with the nozzle set to stream will rinse the engine effectively and remove most of the grime.If you rinse the engine completely and it still looks dirty, reapply the degreaser and allow it to sit for another few minutes.
 Once you have rinsed the engine off, you should begin washing your car immediately. This will ensure you clean any engine degreaser off of painted components before it has the chance to do any significant damage.Be sure to use a different bucket, sponges, rags and towels on the body of the car.
Wax any areas of the car that may have come into contact with degreaser.

