 Selena Gomez receives a large volume of fan letters and notes each day. She does not have time to respond to them all and cannot meet every fan who makes a request. However, If your circumstances are peculiar enough there is some chance that you might be invited to one of her events free of charge. The easiest way to send Selena Gomez a written note is through one of her social media pages.


Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/Selena

Twitter: https://twitter.com/selenagomez

Google Plus: https://plus.google.com/+SelenaGomez/posts

YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/selenagomez


, Selena Gomez is involved with many well-known charities, including UNICEF.If you get involved with some of the causes and charities that she’s involved in your paths may cross during a charity event. Your contribution or involvement will usually need to be somewhat significant if you hope to get invited to the same events.


For example, you could join her cause by volunteering with UNICEF or starting a UNICEF club at your high school. If you do other charity work, you may also be nominated as a UNICEF "do-gooder," which would draw attention to you and your efforts.
 If you are a terminally ill child and your biggest wish is to meet with Selena Gomez, you can make a request through the Make-a-Wish Foundation. This organization is dedicated to granting the wishes of children who face serious illnesses and this sort of request is not especially unusual. In fact, Selena Gomez has even been known to respond to wishes made through the Make-a-Wish-Foundation in the past.To have your wish granted by the foundation, you must have a referral. The referral can come from yourself, a parent, or a medical professional. You must be between the ages of 2-1/2 and 18 at the time of referral, and you must have a life-threatening medical condition., She may show up to some events that involve a variety of stars without focusing specifically on her. The crowds at these events tend to be large so meeting her there might be difficult. However, it isn’t impossible! If you want to have a chance at meeting her, make sure you show up to these events early so you can get in.


For example, Selena Gomez may attend events put on by the Disney Channel even if that event is not described as a meet-and-greet contest.
If she has been nominated for something, she may even show up at the Nick Choice Awards. You can check on whether or not she is a nominee by visiting the official award show website: http://www.nick.com/kids-choice-awards/


