 The mucous present in a woman’s cervix changes consistency according to the stage of her menstrual cycle. By recognizing the changes in your cervical mucous you may be able to prevent pregnancy.You do not need to see a doctor to use this method and can start using it immediately.Just before ovulation, cervical mucous increases and becomes stretchy and rubbery. Just after ovulation, cervical mucous decreases and becomes thicker and less noticeable.You’ll need to be very comfortable with your body and be extremely diligent in examining your cervical mucus to your cycle to use this method effectively., The Standard Days method observes the “standard rule” that a woman’s menstrual cycle averages between 26 and 32 days. Following this method will require you to avoid sexual intercourse on certain days of your cycle.You do not need to see a doctor to use this method and can start using it immediately.You should avoid sexual intercourse between days 8 and 19 of your menstrual cycle to help prevent pregnancy.You must be extremely diligent in tracking your cycle for this method to be effective.
 This method holds that your basal body temperature, or your body’s temperature while resting, will increase slightly during ovulation. You’ll need to monitor your temperature every day and avoid intercourse at times if you choose to monitor your basal body temperature.You do not need to see a doctor to use this method and can start using it immediately.An increase of .5-1 degree Fahrenheit can indicate ovulation. If your temperature measures slightly high, you should avoid sexual intercourse to help prevent getting pregnant.You must consistently monitor your temperature for this method to have any efficacy. For example, take your temperature every morning when you get up to use as your baseline., The withdrawal method of birth control, which is also called coitus interruptus, is when a man withdraws his penis from a woman’s vagina and away from her external genitals before ejaculation. This is generally an ineffective form of birth control and has an increased risk of pregnancy.Coitus interruptus doesn’t require you to see a doctor and you may start it immediately.
This method will require you and your partner to have significant self control.Even if a man withdraws, sperm can still enter the vagina through pre-ejaculate or if the penis isn’t removed in a timely manner.