 Make a to-do list (or several) for the day, week, or any other amount of time you will be stuck at home to help you manage any tasks you’d like to get done during that time.


Try prioritizing your to-do lists by listing items in order of importance or breaking them into specified categories (e.g. Today, Tomorrow, Weekend, or Urgent, Soon, If Time Allows).
Make completing tasks more fun and satisfying by using colored pens, stickers, or other decoration, and make sure to cross off each item as you finish it!

, Get to chores you’ve been neglecting, like vacuuming, dusting, or washing dishes. Make it fun by putting on music or singing while you work.


Active chores that get you up and moving, like laundry, vacuuming, mopping, or washing windows, have an added bonus of giving you a good physical workout, too.If you do any work from home, focus first on decluttering and reorganizing your desk or office space to help you think clearer and be more focused while you work there.
Try rearranging and reorganizing areas that typically get messy, like closets or kitchen cabinets, so that it is easier to keep them consistently tidy.
 Try to fix broken household items, mend clothing, or make other simple repairs that you’ve been putting off.


If you don’t know how to fix something, look up instructions online. It could be easier to fix than you think.
Use a simple needle and thread to sew on buttons or patches, stitch rips, or make any other adjustments to damaged clothing items so that you can wear them again.
 Rake leaves, mow the lawn, trim branches, or plant something in your yard to help keep it looking good and tidy while being active at the same time.


If you don’t have a yard, simply spruce up a patio or balcony with some plants, a spare chair, or a string of lights.
If you can’t be outside, try planting a few plants inside to grow on a windowsill. All you need is a pot with potting soil, seeds, and water.
 If you have someone’s birthday, graduation, wedding, or other event coming up, use your time at home to plan out what you’ll do and make any calls necessary to reserve a location or order supplies.


Try making your own invitations or decorations for the event to save some money and lend a creative, personal touch.

