 You can find this option on the bottom right of the sign-in page on Facebook. If you're already logged in to your Facebook account, then you can just click on the gear on the top right of the screen and then select the "create a page" option.;
, This option can be found on the top left of the screen.
 Once you select this option, you'll have to write the name of the business, the address, and the phone number of your business. Then click on "Get Started."

, You can click on "Facebook Pages Terms" in blue after you've typed in the relevant information. Once you've checked those out, just click on the box that says you agree and move on.
 You'll be brought to the "About" section, where you can write a short description of your company and also add a unique email address for your business. Save the information when you're done by clicking "Save changes."

, Upload a photo of your business in this step so that your Facebook page is more visually appealing. Click "Save changes" when you're done.
 If you're serious to monitoring your business' Facebook page closely, then you should add this page to your favorites. Just click "Add to favorites" to do this. You can select "Skip" if you choose not to do this.
 Advertising on Facebook can bring more awareness to your business and can help you increase revenue. But this comes at a cost, so you may not want to do this. If you're ready to pay for advertising, click on "Add Payment Method" and follow the prompts. After this step, your page will be ready!

, Select the "Build an audience" option on the top right of your screen, which will allow you to invite your friends, your email contacts, and to share your page with your friends. You can also post information about your business in your Timeline to attract more fans.
 This will give your fans more information about your business. Try to post updates at least a few times a week if there are new things to tell your fans. Do it too often and your fans can get annoyed; don't do it enough and they can forget all about you.
 Upload a cover photo and more photos of your business to get your fans more excited about what you have to offer.


To upload a cover photo, just click on "Add a cover" on the right hand side of where your cover page should be, at the top of your screen, and select "Upload Photo."

, Once you've set up your page and have started to add fans for your business, you can make an effort to keep your page current by posting a few times a week, uploading new photos, and continuing to invite new people you meet to the page of your business.


If you've changed the interior of your business or are selling a new product, post a photo of it.
If there's a sale or a special at your business, post about it.
If your business received a favorable review, share it with your fans.

