


Retaining a full knowledge of the products or services you represent will help you answer customer questions correctly. Educate yourself continuously about new product details and functions.
Use the products and services you represent. This will help you to relate to the customer and use personal experience to troubleshoot questions.
Keep a catalog or spec sheet about products, warranties and contracts close at hand when you answer customer service calls. This will give you a quick reference for answering questions.;
,


A customer with questions will likely have an explanation of the situation that caused the question to arise. Let the customer explain the question fully without interrupting so you understand what the customer is asking.



Jot down key words or notes while the customer is asking a question. Include key details that are being questioned and any pertinent information the customer offers that will be pertinent in answering the customer's question. This allows you to retain information without interrupting.



Summarize and restate the customer's question back to him or her to be sure you understand what is being asked or what needs to be resolved. This technique lets the customer know you're listening and helps you verify the information.



Avoid telling the customer with a question that something can't be done or would never happen. This negative language is dismissive and could make the customer feel that you don't care about answering the question and helping him or her.



Ask for help from a coworker or supervisor if there is any doubt about how to answer a customer's question. Customers will appreciate getting a correct answer, even if it takes a little longer.



Only give a customer an exact price or date of delivery if you can guarantee it. Making false statements about the length of a warranty or when something will be delivered will result in a dissatisfied customer.



Avoid getting defensive or confrontational if a customer is questioning a product or service. He or she could be questioning a customer service procedure or policy, because the customer feels it's unfair or was processed incorrectly. Do your best to answer the customer's question efficiently without letting any negative comments affect the customer service you provide.

