 Deep, diaphragmatic breathing practiced daily can help you alleviate stress and anxiety. Plus, engaging in deep breathing during a panic attack can keep you grounded and help you to overcome the symptoms faster. Hyperventilating, or taking quick, short breaths, is common in a panic attack. Doing diaphragmatic breathing exercises can help you to manage the feeling until panic passes, and may even help prevent future attacks.Sit upright in a comfortable chair. Place your hand on your belly. Take a long, slow breath for four counts in through your nose. You should feel your abdomen expanding. Hold the breath for two counts. Then, release the breath through your mouth for four counts. Notice your abdomen deflating beneath your hand.
Perform this exercise twice a day for five to 10 minutes for greater stress relief.
 Mindfulness relates to the here and now, or the present moment. Frequently with anxiety, you are caught up in either the past or future. Mindfulness allows you to manage stress by emphasizing present-focused awareness. You can engage in mindful meditation, breathing, and other practices to combat anxiety.Mindfulness meditation involves sitting in a quiet room and engaging in deep breathing. Meanwhile, you might consider all the sensations in the present moment: sight, sound, smells, touch, and taste. Whenever you notice your thought wandering to either the past or the future, return them to the present moment.
Mindfulness breathing involves attempting to clear your mind of any thoughts but remaining focused on your breath. Practice deep breathing and as thoughts come into your mind, acknowledge, then repel them and continue to concentrate on your breath.
 In addition to being essential for long-term health and well-being, exercise is paramount when it comes to stress-relief. Because stress can make you more susceptible to experiencing a panic attack, lowering your stress and knowing how to deal with it in a healthy way may decrease your likelihood to suffer an attack. Exercise produces a positive mood state and delivers natural painkillers known as endorphins. Physical activity has been known to improve self-esteem and sleep quality, too.Try out a number of different activities before settling on a few that you enjoy. Keep in mind, that you probably will not commit to activities that you find particularly grueling or tedious. Choose an activity that you like, and find ways of doing it with others to boost your stress management.
One thing to keep in mind is that some people are triggered by things like sweating or an elevated heart rate — physical changes that mirror what happens to your body during a panic attack. If this may be one of your triggers, speak with your therapist before beginning to exercise., Sleep and anxiety exist in a vicious cycle. Failing to sleep can cause a decreased stress response, and more stress can be detrimental to sleep. It seems that chronic worriers are even more affected by a lack of sleep. Research has demonstrated that individuals with anxiety and panic disorder may experience a decrease in symptoms if sleep quality is restored.Aim for seven to nine hours of sleep per night. Develop an winding down routine in which you participate in relaxing activities like reading, doing a crossword puzzle, or drinking decaffeinated tea.
Try to go to sleep and wake up at a regular time each day to create a routine.
Refrain from drinking alcohol and caffeine. People often drink alcohol to get to sleep. While it may initially cause you to pass out, high doses of alcohol disturbs the later stages of sleep. So you may fall asleep faster, but the quality of your sleep is severely compromised.Caffeine can exacerbate the symptoms of anxiety, and, if consumed too late in the day, prevent sleep., It's important to eat well-balanced meals that are rich in vitamins and nutrients. Strive to eat real, unprocessed foods such as lean meat and protein, complex carbohydrates like fruits, vegetables and whole grains, and fat-free or low-fat dairy. Find out if you have any food sensitivities such as gluten or dairy, and avoid these foods to minimize negative reactions that may worsen anxiety.Eat complex carbohydrates, such a whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Ingesting these may encourage the body to create serotonin, which can lower stress.Also, include foods high in Vitamin C such as citrus fruits, and foods rich in magnesium like leafy greens and soybeans. Vitamin C is thought to reduce cortisol, a stress hormone.Stay hydrated and drink 8 (8 oz.) glasses of water or more per day.

