 When you are serving cheese as an appetizer, try to pair it with savory foods. This can include cured meats, like prosciutto and salami, nuts, roasted red peppers, and sauces like mustards and chutneys. You might also consider serving caramelized onions or artichoke hearts.Try to avoid spicy things. The heat of these foods can overwhelm the flavor of your cheese.
Olives also make a good accompaniment.
 Avoid any strong-flavored breads or crackers that will overwhelm the flavor of your cheeses. Skip any items that have garlic or herb flavorings. Instead, choose sourdough or French bread and neutral-flavored crackers., Although not all vegetables are bad for pairing with cheese, try to avoid those with strong flavors. Carrots, broccoli, and cauliflower are not natural pairings with most cheeses. If you are going to serve vegetables, stick with things like sliced fennel and endive spears., Serve your guests fruits like apples, pears, grapes, and figs. You might also want to serve some dried fruits and raisins. These items will complement the flavors of your cheeses and not distract from or overwhelm them.Avoid fruits like orange, grapefruit, kiwi and pineapple. These fruits have a tendency to make the cheeses taste bitter in your mouth.
 In general, you should try to pair milder cheese with lighter, milder wine and stronger-flavored cheeses with more robust, bolder wines. When in doubt, it also helps to remember the old adage, “what grows together goes together.” Cheeses from specific regions tend to pair well with wines from the same area. For example, a goat cheese from the Loire pairs well with a Loire Sancerre.
If you are struggling to determine good pairings, talk to a sommelier or a cheesemonger.
 The rules for pairing cheeses and beers are very similar to those that dictate wine. Lighter cheeses go well with lighter beers and stronger cheeses pair well with darker, heavier beers. You should also look with an eye for geography and try to create pairings from the same region.Consider having a variety of beers available for your guests that pair well with the cheeses available.

