 If you want healthy-looking, strong nails that will look clean and stay clean, mix a paste of baking soda and hydrogen peroxide, using about 2 1/2 tablespoons of baking soda per tablespoon of hydrogen peroxide to create a paste. Spread the paste on and underneath your nails, then rinse and pat dry.









Applied weekly, this mixture helps to keep your nails white and luminescent, especially after having used a darker nail polish.Alternatively, try using whitening toothpaste in the same way. The active ingredients are essentially the same, if you're not interested in mixing up a batch of the home-made stuff.
 To keep your nails pliable and free of cracks and other problems, it's a good idea to moisturize them regularly with aloe, cocoa butter lotion, or even natural oils like olive or coconut. These natural treatments won't necessarily change the look of your nails, but will help to keep them soft and pliable over the course of the week.
 If you have yellowish nails, it can be the result of either smoking, stain from polish, or a fungal infection, which can be difficult to treat and get rid of. Tea tree oil, however, is a natural fungicide with antimicrobial and antiseptic properties, while lemon juice or lemon essential oil has citric acid which helps to whiten nails back to their original luster.









If you have yellow nails, try using an eye dropper to drop a small amount of tea tree oil onto each of your nails and let sit for 5 minutes, then rinse. Apply lemon juice in the same way, rinse, and clean your hands normally.
 While it might sound strange, tablets used to make denture-cleaning solutions are high in citric acid and sodium bicarbonate (baking soda), which can be used to clean, whiten, and otherwise improve the look of your nails. Instead of soaking false teeth, soak your fingernails.
 Apple-cider vinegar is rich in malic and acetic acids, which have cleansing and anti-fungal properties which can help to whiten nails and keep them from infection and discoloration. Dilute vinegar with an equal part of clean water and soak nails for up to 20 minutes.
 There are a lot of misconceptions about natural remedies for strengthening your nails, but the only sure way to do it is to introduce supplements into your diet. The only supplement that has been proven to strengthen nails is biotin, which takes an average of six months to show any effects.Most home remedies like applying garlic, or eating more protein, will not help your nails to grow faster or stronger., If you regularly wear nail polish, you can stain and weaken your nails in the long-term, even if you thoroughly clean them between applications. It's a good idea to let the nails build back up some strength and healthy color about once a year or so, keeping polish off them for a month or two.


Instead of applying polish, use the chance to really pamper your nails, applying coats of homemade cleansers and whiteners to get your nails looking good again.
It's also important to always clear-coat your nails before adding colored polish to keep them from staining as easily as they might otherwise.

