 Once you have decided to have back surgery, it's time to get ready. There are several things you can do to prepare your body and your physical environment. First, you will want to figure out a pain management plan.Talk to your doctor about what kind of pain you can expect. Try to assess the severity and how long it will last.
Be proactive in planning your pain control. Tell your doctor that you would like to figure out a regimen before surgery, not after.
Many people report that better pain control management helped them have a faster recovery. You can discuss this issue with both your primary care physician and your doctor.
 There are several things you can do to help increase your chances of a smooth surgery and effective recovery. Remember that your overall physical health impacts the health of your back. Take steps to improve your general health.Eat a healthy diet. This will help your immune system, which can in turn help wounds heal faster.
Pay attention to your nutrition. Eat a balanced diet of fruits and veggies, whole grains, and lean proteins.
If possible, get some physical exercise before your surgery. It can be helpful to strengthen your muscles. Talk to your doctor about any limitations you might have.
If you smoke, quit. Smoking increases your risk of complications during any type of surgical procedure., Recovering from back surgery can be a lengthy process. Be proactive and get your house in order before the surgery. You can do several helpful things ahead of time.Your range of motion may be quite limited. Move the things you need most often, such as clothes, food, and medications, to waist level.
Move any potential hazards. Temporarily move things like rugs, cords, or pet toys, so that you won't trip over them.
Get a non-skid bath mat. You may also need to get a raised toilet seat.
 Your doctor will issue several instructions for you to follow. It is important that you follow all of the directions carefully. If you have questions about any of them, make sure to clarify.For example, your doctor might instruct you to stop taking some of your current medications. You will need to do this in the week leading up to your surgery. Bring a list of your medications to your doctor, and ask which one you should continue to take, and which ones you should stop taking. Make sure that you find out how soon before surgery your should stop taking certain medications and when you can resume them.
The night before surgery, you might be instructed to take a "pre-op" shower. Your doctor's office will provide you with instructions on what products to use.
You will likely need to fast. Do not eat or drink after midnight. Remember, your doctor might give you different instructions, depending on your particular situation.
 Write down a list of things you will need to do on the day of your surgery. This can help calm any nerves you have. It will also ensure that you don't forget something important.Make sure you take a bag with you to the hospital. It should include items such as comfortable clothing, glasses, dentures, cell phone, cell phone charger, and reading materials. Do not bring any jewelry.
Also, remember to bring your driver's license for identification and your insurance card.Take any necessary medications with a small sip of water. You can brush your teeth but don't swallow the water or toothpaste.
Leave instructions for anyone who is caring for your pets or children. Thorough instructions will give you peace of mind during your hospital stay.

