 At the 341 Meeting, the trustee will review your bankruptcy petition and the schedules on which you listed your assets. The trustee will ask basic questions about your debts and assets. However, the trustee might need additional documents or information.If so, then you should write down exactly what the trustee has requested. You will need to provide the trustee with this information.
If you leave the meeting and forget what documents you need, then call the trustee and ask to confirm what additional documents have been requested.;
, The trustee won’t conclude the 341 meeting until you provide the additional documents. Instead, the trustee will keep the meeting “open” and schedule a new date and time to conclude the meeting.You should look at your schedule and find a date and time that works. The trustee may be willing to work around your schedule—or not. You should be as flexible as possible.
 Find what information the trustee has requested. For example, the trustee may want updated tax returns. Or the trustee could want more information about assets that you own. Find the information as soon as possible.


After finding the documents, you should make copies for your records.
 The trustee should tell you whether to mail the documents before your next 341 meeting or whether to simply bring them. If you mail them ahead of time, then the trustee might be satisfied with what you have provided. Accordingly, the trustee might excuse your attendance from the next 341 Meeting.Send the documents certified mail, return receipt requested. Hang onto the receipt as it serves as proof that the trustee has received the documents.
You might be able to submit the documents electronically, such as through email.Work with the trustee to submit them in the most convenient form.
 There are many different kinds of errors which need to be corrected. For example, you might have to amend your bankruptcy petition if you made any of these mistakes:You provided the wrong address.
You calculated your income wrong.
You forgot to name a creditor.
You left out assets from your schedule of assets.
You have a sudden change in circumstances, such as getting laid off soon after filing your petition.
 Ideally, you want to amend your bankruptcy petition only once, so it is a good idea to meet with a lawyer experienced with bankruptcy proceedings and go over your paperwork. Double check all of the information with the lawyer and discuss whether you have left anything out. If you didn’t have a lawyer help you when you initially filed, you can still schedule a consultation.


You can get a referral to a bankruptcy attorney by contacting your local or state bar association., You can typically get the forms by stopping into your courthouse and asking the clerk for the required forms. Tell him or her what information you need to amend. Also ask about the court’s procedures for making amendments.


Each court might have its own rules. For example, some courts might require that you only provide the corrected information on the form.
Other courts, by contrast, might require that you fill out the entire form again., Follow the clerk’s instructions for completing the amended paperwork. Make sure to complete the form neatly. There may be a box that you need to check that says “Amended” in the upper right-hand corner.
 Make several copies of the completed forms. File the original with the court clerk.The court may have special procedures for filing amendments, so check with the court clerk ahead of time.


You typically don’t have to pay a filing fee to file an amendment unless you are adding creditors, in which case there may be a small fee.
 Even if you have already had a 341 Meeting of Creditors, you still need to notify the trustee that you have amended your bankruptcy petition. You should send a copy of your amended petition to the trustee. Find the address by going through your papers.


You can mail the petition certified mail, return receipt requested. Hold onto your receipt.
Based on the revised information, the trustee may need to call a new 341 Meeting of Creditors., If a creditor was affected by the amendment, then you will need to provide notice of the change. You should send a copy of the amended bankruptcy petition or schedule by mail.For example, you might have forgotten to add a creditor when you originally filed. In this situation, the creditor should receive the entire bankruptcy petition.
 Bankruptcy fraud is a crime, and the FBI investigates and prosecutes the fraud.Many mistakes are innocent, and filing a bankruptcy petition with a mistake is not necessarily fraud. However, if you are worried about the mistakes you made in your petition, then you should consult with an attorney.


Some errors are more suspicious than others. For example, if you forgot to report that you have a savings account with $10,000 in it, then you should meet with an attorney.
An attorney can attend the 341 Meeting with you and advise you about whether to answer certain questions.
 Should the trustee schedule another 341 Meeting based on your amendment, then be sure to attend. Review your paperwork and confirm that everything is accurate.


The trustee may review the new information with you at the meeting.
If you added a new creditor, then he or she may attend and ask you questions.

