 Run a wide-tooth comb through the length of your hair. Use your fingers to work out any snags you find along the way. Make sure your hair is completely tangle-free before putting it into a bun. Styling tangled hair can make the knots even worse.While it's generally better to work with clean hair, a bun can disguise hair that's a little greasy., Position the base of your ponytail so that it is at your back, sitting either at the top of your head (a high ponytail) or a little further down towards the nape of your neck (a medium ponytail). To get the perfect ponytail:


If you have bangs, pin them to the side for now. You don't want to accidentally put them up into the ponytail.
Gather the rest of your hair with both hands, sweeping it backwards.
Hold the gathered hair with one hand and use the other to collect any hair strands that you missed and add them to the main ponytail.
Secure the ponytail in place with a hair tie.
 Select a strand of any size from your ponytail. Keep in mind that the amount of hair you choose will determine how many individual curls you'll have at the end. For example, if you select roughly one eighth of your hair, you will end up with eight total twists. Doing a twisty curl with all of your hair at once is one way to create a chignon hairstyle. To make each twisty curl:


While gripping its tip, gently twist the strand of hair until its full length is tightly wound. Use both hands if necessary. Do not use too much force and stop if you feel any pain. You don't want to accidentally pull out your hair or damage its roots.
After your hair is fully coiled, keep on twisting it. The strand will eventually begin to bunch up in a spiral towards the base of your ponytail.
If your hair doesn't bunch up when completely spiraled, wrap the strand around itself at the base instead.
 Hide the small uncoiled tip strand by tucking it underneath the curl. With one hand, hold the curl and the bottom strand in place near the base of the ponytail. With your other hand, slide a bobby pin in to secure the curl.
 Take another strand of hair and twist it into a second curl. Pin it in place next to the first. Keep adding twists until you run out of free hair to work with. Try to keep the strand sizes as consistent as possible. You will eventually end up with a bun that looks like a bouquet of twisty curls.
 To avoid stray strands of hair coming out of the bun, spritz in a small amount of hairspray. This will work to both help hold your hair in place and maintain a smooth, sleek look. If your hair is prone to frizzing or flyaways, don't skip this step., At this point, if you have your bangs pinned to the side, feel free to take them down. If you decide the look isn't right for you, consider leaving your hair styled this way for a few hours. When allowed to set, a curly bun comes with the added bonus of creating temporary soft curls in straight hair.

