 If right handed, when you are about to shoot make sure your right big-toe is aligned with your right elbow.









As you step out slightly with your stronger foot, remember to bend your knees. Bent knees will help you explode upward, getting more height and a better angle on the basket.;
,, You are holding the ball incorrectly, if you check after the game and your palm is dirty.
 Your weaker hand should stay where it is, floppy and relaxed. You also want to flick your wrist as you release, for backspin, for a nice soft touch (for your shooting hand).









Backspin will create more rotation on the ball. If the ball doesn't go in the basket at first, the additional rotation will make it go in.
 A good way to build up muscle in your legs is doing squats and wall sits. If you strengthen your triceps, you don't need to use your legs as much. You should also try doing calf raises/squats with weights on your shoulders.
 Work on that one line of sight working away from the basket:









Visualize a line toward the basket and many lines about 1 foot (0.3 m) apart, horizontally, squaring-up, facing the basket at that angle. These lines go from the basket back down the court to the three point line and will indicate places to stand, each about one foot deeper.
Standing (set your off-foot, then step into your shot with the shooting foot stepping toward the basket as you extend your arm and release) close to the basket and shooting at least five times (reps/repetitions). In a different practice session practice dribbling up to a spot, doing a jump-stop and quickly align and shoot. In other sessions practice with a partner who will pass the ball to you, to practice "catch and shoot" -- using good form all the time, not flopping/goofing around (but not stiff, either).
Move a foot behind that one and shoot five more times, keeping moving back after you finish five reps at each mark. This helps you to gradually learn your own strength, build the muscle memory and your hand-eye coordination for accuracy at longer distances (that's all on one angle). Next take a breather/water-break and choose another angle to start close up and work outward on that one.
 B.E.E.F:









Balance. Every good shooter begins with balance, always line your shooting foot up with the basket and be on balance this is the B in BEEF, BALANCE.
Elbow. Keep your forearm straight, in a groove, not wobbling around on each shoot. After you have your balance, have your elbow on your shooting hand line up to make an L right under the ball (when the wrist is raised to near the eye level).
Eyes. Focus on the goal, where you want the ball to hit, basically above the rim, so the ball will go into the goal.
Follow through. After you release the ball, keep your hand up in the air, as if you were reaching into a cookie jar/the basket (for a second).

Keeping your eye on the target (the square in the backboard) is an important part of your follow through.
 This will allow you to have more power in your shot and will enable you to shoot over opponents. Practice the same way each time, until you have this perfected. Naturally, in game situations there will be distractions and obstacles, but practicing shots thousands of reps makes shooting automatic, with consistently good form.
 Do not rush into your shot unless you have to.
 You may fake by raising the ball upward, then if that defender leaves his or her feet (jumps), then you'll jump while the defender will be coming down. If you're fouled by the jumping-defender, you go to the foul line and make your best shot.
 Be confident!








