 When other people are part of the mix, it can distract you and the girl you like from paying full attention to each other. By spending time alone and doing fun activities, you can show her that you're good dating material. Some alone together activities you might consider include:Going out to get coffee together. The relaxed, cozy atmosphere of most coffee shops can be a great way of calming nerves while spending time together.
Watching a movie together. You might go to a theatre or watch one at home, but in either case, you'll both be able to enjoy sharing this experience together.
Doing light hiking together. This way you'll be able to enjoy the beauty of nature while getting to know the girl you like.
 You don't have to take daily runs, although exercising together can help you and the girl you like grow closer. Something as simple as throwing a frisbee around a park can help you and the girl you like make this physical connection. Other options you might try include:Playing her favorite sport, like volleyball, soccer, or baseball. You might do this with just the two of you, or invite friends to join.
Team up together to play a two-person game, like the bean bag toss game which is sometimes also called the cornhole game.
 Some events are generally looked at as being things that couples do together, like watching fireworks or going out to eat. To make this seem less like a date while still indicating you like her, you might invite her by saying:"I heard this new great restaurant opened up downtown. It looks delicious and I was planning on going there but I didn't want to go alone. Would you like to come with me?"
"It's been forever since I watched the Independence Day fireworks. I have a really great spot to see the view. Would you like to come with me?"

, Learning a new skill with the girl you like will give you a shared experience through which your relationship can grow. Beyond that, after you learn, you'll both have a sense of accomplishment together which will only improve your bond. Some skills you might consider:Taking a painting class together after school, at a community center, or at a community college. Even if you're no Picasso by the end of your class, you'll both have enjoyed time together learning something new.
Learning the basics of baking or cooking. Many cooking classes are available after school, or you could learn recipes alone with her at your home.
Taking a dance class together. Physical contact releases a hormone that encourages trust and closeness, so learning to dance with her could spark romance.