 Part of being supportive is being both trustworthy and trusting, and having open communication really helps to build trust.Always be open with your partner, and avoid keeping secrets. It is okay to keep a small secret, such as what you plan to get them for a birthday gift, but you should never keep secrets about your relationship or things that happen that you know she will not like.
 This applies to a wide range of situations. You should share your thoughts both when they are happy and when they are unhappy. She deserves to know.


It is important to express to their how much you care for and love them. You do not have to express those feelings multiple times per day, but reminding them on a daily basis shows you care.
You also need to let them know when they have said or done something that upsets you. Part of supporting them is helping their to grow and learn from mistakes but in a healthy, supportive way. There is no need to start an argument, but gently telling your partner something like, “When you said that, I felt like you were indicating that I annoy you, and that hurt my feelings” will get the point across.
 Be firm in your words, if necessary, but be polite and respectful. Arguments are almost always avoidable, and your tone of voice and word choice will impact whether your discussion is a respectful disagreement or a full-blown argument.Blaming them only causes their stress. Instead, by carefully and thoughtfully telling them what the issue is, you set their up for success in mending the situation.
Always be willing to recognize your own mistakes and take accountability for them.
 A relationship is a two-way street, and everything about the relationship should be based on both individuals' wants and needs. Not every decision will be easy, and often, one person will need to agree to a compromise or be willing to make a sacrifice. Support them by making one of these choices when it is necessary.One example of making a compromise is when you are planning a vacation together. Perhaps you want to go on a beach vacation to an all-inclusive resort, but he does not because it is more expensive. The two of you might come to a compromise by agreeing on a beach vacation somewhere that is closer to home, where you might be table to take a road trip instead of fly, or somewhere that is not a resort.
An example of making a sacrifice would be giving in to their wants or needs. Say that she really relies on regular exercise as a way to feel good about herself. You might need to make a sacrifice to forgo an event because she wants to take that time to exercise and get that confidence boost.

