 Tabi boots are great for this, try to roll your feet from heel to toe. Become adept at social and physical invisibility and silence. Walk silently. Learn the appropriate clothes for the appropriate times. Do not stand out or draw attention to yourself in any way. Sometimes that may mean being sociable and friendly because in the modern world, a person who sits quietly in the corner arouses suspicion and is carefully watched.
 Learning a martial art will be helpful in this aspect. While ninjas typically tried to avoid open combat, at times it is necessary.
 No matter where you are, know how to get out of the situation as quickly and as anonymously (unseen) as possible. This is a critical skill for a ninja, especially when performing missions. Historically, smoke bombs and firecrackers were used to create diversions, but you will have to devise more subtle techniques, like starting a fight or switching off the lights. When you enter a room, always be aware of every potential (possible) exit, and have several plans in place for how you can create a diversion if necessary. As you escape, strive to leave no evidence behind, like clothes, weapons or fingerprints (wear gloves?). One way that ninja accomplished this in the past was with ashiaro, or wooden pads worn on their bottom of their footwear and carved to look like an animal's paw or a child's foot so that the ninja's footprints would not be noticed, this was also used in WWII.
 Use people's desires, needs and wants as a leverage against them. Humans need security, wealth, pride, strength and to have their wants and needs satisfied. This is a key ability in most if not all events.
 A true Ninja is a master of his/her environment, which consequently requires one to be in control of one's self. To master one's self, learn to: cut emotions out of the decision making, engage in rational and logical thinking no matter what the situation is, make tactical decisions that may upset one's ego, finding the flow of situations/problems and one's place with in them, make decisions for one's own situations as if giving someone else advice. Applying these tips to every day life is a must, as it stands in the way of the mastery of one's self. If one cannot master self, one cannot master others, and their surroundings. Example: Engaging in physical combat due to provocation knowing one can defeat the threat may not be the best of interests for the big picture. Walking away while ridicule may hurt one's ego, but will keep one in the clear of the public's eye from things to come.

