 Filing a name change application requires supporting documentation to get started, and gathering them beforehand can make the process easier.


Ensure you have a certified name change document. This may vary depending on your reason for changing your name. For example, if you are changing your passport name due to an error on your passport, including your birth certificate will suffice. If you are changing due to a marriage, divorce, or other reason, be sure to include court documentation. Get a new passport photo taken. This photo must be in color, and 2 X 2 inches in size. These can be taken at a local Walgreens or CVS.Make sure to have your current passport ready.;
, There are a few forms available to use to apply for a passport name change, depending on your circumstance.


If less than one year has passed since your passport was issued, you will use the DS-5504 form. There are no fees in this case.
If more than one year has passed since your passport was issued, you must use Form DS-82. In this case, there is a fee ($140 for an adult passport book and card), and it must be enclosed with the form, with personal check and money order being accepted only., If more than one year has passed you are required to use the DS-82 form, but only if you are eligible. If you are not eligible, you can use the DS-11 form instead. You are eligible for the DS-82 form if you meet the following conditions.You can submit a copy of your most recent passport.
You were 16 or over when your latest passport was issued.
It has been less then 15 years since your last passport was issued.
Your last passport was not lost, damaged, or stolen
You can produce name change documentation.
 Once you know which form to use, you can find a PDF version of each form on the U.S. Passports & International Travel website. Simply fill in the blank spaces in the form to complete it.
 Once the form is complete, place the form, your current passport, a color passport photo, and any other fees or required information (the form you fill out with also state what to include) into a large envelope to mail.


If possible, use a Tyvek envelope as it will better protect your contents.Mail all your documentation to: National Passport Processing Center, PO Box 90107, Philadelphia, PA 19190-0107. Remember that e-mailing is not permitted., Processing times can vary. The routine processing time is approximately 4-6 weeks, the expedited processing time is 3 weeks, and if your passport is expedited at a U.S. Department of State Passport Agency, it can be completed within as little as 8 business days.There are 28 passport agencies in the U.S. that can provide expedited service, but proof of travel within two weeks is usually required to make an appointment.