 Many charities rely on monetary funds to remain in operation. Without support from you and others, many non-profits and faith-based programs would not exist.During family meals or other family time, gather input from each family member about what they can do to contribute money. While children may not have money to donate, they can contribute possibly by tracking money that has been set aside for charities. Consider creating a "donation" jar of your own at home where anyone can contribute.
Whether your family is making a small contribution or a large one, help to show your children that donating funds makes your community stronger. Talk collectively about different charities of interest and why they are important.
 This is a hands-on way to get everyone involved in the donation process. Instead of throwing away out-of-fashion clothes, or boxes of unused items from the garage, work together as a family to recycle and reuse those items.Identify used clothing or items that could be donated. Talk about the pros and cons of giving it away at this time. Go together as a family to donation centers such as Goodwill or the Salvation Army.
Learn about other local charity thrift stores. Explore these thrift stores as a family to see the value of donating items, as well as reusing them.
 Sharing is fundamental part of being charitable and caring. This can be as simple as bringing a sick neighbor a home-cooked meal or letting a friend in need borrow your car. But oftentimes the act of sharing starts in your own family.Being charitable starts with sharing your resources with your siblings, parents, spouses, and relatives. Be willing to give as much as you take.
Discuss the differences between sharing and getting taken advantage of. Talk as a family about how sharing involves mutual respect, in which the borrower will reciprocate the generosity by giving back in other ways. For example, a neighbor borrows your set of tools, and in return they invite your family to dinner as a thank you.

