 You will need scissors, a tape measure, a hole puncher, a 2-prong paper fastener, and craft glue or hot glue. You will also need corrugated fiberboard, crepe paper, and craft feathers or paper to make paper feathers.
 The strip should be 1 1/2 inches (3.8 cm) wide and 2 inches (5 cm) longer than the length required to fit around the intended wearer's head.


Corrugated fiberboard, also called corrugated cardboard or corrugated paper, has narrow ridges or holes along the inside, making it a little lighter than standard cardboard but also a little thicker.
Choose a thin piece of corrugated fiberboard to make it easier to wrap it around into a band-like form.
These instructions will allow you to create a "straight-up" style warbonnet, in which the feathers extend vertically from the headband.
 Apply a small dot of glue to the top of each corrugated hole, inside the hole itself. Attach the stem of a craft feather to each dot of glue and let dry.


To make it easier for the feathers to stick to the glue, you may want to keep the cardboard flat, attaching the feathers horizontally rather than vertically.
Use craft glue or hot glue to hold the feathers in place.
 Fold the headband over so that the extra 2 inches (5 cm) of length overlap. Use a hole puncher to punch a hole in each end and slip a 2-pronged paper fastener through these holes.


Spread the prongs out to hold the band in place.
For extra security, punch two holes in each end, one near the top and one near the bottom, and use two 2-pronged fasteners to hold the band together.
 You may use cloth, beads, or bright red crepe paper. The paper strip should be 2 inches (5 cm) wide and 1 foot (30.5 cm) longer than the length of the band.


Center and paste the crepe paper strip over the band of fiberboard. There should be about 1/4-inch (0.635 cm) hanging off the top and bottom of the band and 6 inches (15 cm) hanging down from both ends.
 If using crepe paper to cover, frill the edges. Use scissors to cut 1/4-inch (0.635-cm) fringes along the top and bottom of the crepe paper.


This completes your headdress. When wearing the headdress, the feathers should stand upright over the head.
 There isn't one single style of warbonnet, so look through pictures of trailer warbonnets, halo warbonnets, and straight-up warbonnets for design ideas. About a dozen tribes, all in the Great Plains region, wore bonnets to reward bravery and great deeds. Tribes that used warbonnets include the Sioux, Crow, Blackfeet, Cheyenne, and Plains Cree.


A warbonnet is a sacred symbol that honors great deeds. They are not worn by most tribe members. Modern-day American Indians might earn a warbonnet for advocacy or scholarship.
You are likely to offend people if you wear a warbonnet as a costume.

