 In order to produce creative ideas yourself, you will need a constant flow of new ideas.Seeing the work of others will inspire you, and give you ideas to challenge, change, or explore further. Try:


Reading lots of books
Keeping up with world news
Subscribing to one or more magazines on topics that interest you
Watching a documentary film on a topic you are unfamiliar with
Visiting a museum;
, You will need to be ready to write or sketch out an idea the moment inspiration strikes. For this reason, make sure to always have a sketchbook or notepad with you at all times.When you get an idea, try putting it down quickly in your note/sketchbook. You can always come back later and revise it.
Try making yourself write or draw every day in your notebook, even if you don’t think you have any new ideas. In the long run, making a habit of working some in your notebook every day will lead to more creativity.
 In the modern world, it is very easy to be distracted by television, smartphones, social media, and a million other things. However, in order to think creatively, it is very important to sometimes be bored.Being bored causes your brain to work in new ways, as it seeks stimulation. This leads to fresh ideas.


Give yourself a "device free" hour each day, or day per week
Set aside some time each week in which you don't have anything scheduled
When you start to feel board, such as when waiting for a subway, resist the urge to check a smartphone or other distraction. Instead, observe the world around you.
 For example, try playing:


With children’s toys, such as blocks
A favorite board or card game
Charades

, For example:


If you are inside, try going outside. If you are outside, try going inside.
If you are working in a big room, move to a small room. If you are working in a small room, move to a big room.
Visit a museum, go for a walk, go bowling, or find some other location you enjoy.
If you are sitting, try lying on your back on the floor.
 Getting out of your comfort zone is an easy way to get a fresh perspective, and go back to the problem or project you are working on with a renewed sense of vigor.


Have lunch at a new restaurant, or try a kind of food you’ve never had before.
Talk a walk in an area you’ve never visited.
Watch a film in a language you can’t understand.
Read a book on a topic you know nothing about.
 Getting new skills, especially in an area separate from the one you are working in, will broaden your mindset and give you new ways of thinking through ideas.


Learn how to play a musical instrument
Practice a foreign language
Try cooking a new cuisine
Take up a new hobby, such as knitting, woodworking, or painting
Learn how to play a sport or game you’ve never tried before

, Make time to talk to lots of different kinds of people, ask them questions about their work and ideas, or just chat.


Have lunch with a coworker you haven’t had the chance to really talk with before. Ask him or her about the work he or she does.
Strike up a conversation with a stranger on the bus, train, plane, etc.
 Pretend that you are talking to someone you find fascinating or a role model, such as a famous or influential person from history. Close your eyes, and discuss with this person whatever topic comes to mind.
 Being creative requires you to suspend judgment and take risks.If you start judging ideas before you even get started, you will crush your creative spirit. Let your ideas flow, and only worry about editing them once you get them out.
 Write nonstop for a certain amount of time (for instance, 10 minutes). By writing without stopping, no matter what comes out, after a few minutes you will start to access new and fresh ideas that you wouldn’t have thought of at first.
 It requires visual organization and logical organization, which engages your whole brain and encourages creativity.


Start with a piece of paper and pen or marker. Write down the concept you are working (for example, “Clothing”) with in the middle of the paper and put it in a shape like a circle or square.
Draw lines off of the center to create new shapes with related concepts. For example, you could draw a line from “Clothing” to have a space for “Hats” and another with a space for “Shirts”
Draw new lines off of these subcategories to make sub-sub-categories. For example, draw a line for “Flannel” off of “Shirts.”

, One way to get your creative juices flowing is to challenge accepted ways of understanding things. You can do simple exercises to practice this, as a way of getting ready to think creatively about a problem or project. For example, take an everyday object, like a paper clip, and think of ten new uses for it.Normally, a paper clip is used to fasten loose papers together. However, you could also:


Stick paperclips in the ends of corn so you can eat it off the cob
Use a chain of paperclips as a necklace
Use a paperclip to open a stubborn seal, such as on a medicine bottle
Use a paperclip as an instrument to paint intricate designs on your fingernails using nail polish.
 It can be used as a practice exercise to boost creativity or when you are working on a project. “Toppling” is one technique to practice free association:Think of a word, any word, such as “potato.”
Think of another word that is related to it, but not the same kind of thing (in this case, not a vegetable). For example, “chip” (“potato chip”).
Continue by again making an association between the last word and a new one, such as “paint” (“paint chip”).
Repeat the same step to find a new word, such as “wallpaper” (an alternative to paint)
Keep repeating this procedure, always trying to find words that are related in different ways.
 These require you to think about similarities between objects or concepts, often ones that are not related in an obvious way. They often take the form of “X is to Y as A is to B.” Start by thinking of objects, and form analogies:


“A potato is to a french fry as a tree is to a board” (french fries are made from parts of potatoes; boards are made from parts of trees)
“A tree is to a forest as sand is to a desert” (forests are made of lots of trees; a desert is made of lots of sand)

