 Dunk the kale in dish of cold water or rinse it thoroughly under cool, running water.


Separate the leaves using your fingers to remove any debris caught at the base of the leaves. Organic kale may have pests that need to be removed, as well.
While plain water should clean the kale adequately enough in most circumstances, you could use a vinegar rinse for a more thorough solution. Mix up to 3 Tbsp (45 ml) of white distilled vinegar into 1 gallon (4 L) of cool water. Dunk the kale inside the solution and allow it to sit for 20 to 30 minutes., Boil a saucepan of water on the stove, then dip the kale into the boiling water and cook for 2 minutes.Immediately transfer the blanched kale to a bowl of ice water to stop the cooking process and prevent the leaves from wilting.
Blanching is recommended but not strictly necessary. If you choose not the blanch the kale, however, you'll need to separate the leaves from the stems more thoroughly later on. Additionally, kale that isn't blanched may become bitter and won't last as long in the freezer.
 Place the wet kale into a salad spinner. Spin the kale until the leaves are thoroughly dry.


If you don't have a salad spinner, wrap the kale in paper towels and gently squeeze it to wring out the excess moisture. Allow it to continue sitting out for 10 to 20 minutes to drain away as much additional moisture as possible.
The kale must be dry before you freeze it. If the kale is still wet, the leaves may develop freezer burn or become bitter while in storage.
 Use a sharp knife to trim away the woody stems from the bottom of each kale leaves. Remove as much of the stem as possible.


If you didn't blanch the kale, you'll need to remove the portion of the stem running up the center of the leaves, as well. To do this, fold the leaves in half along the stem and slice or yank the stem away. Chop or tear the remaining leaves into smaller pieces before continuing.
 Spread out clumps of kale over a large baking sheet, then place the baking sheet into the freezer. Freeze for 1 to 2 hours, or until solid.


By tray freezing the kale, you can keep the leaves separate from one another, making it easier to remove and thaw some kale without thawing all of it.
You can skip the tray freezing step, if desired, but you'll need to thaw the entire batch at once before using it later.
 Pack the kale into a large freezer-safe bag. Squeeze out as much air as possible, then seal the bag closed.


While airtight bags work best, you could also use an airtight plastic container. Tightly pack the kale into the container, leaving about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace between the top of the kale and the top of the container.
 Place the kale in your freezer and store it until you're ready to use it. Blanched kale can last for 10 to 12 months, and unblanched kale can last for 4 to 6 months.


For best results, thaw the kale in the refrigerator prior to cooking or eating it.

