 Don't approach a girl walking alone on a deserted street at night. Likewise, don't ask a girl out if she is somehow "trapped" with you in a location, such as elevator or cornered in a room. A good way to make her feel safe is to talk to her with other people nearby and visible.


Don't make any kind of physical contact unless she does so first. A quick way to make her feel threatened is to invade her personal space.
Introduce yourself politely. Try making eye contact before greeting her. Tell her your name and give her a non-vulgar compliment. If she responds in kind with her name and a reciprocal compliment or expression of gratitude, mention wanting to get to know her.






Something you could start with would be: "Hey, I really like your shirt. is great!" Then wait for her response. Follow up with: "My name is , by the way."
If she ignores your greeting, it's best to back off.
If she seems receptive and neither of you are in a hurry, feel free to have a longer conversation.
Give her your contact information. While most guys think they're "supposed" to ask a girl for her phone number, it's best to offer yours first. This takes a lot of pressure off of her and may make her more open minded about your offer.Write it down on a scrap of paper instead of insisting she record it in her phone. which can be seen as creepy and manipulative.






If she's interested, she will likely volunteer her phone number or email without you needing to ask.
An example of something to say when offering her your contact information would be: "So it was great meeting you, but I need to get going. I really enjoyed talking to you and would like to get to know you better. If you feel the same, here's my number."

, If she's given you her contact information, don't play mind games or expect her to make the first move. Ask her to dinner at a specific restaurant with an idea of the day and time. Have a few backup options in case she is genuinely busy or averse to a certain food choice.


An example of what to write or say would be: "Hey this is from yesterday at . I was wondering if you'd be free Friday night around 7:00? There's this restaurant called I've been meaning to try, and I was hoping you might be interested in joining me? If you'd rather go somewhere else or you're busy, let me know what would work better for you. Thanks! I look forward to seeing you again soon."
If she doesn't return that first call or shoots down multiple offers without suggesting alternatives, she may not be interested in dating. Even if she seemed into you before, people can always change their minds. Respect her decision and move on.
 That may sound like a cliché, but it's an important fact to keep in mind when asking out a girl you don't know. Striking out with someone you have an established relationship with can inject some awkward moments into your life for some time. An advantage of asking out that cute girl you just met at a coffee shop is the lack of outside social pressure. Keep this in mind to boost your confidence.

