 You will need to set aside significant funds for the veterinary care of your new puppy. The costs of veterinary care for dogs has been increasing. Costs tend to be slightly more expensive in urban areas so you should phone a few veterinary clinics to find out the average costs associated with owning a puppy. Average costs for some typical veterinary services are outlined below:You may pay approximately $200-500 per year for flea and tick prevention.
You may pay approximately $60-150 per year for vaccinations.
Annual physical exams cost $45-200 for the first year and $20-100 for subsequent years.
Heartworm test and preventions cost between $0-35.
Neuter costs between $35-200.;
, Pet insurance is worth considering for your new puppy. The costs of emergency medical treatment from an accident or a rare disease can be exorbitant. Similarly, dealing with poisoning or other unanticipated events can be prohibitive. To cope with these risks, you should look into the affordability and details of pet insurance policies.Typically, you will have to pay for the costs upfront and then the insurance company will reimburse you. However, there are some plans that will pay the veterinarian upfront.The costs of pet insurance increase if you have particular breeds or for older dogs.Most plans are focused on accidents and illnesses, although some also cover some forms of routine care such as annual exams.Instead of pet insurance, you could start an emergency savings fund to deal with possible future accidents or emergencies.Large breeds such as Great Danes and Rottweilers cost the most to insure. Small dogs like shih tzus and poodles are the least expensive to insure., If you purchased your puppy from a breeder, they should have already been examined by a veterinarian. If you got your puppy from a friend or if it is the child of one of your dogs, you should make sure you get it to the veterinarian right away. Puppies should be examined for birth defects such as cleft palate and to have their dewclaws removed and tails docked right away (e.g., 2-4 days of age)., Veterinarian costs are rising so you should shop around for a reputable, honest and affordable veterinarian.Do a google search or look in your local phone book to find a few local veterinarians. Phone the veterinarians on your list and ask them about their area of specialization such as whether they focus on larger farm animals or on pets. Based on this information, choose a veterinarian that is suitable for you.
 Once you have chosen a veterinarian, give them a ring to make an appointment and ask for estimates. You might ask for the price of the following services that you will have to cover for your puppy:Annual physical exam.
Flea and tick prevention. Preventing fleas and ticks will save you a lot of money in the long run, so you should make sure they do a good job on this service.
Vaccinations. Ask if it is possible to personalize your pet’s vaccine costs. Some vaccines are required by law and some are optional and may be more or less effective for your dog. You might be able to save money on vaccinations.
Heartworm test and preventions.
Dental cleaning.
Fecal exam.
Neuter costs. Neutering your pet can save a lot of money in the long run. It can help you avoid health conditions like uterine, ovarian and testicular cancers.
 Find out if you need to bring anything to the appointment such as medications, dietary information or a stool sample. Phone your veterinarian and find out if you need to bring anything.


You may need to bring a stool sample. Many dogs have roundworms when they are born. Your veterinarian will check for roundworms and potentially give you deworming medication at the check-up., Write down your main concerns in a notebook and bring this list of concerns to your first appointment. If you are nervous about any behavior or symptoms, write these concerns down so that you can discuss them with your vet.
 You should leave yourself plenty of time to get to the appointment. Put your dog in a dog carrier and take them to the appointment.


Try to pack everything you need the night before the appointment in order to reduce any anxiety.
You will need a dog carrier, which is a small container that is designed to transport dogs. You should find a dog carrier that is comfortable for your dog and is easy to carry in your car or on the bus.If you plan to fly with your dog, you should look for a dog carrier that is approved by the FAA.You could try spraying your dog carrier with a pheromone such as Adaptil, which will calm them down.If you are driving to the vet’s office, you could try playing relaxing music in the car.