 Sometimes damaged fruits and vegetables will look just that—damaged. Examine your produce for spots, bruises, and mold both before you purchase and before you prepare it. More often than not, the damage is on the inside, but you should still make sure the outside looks safe before you slice it up.;
, What you can't tell from the exterior of a fruit or vegetable you often can tell simply by sniffing it. If it has any unusual odor, you definitely don't want to buy it.
 This mostly applies to pre-cut, pre-packaged produce like salad greens; the colder it is when you find it, the lower the chance of it being contaminated (since bacteria grow and multiply faster in warm areas). By this, you should also pick up your refrigerated items at the end of your shopping trip and put them into your fridge as soon as you get home to minimize risk.
 Again, this is pretty much only for bags of produce that can be labeled. Obviously if the date on the bag has already passed (or will pass before you plan on eating the food inside), you should nix it.
 When shopping you should always put your produce in individual bags to prevent cross-contamination (unwanted organisms or chemicals being spread from one food to another). This is especially critical if you're purchasing meat at the same time, because the bacteria on the meat that will presumably be killed when you cook it could easily get onto your fruits and vegetables that you won't be cooking.
 Rinse the produce when you bring it home, pat dry and refrigerate.
 Store each produce item separately. Your refrigerator should be kept at a temperature of 40 °F (4 °C) or below for all items; your freezer should be between 0° and −10 °F (−23 °C). If you are not sure whether you should be refrigerating something, go ahead and refrigerate it anyway. You should avoid freezing leafy greens and unprepared fruits, but if they do get too cold, you can always defrost them.
, You might not realize that anything is wrong with your produce until you get home, but if you suspect that it is contaminated, do not hesitate to toss it. Even if you get all the way through the process of preparing the food and, when you bite into it, the taste is off, trust your instincts and spit it out. After all, better safe than sorry.
,