 To deep clean your drapes, remove them from the window and lay them on a flat surface. Remove any hardware from the drapes, such as wood polls, so you can focus on just cleaning the fabric.If your drapes are very dusty, open a window before removing them. This will prevent you from inhaling too much dust and debris.;
, There should be a manufacturer's label somewhere on the inside of your drapes. This should give you instructions on cleaning. Before washing your drapes, know what cleaning methods will not damage the drapes. Some drapes, for example, are hand wash only and others require dry cleaning.If you can't find a manufacturer's label, it's best to opt for professional cleaning. Professional dry cleaners will have a better sense than you of what kind of cleaning methods are safe for drapes.
Drapes are expensive, so it's important not to damage them in the cleaning process. Follow the instructions on the manufacturer's label carefully and never machine wash drapes that are hand wash only. Wool, cotton, and very sheer fabrics are usually not machine washable.
 Before washing your drapes with detergent and water, vacuum them to remove excess dust and debris. Lay your drapes flat on the floor. Run a vacuum over the drapes until your remove layers of dirt and dust. Use the crevice tool of your vacuum to get into any folds or hard to reach places.If your vacuum has a detachable upholstery brush, use this utensil to vacuum the drapes.
Sheer fabrics may not hold up under vacuuming. Remember to follow the instructions on the manufacturer's label and do not vacuum drapes if it advices against this. You can shake drapes outside if you cannot vacuum them.
 Some drapes are machine washable. Using a washing machine to wash your drapes can save you time and labor. Only wash one panel of drapes at a time. Use a gentle cycle and use cold water to wash drapes.Remove your drapes from the machine immediately after washing them to prevent wrinkling.
 Wool, cotton, and sheer fabrics like lace usually require hand washing. Never put hand wash only drapes in a washing machine, as this can cause damage. To hand wash drapes, fill a sink with cold water and add one teaspoon of liquid dish detergent. Place one panel at a time in the water. Allow the panels to soak for 10 minutes before removing them. Then, swirl the drapes to remove the debris. Drain the sink and refill it with clean water. Repeat the process to dry your drapes.Make sure to swirl your drapes until all soap residue is removed. If necessary, repeat the rinsing process twice.
 Most drapes should be air dried to prevent shrinking and other damage. You simply hang your drapes back up after washing them. Lay old towels down under the drapes to catch any dripping water. Within a few days, your drapes should be dry.