 Accept that nobody is a "super-person" and that mistakes happen when too much is attempted at any one time. Don't take to heart the mistakes that get made when juggling too much under time constraints; they are bound to happen.;
, If reformatting is stumping you, a legal issue has arisen and the support staff are whining about the milk supply all at once, it isn't a good idea to be their answer, at least not there and then. Delegate immediately to those best able to respond. You don't need to be a manager to delegate - cross-delegate to those colleagues who are clearly able to deal with the issues.
 Whether it's a good cry, sitting, deep breathing, stretching, or an air punch, get it all out in privacy. If this means going to the bathroom several flights above or below where nobody knows you, do it! If not the bathroom, take a 5 - 10 minute break outdoors and away from the place.
 Don't wallow in self-pity thinking the world is crumbling around you. If you don't understand something, don't want to do something or find something harder than you expected, it is not a shameful thing to ask for help. That is what others are there for. What people do hate is when a person neglects to seek help and then stuffs up.
 If a day is bad because you brought a bundle of home issues with you, sometimes nothing will turn that around. For some people, work is an escape from home issues but sometimes even for them, the enormity of something happening in your personal life is too large for work to help you forget. If you feel exhausted, teary, distressed and liable to explode and say inappropriate things, it is probably a good idea to call it a day and go home and sort issues out.
 If you are having a bad day because someone said something nasty to you, grin and bear it. It is important to not over-inflate the unhelpful or rude observations of colleagues who have a clear agenda to be disruptive, hurtful or unkind. Ask them to explain themselves if this feels appropriate and ask what it is you could do better according to them. But don't let this fester and make your day rotten.
 Just learn how to express your feelings to them. Burst it out, otherwise hatred will be keep in yours forever.
 However choose to be happy.

