 When you bring your dog home for the first time, try to make the transition as easy as possible. If you are driving, do not drive erratically, blare loud music or yell at other drivers. Once you get home, try to keep things quiet and serene. Keep the volume low on your electronic devices and ask that your family or roommates try not to excite the dog too much. The dog will likely be a little anxious about entering a new space. A little peace will make that transition much easier. , Dog proof an area of your home and make sure that your dog’s food, water and bedding are located there. Because rescue and adopted dogs sometimes forget their housetraining when in a new place, you may want to consider a room where cleaning up messes will be easy.Dog proofing can include taping loose electrical cords to baseboards; storing household chemicals on high shelves; removing plants, rugs, and breakables; setting up a crate; and installing baby gates.
 Your new dog’s digestion, like that of most animals, is very sensitive to changes. They will have become accommodated to the food that they were fed in the shelter, and any quick changes in diet may make them sick. In order to keep your dog healthy, be sure to feed them the same food they were fed while in the shelter. After a few weeks, you can start mixing in other foods if you think that is necessary.Ask the shelter about your dog’s feeding schedule and try to stay on that schedule once you bring your dog home.
Be sure to consult your veterinarian before making any alterations to your dog’s diet.
 In the first few days that your dog is in your home, try to get it into a regular routine. Take it for walks at times that accommodate your schedule and that you will be able to stick to in the future. Initially, you will also want to stick to your animal’s eating schedule at the shelter. However, you might need to change that in order to accommodate your schedule. Find a system that works for you and your dog and stick to it.Be patient with you new dog.
 Once you and your new dog have settled into a routine, be sure to send photos of your pup to the staff that helped with your adoption. The shelter staff will certainly appreciate the effort. At shelters, they usually have a wall of pictures of adopted pets with their new owners. Shelters and rescue groups tend to use these pictures as a means of publicizing the shelter and attracting new adopters.

