 The kind of mosquito repellent you choose to use can also depend on how you want to use it – in other words, the method of application. Most repellents go on the skin or are sprayed on your clothing. Look for lotions, aerosol sprays, creams, and sticks if this is what you want.Liquids, creams, lotions, and sticks will let you apply the repellent directly to your skin, while an aerosol or pump spray will allow you to treat skin or clothing.
Keep in mind that sprays give a more even application to the skin and clothing.
Read the labels on these products to see what the active ingredients are. Choose a lotion or spray that has the ingredient you most prefer, whether DEET, Picaridin, or a natural alternative.
 As said, Permethrin is specially designed for use on clothing and other fabrics. Pick a product with this active ingredient if you want to use the repellent in this way. While Permethrin normally comes in an aerosol spray, make sure that you don’t inadvertently use it on the skin.Look for pump sprays like Sawyer Products Premium Permethrin Clothing Repellant or aerosols like Repel Permethrin Clothing and Gear Repellant.
You can also apply Permethrin to things like mosquito nets and use it on your clothing along with a DEET-based skin repellant. This will increase your protection even more.
 The idea of having an outdoor garden party and being protected from mosquito bites by scented candles is a nice one. There are, in fact, plenty of candles that claim to do just this by using the repellent qualities of citronella. The thing is, they don’t work very well.Citronella is moderately effective when you apply it to your skin. However, it is not always useful against mosquitos in candles. This may be because the smoke can change with wind direction and dissipates quickly.
In one study, citronella candles reduced the number of bites only by a small amount – 42.3% and 24.2%. You can try repellent candles if you want, in other words, but don’t expect too much., The US EPA can help you put together all of these different factors to choose the best mosquito repellent for you. Just go to their website and search for “Find Insect Repellent.” This will take you to a comprehensive search tool. All of the products listed here are registered with the EPA, meaning they have been tested for safety and effectiveness and have shared this information with the government.On the search tool, choose how much time you want protection from the drop-down menu. Then, indicate that you want protection from mosquitos. You can also narrow the search by active ingredient and by company.
Press the “search” button and then review the results. The EPA lists each entry by product name, hours of protection, active ingredient and concentration, company name, and EPA registration number.

