 Wet your soil a bit with distilled water. Sprinkle a handful of baking soda over the damp soil. If it begins to bubble, your soil is acidic, meaning its pH is below 5, and will not be able to support healthy plant growth.If your soil is acidic, you can raise its pH level by mixing ground or powdered lime into the soil. Over time, your soil will become more alkaline. Wood ashes and oyster shell might also help.;
, Mix four tablespoons of baking soda with one gallon of distilled water.Pour the mixture into a spray bottle. Spray it on or near plants you suspect could be at risk for fungal diseases, especially, for instance, roses and grapes.If you have a problem with mildew on your plants, mix one teaspoon baking soda, one quart (one liter) water, and a few drops of liquid soap. Pour this mixture into a spray bottle. Spray the plants that tend to attract mildew., Mix one teaspoon baking soda, one teaspoon Epsom salt, half a teaspoon of ammonia, and one gallon (4.5 liters) of water. Pour this mixture in your watering can and apply it just as you would when regularly watering your garden. It’s especially effective at rejuvenating browning plants., If you have crabgrass or weeds poking up through your mulch or otherwise encroaching on your garden, spray water on them using a spray bottle or hose. Then, sprinkle a thick layer of baking soda over the weeds or crabgrass.If you have weeds sprouting from cracks in your patio, pluck them out, then pour water over the spot they were poking out of. Cover the spot heavily with baking soda.
 Before transplanting flowers or other plants into pots, coat the bottom with a thin layer of baking soda. Add soil and then add your plant. This will prevent wilting and plant death., When you’ve clipped some flowers from your garden for home display, plop them in a mixture of distilled water with a spoonful of baking soda. This will prevent them from wilting as fast as they otherwise would., Sprinkle a bit of baking soda on the soil near your tomato plants. The baking soda will get absorbed into the soil and lower its acidity level, making your tomatoes sweeter., Certain flowers thrive in alkaline soil. If you have begonias, hydrangeas, and geraniums, for instance, mix a few spoonfuls of baking soda into your water can before watering them. This will encourage more beautiful blooms and healthy growth.