 The food should be in the back sides of your mouth or in the front corners. Chew slowly on both sides at the same time. This way, your dentures will more likely stay in place and will even out the chewing pressure in your mouth., If you try to bite food with your front teeth, you run a high risk of displacing your dentures. Instead, bite the food using the side teeth and use your tongue to bring food to the back of your mouth. Chew thoroughly and slowly before you swallow., For people who have never worn dentures before, it may be very difficult to eat any sort of solid food. Drink nutrient-dense liquids like juiced fruits and vegetables or milk (animal- or plant-based). Then, work your way up to puréed fruits and vegetables, such as applesauce or compote.Other good choices include:


Tea or coffee sweetened with honey
Soups, broths, or bisques without chunks of other foods

, These foods are easy to chew and swallow. Cut or mash your food before eating, if necessary.In addition to the foods you could eat on your liquid diet, you can also eat:


Soft cheese, eggs, mashed potatoes, ground meat, cooked legumes
Soft fruits, boiled rice, and pasta
Breads and cereals softened with milk or water

, Adhesive protects against food particles getting stuck between your dentures and gums. Make sure your denture is clean and dry. Then, squeeze the adhesive in short strips on the side facing your mouth. Avoid getting the adhesive too close to the edges to prevent it from oozing. Start with a small amount and gradually add more if you need it.This might be especially necessary for your lower denture, which your tongue could loosen. Ask your dentist for specific recommendations based on your diet., Slice your apple or raw carrot into manageable pieces instead of biting into the whole thing. Remove corn from the cob with a sharp knife. Tear the crust away from your pizza or garlic bread. When you learn to eat most foods differently, you don't have to give them up., This will maintain their flavor while giving them a softer, yet somewhat crispy, texture. Pour about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water into a large pot. Place it on a burner set to high and let it come to a rolling boil. Place a steaming basket into the pot above the water and add your fresh vegetables. Cover the pot and allow the veggies to soften for about 10 minutes., Dentures can easily break if you put excessive pressure on them. Stay away from foods that require added force to chew them properly. Some of these foods include croutons, crispy granola bars, and nuts.You could substitute nuts with pitted olives, which are also a good source of healthy fats., They can get trapped and stick in between your dentures and gums. Sticky foods can also dislodge your dentures and cause pain and discomfort. Steer clear of chewing gum, taffy, chocolate, caramel, and peanut butter.Hummus is a good alternative to peanut butter. It's spreadable and provides protein without the sticky texture., Fruits with seeds could easily get caught between your dentures and gums. Avoid strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, and seeded grapes. You should also stay away from baked goods with seeds on the crust. This includes poppy seed muffins, sesame seed buns, and kaiser rolls.


Substitute seedy fruits with blueberries and seedless grapes. If you must have seedy baked goods, opt for breads, buns, muffins, etc. with baked-in seeds or grains that have been ground.