 Transdermal patches offer a discreet, low-effort delivery method for medical marijuana. If you suffer from nausea or loss of appetite, or otherwise can’t or don’t want to inhale or consume cannabis, patches may be your best bet for relief.Follow the package instructions and your doctor’s guidance on proper use. Typically, transdermal patches are placed on a hairless area of skin, such as the inner wrist, ankle, or on top of the foot.
Dosages vary, and patches can be cut in half to reduce dosages. People seeking low-dose relief may find patches particularly appealing.
However, if you have substantial body hair, patches may not be for you. Some people also develop allergic reactions at the application point.
 Medical marijuana comes in various topical application forms, including sprays, salves, lotions, and ointments. Skin application of cannabis causes no psychoactive effects (which may be a positive or negative, depending upon your circumstances), and is best suited to skin conditions, arthritis, soreness, etc.


Topical applications, however, are very “hit-or-miss.” Some patients swear by them, while others say they do nothing. They won’t be effective for pain caused by cancer, glaucoma, or other conditions for which medical marijuana in other forms is often used.
Also, the products tend to be greasy upon application and may cause skin irritation in some patients.
 Tinctures of medical cannabis and alcohol (or another solution) can be sprayed under the tongue for relatively fast effect (faster than eating, slower than inhaling). The sprays come in small, discreet bottles, produce no odor and have a mild taste, are usually low-dose, and may be a good choice for children.Instead of a spray, some tinctures use a dropper. Just one or two drops under the tongue is usually sufficient.
If you need immediate relief, sprays may not be for you. Likewise, if you need a stronger dose, they can quickly become very expensive.
 The mere mention of inserting any type of medication into the rectum may be enough to turn off some patients. There is also some debate as to the relative effectiveness of cannabis extract suppositories. However, they also seem to offer fast, long-lasting relief to many patients.Most suppositories require you to lie on your side and (with a gloved hand) insert the capsule about 1.5 inches (4 cm) into your rectum, then stay in place for a few minutes while the medication absorbs into your colon.
While suppositories seem to be one of the most efficient, fast-acting, and long-lasting delivery methods, the process involved in application (and the need to refrigerate the capsules) may outweigh these potential benefits for many patients.

