 If you are frying, grilling, broiling, or doing anything else on your stove, you should always remain in the kitchen to keep an eye on things., Don't try to do other things while you are cooking. Your attention should be completely on what you are trying to do, especially if it involves heat and sharp objects. Stay in the kitchen, and off the phone. Using a timer can help, especially if you are worried something might distract you from your cooking, Set up some ground rules for when you are cooking to avoid accidents. You can either tell your children that they are not allowed in the kitchen when you are cooking or you can designate an area of the kitchen where children can be. Be consistent with your rules and your children will take you seriously., This doesn't mean pads or a body suit, but making sure you limit exposed skin to prevent against splashing., and clothing like shirts, pants, and socks to protect the rest of you. Avoid loose sleeves or jewelry, which will get in the way., You will use pots regularly when cooking. If you are not careful, they can also cause accidents from drops, spills, and burns.


Use the right size pot. If you put too much food into a pot, it can overflow, creating both a mess and the potential for fire or spills. Most food containers have a maximum capacity.Keep lids near to pots and pans in use. If you have a grease fire, or what you are cooking otherwise catches fire, you can put out the fire by covering the pan with the available lid and turning off the stove.Turn pot and pan handles in when cooking on the stove. This will ensure that pots are not accidentally knocked off the stove or pulled down by a young child. You may want to cook on the back burners whenever possible.Open hot pots away from your face. Escaping steam can burn fairly easily, so don't put your face right over a pot when you take off the lid., These should be proper mitts with insulation, and not a dishrag. Mitts are a better choice than pot holders for carrying things because they give you better grip. You should always wear something over your hands to protect from burning when carrying hot pots or pans.Mitts will not work properly if wet or worn out. Make sure your mitts are dry and still have their insulation before using. If they've worn out, you can easily burn your hands. , When pouring hot water out of a pot, using the top to hold in what you are cooking can release steam on your face and hands. This can cause burning, and make you drop the pot as well. Use a strainer for vegetables, pasta, and anything else that requires draining boiling water., This includes towels (both cloth and paper), potholders, food packaging, or anything else that might catch on fire., Always let food cool for a minute or two after running the microwave, and be careful when tasting food, as microwaves can heat things unevenly, creating hot spots. Remove covering very carefully, as escaping steam can burn.