 Some, but not all, herbs can interact with medications. If you are currently taking one or more medications, check with your doctor or pharmacist before using a herbal remedy. They will be able to provide you with advice on what herbs to avoid while you’re taking that specific medication.There are no herbs that have been researched specifically for pertussis. But many herbs have been found to help strengthen the immune system and reduce coughing, which might be helpful if you have pertussis.
 Echinacea is used to help strengthen the immune system. You may be familiar with it as a supplement you can purchase at the drug store and take if you feel the onset of a cold. But you can also make tea using dried echinacea.Add 1 teaspoon of echinacea to 1 cup of boiling water and letting it steep for 5-10 minutes.
Once steeped you can drink 2-4 cups of the tea per day.
If using the supplement version, follow the instructions on the bottle.
 Garlic is known to strengthen your immune system, and a strong immune system can help you fight viruses and bacteria.Crush 2-3 cloves of garlic and add the crushed garlic to 2 cups of water in a saucepan.
Allow the mixture to boil and simmer for 15 minutes, then remove the garlic pieces.
Drink the cooled mixture. Add honey if you need to sweeten the tea.
You can drink 2-4 mugs of garlic tea per day.
 Hyssop is a herb that is also known for its expectorant properties, meaning it can help get rid of mucus. Hyssop leaves can be used to make a tea, which may have a similar taste to that of mint. Hyssop also has a smell similar to camphor, which is used to help unblock congested airways.Place 1 teaspoon of hyssop in a mug of boiling water and allow it to steep for 5-10 minutes.
You can drink the tea 2-4 times a day.
 Anise is the herb used to flavour black liquorice and some liqueurs. If you don’t like black liquorice or the associated liqueurs, then this is probably not an option you should try. Anise is considered an expectorant, which means it helps to get rid of mucus. Many over-the-counter cough medicines use anise in their formula.Add 1 teaspoon of anise to 1 cup of boiling water and allow to steep for 5-10 minutes.
You can drink 2-4 mugs of anise tea per day to help your cough.
 Catnip is a type of mint and the fresh plant does give off a nice minty scent, especially when you break the leaves or stems. Catnip is also an antispasmodic, which means it can help control or relieve the coughing fits brought on by pertussis. Fresh or dried leaves can be used to make a tea.Put 1 teaspoon of catnip in a mug of boiling water and allow it to steep for 5-10 minutes.
You can drink 2-4 mugs of catnip tea per day.
 Chamomile is known as an antispasmodic, which means it can help control spasms and convulsions, like the coughing fits that pertussis is known for. Since there are many chamomile teas commercially available, this may be the quickest and easiest option. But you can also make your own chamomile using the dried or fresh herb.Add 1 teaspoon of the herb to 1 cup of boiling water and allow it to steep for 5-10 minutes.
Drink the tea 2-4 times a day to help your cough.
 Thyme is known as an antispasmodic, which means it helps relieve spasms or convulsions, which in the case of pertussis, would be the coughing fits. You can use dried thyme or the fresh herb to make tea.Add 2 teaspoons of dried thyme, or 1 sprig (slightly crushed), to a mug of boiling water.
Steep for 5-10 minutes.
You can drink 2-4 mugs of thyme tea a day.
Do not consume thyme essential oil, it is toxic.
 Many other herbs can be used to make a tea that might help to alleviate the cough of pertussis. Astragalus (immune system booster), elecampane (expectorant), mullein (expectorant), and indian tobacco (antispasmodic) have all been used to treat coughs.