 Go to the hairdresser and choose the bronze color that mostly fits you. Then buy an iron to curl it. This is not very necessary.;
, Renesmee has pale skin, which has a blush to it because her heart pumps blood (though it beats faster than a normal human heart). Buy a foundation 1 or 2 tones lighter than your skin color and then a soft pinkie blush which you'll be slightly adding to your cheekbones with a big brush.
 This might be tricky in winter, when anyone else will be shaking because of the cold. Never say you're cold, cause Renesmee's temperature seems to be unusually warm, only a few degrees below that of a werewolf. Clothing with many warm layers will help you.
 Her skin is as tough as a vampire's, so as perfect flawless.Due to the blood flowing in her veins and her heart beating, she has red rosy cheeks, shell-pink lips, and pale lavender eyelids.To achieve that look, always apply a moisturizing cream every morning. This will help you protect from the sunlight, too.Then mix a lavender eye shadow with a brown one, blending 'til you'll get a good and not too marked smokey eyes effect.
 Spend some money on a good mascara, and apply fake lashes if needed.For the final touch, wear a shell pink lipstick with a light blush.
 Renesmee has chocolate brown eyes, just like her mother Bella when she was human. Buy contacts if you're eyes are any other color. Golden ones will be good too, to remind the Cullen's lifestyle.
 Renesmee's figure is described to be quite thin. As Charlie says when he meets her one day. Go on a HEALTHY diet and practice in a gym, a lot. Basically follow a correct lifestyle.
 Renesmee is depicted as a kind, overwhelmingly intelligent, and fun-loving child. She has a competitive streak that prompts her to accept Jacob's hunting challenges, which keeps her motivated to drink animal blood.Never be gross when you speak, as she's described to be educated and intelligent. Just like Edward. At school, always respect your teacher and this will help with your marks.
, You will stand out and remind a lot Bella's ways of doing

, Don't focus on silly stuff, like nonsense gossip. Be aware of what's going on around, and try to be as much informed about everything as possible. Learn things quickly. Remember Bella describes Renesmee as more intelligent than most of adults, and has better control (on thirst) than the rest of them.
 Just like every kid she likes to read books and listen to music, something she shares with her parents. She likes to hear Bella reading bedtime stories, but hates hearing the same ones twice, expecting therefore to hear new ones.
 Renesmee for example blamed herself for causing trouble to her family merely by existing, or when she takes Kate's advice to help her mother, despite Bella's protests.
 Renesmee's scent in a mix between a vampire's and a human's. Buy particular and rare bath foam or mix two of them together, so that you'll get your own smell. Use it often.
 Like a male cousin or a friend. It will look like he's imprinted on you.

