 Since the main form of transmission of the H. Pylori bacteria is through touch, you should always practice proper personal hygiene and hand washing. You should wash your hands thorough and often, especially after using the restroom or before handling food.


Proper hand washing starts with warm water, at least 120 degrees, and a decent sized helping of liquid soap. Place the soap in your hands and wet them briefly. Wash them for a total of 15-30 seconds, scrubbing around your fingers, along the front and back of your palms, and around your fingernails. Then rinse them in the warm water and dry them with a clean, sanitized towel or clean paper towel., When you are in a non-industrialized nation, eat only in restaurants with sanitation standards similar to an industrialized country's standard of sanitation. Kitchen utensils should be washed in hot water with antibacterial soap. Once the utensils are cleansed, they may become reinfected if handled by a carrier who has touched his mouth or not properly washed his hands after using the restroom. Because of this, ensure that you only eat at places where employees wear gloves as well.


The use of hand sanitizer is helpful in these questionable scenarios., If you are married to or in a relationship with someone infected or if you have a family member who has H. Pylori, you should be very careful with your interactions with them. If you are married or dating someone infected, do not kiss them or engage in any sort of sexual activity until they have been treated for the infection. Also keep their toothbrush, cups, and utensils in a different area so the bacteria cannot be transmitted through saliva.


You should also not let anyone in your family with the bacterial infection prepare food, serve drinks, or touch things that are consumed so they cannot transmit the bacteria accidentally through touch or other contamination., If a family member gets sick with the bacterial infection, you need to get checked as well. In terms of prevention, eradication is a large part of avoiding the bacteria in the future. Since it is spread by poor hygiene and sanitary conditions within families, it is recommended that, to eradicate H. Pylori from your family, all family members get tested for the H. Pylori bacteria.


If a family member is positive, they must be treated then retested for the bacteria after 4 weeks of treatment. Reinfection can occur and start the cycle over if you do not make sure that the bacteria is eradicated from the entire household. , One great way to help prevent a H. Pylori infection is to eat a balanced diet. This helps you stay healthy and fight off the bacteria if it gets into your system. You need to maintain a diet containing adequate proportions of carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, minerals, and water to sustain good health. The exact proportions of each type of food vary based on your weight, gender, and activity level. However, a good place to start is to maintain a calorie intake of approximately 2000 calories a day.


The majority of your calories should come from fresh fruit, vegetables, legumes, grains, and low fat proteins.
Even with attempts at a balanced diet, 67% of dieticians recommend daily multivitamins to fill nutritional gaps in diet that are not being met by food alone.Ensure that you get adequate vitamin C intake, which is suggested as 1000mg daily. Eat citrus fruits, such as oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruits, as well as green leafy vegetables to get more vitamin C in your diet.