 This method is for classic iPods that you need to extract music tracks from. When you use this method, you won't be able to tell what song is what until you add them to a media players library. This is because the song files are renamed when they're added to your iPod's library.


This method is useful for transferring songs that you didn't purchase from iTunes to a new computer or a friend's computer. It is also useful for retrieving your songs when nothing appears on your iPod.
This method is not very useful for people trying to extract a single song or just a few out of hundreds. This is because the songs will not have legible file names, so finding the exact song you want will be difficult, if not impossible.
This will NOT work for iPod Touches, iPhones, or iPads. Use the method above for those devices.
 You will need to start the process in iTunes so that the iPod can be put into Disk Use mode. This will allow your computer to open the iPod like an external drive.
 Continue to hold the keys until you see the device appear in iTunes. Holding these keys will prevent iTunes from automatically syncing the iPod when it's connected.


If your iPod is not staying connected after doing this, select it in iTunes and check the "Enable disk use" box in the Summary window.
 In order to see the hidden folder containing your music files, you will need to enable your operating system to disable hidden files. The process varies depending on whether you're using Windows or Mac.



Windows - Open the Control Panel and select "Folder Options". If you don't see "Folder Options", select "Appearance and Personalization" and then "Folder Options". Click the View tab and select "Show hidden files, folders, and drives".

Mac - Open the Terminal and type the following command: defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles TRUE. After running that command, type killall Finder and press Enter to restart file and apply the changes.
 In Windows, you can find this in your Computer/My Computer/This PC window. Quickly access this by pressing the Windows key + E. On Mac, your iPod will appear as a drive on your desktop.
 You can use iTunes to automatically import all of the songs from the iPod into the computer's iTunes library, simplifying the copy process and keeping your music organized. You'll want to change some settings so that your music files are automatically renamed based on their metadata when you add them back into iTunes.


If you don't want to add the music to iTunes on the new computer, you can simply open the iPod_Control\Music folder from your iPod drive and copy the files directly to the computer.
 Click the "Advanced" tab.
 Check the "Keep iTunes Media folder organized" and "Copy files to iTunes Media folder when adding to library".
 If you are using a Mac, click "iTunes" and select "Add to Library".
 This can be found when you select your iPod from your list of drives. You will only be able to see this if you enabled the displaying of hidden files.


If the iPod was originally used on a Mac and your trying to open it on a Windows computer, you will need to use the free HFSExplorer program and copy the files manually. You can download it for free from catacombae.org/hfsexplorer/.
 iTunes will copy the files directly from your iPod and add them to your iTunes Media folder. It will automatically organize your music into subfolders based on the artist and album information.