 The air that blows through will be much cooler. Have a few wet rags ready to replace it with; they dry out fairly quickly. A passenger could be in charge of replacing and wetting new cloths.;
, It might feel a little weird, but your body lets out a lot of heat through your feet, so traveling barefoot (or at least with flip flops) will help keep you cool.
 As the moisture evaporates from your hair, your scalp will cool off, bringing down the temperature of your body.
 A 10 pound block of ice on the floorboards under a vent will help cool things down. This hack is derived from what residents in Arizona actually used for car air-conditioning in the 40's and 50's! To prevent leakage of water in your car, rest the ice block in a plastic pan or a baking tin. Opening a window a little will help with air flow.
 Wrap the frozen bottle in a towel and put it behind your neck. Once it thaws, drink the cold water in it to cool off.
 Early morning is often the coolest time of the day, and if you're not on a fixed schedule, plan on doing as much driving as possible before the heat becomes unbearable later in the day. Try to avoid driving home mid-afternoon, to avoid the worst heat of the day.
 This is another step in planning your travel time. Most medium to large sized communities have "rush hours", when people are on their way to work, or home afterward. This event may cause you to be stuck in bumper to bumper traffic hardly moving along at all.
 If you drive a north or south direction, tree lined streets and roadways are often shady for much of the day.
 This sounds obvious, and it should be, but sometimes the noise and odors of city driving may tempt you to keep the windows closed. To increase the air circulation:


If you have a fan operated fresh air vent, open it, turn on the fan, and open a rear window enough to draw a draft through your automobile.
Opening the car's sunroof or sliding back window will draw a lot of fresh air, even when you're traveling in traffic that just seems to be creeping along at a snail's pace.
 This can offer a substantial reduction in direct sunlight coming into your car, and also provides some protection for the vinyl interior from UV radiation which can damage your car's upholstery and dashboards. (Note: check with your state to ensure this is legal. Some states in the USA do not allow this practice.)

, There are a number of inexpensive 12 volt fans available at auto parts stores and retailers. They clip on the sun visor or rear view mirror, or stand on the dashboard, and plug into a cigarette lighter plug to move air. Switch this on during driving, to help circulate the air and keep you feeling a little cooler.


Passengers can use a paper or real fan to help circulate air directly around themselves. If the movement distracts you while driving though, ask them to lower the fans or to stop.
 If you have a long commute to work or school, try to drive in short pants and a T-shirt, then change in a restroom or locker room at work. Doing this will leave you cleaner and cooler for the day ahead.


It's recommended that you always keep clean, fresh clothes in the car for times when the heat and traffic are too much for you, if there is a chance you will need to be more presentable during the day.
 The darker the clothes the more heat sucks into your shirt; so wear a light colored shirt.
 This allows the hot air to bubble out of the car, thus pulling in cooler air. Sure, the air outside might be 100 degrees, but the air inside a parked car can get to 120+ degrees! Not only does the air get super heated, but the seats and surfaces do, too. But keeping a flow of cooler air helps keep the whole cabin more tolerable. Be sure to use common sense when doing this. Watch for rain.
 Keep the lid open and place it in the unused seat or on the floor. The Ice melts and gives away the chillness to the atmosphere inside the car. You need more ice cubes if travel time is more.