 As Mercury is not particularly bright, and is often obscured by clouds, you may need binoculars to find it. Try pointing a pair of binoculars into the sky and moving them slightly to the lower left of Venus. You may be able to find a small, bright star-like object. This is Mercury.You do not necessarily need expensive binoculars. However, if you enjoy stargazing, you may want to invest in a more expensive brand. Decent binoculars can go for $200 and may give you a better view of all the planets.
Mercury is very close to the sun, so be careful when using binoculars. If you point your binoculars into the sun by mistake, you could cause damage to your retinas.
 If you want to get a more up close look of the planets, try using a telescope. You can buy a telescope online, and then use it to locate the planets.Before going out to observe the planets, follow the instructions manual to set up your telescope at home. Make sure you spend some time familiarizing yourself with the new device. See how the knobs and handles work, reading the manual as necessary. You don't want to be confused as to how to use your telescope when you're trying to find planets.
 Once you're comfortable using your telescope, take it out around 45 minutes before sunrise to observe the planets. As with looking at the planets with the naked eye, it's best to start with Venus. You can easily locate Venus with the naked eye, as it's the bright star a little to the south of the coming sunrise. Once you've found Venus, you can point your telescope towards it and observe.Venus takes many different shapes and colors depending on the time of year. It may be a good idea to consult a star atlas to get a sense of what Venus will look like during the time of year you're observing. This will give you a sense of what to look for.
Keep in mind that while telescopes will enhance your view of the planets, you will not receive images on par with something from the Hubble Telescope. Most images you see in the night sky will appear grayish and somewhat distant, even with the aid of a telescope.
 Once you've found Venus, you can swing your telescope to the right. You can get a great view of Jupiter by looking through a telescope as you'll be able to see its belts and some of its moons.You may see two dusty belts in Jupiter's midsection. These are the belts of Jupiter, which you can observe closely with a telescope.
You may also see a few moons on either side of the planet, which are somewhat aligned with the belt.

