 By going on dates with other guys, you will be demonstrating that you are desirable and that you have a full life of your own, and that he is not your only option. The sense that he may have to compete with other men for your affection should pique his interest and encourage him to pursue you., You don’t want to be available to hang out any time that he asks, so keep yourself busy. Make sure that you have a few nights each week where you make plans with your friends, family, or do things alone. This will show him that you have an active social life and that he will have to keep trying if he wants to be a part of it., Most men have a desire to protect and/or help, so use that to your benefit. You can do something as simple as asking him to help you fix something or ask him to accompany you on an evening jog. Find some way to make him feel like he is helping or protecting you and he may begin to offer to do so more often., It is important to show him that you have lots of different sides to your personality. This will help him understand that you're an interesting, complex person with a lot to offer. You can accomplish this by taking the time to remind yourself why you're wonderful and working on your self confidence.Make a list of your favorite personal qualities. What do you love about yourself? Perhaps you are very proud of your high grades and strong work ethic. Maybe you love how creative you are. Celebrate these strengths.
Think about the diversity of your interests and how you can get better at each one.
 He may be more interested in pursuing your affections if you make him feel happy whenever you are around. Try to maintain an upbeat, positive attitude when you spend time with him. Cheer him up if he’s in a bad mood and find little ways to brighten his day., Another way to get him to pursue you is to show him what is unique about you. What makes you special? Do you have a special talent that might intrigue him? Think about what makes you special and try to find an opportunity to show him.For example, if you are a good cook, invite him and some friends over for a dinner party. Or, if you are an avid runner, ask him to run a 5K with you sometime.
 It is important to give your guy a glimpse of you at your most exciting. After you have gotten to know him pretty well and have established a friendship or dating relationship, give him a glimpse of your sexy side.For example, you can wear a really striking outfit that complements your personality, get your hair and nails done if you like, and wear some sultry makeup if that's what you're into. Just make sure that you have an occasion that will explain your dolled up look.

