 This is standard practice and enables you to check out how competing companies are advertising the same or similar products or services. Then, aim to steer clear of doing what they're doing, so that your advertising will stand out for being different.;
, Focus on their buying behavior based on geographic location, age limit, etc. Once again, this is standard practice but it's important for ensuring that you don't waste resources and time advertising to the wrong demographic.
 This will be dependent on the demographic and your budget. Typical media for advertising through include the internet, TV, radio, social media or paper media.


For example,if it is a computer app then it makes sense to use internet as your primary source of advertisement.
Increase your use of social networking and other sites online. People like to be able to interact with the company through social media sites because it helps them to feel better informed and gives them a place where they can ask questions, leave comments and resolve complaints.
Be aware that radio is holding its own in a world of tumbling print media; it can be an excellent way to get your product or service out there and offers you the chance to use audio features rather than visual ones. For some products and services, this may be preferable.
 The name should be closely associated with your product or service but you still have plenty of leeway here to suggest linkages with your product or service through the use of descriptive words of color, imagery, sound or texture. This is a good opportunity to come up with a unique take on your product or service, by creating a name that stands out in the minds of your potential customers.


Have some fun with the name for your product or service. For example, Lord of the Rings for a jewelery store or Nice to Meet You for a butcher shop.
 This one-liner should avoid being a cliche. Choose something consumers will identify your product with, that gets stuck in their head and encourages them to view your product as trusted, needed or desirable.
 Color makes an ad appealing and also helps customers to identify with the product or service. Spend a good amount of time testing this aspect of the advertisement––ask friends and colleagues which colors they find most appealing from mock ads that you've put together. Use their replies to ascertain what is likely to be most appealing to viewers.
 Aim to use music that is interesting, lively and as far from elevator music as possible. Once again, aim for music that stands out in the mind of the customer and begins to be associated with your product or service.


Be aware of copyright issues when using music. It may be easier to make your own music using a local band or musician. That could even be a selling point, that you have supported a local artist in making the advertisement.
 Humor is important because it removes the advertisement from the stock standard serious take and becomes something entertaining that people enjoy seeing or hearing. Use words playfully, develop fun skits and, where relevant, focus on the mundane parts of life in fun, lively and hilarious ways. Using humor will help your advertisement stand out from the usual publicity.
 For print media, this means keeping down the word count. For audio media, stick to 30 seconds. Keep the message simple but sharply focused on the point.
 Keep your ad simple and brief but understandable.
 This means finding out the impact that your advertisement is having on customers. You can ask them directly in the store or via feedback forms. You can ask them to give you comments on Facebook, Twitter, or other social media sites. Use the feedback to guide future standout advertisements.

