 Foods with antioxidants may help you reduce damage to sperm and keep them healthy.Antioxidants include vitamin C, vitamin E, selenium, carotenoids, beta-carotene, lycopene, lutein, and zeaxanthin.These fruits, vegetables, potatoes, nuts, and beans are excellent sources of antioxidants:


Berries such as blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, strawberries, and cranberriesOther fruits like pears, apples, grapes, citrus, peaches, nectarines, cherries, plums, prunes, bananas, kiwi, mango, papaya, pineapple, pomegranate, tomatoes, and olivesVegetables such as artichokes, okra, kale, peppers, asparagus, broccoli, and red cabbageSweet, red, and russet potatoes when eaten with the skinNuts such as walnuts, pistachios, pecans, hazelnuts, almonds, sunflower seeds, sesame seeds, flaxseedKidney beans, edamame and lentils, Exercise may increase your body’s level of antioxidant enzymes. It can also help you control your weight. Because being overweight is associated with a lower sperm count, this may also help.The Mayo Clinic recommends:75 – 150 minutes of aerobic physical activity per week, such as walking, running, swimming, or playing sports.
Doing strength training, such as weight lifting, twice per week.
 Stress hormones can lower your sex drive, hamper your performance, and reduce sperm production.Develop good stress management skills by:Exercising. Your body will release endorphins which will lift your mood and relax you.
Using relaxation techniques such as deep breathing, yoga, meditation, visualizing calming images, progressive tensing and relaxing the different muscle groups in your body, massage, music or art therapy
Seeing a counselor or joining a support group
Talking to friends and family

, Lack of sleep may reduce a man's sperm count by almost 30%.Most adults need approximately eight hours of sleep each night. You can improve your sleep habits by:Going to bed at the same time every night.
Reducing your caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol consumption. Each of these can disrupt sleep.
Keeping your bedroom dark and quiet as you fall asleep.
Reducing napping during the day.
Getting more exercise. This will help you be tired at night.
 Women generally ovulate around day 14 of their cycle. The best time for sex is the day or two just before ovulation. She can track her ovulation by:Noticing changes in her body that signal ovulation, such as abdominal cramps
Noting an increase in clear vaginal secretions that may signal ovulation
Taking her temperature every morning. Women's resting temperature is slightly higher during ovulation.
Purchasing an over-the-counter ovulation kit. These kits enable her to test her urine to detect the increase in hormones that occurs just before ovulation.
 Sperm can live for several days inside a woman's reproductive tract. Even if your sperm count is low, the likelihood of conception will be greatest when:You and your partner have unprotected sex daily or every other day.
You have sex during the four days leading up to her ovulation.
 In particular, Astroglide, K-Y jelly, lotions, and saliva can reduce sperm motility. Better options include:Baby oil
Canola oil
Egg white
The commercially produced Pre-Seed

, They won’t treat an underlying medical problem and they are only likely to help if you have a deficiency. Do discuss them with your doctor before trying them because some may interfere with other medications or be harmful in high doses or when taken for a long time. In addition, the dosages are not quality controlled the way medications are.However, the following may be beneficial:Vitamin C will boost your immune system and help prevent the sperm from clumping. This makes them better able to travel to fertilize the egg.
Vitamin E prevents the head of the sperm from drying out. This helps it live longer.
Vitamins B6 and B12 will promote the production of healthy sperm.
Selenium can improve the sperms' lifespans.
Zinc increases sperm production and helps their mobility.

