 Advertising firms are most interested in employing someone who has a background in a language arts field. The best option is a bachelor’s degree in a field like journalism, communications, or business with an advertising focus..There are programs that offer two-year associates degrees in advertising and even specific internet advertising degrees.
An MBA with a concentration in advertising might be necessary for a leadership position in the field.;
, There are some job sites that list only employment opportunities that you can pursue at home. Search these for marketing jobs.


Examples of such websites include Flexjobs, We Work Remotely, and Remote.co.Alternatively, you can google keywords like “digital media companies” or “online marketing companies” to find top companies in the field.
 To seem like you understand the field, you should be sure that you are familiar with the jargon. In interviews and on your resume, be sure to toss around phrases like: Search Engine Optimization, Paid Search Advertising, Social Media Marketing, Conversion Rate Optimization, Online Reputation Management, and Email Marketing.


Search engine optimization is the practice of using search engine algorithms to ensure that your website is near the top of the list in searches and thus gets more natural traffic.Paid search advertising/marketing is paying a search engine to display your website prominently.Social media marketing consists of using outlets like Facebook and Twitter to promote your products.Conversion rate optimization refers to strategies that encourage passive visitors of a website into consumers, purchasing goods or clicking on advertisements.Online reputation management consists of controlling or eliminating negative online content, like bad reviews.Email marketing consists of building lists of emails and sending out advertisements, sale announcements, and coupons via email.
 Keep the newest and most relevant experience at the top of the application. Include links to websites that you have helped develop. Use buzzwords in your resume to establish that you are up-to-date with the field.


You should also create an online resume on a website like Linkedin., Follow companies on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn. Interact with the accounts as much as possible. Contact corporate leadership through social media.Even if there are no listed job openings, you can contact the company on social media. To attract their interest, make a useful suggestion about how they could better promote their product. Follow up by asking for an interview or asking who the best person is to talk to about hiring., At the interview, you will want to demonstrate some awareness of what the company’s business model is. If you can, research the management team so you know something about who the leadership is. Check the news to see if there are any major developments in the company’s direction. Research the competition and, if they have more followers on social media, try to determine why that is., Many companies today pride themselves on casual dress. Even these companies, however, like to see a well-dressed interviewee. You can never really overdress for an interview., When you meet with someone from the company, use your research to offer suggestions about how the company could better advertise themselves. , At the interview, you might want to discuss your own blog and how much traffic it gets. How many followers, fans, or likes do you have? Has any of the content you created gone viral?, Questions can be a good way to demonstrate that you are seriously thinking about how to improve the company. Ask questions that make it clear that you are trying to figure out how you can best satisfy the needs of the company.


Ask, for example, what the company’s biggest needs are or what personality traits they find desirable in an employee., Don’t be in touch daily after the interview, but at least remind them of your presence. Sending a simple thank you note after the interview can be a nice touch., Send a brief and polite email thanking the interviewer for the opportunity to meet. Ask if there was anything you could have done better, so that you can adapt and do better next time.