 For an in-text citation in Chicago, you make a footnote. You click at the end of the sentence after the period and insert a footnote. It creates a superscript number at the end of the sentence with a corresponding number at the bottom of the page.


Most document-editing software will automatically number footnotes for you.
 Once you've created the footnote, click to start typing in the footnote. For an episode on a DVD, begin with the title of the episode in quotation marks:


For example,"'The Wind in the Tree,'" Note the comma at the end of this title.
 As in MLA, follow that with the title of the show. Use the name of the DVD. Next, add in the format, followed by a comma. The format is the thing you are getting the TV episode from, be it a DVD or a VHS.


"'The Wind in the Tree,' Fashion for Winners: The Second Season, DVD,"

, After the format, include the director, with the words, "directed by":


"'The Wind in the Tree,' Fashion for Winners: The Second Season, DVD, directed by Jessie Job"

, Now, you will put the year the show originally aired, followed by a semi-colon, the city or country (of the distributor), and a colon. Next, include the studio/distributor, followed by a comma and the year the video was released. Add a period, and close the parenthesis:


"'The Wind in the Tree,' Fashion for Winners: The Second Season, DVD, directed by Jessie Job (2009; Oklahoma City: Jon and George Movies, 2011.)"

, To convert this footnote to a reference, you are basically going to change most of the commas to periods, remove the parenthesis, and capitalize "directed." Also, do not cite the episode:


"Fashion for Winners: The Second Season. DVD. Directed by Jessie Job. 2009. Oklahoma City: Jon and George Movies, 2011."

, For a footnote for a broadcast episode, you begin the same way, though you just use the name of the series. Also, begin with the name of the show, followed by the episode. Next, add in the station, followed by a comma and the air date. Finally, add in the director or writer:


"Fashion for Winners, 'The Wind in the Tree,' Fox, January 15, 2009, directed by Jessie Job."

, To convert this to a reference, change the commas to periods again, take out the episode name and air date, and capitalize "directed":


"Fashion for Winners. 'The Wind in the Tree.' Fox. Directed by Jessie Job."

