 This should include shared, group expenses rather than individual expenses. Coming up with an idea of per-head spending will help you to set a budget that suits everyone. This will help you to more easily choose a location that suits your needs.Choose one family member, or elect a finance committee, to calculate these costs. They will be responsible for budgeting and planning for expenses of the family reunion. They will also collect monetary contributions from the rest of the family.
Costs to keep in mind include food, transportation, lodging, venue rentals, and means of entertainment.;
, No family reunion is complete without a feast of some sort. Whether you want to have a cook-out, order in, or go to a restaurant, you will have to account for the cost of food during your reunion., Some family members may be traveling from far locations for the reunion event. Be considerate of their budgetary needs and financial situation. If you are splitting the cost of the event between several families, first ask them for a range of what they would be willing to spend on the event altogether, including their own transportation costs., While you may want to stay at a nearby relative’s house to cut back on costs, some families may want to stay in a hotel room or motel. Use these costs to determine the best location for your reunion.

If you’re looking for a cheaper option, you may want to consider a local campground, taking time of year and forecasted weather into account. Many campgrounds provide excellent activities for children, such as fishing, pools, and paddleboat riding.
 If you are renting a function or banquet hall for the reunion, there will be a fee. Call ahead of time to ask about the cost for a per-day rental. This will help eliminate some of the pricier location options.

Some venues offer additional options, such as decorations or a photographer that you can use during your event for an additional fee.
 Whether you are choosing to bring games and activities with you or participate in nearby attractions, such as horse riding, these costs can add up. Be sure to account for everything offered at each of your potential event locations., Consider the ages of the youngest members of your extended family, and choose a location that would interest them as well. While your uncle may think that a bar is a good place to meet, this location wouldn’t work for your cousin’s five-year-old daughter, for example.Age-appropriate venues can include a state park, a campground, a bowling alley, or a country club.
 If some members of your family are traveling far distances for the reunion, they will need somewhere to stay. Be sure that you take each family member’s needs and budget into account during this process.Choose a lodging location that is within each family member’s individual budget. Also, be sure that the lodging is located a reasonable distance from the main event venue and any additional activities. Nobody wants to spend the entire reunion driving from location to location.
 Local friends may have hosted their own family reunions, so do not hesitate to ask them for ideas. Your friends may even have connections or know of ongoing discounts in your area., If everyone gets a chance to offer their ideas, then they will feel more included in the planning process and will be more excited about the overall event. Tell them to email you or call you with their ideas, and conduct a family vote once all have been collected., As it is a family reunion, it would be great if every suggested place by each member is considered at least once. This will avoid conflicts later.
 Be sure that there are accessible restrooms for your family to use. You may want to consider a venue with a kitchen if you intent to do some cooking at the event itself. Ask whether the venue allows alcohol on its premises if you want to bring booze to your event.If you have a disabled family member, check that the facility offers amenities for disabled people, such as a ramp and a wheelchair-accessible bathroom.
 Check each place to see whether or not it has a minimum of two things of interest for each age group. If you would rather book a place that does not offer its own attractions, come up with games or activities that you could bring to the event in order to keep everyone entertained.Look for places that offer exciting things to do, such as boat rides or fishing. If you plan on bringing your own activities, try to find a place that has plenty of space for you to set these games up, whether it's a volleyball net or a water balloon toss.
 Have each family member email their selections to a chosen Vote Counter. This vote will eliminate places that more than a few family members are disinterested in pursuing., Venues can book up quickly, especially during the summer months, so be sure to call and make a reservation as soon as you can. Ask about any cancellation fees or security deposits, so that you have all of your bases covered.