 To replace the front glass panel, you will need the following:

Replacement front glass. You can buy one from eBay for a low price.
Flat, thin plastic tools you can use to prop the glass up.
Hair dryer.
Thin gloves, like those made of rubber or leather.
Box cutter.
Painter’s tape.;
, Just press the Power button until the screen turns off., This helps minimize the number of shards left on the touchscreen when removing the glass screen.

If you have a screen protector installed, you do not have to do this step as the protector has enough adhesive material on it to grab the shards.
 Remove also the microSD and SIM card.

Remember to store these items safely so they don’t inadvertently end up in the trash with the discarded tape and glass shards.
 With a hair dryer, constantly heat the bottom panel, where the Home button and capacitive touch buttons are located. While heating, try to pry the corners open with the box cutter. Carefully lift the edges off until all of the front panel is removed.

You will need to heat the sides and top of the front panel as well, as the glue that holds the glass in place is spread on those areas. Heat the surface of the front of the phone to 170–180 °F (82 °C) while making sure to hold the gun three inches away from the phone.
Also, if the glass is shattered, you have to be careful in lifting the large pieces away as it might scratch the AMOLED glass. Lift the pieces slowly and patiently, as rushing might cause damage to the digitizer and touch screen.
 Once the larger glass pieces has been lifted off, use painter’s tape to take out tiny shards of glass.

DO NOT touch the bare screen with your hands, even with gloves. It will leave hard-to-remove marks and will be visible when the screen is off.
 Do so starting from the edges of the front panel, and using a plastic pry tool and some guitar picks to wedge underneath the glass so it doesn’t slide back in., As you do, make sure that you have completely lifted the glass off of the LCD before you proceed lower. Leave guitar picks or prying tools wedged on the edges to prevent the glass from bonding with the LCD again., Remember that these are touch buttons at the bottom that have sensitive cables attached to them, so when you reach the bottom, do not pull the glass off just yet. Detach the buttons from the front panel by using a little heat, and use a spudger to peel the buttons off of the glass panel.

Start taking the buttons out by beginning with the middle black ribbon in the portion that connects the two buttons. Move sideways to remove each button.
 Once the buttons are unhinged, you can start removing the glass as well as the shards on the screen. If the shattered pieces are very fine, use some sticky tape to gently lift them off of the LCD screen. Do not press hard when doing this, as you can permanently scratch the LCD screen., You will be needing it for the new one., Use some WD40 and microfiber cloth, but do not use WD40 excessively., The double-sided tape should come with the front panel replacement when you purchased it., Make sure it is spotless before applying the new glass., Inspect it in the light for inconsistencies or blemishes that you should wipe off before applying.

Peel off the paper on the strips of sticker tape on the phone, and peel out the protective plastic on the surfaces of the replacement screen.
 Make sure to secure it properly.,, Make sure everything is dust free before doing so. Apply pressure on the edges of the screen to make them adhere securely while lining up the buttons to the appropriate areas while applying the glass.

You can use a small flathead screwdriver to secure the touch buttons (Back and Menu buttons) ribbons to the right position when laying the bottom of the panel down.
 Place firm pressure around the circumference of the phone only.