 The gift you select should be tailored with the specific individual in mind. Put some thought into what kind of things your recipient likes and does regularly, and how the gift might reflect some aspect of your personal relationship. For instance, fitness lovers will appreciate a monthly trial membership at a new gym, while aspiring writer will get a lot out use out of a subscription to an online self-publishing software. Your gift will mean more if it seems like some real thought went into it, rather than just being chosen at random.Compile a list of the person’s known affinities, interests, hobbies or pastimes.
Ask friends, family or coworkers for unorthodox gift ideas if you get stumped.;
, Find out if there’s anything that the person in question has a particular use for. That way, you’ll know that you’re getting them something that they’ll really appreciate. This might be having a new set of brakes installed on an old car, or getting a fallen tree removed from their yard after a bad storm. A little creativity on your part will take the burden of planning right out of their hands.Listen for cues when the person in talks about things they’ve always wanted to do or need to have done.
Don’t be afraid to think outside of the box—almost any service or convenience can be offered as a gift.
 Your gift will be even better received if it comes at just the right moment. This will show the person that you’re thinking about them and provide some much-needed leisure or relief. For instance, a relaxing massage may be just the thing that a busy executive needs after closing a stressful deal. Likewise, exhausted new parents will relish a weekend stay at a top-rated bed and breakfast.


Make sure you have an idea of the person’s calendar so you can avoid scheduling conflicts.
Look into seasonally-appropriate events and services at different times throughout the year to start putting together ideas.
 Even though the service itself is the real gift, having something to go with it that the person can accept physically is going the extra mile. Gift cards are a good way to enhance the presentation of your gift, as they can be delivered in a separate box or card. Tucking a booking confirmation or scheduling notice into a greeting card will also do the trick.If the service is undocumented, or something you plan to do yourself, accompany it with a note that says something like “enjoy your reservations for a candlelight dinner for two at Chez Louis” or “good for five free back rubs.”
Avoid giving the person a receipt, invoice or anything else that displays how much you spent.
 It’s no fun if your recipient already knows what they’re getting. Try to get as much information as you need from friends or relatives beforehand to avoid letting anything slip. Then, present the gift in a way that the recipient won't see coming. A few subtle clues or a well-timed reveal can make all the difference between a delightful surprise and one that’s lacking any excitement.Use another small item to sneak in your surprise gift. For instance, you could attach a gift card for a tanning package to a bottle of suntan lotion.
Help the recipient discover the surprise with a playful word game or scavenger hunt.
 Don’t just pay for a service and leave the rest up to the recipient. Handle details like times, locations and other considerations yourself based on your knowledge of the person and get everything worked out in advance. That way when the time comes, all they’ll have to do is show up or sit back and enjoy the experience.


Leave the selection of custom options and amenities up to the recipient so that they can get exactly what they want.
The general idea is to make your gift as hassle-free as possible so that it doesn’t just become something else that your recipient is responsible for getting done.
 Few things are more indulgent than a full day’s worth of pampering. With reservations at a luxury spa, your recipient will be able to enjoy a deep-tissue massage, manicure, pedicure, hairstyling or makeover in one convenient stop. Spa days make great gifts for both men and women.Spa days are perfect for busy mothers, brides-to-be and couples who don’t get to spend as much quality time together as they’d like.
You can usually book appointments online, meaning you can give a meaningful gift without even leaving the house.
 For the thrill-seekers in your life, look into adventurous recreation opportunities like a scuba diving session, zipline tour or guided rock climbing lesson. You could also rent a night or two at a secluded campsite in a beautiful patch of wilderness. These types of experiences make an exhilarating alternative to mundane, predictable gifts and are sure to stick with the person for a long, long time.Be sure that the person is physically prepared and up to the task before signing them up. Otherwise, they may feel pressured to do something they’re not comfortable with.
 Sometimes the best gifts are ones that check items off the to-do list. An oil change, tire realignment or new set of shocks can spare someone a lot of fretful planning while bestowing other benefits that will come in handy right away. Vehicles can be expensive and temperamental, so the less the recipient has to worry about constant upkeep, the better.


Vehicle-related gifts can be a big help to college students, graduates, newlyweds and other young people setting out on their own.
Make arrangements with a trustworthy garage nearby the recipient and pay for the gifted services ahead of time.
 If you get word that someone’s favorite band or performer is going to be in town, see if you can secure admission. Other productions that make great gifts include the local symphony orchestra, musicals, circuses or magic shows. Concerts and similar events are a lot of fun for people of all ages, and tend to be the kind of events that are talked about for years.You can wrap the tickets themselves as a gift, or forward the event confirmation via email as a surprise.
Consider picking up a pair of tickets so that the recipient will be able to bring a friend along.
 Looking for a gift that keeps on giving? Browse the internet for various subscription services that send out exclusive monthly packages to recipients. You can choose how long the subscription will last based on how much you’re looking to spend, and there are packages available for almost every lifestyle, hobby and interest imaginable.Packages are typically delivered during the first week of the month and contain an assortment of different goodies and one-of-a-kind specialty items.
Some popular subscription services include Birchbox, which specializes in women’s makeup and skincare products, Dollar Shave Club, which sends out a steady supply of razors and other masculine grooming supplies, and Loot Crate, which contains merchandise for gamers and pop culture aficionados.

