 Newer styles don't work as well as the Type 1. Type 1 VW Beetles are the models from the 1970s and can commonly be found in Arizona and Texas because VW production was transferred to Mexico during that time.;
, These may include a megaphone exhaust, tires, shock absorbers, and springs.


A good source for parts is eBay Motors, as well as dune buggy specialty stores such as AppleTreeAuto.com or Chirco.com.
 To avoid serious injury or worse, make sure the vehicle is secure before crawling around underneath it. It's more fun for you to be inside the car, rather than the car being inside you.
 Strip it down till it contains only the bare essentials: the frame, engine, suspension, steering wheel, tires, brakes, and some type of seat. Everything else is unnecessary and can be stripped away. Use the leftover parts to make scrap metal sculptures, or sell the parts on eBay.


Remove the fenders, bumpers, and trunk lid. Remember that the trunk of a VW Beetle is in the front and the engine is in the back.






Replace the tires, wheels, suspension, and exhaust. Since your vehicle is older, these components are likely to be in poor shape. Remove the wheels and tires since you will be replacing the tires and reusing the wheels if they still are in decent shape. Make sure to keep the lug nuts from the wheels.






Replace the suspension components, such as the shock absorbers and springs. Obtain taller springs so that your dune buggy will sit higher off the ground.






Remove the exhaust pipe with a reciprocating saw. Make your cut 5 inches (13 cm) from the header flange. Install the megaphone exhaust at a 45-degree angle, thoroughly reading the manufacturer's instructions.






Install your new tires onto the factory wheels, and attach to the VW by tightening the lug nuts. Remove your dune buggy from the jack stand.
 If you prefer to modify the engine, the Chevrolet Corvair engine is a popular upgrade choice. This allows you to upgrade to 6 cylinders and creates the possibility of achieving up to 80 horsepower (130 kW).

