 Speed gear was recommended for Alpha but not for Bravo. The vests come at a cost and that is lower protection, when you play Bravo you will be camping more and therefore it's a bad idea to decrease your protection. Here are a couple of suggestions of what you should wear as Bravo player:


Normal vest/gear. Provides you with the normal protection and speed, you can buy Military or Cyclops bandana to gain a little speed boost.
Assault vest. Gives you a 10% protection boost and a 3% speed boost, combined with a bandana it's a nice solution. NX only though.
Heavy vest/Tanker vest. First one is available for GP at low rank and gives you a 15% extra protection with a 10% drop in speed. Tanker vest is NX only and supplies you with 17% extra protection at a cost of 9% speed. The huge speed drop on those vests can be balanced by using a Cyclops Bandana that increases speed with 7%.
Specialist. Viper/Hawk/Scorpion offers you normal protection with a nice boost in speed, especially if you buy Viper or Hawk.
 The advice on guns for Bravo is about the same as for Alpha, a SMG and a AR/SR rifle is useful overall and if you are a fan of G36E series you could buy that and use as primary weapon with a sniper as second weapon. Example:


Primary weapon: Your favourite SMG/AR (P90, PP-19 etc are smg's and G36E/L85A1/M416/FAMAS/Aug etc are ARs.
Secondary weapon: Any pistol does the trick
Melee: Same
Support: This one could be mines or nade/s depending on what you prefer. Mines are useful as they can be put at entrances etc and can help guarding a site while nades are really useful if you are solo/there are more Alpha players than Bravo players left and you need to clear a site. Choose whatever you like.
Backpack Slot A: Same as for Alpha, a AR or an SR.
Other guns/spec/etc: Rocket launchers and spec weapons such as auto-turrets, claymore/hornet mines and M32 can also be very useful when playing Bravo. However same thing applies here, most people doesn't like specs and you should consider whether to use it if you are playing with your clan/don't wanna be kicked from the game. You might consider getting a medkit though if you bought a specialist - it can be very helpful if you have to solo some rounds.
 When the round starts you should quickly plant any mines/turrets if you brought these. Naturally they should be put close to a site so chances are the enemy trips on them. Avoid common spots as door entrances and try to put them where the enemy is most likely to not see it. Sometimes it can be a good idea to put exactly at where Alpha will plant the bomb. Then pick a camp spot. As I said before if you are playing with a clan you should have made up a strategy and practised it so everyone knows what to do. If playing public, keep your eyes on where the other players are and make sure none of the sites are left unguarded. If you are camping a site alone you should also watch out for backreapers from Alpha.
 If you didn't outnumber Alpha huge from the beginning or are facing a noob team chances are some of your players are killed by now and holes in the defence is opening up. Carefully keep track that both sites are guarded and if all teammates at one site are killed you should immediately rush there. If you are lucky you come just in time when they are busy planting the bomb and can take out couple of Alpha players. Be careful though if there are several of them - someone is probably covering the player planting the bomb. If you hear that the bomb has been planted it's the same procedure, hurry over there but be careful. If you know the common spots which are usually underneath stairs/behind boxes you might be able to finish off the Alpha's that are guarding the bomb.
 It's done by standing next to the bomb, place your sight at the bomb until you see the "Press E to defuse" message and then do so. Regardless of whether you are alone or have teammates with you it's advisable that you carefully exam the bombsite before defusing the bomb. Make sure that no enemies are around still camping and also look out for mines. More than once a whole Bravo team has been killed by some idiot tripping over mines planted around the bomb.

