 If you want to connect to your audience, then you should consider its knowledge before you select a topic. If you're giving a speech to a group of aspiring writers, then you can comfortably reference other writers and literary terms; if you're speaking to a group that knows very little about writing, be careful when you make more obscure literary references.


If you're speaking to a group that is knowledgeable about a topic, then you don't have to waste their time by discussing the most basic aspects of that topic.
 If you're speaking at a conference for young professionals, you can use more complicated terms and elaborate phrases, but if you're delivering a speech to middle school students, you'll have to change your terms and phrasing to connect to your audience.


You don't want to lose your audience by speaking about something that is completely over their heads, or by delivering content in such a basic way that it sounds condescending.
 What would your audience need to know, and what would interest your audience? Put yourself in your audience's shoes and make a list of all of the things the audience would care about; an audience of teenagers would care about very different things from an audience of middle-aged adults.


Imagine yourself as one of the audience members. If they're teenagers, pretend you're a teenager. Try seeing your topic choice from their perspective. If it bores or overwhelms you, then it won't be the right choice.
 Knowing the age, gender, and race of the members in your audience can help influence your topic. If most of your audience is over the age of 65, then you probably wouldn't talk about current fashion trends on the runway; if most of your audience is under the age of 20, then you wouldn't talk about saving for retirement.


If there are many more males than females in your audience, for example, then it may be best to pick a gender neutral or male-geared topic.
Knowing the race of your audience can help pick a topic. If you have a diverse audience, then something about race relations or diversity can interest your audience, but if you're talking about diversity, interracial marriage, or discrimination against one specific race of people that is not in the audience to an audience that is predominantly of one race, then your discussion may fall flat.
You should also consider where your audience is from. A certain topic may be more interesting to a person from California than a person from Idaho and vice versa.
 If you're giving a speech to friends or family, then you can be more personal than you would if you were giving a speech to an audience of strangers. If you're giving a speech to your employees, your tone would be different than it would be if you were giving a speech to your superiors. Adjust the tone and content of your speech accordingly.

