 Using a balance transfer is a great idea if you can’t pay down the balance on the card you want to close. Shop around for a new credit card. Many card issuers offer balance transfer cards with an introductory 0% APR for 12-18 months.


You’ll need a good credit score to qualify for the best deals. Generally, your score should be 720 or higher, though people with lower scores might still qualify for a balance transfer card.Compare offers. Look at what the APR will be once the introductory period expires. Also check if the card requires an annual fee., You’ll preserve your utilization rate if the new credit card has the same credit limit as your old card. If the limit is lower, then your utilization rate will increase, which will hurt your credit score.


For example, you might want to transfer a $1,000 balance from Card A to Card B. Card A has a $5,000 credit limit, but Card B has only a $3,000 credit limit. In this situation, your utilization will increase.
Also realize that you’ll pay a small fee when you transfer your balance. The fee averages around 4% of the amount transferred, so your total credit usage will also increase slightly.
 You can apply online. You’ll be asked to provide personal information, including your Social Security Number and information about your employment.


Transfer the balance when you open the card. You’ll be asked the balance you want to transfer and details about the card.
Opening a new card will probably decrease your credit score slightly in the short term.If you absolutely cannot let your score fall, even a little, then you should delay cancelling your credit card until you can pay it off in full.
 Once the balance has been transferred, you can close your card. Call and confirm that the card now has a zero balance. Then state that you want to close the card and ask them to report the closure as “at the consumer’s request.”Follow up with a letter, certified mail, repeating your request. Include all relevant information—name, address, phone number, and account number.
Check your credit report to see that the card was closed and properly noted as closed at your request. If not, then dispute the notation.

