 If you don't know any bloggers personally and you will be pitching to bloggers for your job, now is the time to become part of the blogging community and get to know them personally.
 You want to hook and interest bloggers that cater to the kind of people you would like to notice your product or event. Sending it to bloggers outside of your niche will most likely be wasted time and effort.
 You should track down 20 to 100 to create a large base for releasing your information. The following are ways that you can find blogging leaders for press release submission:


Do a Google search with the subject matter and "blog" as keywords. You should find a couple of pages of blog listings to research and submit to.
Do an advanced Twitter search to find bloggers who regularly communicate with a Twitter and blog community. You can find blogging leaders on Twellow, or you can find localized bloggers on the Twitter site, using the search or advanced search method and a subject matter.
Search for other bloggers on Technorati, Findory, StumbleUpon, Feedster and Bing. Each of these places has a blog directory search. Use your press release's subject matter as a keyword.
 Don't spend time researching a blog if an email isn't listed because it will be more difficult to send them a press release.
 Avoid sounding formal or like you are writing a spam email to hundreds of bloggers - the extra time spent on research and writing from a human perspective will pay off in readership.


Be brief. A popular blogger does not have much time to spend reading emails, so be sure to say what you want to say in approximately 5 sentences. If possible, include a short part of the press release below your introduction and include a link to read the rest of it.
 These services submit to news channels, websites and blogs. For a price, they will review your press release, include important key words and spend the time sending it out to potential bloggers.


Although a press release distribution service can be expensive, it is important not to choose simply based on price. A poorly written or edited press release is better off not being sent at all, because no one will look at it. A press release should have an introduction written to each blogger, with promotion offers, to increase the chance of it being run.

