 All three reporting agencies report the same type of information on their reports:Identifying Information – Your names, address, social security number, date of birth, and places of employment.
Credit Accounts – These include mortgage accounts and home equity loans, revolving accounts (credit cards), and installment accounts, where the amount and term of payment are fixed, such as car or student loans. The payment history for each account will be recorded for 81 months (or more in the case of TransUnion). Satisfactory and negative accounts will be reported separately, with negative accounts usually reported first.
Credit Inquiries – Hard inquiries occur when you apply for a loan and authorize a lender to ask for your report. These inquiries negatively impact your credit score if there are too many in a short period. Soft inquiries are when a creditor orders your report in order to send you a “pre-approved” offer. Soft inquiries do not impact your credit score.
Public Record and Collection items – This includes bankruptcies, foreclosures, lawsuits, wage attachments, liens, judgments, and information on overdue debt from collection agencies.
 The first thing to do with your credit report is to scroll through it to be sure there is no inaccurate information. This will help to protect your credit score and to prevent identity theft. Make sure you check:Name – There should be no names listed other than your own.
Address – Be sure the only addresses listed are places you have lived. If another address appears, it may be a sign of identity theft.
Credit Accounts – The report will list all your present and past credit accounts, along with information regarding whether payment has ever been late, and if so, how late. Make sure all accounts belong or belonged to you, and check to be sure any negative information is correct.
Public Records Information – Check to see if your report lists any delinquent accounts, bankruptcies, foreclosures, lawsuits, wage attachments, liens, or judgments, be sure they are accurate. This sort or information can devastate your credit score, so be sure it is accurate if reported.
 You can inform reporting companies that you think information is inaccurate via their websites while reviewing your report, or you can write the companies. They must investigate the disputed item and forward your dispute to whoever provided them the information. You should also report the inaccurate information to the creditor in question, otherwise they may report it again and it will reappear on your credit report. If the reporting agency refuses to remove the disputed item, you can ask that a statement of your dispute be included in all future credit reports.Equifax – You can start an online dispute here, call them at 866-349-5191, or write them at: Equifax Information Services, LLC; P.O. Box 740256; Atlanta, GA 30348.Experian – You can start an online dispute here or write them at Experian; P.O. Box 4500; Allen, TX 75013.TransUnion – You can start an online dispute here, call them at 800-916-8800, or write them at TransUnion LLC; Consumer Dispute Center; P.O. Box 2000; Chester, PA 19022., If you do find inaccurate information, it may be a sign of attempted identity theft. To safeguard your credit, contact Experian, TransUnion, or Equifax to put 90-day fraud alerts on your accounts. These alerts will inform lenders and creditors that they need to take extra precautions to verify your identity before issuing any more credit. You only need to contact one agency, and they will tell the other two to put alerts on your accounts., Your credit score is a number that lenders use to determine your eligibility for loans or credit cards, and it is calculated using your credit history. One website describes it this way: "If credit was a term paper, the score would be your grade at the top and the report would be the feedback your professor wrote about how well you performed on the back."If viewing your report online, Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion will all give you the option to pay to view your credit score. Scores are as follows:


600 or less – This qualifies as bad credit, meaning you will find it difficult to secure credit for a car loan or mortgage. You will probably only qualify for a secured credit card, which requires a deposit before you can make charges, much like a debit card.
600-700 – This is average credit. You will qualify for loans and credit cards, but with higher rates and worse terms
700+ – You have good credit and will be approved for most loans with competitive rates and also by most card companies, so long as you don’t have too many credit card accounts or too much debt.
780+ – This high rating requires a history of at least 5 years of on time payments, along with a mix of debt – credit cards, student loans, mortgage, etc. You should be able to get top rates on loans and any of the best credit cards.
 The simplest ways to improve your credit score are to pay your debts on time and to reduce your debt to total credit ratio on your revolving debt (credit cards) to 20% or less. You can do this by either paying down your balances or obtaining more credit.

