 Get an Addy pick unless your mining is 50+ {then use rune}. Grab a Brown Apron and go to the crafting guild and mine the gold rocks there. Make sure that you are on a world with not many people on it. When you have mined the rocks and your inventory is full, store your gold ore to the Eastern Falador Bank. When you have reached 1K gold ore, go to the Grand Exchange and sell the Gold Ore for 500ea. If you have done this correctly, you should now have 500K. Repeat this has many times as desired, though it might take some time to do this.;
, Start by mining tin and copper like the other people do it. Smelt it into bronze and smith the bar into the best item that you can make. When your mining and smithing level is 15, start SMELTING iron, but don't smith it until that you can make iron scimitars. Keep smithing bronze because you will get more xp from bronze platebodies than from iron daggers, axes, swords, med helms, and maces. I usually just drop the bronze stuff rather than try to sell it because so few people want bronze. Keep this pattern until you get to the steel bars. By this time you should start to sell the items that you made because more people will buy steel than iron or bronze. Keep THIS pattern until you get to the adamant bars. When your mining and smithing level reaches 70, you should always smelt the adamant ore and the coal into bars because when you smith an adamant item, it will be worth more than the adamant ore itself. Keep smelting and smithing the best items and selling it for profit. By now, you should have at least 100K-300K. Now, when your mining and smithing level reaches 85, stop. Keep mining ADAMANT ore and coal because there are many revenants and level 70-100s monsters in the Wilderness Runite Mine. Just keep smithing adamant platebodies until you are really tough enough to take on the wild monsters that appear out of nowhere in the wilderness. By now, you should have at least 1M. Then your friends will be jealous of your wealthiness!

, Cook all of it, drop the burnt ones, and keep the cooked ones for future use if you are going into combat. Keep doing this, fish the best fish you can, cook and drop the burnt ones, and if you just don't feel like keeping the cooked ones, you can try to sell it at the Grand Exchange for Min or Market price. When you can fish and cook for lobsters, people will really want them in the Grand Exchange so be sure that when you have the cooked ones, sell them in the Grand Exchange. Then you should now have some money. One of the best ways to make money is getting your fishing up to 15 then getting your cooking up to 55. You will need about 20 to start off, but then go and buy as many plain pizzas as you can, and then go and fish and cook that many anchovies. Put the anchovies on the pizza and sell it at the grand exchange. You can just keep getting more and more plain pizzas and repeat the process. But this is only for members.
 Start cutting basic logs and sell then in the Grand Exchange (now G.E.) People will really want logs, so cut them until your woodcutting level reaches 15. Then start cutting oaks and sell then in the G.E. for the MIN price. Then when your woodcutting level reaches 30 , keep cutting oaks. Do NOT cut willows because no one will want them in the G.E., so keep cutting oaks until your woodcutting level reaches 60. Then, you should cut yews no matter how hard it is to get the logs from the trees. You should have a lot of money after 4 or 5 months of woodcutting, probably more than 1 or 2M.
 If you are at least level 50, you can try Fist of Guthix a minigames, found in the Wilderness. For levels 56+ try Fist of Guthix and win the tokens there and eventually you could buy a valuable item in the Reward Shop. If you are level 90-100 I prefer Bounty Hunter. for levels 100+ you can do both Fist of Guthix . If you are a level 3 newbie start by asking for free armor in Lumbridge. Pretty soon you will get it. Then train on level 2 goblins near the general store, followed by level 6 muggers, level 16 thieves, level 21 guards, level 26 jail guards, level 33 black knights, level 36 white knights, level 28 hill giants, and level 42 or 43 moss giants.
 Then grab the air talisman and start mining rune ess (25). Then get the 25 rune ess (un-noted) and go to the air temple south of Falador. Trade with a guy who says "Open... ..." He will trade you the amount of $ he says in the Open thing and with 25 noted rune ess. Run back to the Eastern Falador Bank and switch it to un-note rune ess. Repeat this as many times as desired and you will get a lot of money.
 Then, go to the Crafting Guild (north of Remington) at a time when there are not many people playing. You will need a Brown Apron and bring a Pick (Adamanite or Rune recommended).Mine the gold ores then deposit them at the Eastern Falador bank. Then, go back and mine. When you have 200 to 250 ores, smelt them and make them into necklaces. If you have gems, you can make an amulet out of it. Sell the necklaces ten at a time at the G.E. for 1195 GP or market price. Plain amulets are only worth about 800 GP for ten, unless it is a gem amulet. If you had 250 gold ores, you will now have about 240K. Repeat this as many times as desired. Note that you will get mining, smithing, and crafting.

