 Phenobarbital is the most commonly prescribed medication to treat seizures in cats.


Phenobarbital is an anticonvulsant which works by raising the motor cortex's threshold for stimulation while simultaneously decreasing neural excitability.
This means that the cat's nerves become less responsive, while her brain requires a greater trigger to set off a seizure.;
, The recommended dosage of phenobarbital is 1-2mg/kg. Thus, an average 5kg cat will require 1.7 milliliters (0.06  fl oz) of a 15mg/ml phenobarbital elixir, twice per day.


If this dosage is ineffective, you may need to give the cat a third dose of the medication each day.
Once swallowed, phenobarbital crosses the stomach lining and is rapidly absorbed into the blood stream.
 Phenobarbital is available in both tablet and liquid form. The liquid form is easier to use on cats who are difficult to pill.


Anyone who has had to pill an unwilling cat in the past knows how difficult it can be, and trying to do it three times per day, over an extended period, can put a serious strain on the pet/owner relationship.
Liquid phenobarbital is also better when small doses of the medication have been prescribed. This is due to the fact that the tablets are very hard and can be difficult to cut up.
 In the first 4 to 5 days of phenobarbital treatment, the cat may appear to be sedated. However, you cat should become more alert and active once her body adjusts to the new medication.
 Like with dogs, phenobarbital stimulates the cat's thirst and appetite, which may cause her to gain weight. This is unavoidable, but you can do your best to maintain your cat's health by feeding her a healthy diet.
 Phenobarbital is metabolized by the liver. Therefore, if the cat's liver function is impaired the phenobarbital cannot be broken down properly, causing it to rise to toxic levels.


In rare cases, phenobarbital causes immune-mediated destruction of blood cells and deactivates the bone marrow, which stops it from producing new cells.
You can do your best to prevent these complications by monitoring your cat's health carefully and bringing her for regular check-ups at the vet's.

