 Pick a vase that will give you room to maneuver with your hands. As with the drilling method you still need one that will fit the average sized lamp fixtures you might have in mind.Don’t pick a vase that will be too top-heavy.
If you add a base remember to add one that will allow for the power cord to pass through the center and then bottom or side.
 You’ll be using the 3/8-inch hex nut and IP threaded nipple. Twist the hex nut onto the nipple. Make sure the nipple’s end is flush with the edge of the hex nut. Put the flat washer over the other end of the nipple. Allow the nipple to rest against the hex nut.Do not let the nipple protrude past the hex nut.
 Pick a lamp adapter that will fit the top opening of the vase., Do this above the adapter. Tighten the locknut until it’s flush against the lamp adapter., Twist it on above the knurled locknut. Make sure the coupling is flush against the locknut., Make sure the lamp pipe is twisted into the coupling. Also ensure the lamp pipe is at minimum 2” longer than the overall height of the vase., Do this until it reaches the bottom of the threads. Insert the end of the lamp pipe through the center hole in a lamp harp saddle., Put this on above the saddle. Find the tiny set screw on the neck of the cap. Tighten the set screw to stabilize the cap., Pull the ends of the cord upward through the rubber gasket preinstalled in the bottom of the socket cap. Grab the two lamp cord wires from the socket cap with your fingers, and separate about three inches of cord by pulling the grabbed wires apart.You can do this because these lamp cords should have thin insulation holding the two wires together that are pre-designed to allow separation. Ask the purchasing shop if you have questions about this kind of electrical cord.
 Wrap one free end of one lamp cord wire around one screw on the interior lamp socket. Wrap the other free end of the wire around the interior lamp socket’s other screw. Tighten both screws to keep both wire leads under the screw heads.Get one screw partially started so it is holding one wire in place before you start the second screw. Get the second screw turned enough to hold the second wire in place. Finish tightening both terminal screws.
 Use your hand to push the cover back and forth until it snaps into place.Listen for a “click” to let you know it’s in place.
 Fix the two ends of the harp onto the saddle by sliding them into place.Make sure the harp isn’t too wide for the vase opening near the bottom.
 Screw the bulb into the lamp socket. Turn the bulb until it’s just starting to tighten. Don’t over-tighten it.Remember not to screw the bulb in while the lamp is on or you’ll blind yourself.
 The lampshade design is your choice. The harp should have come with a finial. Use the finial to secure the lampshade to the harp.Make sure the lampshade is configured to work with both the harp and fastener.

