 This can be one of the most effective scents for drawing deer to an area. Hunters often use deer lure, but they can also be used to attract the animals for the simple pleasure of viewing them.


Put the deer urine lure around the area of your property where you want to draw deer. Apply doe scent on grass or trees if you want to lure bucks.
Deer will be most drawn to the scent about 10 weeks before the height of the local deer's breeding season.
 If you are in a hunting stand, hang scent wicks around your tree stand.The scent wicks are often saturated with buck urine.


Put the scent wicks about 20 yards in front of the stand and make sure they are about four or five feet off the ground so the wind will disperse the scent.
Minimize human scent on the lure. Deer will be less attracted to the lure if they also smell human scent. So be careful when handling the lure. You can find deer scent in sporting or hunting goods stores.
 Some deer may love the smell of sweet apples, so you could draw them with the fruit or its scent. This will be on the condition that apples are part of your local deer populations food supply.


Plant an apple or crab apple tree around the edge of your yard. Deer will like the cover, the tender leaves, and the fruit produced by these trees.
You could also put apples in a tub or bucket in addition to grain or deer feed and see if that will draw the deer. You could also fill barrels or buckets with corn. Try using 5-gallon pails, and put them throughout your property.
 Deer may be drawn to salt and mineral blocks, as well as blocks made of cider and apple salt.


Feed stores and hunting goods stores should have these for sale. Place the salt blocks at the edge of your property.
If you have a food plot, you may want to locate the salt block there instead. Or you could put the salt block near a feeder. You could also bury the salt block in the ground, and sprinkle salt on top of it. It could take several weeks or even months for the deer to find the salt block, so be patient.
 You can find many different deer scents packaged for sale at sporting goods stores. They include some creative scent combinations said to increase the chances you will attract deer.


For example, some stores sell scented deer corn, such as orange-flavored corn.
Products flavored with apples, such as corn, liquids and other attractants are known to draw deer, who love apple scent., This will show you what animals are visiting your plot, and help you establish what foods the deer are feeding on, as well as what food other animals may be stealing.

