 You can use this Twitter partner application by installing it on your Twitter account; it will filter out Foursquare tweets from your Twitter feed. The “Text Filters” option can mute the updated tweets on your account.


You need to sign into TweetDeck using the data of your registered Twitter account to use it for your Twitter account.
Go to the TweetDeck web page at https://tweetdeck.com and click on “Sign in on web” on left side of the home page. You will be directed to the Sign In page.
Input your Twitter account’s registered username and password in the required fields. Hit “Sign in” to access to your account.
After signing in, the TweetDeck application will be automatically added to your Twitter account.
 You have a little task to adjust the privacy setting of your Twitter account with the TweetDeck application. When you sign into your Twitter account using “TweetDeck” app for the first time, you will see an “Account sharing” setting dialog box that will appear on your “TweetDeck” app screen. There are two options for you on this setting box: “No, only me” and “Yes, me and others on my team”.


Choose the option “No, only me” to ensure that you are the one and only user of your Twitter account and no one else has the right to access your account. You should choose this option for your personal Twitter account.
Choose the option “Yes, me and others on my team” to confirm that you and other permitted people can “Sign in” and use this Twitter account with full functionality. In case the Twitter account is connected to a website, team, or organization, you should choose this option because more than one person may need to update tweets to promote the website, team, or organization.
Click the “Get started” button at the bottom of the dialog box on your screen. Now, you will see a new layout of your Twitter account separated in different columns. You will see the tab bar on the right side of your screen. There are different options here for your Twitter profile.
 Now, you can use the setting of the app to filter out all Foursquare tweets from your Twitter newsfeed.


Click on the gear (settings) icon at the bottom, on the left vertical bar. A drop-down menu will appear next to the gear icon. Choose “Settings” from the drop-down menu.
Select the “Mute” tab on the left side of the dialog box, and you should see a “Mute: Text content” drop-down option on right side of the box.
Type the keyword “4sq.com” in the “Using” field, and click on the “Mute” button below. The keyword “4sq.com” will be listed, indicating that the tweets from Foursquare will be muted and you won’t be seeing them anymore on your Twitter feed.
Hit the “Done” button to close the dialog box.

