 The best thing you can do to look good whether you have freckles or are suffering from acne or an uneven skin tone is to get into a routine that will keep your skin healthy. Skin that is healthy is supple and radiant, and will look great without the use of makeup.Usually, a good routine will involve cleansing your face with a gentle cleanser in the morning and at night before bed, using a toner to help wipe away any makeup or bacteria you missed, as well as application of a good moisturizer.;
, In the morning and at night before going to bed wash your face using a gentle cleanser that has been designed for your face. If you have oily skin, a foaming cleanser will help wash away excess oil. If you have a dry skin, a cream cleanser can help cleanse the skin without drying it out even more. Splash lukewarm water onto your face using your hands, then massage a dime sized amount of your chosen cleanser all over your face (avoid your eyes), massage the product on your skin for a minute or two to give it time to work.Be gentle when washing your face. The skin here is thin and sensitive, so using the soft part of your finger tips to massage the cleanser into your skin will be sufficient.
When you are finished, rinse your face thoroughly with lukewarm water. Make sure you get all of the cleanser off your skin. Finish by patting (not rubbing!) your face with a clean towel until it is dry.
If you are trying to treat acne, look for cleanser that include salicylic acid, benzoyl peroxide, or tea tree oil.
 Toner is great for removing any excess oil, makeup, or bacteria you might have missed. All you have to do is squeeze a bit of the toner onto a cotton pad or ball and swipe it gently over your face. You only need to use a little bit of toner as there is no need to soak your skin in the product.Avoid toners including alcohol if you have sensitive or dry skin as alcohol will only irritate and dry out your skin even more.
 For the day, you will want to use a light moisturizer that includes an SPF to protect your skin from the sun. At night, though, you will want a heavier moisturizer that can replenish your skin. If your skin is quite dry, consider mixing a facial serum into your moisturizer to give it an extra boost.


If you have trouble with breakouts, be sure to get an oil-free, non-comedogenic moisturizer that won’t clog your pores.
Apply a thin, even layer of moisturizer all over your face using your finger tips.
 The health of your skin is an indicator of your health on the inside. Research has shown that consuming healthy foods and drinking plenty of water can help improve the appearance of your skin considerably.As a general rule of thumb, try to stick to eating fresh fruits and vegetables. To make sure that you are getting all the vitamins and minerals you need, try to eat the rainbow. This means that you should try to eat a variety of different colored fruits and vegetables. For example, red tomatoes, green peppers, blue blueberries, purple grapes, and orange oranges. Don’t just assume that eating a green salad will give you everything you need.
 If you have not been in the habit of taking good care of your skin, it can take awhile before you notice any improvements in your complexion. You may even break out a bit before your skin improves. Try to give your new routine about six weeks to take effect before assuming it isn’t working.If you try out a product for six weeks (for example, an acne face wash) and you haven’t noticed a difference after that, then it is safe to assume the product isn’t helping. Try out a different product that contains a different active ingredient.
 While there are some things you can do to treat certain skin conditions, there are some things that cannot be easily remedied. Rather than constantly thinking negative thoughts about your skin, try embracing your flaws if that’s how you see your freckles, acne, or uneven skin.


For example, you should remember that freckles are seen as very beautiful by many people, and some people have become famous models due to their uneven skin tone.
Remember that acne is something that nearly everyone experiences at some point or another, so it can be viewed as a part of life rather than as something that is bad about you.
 Try to become comfortable in your skin. It can be hard to look past your own imperfections, but everyone has them, and to be honest, most people don't notice those minor details about other people. Try to find confidence in how you look, and play up the features that you do love about your face.


For example, if you really like your eyes or your lips, you can use makeup to draw attention to those features.
If you don’t want to wear makeup, you can draw attention to your hair by styling it nicely, or you can wear interesting glasses, hats, or jewelry to take the attention off your skin.
 If your skin is really causing you stress, try visiting a dermatologist. There are treatments that they can use to lighten blemishes and freckles, and other treatments they can recommend for treating acne. However, realize that some treatments (for example, for skin lightening) can be very expensive.


If you really feel like you cannot live with your freckles, you may be able to have them removed by your dermatologist via laser treatment.
Many dermatologists can also prescribe medications that are designed to target specific causes of acne.Dermatologists can also recommend treatment options for uneven skin tone; however, the specific treatment will depend on the reason behind the cause of the uneven skin tone., If you want to cover up your freckles, acne, or uneven skin tone you will need to use a foundation. The best way to make sure that your foundation goes on evenly is to first apply a makeup primer, which provides a layer that the foundation can hold on to. It can also help add moisture where needed, and absorb excess oil on your skin.Primer will also help your makeup stay in place better and longer.
Apply primer all over your face using your fingertips, this will also help draw blood to your face, giving you a glowing appearance.
 If you have any pimples or other blemishes on your face that you want to cover up, using a concealer will apply coverage to that specific area without requiring you to use a heavy foundation. All you have to do is dab a tiny bit of concealer on the area you wish to cover, and then use a makeup sponge or brush to gently dab the concealer evenly over the area.If you don’t want to wear a lot of makeup, choose a lightweight concealer that matches your skin tone to hide any areas that bother you.
If you are covering pimples or other redness on your skin, a green concealer works well to counteract the redness.
 Try to stick to a lightweight or medium-coverage foundation. While full-coverage foundation can work wonders, it is difficult to get a fresh, natural look with this type of product. Therefore, try to start out with lighter coverage BB creams or tinted moisturizers before jumping to a full-coverage foundation.The idea is to give your skin a healthy, fresh look. Jumping right to a full-coverage foundation may cover up blemishes, but it won’t look natural at all.
You can apply your foundation with your fingers, with a sponge or with a brush. Start with a small amount of product and apply it to the center of your face, blending it outwards as you go.
 A lot of people pile on the makeup thinking this will make them look better, but in reality, over-application of makeup leaves most people looking greasy and unnatural. If you take good care of your skin, you will notice improvements. Then you can just apply a bit of makeup to accentuate your features rather than to try and cover everything up.


Wearing a lot of makeup may even lead to more skin issues than what you started with.
Keep any makeup application brushes or sponges clean to avoid rubbing bacteria all over your face.

