 There are many to choose from, but OxiClean is probably the most easily recognized. The specific product you buy is your preference, but you should look for a powdered formula that contains sodium percarbonate and sodium carbonate. Other fillers will reduce the efficacy of the product.Some other recommended brands are Biokleen’s Oxygen Bleach Plus, Oxo-Brite (which is supposed to be earth-friendly), and Vaska’s Oxygen Brightener.;
, You need a container than can fit the piece you need to clean, plus enough water for the piece to soak in. For small items, a sink or bucket works well. For something large like sheets or a comforter, you might need to find a clean trash can or large plastic tub.


For large items that are only stained in one particular area, you could place it so only the affected area is soaking in the container.
 Although it is sometimes recommended that you use cold water to avoid setting the stain, oxygen bleach requires hot water to work. For most items, you’ll want enough water to fully submerge the piece in the water., You want to follow the product use instructions because different products have different concentration levels. Following the label closely will ensure you use the right amount. Also, stir the bleach around to help it dissolve. The water should be cloudy and slightly grainy.
 The length of time needed depends on the type of stain and how bad it is. You may only need to leave the piece soaking for 30 minutes or so. For best results, let the item soak for about 5-6 hours, as this is the length of time the oxygen bleach will stay active. Check the piece of fabric every hour to see how well the stain is fading.Occasionally stir the clothing around and try to mix up any oxygen bleach that has settled at the bottom. You can also add more hot water as it cools.
 After the item has soaked and the stain seems to be mostly gone, wash the item as you regularly would. You can also add a little more oxygen bleach to the wash cycle to give it an extra boost.Always check the stain again before drying the item, as drying can set the stain worse if it is not yet removed.
If the stain remains after the soak and wash, either repeat the process or try another stain removal method.

