 Whenever you talk to your parents, you should be polite and loving. While their neediness and actions might frustrate you, you need to remember that they love and care about you. Use this opportunity to return the favor by showing them politeness and respect.


Don’t be abrupt or short when you answer their phone calls or emails. Instead of saying something like “I don’t have time for this now, mom” say “Hi mom, I’d love to chat right now but can’t. Can I call you back later?”
Avoid snapping at them. While you may be very frustrated with their neediness, do your best to never snap at them. Never say things like “Mom, I just can’t handle your neediness anymore!”
Remember that you can’t take back mean things once you say them., Under almost all circumstances, you should make sure that you share your feelings about your parents with them. Ultimately, by letting them know that you care about them, too, you may relieve some of the stress and anxiety they are suffering that is causing them to be needy.


Tell your parents you love and care about them whenever you talk to them. For instance, whenever you call, say something like “Mom, I was thinking about you and wanted to touch base.”
If your parents end a conversation with “love you,” you should reciprocate. This probably means a lot to them., Parental neediness problems may be resolved simply by having complete conversations with your parents. By having complete, full, and productive conversations, you'll show that you care.


Ask them about their lives. For instance, ask them about their parents or their experiences as children.
Demonstrate that you care about their opinions. For example, ask them advice about parenting, budgeting, or home improvement.
Let the conversation progress naturally. For instance, try not to wind down a conversation or end it prematurely. Your mom may simply enjoy talking about many seemingly insignificant things with you.
Make time to talk, so your conversation is not rushed. For instance, set a one hour block aside to talk to your parents every Sunday afternoon, and avoid calling when you're doing something else, like driving your kids to an activity., A great way to deal with emotionally needy parents is to head them off by making sure you keep in contact with them. By calling them on a regular basis, you’ll let them know that you care about them. You’ll also take control of the situation and establish a routine.


Call them once a week around the same time. By calling at say, Friday at 5pm, you’ll establish a regular time during which you can call. This way, they’ll know when to expect your call and might feel better about it.
Send them a greeting card occasionally, especially if they don't use a computer. Even if you only write a few lines, it is a gesture that can say a great deal with a few words. It's also something they can look at and re-read if they need reassurance.
Consider sending them emails, if they can access them. Don’t underestimate the impact that a thoughtful email may have for your parents.
Send them text messages, if they can access them. While text messages are easy to send off, they might mean a whole lot to your parents.
Try to establish a regular schedule when you’ll visit with your parents. For instance, if you live in the same city, try to visit with them every Sunday, or more regularly if you want.Notice any significant changes in your parents' speech, ideas or approach to you. This may indicate a shift in their mental or physical well-being. Don't be too quick to assume they are just being annoying or demanding — really listen to what they are saying.
 The best way to make your parents feel attended to is to use every visit as an opportunity to spend quality time with them. By making the most of the time you spend with them, you'll potentially reduce their neediness.


In-person visits are perhaps the most impactful way to show that you care. If you don’t visit your parents regularly, they’ll begin to feel as if you don’t care about them.
Make sure you focus your attention on them and ask them questions about how they’re doing when you visit them. For instance, say something like "Anything new in your neighborhood?"
Ask them questions about their interests, their friends, and their health.