 You need the right equipment to melt gold. A crucible is a container that is specifically designed to hold gold as it melts because it can withstand the extreme heat.


A crucible is usually made of graphite carbon or clay. Gold’s melting point is at about 1,943 degrees Fahrenheit, which means you will need temperatures that hot to melt it. Thus, it's very important that you don't just choose any container.In addition to a crucible, you will need a pair of tongs to move the crucible and hold it. These need to be made out of heat-resistant material.
If you don't have a crucible, a homemade method uses a potato to melt gold instead of a crucible. To use this method, cut a hole into the potato, and place the gold in it.;
, Flux is a substance that is mixed with the gold before melting it. It is often a mixture of borax and sodium carbonate.You need more flux if the gold is impure. You can use many different formulas for flux mixtures. One method involves mixing borax and sodium carbonate. Add two pinches per ounce of clean jewelry scrap and more for dirty scrap. You can use regular baking soda or bicarbonate purchased from the store. When you heat it, it forms sodium carbonate.Flux helps hold together the fine gold particles, and it also helps remove impure materials from the gold as it heats. When using the potato method, add a pinch of borax into the hole in the potato before melting the gold., It can be dangerous to melt gold because of the extreme heat needed to do it.


Consult a professional if you have no training in melting gold at all. You also should find a place in your house to melt gold that is safe, such as in your garage or a spare room. You will need a work bench to put your materials on.Make sure that you wear safety goggles and a face shield to protect your face. You should put heat-resistant gloves on your hands and wear a heavy apron too.
Never, ever melt down gold near something that is flammable. It can be very dangerous, and you don’t want to cause a fire.

