 While waxing creates cleaner lines, it can create too clean a line on a man. Some stylists suggest men should pluck rather than wax because a bushier, more natural shape looks better on men.The straight lines can look unnatural on a man, like you've drawn it on instead of waxing your natural brow.
Start by plucking underneath your brow. That's often the place you'll need to pluck first. You may not need to pluck the top of your brow at all.
Mostly, you just want to clean up stray hairs and slightly define the arch.
 Once you've plucked, it's time to trim your eyebrows. Trimming on the top helps create a cleaner line without making it too blocky, which is why plucking is better than waxing for men. Start by brushing your eyebrow hair upward and outward with a spoolie brush or small comb.A spoolie brush is a mascara brush, but you can buy separate ones at drugstores.
As you trim, try to cut hairs along the top so they are even, creating a cleaner finish. You can use the brush or comb to help you trim. Use a small pair of scissors for trimming., On younger men, a unibrow can be acceptable, even sexy. However, most stylist recommend getting rid of the unibrow as you age because it will help you look younger and more polished.To remove the middle part of a unibrow, you can use wax strips. Simply buy wax strips meant for eyebrows. They warm up in your hands.
Line up the inside point of your eyebrow with the inside point of your nostrils. Place the strip over the part you want to remove. Use your fingers to rub it down, then remove it quickly., If you just want to add shape to your brows, consider a brow gel. You can use a pomade, but that will add color, too. You can find gels that are clear made specifically for your eyebrows, which you can use to give your eyebrows definition and shape.Most gels come with a brush, much like mascara. However, you'll need to add a little of the product to it first before applying.
Use the brush and gel to brush your eyebrows upwards in the direction the hair grows. Leave it in to dry.

