 Before you can do any planning, you need to determine what your goals are. Do you want to maintain your weight, but maybe make healthier choices? Do you want to lose or gain weight? Take the number of calories you currently consume per day as a starting point and work to determine the number of calories you will need to consume in the future to meet your goals.


Remember that it takes a reduction of 500 calories per day (on average) to lose one pound per week.For most people, this reduction can come from carbohydrates. Remember not to cut down any macro-nutrient group too low. Avoid cutting back too far on protein and healthy fat as both as used from repair and hormone production.
Example: Say your current caloric intake was calculated to be 2,000 per day. You want to lose some weight, so you decide you need to cut back to 1,500 calories per day to do that safely. In order to maintain a healthy diet, 40-60% of those calories need to come from carbs. To make things easy, let’s assume you want to have 50% of your calories come from carbs. Multiply your daily calorie goal of 1,500 by 50% to get 750 calories per day from carbs. Now divide the 750 calories per day by 4 (as there are 4 calories in every carb) to get 187.5 grams of carbs per day. You now have your daily caloric and carb intake amounts., Using your calculated number of calories and carbs per day, start making yourself a meal plan. Use nutritional labels on food packages and the USDA’s Super Tracker (https://www.supertracker.usda.gov/default.aspx) to help you determine the number of calories and carbs in each item you include in your plan. The Super Tracker is also a great online tool to make a plan, as a ton of nutritional information is already included.The Super Tracker will also remind you that daily exercise is an important part of a healthy lifestyle.
 You should try to eat something with at least 5 grams of fibre at breakfast, to start your day. Half of the grains you eat every day should be whole grains. Eat breads that have at least 2 grams of fibre per serving (a bread serving is normally 1 slice). Substitute whole gran flour for white flour when baking. Add fresh or frozen vegetables to foods like soups and sauces. Add beans, peas or lentils to your soup or salad.Add unprocessed wheat bran to cereals to increase the amount of fibre.
Try brown rice, wild rice, barley, whole wheat pasta, and bulgur as opposed to the “white” versions.
When substituting whole wheat flour for white flour when baking bread, you may need to add more yeast or allow the dough to rise for a longer period of time. If baking powder is part of the recipe, increase it by 1 teaspoon for every 3 cups of whole grain flour.
Apples, bananas, oranges, pears and berries are great sources of fibre and can easily be eaten as a snack.
Nuts and dried fruit also have a lot of fibre, but some dried fruit may be high in sugar.
 Everything you put in your mouth, even gum, can contribute to your daily caloric intake. Beverages, however, may be the most forgotten or overlooked. Water doesn’t have any calories, but it’s about the only beverage you don’t have to worry about. And while coffee or tea on their own may not be high in calories, you do have to count the milk, cream or sugar you put in them. In general, sugary drinks are the worst culprit. Non-diet soda, energy drinks, juice and added sugar in tea and coffee will add your calories up very quickly.Remember that fruit juice is not the same as eating a piece of fruit. Consuming the same calorie level of juice vs. whole fruit does not mean that those two foods are equal. In whole fruit, fiber is included which helps to regulate the blood sugar spike that comes with consuming carbohydrates. Juices have little to no fiber causing them to spike blood sugar. Choose whole over juice.

