 The shutter priority mode allows you, the photographer, to set the shutter speed manually. The shutter speed dictates the length of time your shutter is open and your camera’s sensor is exposed to light. While slow shutter speeds capture blurry pictures, faster shutter speeds freeze, or stop, the action and produce crisp images.


Locate the labeled dial on top of your DSLR camera.
Turn the camera to the shutter priority mode. This mode is often represented by a “S” or “TV.” If you are unsure how to place your camera in this mode, check the manual.
Locate the unlabeled dial on your camera.
Turn this dial to the right to increase the shutter speed and to the left to decrease the shutter speed. Stop once you have reached 1/1000 (of a second), as indicated on your digital screen.
DSLR is an abbreviation that means Digital Single Lens Reflex. DSLR cameras have zero lag time, which makes them ideal for shooting action photos. Due to large image sensors, DSLR cameras produce high-quality images., ISO measures how sensitive your camera is to light. The lower the ISO, the less sensitive your camera is to the available light. As you increase the ISO, the images captured by your camera become more grainy or noisy.


Read through your DSLR camera’s manual to determine how to change the ISO.
Select the lowest possible ISO setting that is appropriate for the level of available light.
If you don’t have an action lens with a wide aperture, you can compensate for this by increasing your ISO value., When taking action shots, you can increase the likelihood of capturing a great shot by taking several images of the same action. Changing your camera to high speed shooting mode allows you to take multiple pictures of the same action just by holding down the shutter button. After taking the series of pictures, you can review the images and select the best shots.


For specific instructions on changing your camera’s shooting mode, read through your DSLR camera’s manual.
If you have a Canon, this setting is called “High Speed Continuous.” It is represented by a small stack of photos in the bottom right corner of your screen.
If you have a Nikon, this setting is called “Continuous High.”, In order to shoot crisp action shots, you need a camera that is capable of tracking and re-focusing on moving objects. DSLR cameras are equipped to do this. Before taking action pictures, change your camera’s automatic focus setting to continue focus mode. This mode, known as AL-SEVO and AF-C, also your camera to predict where the subject of your image will move.


For specific instructions on changing your camera’s focus setting, read through your DSLR camera’s manual.
If you have a Canon, change the focus setting from One Shot to Al-SERVO.
If you have a Nikon, change your focus setting from AF-A to AF-C., DSLR cameras have multiple focus point settings. Select a setting the best suits your environment and subject(s).


Auto Select: This setting is ideal for taking pictures of a single subject. Since the camera automatically chooses where and what to focus on, avoid using this setting if there is something or someone in the background of the picture.
Manual Select Zone: This setting is great for taking images of a single subject. When you camera is in this setting, it will remain focused on whatever is in the middle of the frame. If you are struggling to keep you subject in focus, switch to Manual Select Zone and keep your subject in the center of the frame as you take pictures.
Manual Select Single Point: This setting is best for taking focused images of a single subject within a large group, such as a sports team. After manually selecting the subject you wish to remain focused on, do not lose track of your subject.
For specific instructions on changing your camera’s focus point setting, read through your DSLR camera’s manual.