 Brush your hair back from your head with a paddle brush or a comb. It should be smooth and free of any tangles or snags. For a more polished look and to prevent flyaways, try finger-combing a smoothing serum through your hair before you get started. Hair can be dry or wet, though it can be easier to braid wet hair if yours is curly or wavy.If your hair is fine or layered, use a little styling cream or gel to keep hair from slipping out of the pleat.
If you want a side braid, brush and separate your hair to the side on which you want the braid to fall.
 The section should be about two inches, or enough to begin a basic braid. Hold the left section in your left hand and the right section in your right hand. Hold the middle section between the thumb and index finger of your left hand.








The French braid begins as a basic braid, so you'll want to have mastered that technique before you move forward.
 As you do this, you will pass the middle section of hair to your right hand, and the right section of hair between the fingers of your left hand, keeping it separate from the left section of hair.









The right section is now the middle section.
It may be more comfortable to hold the middle section in your right hand and start by crossing the left section over the middle section first. It doesn't really matter which side you start with, as long as your are consistent.
Hold the hair tight as you braid so the strands don't slip out.
 This time you will pass the left section between your thumb and finger of your right hand, and the middle section will be in your left hand.









The left section is now the middle section.









Pull the sections tight as you use your index finger on your right hand to gather hair from just above your right ear., Use your index finger on your left hand to gather the same amount of hair from above your left ear. Incorporate this hair into the left section.








The right section is now the middle section.










The left section is now the middle section.
,