 Before you can get a pet, you need to find the right breed of animal for you. Think about the kinds of breeds you think you'd like and then research them. You can do this online, through your vet, or by talking to knowledgeable people.


This applies to both species. Some cats need more attention than others. Some dogs are more vocal than others. Some breeds tend to have worse tempers than others. All these details are important if you want to find a pet that will suit you.
If you aren't sure, try the American Kennel Club's online dog breed selector program or the American Humane Society's online checklist on cat breed selection., The kind of animal you want may depend on their temperament or physical capabilities. You might want a rambunctious puppy that will turn into a big dog in need of a lot of exercise, especially if you are a very active person. If you are more a walk in the park kind of person, consider a small dog breed that enjoys slower activity.


Cat's can be very temperamental. If you want a pet to hold, pet, and snuggle with all the time whenever you want, you may need to get a small dog. If you want an animal that will snuggle with you and love on you when he wants but not all the time, a cat might work better for you., Once you have examined all the factors and know you can handle a pet, live in the right place for a pet, and know which kind you want, you need to choose a pet. Spend time searching for the perfect pet for you. Search the internet or classified sections to find pets for sell. This is a good method if you want a particular purebred animal. Also visit your local humane or rescue society to consider adopting a fine, healthy pet.


If you find one you like, contact the owner or shelter people to let them know you’re interested in the animal. Then, return to the place every day for a few days to spend time with the animal. This will help you both adapt before you take her home.Some shelters and owners will let you take the animal as a foster pet for a while until you become familiar with what she is like and decide you want to keep her.

