 Begin by pouring out the volume of green gram you want into a fine colander or sieve. You need to wash the beans thoroughly before you try to sprout them. Rinse them in water three or four times to make sure that they are completely clean.If you are making a sprouted green gram salad, you should use about 1 cup of green gram per person.So if you are making a salad to serve two, sprout 2 cups of the beans.
You will be able to buy the beans from local grocery and health food stores.;
, Once you have thoroughly washed the beans you need to place them into a bowl and cover them with water. The water should completely cover the beans, with the beans about an inch below the surface of the water.


Do not use tap water for this. Soak the beans in water that has been boiled and then cooled to ensure it contains no contaminants.
Leave the beans to soak for at least seven or eight hours. You might want to leave them overnight.
After you have soaked the beans, put them in a sieve or colander and rinse them thoroughly until the water runs clear., Transfer your beans to a clean and dry container that you can close. After putting the beans in, close the lid and place the container somewhere warm. Leave them again for seven or eight hours, or overnight. After a day check them to see if they have sprouted.


If you leave them overnight you will most likely find the beans sprouting in the morning.If the beans haven't sprouted after a day, rinse them and drain them before returning them to the container.Most mung beans will sprout within 24 hours. If it takes longer than two days for the beans to sprout, then don't eat them raw. Cook before using.
 Once your green gram has sprouted nicely they are ready to eat in whatever way you like. Be sure you rinse them thoroughly again before you eat them, especially if you are having them raw in a salad.


Green gram is often used in Indian cuisine as a base for dal, curry, and salads. You can also make a delicious Haleem stew with mutton and green gram.In Filipino cuisine, green gram is eaten with sautéed meat, garlic, onions and bay leaves.
In Indonesia, green gram is made into a dessert by cooking the beans with sugar, coconut milk, and ginger.