 Cholesterol is a fatty substance which is essential ingredient of the body used in various metabolic activities of the body. However, when it exceeds the normal limits (150-200 mg/dL blood), it poses a serious threat to the arteries and heart. It can be successfully regulated and treated by means of slight changes in your diet.


Cholesterol can't dissolve in the blood. It has to be transported to and from the cells by carriers called lipoproteins. Low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, is known as "bad" cholesterol. High-density lipoprotein, or HDL, is known as "good" cholesterol. These two types of lipids, along with triglycerides and Lp(a) cholesterol, make up your total cholesterol count, which can be determined through a blood test., He or she should be your first opinion. They will be able to tell you what's a good number for you. Your family history and lifestyle will factor into their conclusion. What's more, they can help you stick to a plan.


Ask them what physical exercise and diet regimen you should be starting. They can help by giving you ideas and telling you the do's and don'ts of maintaining low cholesterol.
 For each person it's different -- so what's your ideal number? Your doctor will probably ask you a few questions to find out what's right for you. It all depends on your family history, your weight, blood pressure, and lifestyle habits (like smoking and drinking).For high-risk patients, a target LDL of less than 70 will likely be advised. If you fall into the moderate category, under 130 may be your number. And if you're one of the lucky ones and your risk is low, less than 160 is acceptable. Whatever branch you fall into, it's best to know earlier rather than later., If you smoke, stop. Apart from all the other reasons it's not good for you, it may help to raise your good cholesterol -- the HDL kind. Just 20 minutes after quitting, you'll see a change. Within a day, you're less likely to get a heart attack. If you make it a year, your risk of heart disease gets cut in half. And in 15 years, it's like you never smoked. So, yes, you still have time.A person's risk of heart disease and heart attack greatly increases with the number of cigarettes he or she smokes. People who smoke have a two to four times higher chance of having heart disease. And smokers continue to increase their risk of heart attack the longer they smoke. Women who smoke and also take birth control pills increase several times their risk of heart attack, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease.