 Though there is much evidence that supports many biodynamic growing practices, this does not mean that all biodynamic methods are in fact sound.Many experts criticize some of the mystical agrarian techniques, like the practice of packing compounds into horns and burying these to harness "terrestrial and cosmic forces."When it comes to evaluating resources:


Take resources that have a vested interest in the topic with a grain of salt. For example, a businessman has a vested interest in convincing customers of his business-sense. If he didn't, he wouldn't get business. Similarly, a journal of biodynamics has a vested interest in proving the worth of biodynamics. If the topic were disproved, the journal would likely be discontinued.
Research that can be reproduced is generally considered to be sound. If you find several resources authored by different experts that come to the same conclusion, it's more likely the results are trustworthy.
Generally, resources that have passed "peer review" are considered to be the most trustworthy. Though peer reviewed articles are often clearly indicated, you can use online peer review checking services, like the free-to-use online service at researchconnections.org., Although not always the case, print materials are often much more carefully researched before publication. This makes books on the topic of biodynamics useful resources. Books can also give you a more complete sense of the evolution of biodynamics over time as well as contemporary practices. Some books you might consider:



Soil Fertility - Renewal and Preservation, by E. Pfeiffer (2008).

Agriculture of Tomorrow, E. Kolisko (1978).

Gardening for Health and Nutrition: An Introduction to the Method of Biodynamic Gardening, by John Phillbrick and Helen Porter-Phillbrick (1995).

Biodynamic Gardening, by DK (2015)., Although the mystic components of biodynamics are still dubious, there are plenty of biodynamic techniques that have a proven positive impact on things like freshness and nitrate content.Though some of the articles can be dense and difficult to read, they are an excellent resource for de-mystifying biodynamic practices. Some articles you might find interesting include:


"Biological dynamic farming – an occult form of alternative agriculture?" by H. Kirchmann (Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, 1994).
"Soil quality and profitability of biodynamic and conventional farming systems: a review," by J. Reginald (American Journal of Alternative Agriculture, 1995).
"Effects of biodynamic preparations on compost development," by L. Carpenter-Boggs, J.P. Reganold, and A.C. Kenned (Biological Agriculture and Horticulture, 2000).