 Determine if the rudeness needs to be confronted or ignored. If it is irritating but otherwise harmless, it is often best to ignore the behavior. If the rudeness crosses a serious line or is extremely personal, you might need to confront the other person about it.Make sure that your confrontation is done as kindly as possible. This will help ensure that the interaction has a positive outcome.
For example, if someone says something very negative about you, confronting them should be done with a level head. If you go shout at them or insult them back, you are only going to make the situation worse. Instead, explain to them why their comments were rude, and ask that they refrain from saying similar things in the future.
 Confronting someone about their rude behavior can be nice in some cases. In other cases, it can be less kind. Either way, you should consider that there might be consequences for the confrontation. These can range anywhere from escalating the current situation to causing serious problems in the future.A confrontation is kind if it helps the other person to learn or better moderate their behavior. For example, if the person says something that is insensitive to you without fully understanding that it is rude, you can kindly let them know that such things are unappreciated. If it was unintentional, it is likely that they will not say similar things again.
 The nicest way to confront someone is by using “I” statements. This takes the blame off of the other person, and allows them to listen to you without becoming defensive. It also allows you to avoid blaming the other person for any fault you have in the interaction.For example, you can say something like “When I came in this morning to tell you good morning, I was upset that you didn’t look up from your work to acknowledge me.” If you notice, the person speaking does not lay the blame on the person who was rude, instead they simply state how the action made them feel.
 Telling someone that they are rude can leave them feeling hurt and guilty. The nicest thing to do, is to address the rudeness by coming up with an actionable plan that will help the two of you get along in the future. This lets the other person know that you care, and you are trying to improve the relationship between the two of you. Some things that you can suggest are:Greet each other kindly.
Avoid any name calling.
Give each other space if someone is having a bad day.

