 For western competitions such as Western pleasure or Western horsemanship, always wear an outfit that makes your horse stand out and color coordinates with your saddle pad. This will add great style to your overall presentation. For a local show, a button up western shirt, nice show pants, boots, and a belt may be very acceptable. But for more competitive shows, everyone will be wearing more elaborate garments such as form fitting silkies and vests, expensive chaps, etc.


If your budget will not allow you to make these purchases, as long as your outfit compliments yourself as well as your horse, then you have nothing to worry about.
Dark colors on light horses, and lighter colors on dark horses tend to draw more attention to them.
It's not recommended to wear an all-black outfit in the show ring. Most of your competition will also be wearing it and you will want to stand out among everyone else. A deep purple or midnight blue is a great alternative.
If you are confident in your skills and the skills of your horse, try drawing a bit of extra attention with a brightly colored shirt is a good option. You will stand out in the crowd and be more memorable in a sea of similar colors.
 You should wear a dark and/or traditional coat (navy, black, hunter green, tan, gray, brown, or copper) and breeches that complement, generally a light neutral or white color. Your shirt should have a stock collar and pin or a ratcatcher collar. Your boots should be highly shined and your gloves should match your boots; black is the recommended color. Do not wear boots that have a high heels.


The glove should successfully keep any bare flesh from being seen between your hands and the sleeve of your jacket.
For saddle seat you need a full suit: day coat and matching pants with shined jodhpur boots and either a derby hat for the female riders, or a fedora for the male riders, that accents your outfit.
Helmets for English classes are typically expected to be velvet-covered. Check the guidelines for your event to see what the specifics are., always have your hair up, make sure to get all fly-aways before showing, unless you are showing hunter/jumper or dressage. For more competitive shows, all hair should absolutely be under your helmet, or tight into a neat, tight bun in a hairnet at the back of your head, just barely below your hat or helmet.

