 Most states have laws requiring agendas for public meetings be posted prior to meetings. You can ensure that you and your classmates are present when issues important to you are considered.


Most meetings have time set aside for the public to speak. DO SO. (You may have to put your name on a sign in sheet.)
If the issue can have an economic impact, on the district or the students, discuss how supporting such a measure can save money or is worth the money. For example, uniform dress codes were supposed to lower the cost of clothing for school. Discuss how, in actuality, stores are charging more for the same items because the items are "uniforms" for school.
Talk about how the benefits of current policy either do not exist or are non-existent. Example: The school cafeteria has a light that turns red when the noise becomes too loud, which is supposed to deter loud talking. Instead, students are louder because they are afraid they will not be able to complete their statements before being compelled (by the light) to be quiet.
Try to get teachers on your side, adding their voices to the students. It will add legitimacy to your statements.
Show how what you are protesting, harms people. Example: The dress code requires dark blue pants. (Bring the pants to the meeting). For example: tell about how someone's younger brother got hand-me-down pants that were a little bit faded (not bleached) and got in trouble (or a warning) for that.;
, School Board elections generally have small turnouts. The school board may reconsider its position if it knew the graduating class had candidates for all the positions and/or the class would turn out fully to vote.
 If the letter is about what could be a political issue, send a copy to the local newspaper (Make sure you indicate in your letter that a copy was sent.). Have someone proofread the letter first.


Letters sent to the paper should be about "issues," not about events or activities. For instance, you should write explaining about your opposition to the dress code. You should not write about Joe's getting in trouble... because of the dress code.
 Don't break the dress code. Wear something that expresses your discontent. This can include a shirt that says, "Students against the dress code!" or whatever message you are trying to convey.


Don't use profanity or poor taste. Don't make any references to drugs or anything clearly illegal. Don't make threats, just simple promises.
Don't do anything that disrupts class or the campus.
Carry information with you which verifies your right to protest. See the link in the sources section.
 Have as many of your classmates sign it as possible.
 Make sure you bring other student leaders who support your position. You can see one member at a time. More than one or two members of the board in a private meeting may infringe a law against unscheduled or non-public meetings of the board.

