 Now that you've passed middle age, you really don't need to be wasting time on things you don't enjoy. That means you need to figure out what you do enjoy spending your time on. Maybe you love throwing yourself into your work, or maybe your home life is more where you're focused. Maybe you love to travel and have adventures. Whatever it is, work on figuring out what you enjoy the most.Spend some time writing about when you feel the happiest. Ask yourself, "What brings me the most joy?" Another good question to ask yourself is, "If tomorrow were my last day on earth, what would I want to do?";
, Having healthy boundaries can help you to feel happier, especially if your boundaries are not as firm as you’d like them to be. Work on setting good boundaries in your personal and professional relationships, such as by telling people what your boundaries are and reminding them if they cross your boundaries., Being assertive in the way that you communicate with other people can also help you to feel happier past middle age. Work on developing your assertive communication skills as well, such as by expressing what you want in a direct manner and saying “No” when you cannot or do not want to do something., Once you realize what's important to you, you need to work to rearrange your life to put that first. If family is your first priority, then consider limiting your work schedule if possible. If you love to travel, consider limiting other expenses so you can travel more often., Now that you're past middle age, you've probably sorted out your values. However, you may not have always stood up for those values. Now is the time to start doing it. You have age and experience on your side.For instance, if you feel something is unethical at work, say so. Of course, you want to be civil, but you have the experience to speak up for yourself.
When you see injustice, fight against it. Work to pass local laws to help your community, for instance.
If you see someone being made to feel uncomfortable in public, stand up for them. For instance, if you see someone who is a Muslim being bullied, you could say, "Leave them alone! Your opinions aren't wanted here." Then go sit or stand with the person being bullied, saying, "Are you doing okay? Can I do anything to help? Do you want me to walk you home?"

, When you reach this age, you've certainly got experience behind you. However, that also may mean that you may settle into certain ways of thinking and being. You settle into certain routines and rarely break free. Try to break away from that routine by trying new things and engaging with people you meet.For instance, take the time to listen to younger generations and figure out how they see the world.
Also keep your options open about what you can do. For instance, you may be less likely to try new things, but it's never too late to learn something new. Try scuba diving. Visit a country you've never seen. Try a new food. Do anything to get you out of your routine.
Be aware that there are benefits to trying new things. It gives you a chance to enjoy something you never knew you liked, prevents boredom, and offers a chance for you to grow.