 Feeding cheaper, but poorer quality feeds is a false economy, as you will have to feed more and it risks your horse’s health by lacking the necessary nutrition. To obtain feed of quality status on a budget, buy in bulk. The best way to do this is to get together with a group of friendly horse owners in your area who are willing to pitch in for the cost of feed by the pallet load. This isn't just about bagged foods––molasses can be purchased in large drums, although you'll need to have strong people and good logistics in place to move this container.


Shop around. Look online and phone around for the best available deals. Tell the feed retailer that you're happy to buy in bulk if you can.
Ask for advice from a nutritionist. Many feed manufactures have free helplines. Make sure you are spending your money on the best feeds and not over feeding expensive supplements.
Always use up perishable food by the use-by date. Only buy as much or share in as much bulk-buying as you know you'll use up in time.
If buying molasses in bulk, have the feed retailer load it on the truck with their forklift, then have all your cooperative participants come around with their smaller containers to fill straight from the truck. By the time they're done, the drum will be much easier to move!

, Winter feed prices increase as winter proceeds, so the more you've purchased early on, the more money you'll save. If you don't have the cash to buy all you need at the end of summer or in autumn, get a small loan from the bank. Even paying back the loan with interest will tend to prove cheaper than buying more expensive food during winter itself but be sure to do the sums with your bank adviser first. Again, using other horse owners to pitch in and buy in bulk and share storage space can be a great way to keep down the costs and improve the community spirit among horse owners!

, Pasture is proper grazing, not just a paddock for turnout. If you are lucky enough to have some, treat it as a crop. Poo-pick, rotate, cross-graze, rest, roll, harrow, re-seed and manure. Keep your horses off it in wet weather. Ask a local farmer for advice if you don't know how to grow great pasture.


If you live in a climate where the horses continue to access the paddocks and grass over winter, be considerate of the grass that is there. If horses tread on that grass when it's wet, they'll destroy that valuable feed. Instead, try using makeshift electric fencing to move them away from choice areas of winter grass so that you can feed it to them. On the dry days, let them eat direct from the grass to supplement their diet.
 Cider vinegar, oils, garlic and salt can all be bought more cheaply at local shops then at feed merchants. If you get together with other horse owners, you may be able to buy wholesale.
 Ask shops, supermarkets and market stalls if they have any fruit or vegetables they can’t sell, or need to sell quickly. Ask farmers and allotment holders if they have a surplus of their harvest that they can’t eat, store or sell. These will probably be oddly-shaped, damaged or small. Don’t accept any items that are rotten or diseased though; if you find these, either compost or dispose them as appropriate. And be aware that horses shouldn’t eat all types of fruit and vegetables. Don’t give them citrus fruit, tomatoes, or potatoes (cooked or raw). Remove any stones from peaches or plums. Most other types are fine, including the more exotic like figs and bananas.


Feed carefully selected kitchen scraps, like melon rinds and pulp from the juicer. These should be stored in the fridge and fed to the horse quickly after producing them.
Grow your own vegetables or herbs. If you have room, you can grow a selection of vegetables for yourself and your horse. You can grow herbs easily in pots. Mint is loved by most horses and is easy to grow.
 You can waste a lot of feed if it's not measured beforehand. Not only is overfeeding a waste but it can lead to an overweight horse. Weigh feeds before giving; use scales to weigh each feed.


Avoid filling hay nets. Feeding from the floor is healthier and faster, but wasteful. Feeding from a large rubber bin or enclosing a corner of the stable with plywood, gives you the benefits of feeding from the floor, without so much waste.
 A healthier horse will get the most from his feed:


Keep your horse suitably rugged. This will reduce the amount of energy the horse uses to keep warm/cool and help him keep condition with less feed.
Worm your horse regularly (as well as every horse he is turned out with). Get an egg count regularly. Ask your vet about the best worming programme for your horse and area. Feed the horse, not the worms.
 This will save time later and make it easier for other people to feed your horse for you.

