 Whether you use personal photos, quotes, concert tickets, or any combination of personal decor, displaying them in matching frames is an easy and inexpensive decorating upgrade. Make sure there is enough space on your desk for at least three frames. You can find cheap frames at dollar stores or arts and craft stores.Show off your quirky trinkets. Use decor that you love even if it doesn’t fit into the design scheme of your workspace. Feel free to display tacky souvenir from a fun trip, use stationary with your favourite cartoon character, or place an old toy sitting at the edge of your desk. Keep your desk both entertaining and professional.Create a collage by pasting pictures, photos, and memorabilia together in a fun way on your desktop. Sketch an outline and then glue your pieces on poster board so that you don't damage the top of your desk.
 Whether you place one under your desk for comfort, drape one over your desk for display, or use one on your desk as an ink blotter, rugs can bring colour and personality to your desk. A sample rug can be free or very inexpensive depending on the size that you’re looking for.Throw pillows can add a splash of colour, personality and comfort similar to a rug. You may display a small one on your desk and use it whenever you need to rest your head. , Cut out patterns from a piece of wallpaper or measure the right amount to cover your desktop entirely. You may also use it to line the drawers of your desk. This is especially handy if you have stains on your desk from the previous owner.Add some tassels. Use paper tassels and staple or tape them at the bottom of your computer screen or to the handles of desk drawers. You may also use real tassels on a string to create a border around your desktop. Purchase tassels at a sewing supply store, craft store, or a dollar store.Place googly eyes on your office supplies. Show everyone your goofy side with googly eyes. You may purchase them at a dollar store or at your local arts and craft store. They are inexpensive and easy to take on and off., You can use a fun mug to store your pens and scissors or a hollowed out coconut. Make sure that whatever you use is the appropriate size for your desk. You want it to be able to fit your accessories without taking up extra real estate., While you may not be able to have it lit, a candle can be a fun display. Choose a scented candle to keep your desk smelling fresh. You may also use a lamp can create just the right amount of warmth to your desk as offices often use only fluorescent light.If you don’t get a lot of sunlight into your office, get a full-spectrum light bulb for your light as it simulates natural light. These can be purchased online or your local hardware store.You may also string up some Christmas lights or fairy lights off the front of your desk or find fun and quirky lamps online or at thrift stores., Show off your personality with a fun mug. You can find a lot of cool mugs online or simply find a colourful mug at a hip kitchen supply store. You can even add a mug holder to your desk.Accessorize with cool coasters to rest your mug or to bring some personality to basic office supplied mugs. You may even bring your own French Press and beans to display on your desk if you’re a coffee aficionado. Display your favourite brews.
Display coffee table books. While you may need books for professional purposes, add some personality to your desk with coffee table books. They can add colour and be great conversation pieces if clients are around., If you have a small space, a mirror is a great way to make your desk feel bigger. A large mirror allows your desk to be used as both a vanity table and workspace. It’s also great to be able to check yourself out without leaving your desk as you work.