 Turning your birthday sleepover into a themed party can be a ton of fun and can make your party even more memorable. There’s lots of different themes to choose from, but here are a few popular options:


Different decade theme. Dress up like you were born in the 60’s, 70’s, 80’s, or 90’s.
Movie theme—you could choose Harry Potter, Twilight, The Hunger Games, or Divergent.
Sports theme
Hawaiian theme
Pop star theme—you could choose Justin Bieber, Selena Gomez, or Taylor Swift.;
, While decorations are optional, they can make your house feel more festive--especially if you're hosting a themed party. Sometimes it's as simple as hanging up some colored lights or buying a few rolls of streamers.
 Have a parent or adult family member go with you to a craft store or grocery store to buy everything you need for your party. If you’re planning on making a meal or offering snacks, make sure you have all the right ingredients.Make a checklist before you head to the store so you can keep track of your supplies.
Consider going to a dollar store to buy your supplies. Dollar stores are inexpensive and you can often get more bang for your buck!

, You could choose to write your invitations on construction paper or card stock and hand them out at school, send your friends a Facebook message, or have your parents send out emails. Whichever method you end up choosing, make sure to include accurate information about what time the party starts, how old you're turning, what the theme is, if food will be provided, and what time parents will need to pick up their kids in the morning.


Make sure you send your invitations privately so others won’t feel left out if they’re not invited to your birthday party—remember, you can only host so many people in your home.
Ask your parents how many people they’re comfortable hosting at their house. A normal range for a sleepover is usually between 2-8 people, but if your parents can accommodate more, go for it!
Ask parents to contact you if their children have any food allergies, and plan your menu accordingly.
 Make sure your friends know what the house rules are. You don’t need to be too firm, just make sure they know to respect your belongings and your parents’ rules., Before your guests arrive, make sure you have some snacks set out for them to munch on while they’re waiting for everyone else to show up. Some good options include chips and dip, party trays, pizza, and small sandwiches. If your parents will let you, order snacks or appetizers from your favorite restaurant.


Double check that your friends aren’t allergic to any of the snacks you’ve set out.
It’s a good idea to have some vegetarian options as well, in case any of your friends don’t eat meat.
 Putting on some of your favorite music can put everyone at ease and make the party more fun. You could make a playlist of all your favorite songs and even have a dance party!


You can also make a CD of your party playlist and give it to your friends as a party favor when they leave. A CD can be a great reminder of how much fun you had, and you can keep it for a long time!
If you chose a theme for your party, play songs that go along with it. If you don't have a theme, you can just play some birthday themed songs to get people in the mood to party!, There’s practically no limit to the activities you can choose for your sleepover, but it’s good to play games that will be fun and easy for everyone. Think about the things you and your friends usually do together and choose an activity you think they’ll enjoy.You could decide to:


Play a board game like Monopoly, Risk, or Sorry

Play a round of Twister

Play capture the flag
Play video games
Make a craft project
Play dress up
Have a scavenger hunt

Play with dolls or action figures
It's sometimes helpful to plan more than one activity, or have a couple of different games going at once so your friends can choose which one they like more. It’s also OK to come up with new games as the party goes on—you might end up discovering a game you really like!

, If you chose to have your parents bake or buy a special cake for your party, have your friends sing happy birthday and give everyone a piece of cake. Don’t forget to blow out candles!


Instead of a traditional birthday cake, have an adult relative help you make cupcakes. Cupcakes that come pre-mixed are usually pretty easy to make—plus, everyone gets to have their own.
Limit sugar and caffeine. While it’s usually a good idea to have some soda or punch available when your friends first arrive, make sure to limit how much sugar you consume after the sun goes down, otherwise you won’t be able to fall asleep.
 It’s up to you whether or not to require presents at your birthday party. It might be easier to just skip presents and enjoy spending time with your friends. If you do decide to open presents, make sure to thank each of your friends individually for being kind enough to buy you a gift. If you don’t like some of the gifts you receive, save your disappointment until after the party and smile after you open each gift.
 As the night goes on, it can be fun to get a flashlight and tell scary stories in a dark room. Make sure all your friends are comfortable with scary stories and be sure to stop if you see someone getting too scared.


Instead of scary stories, you can also tell jokes, come up with skits, or play truth or dare!
You could also go around the room and have your friends tell stories about the most fun they've ever had on their birthday. It might give you some ideas for games or help you plan your next birthday party!

, It might be fun to have all your friends sprawled on a giant quilt or pallet in the living room, but first make sure everyone is comfortable before you turn out the lights and get ready for bed.



Be respectful of your friends that want to go to bed early. If someone needs to be up early the next day or they’re used to going to bed at a certain time, find a place where they can sleep in peace and quiet.
It may be a good idea to tell your friends to bring their own sleeping bags. If you’re short on bedding, tell your friends to bring their own sleeping gear. Sleeping bags are fun and easier to put away than sheets and blankets—just roll them up and you’re ready to go!
If you like camping, see if your parents will let you pitch tents in the backyard and camp out. Make sure you have enough room in the tent for all your friends to sleep comfortably.
 A great way to fall asleep is to put on a good movie and turn out the lights. Have your parents make some popcorn or set out some movie theater candy. Take a poll and see what your friends want to watch—you want to choose a movie that everyone will enjoy. Here's a list of birthday themed movies to give you some ideas:


30 Going on 30
Sixteen Candles
Toy Story
Uncle Buck
Some of your friends might have different rules than you about which movies they’re allowed to watch. To be on the safe side, choose something that’s family friendly—plenty of great movies are!

, Gently tell your friends that it’s time to get up. If you have any morning activities planned, it’s important that your friends are up and dressed in time. If your friends forgot any overnight items like a toothbrush or towel, see if your parents have any extras laying around the house that they can borrow.
 It’s a good idea to have breakfast planned for your guests. Foods like pancakes or waffles are great choices because you can make the batter the day before and have it ready to go for mealtime. Simple breakfast foods like cereal or toaster strudels are also delicious options! Make sure to have plenty of orange juice or milk on hand as well.
 While you wait for your guests’ parents to arrive, turn on some cartoons or a fun TV show. Everyone knows that cartoons and breakfast go great together, and watching TV is a great way to relax and recuperate from all the fun you had the night before.
 It’s nice to put together a small bag of party favors for your guests so they'll have something to remember your birthday party by. You can include things like candy, small toys, nail polish, action figures, or other trinkets.


If you decide to include a CD of the birthday party playlist, you could label it with your name and how old you're turning, or make a decorative sleeve for the CD that goes with your theme.
 Thank your parents for all their hard work helping out with your sleepover. Help them clean up empty cups, spilled popcorn, streamers, nerf bullets, costumes, or anything else that you find lying around after the party. Helping your parents clean up shows them that you’re grateful for their help in making your birthday party awesome. Plus, showing initiative in cleaning up makes them much more likely to help you plan your next sleepover!


If you find something left behind by one of your friends, bring it to school the next day or have your parents contact their family.

