 To ensure that you don't have to interrupt construction of your inductive tap, collect the necessary materials first and prepare your work space. Set up a sufficiently comfortable soldering station that is flat and at an appropriate height. Your target line for you inductive tap should be a standard land line, also known as a POTS telephone. For the construction of your tap, you will also need:


Enameled copper wire (solenoid wire is ideal)
Clip-on ferrite
Denatured alcohol
Wire cutters
Shrink wrap wire casing or electrical tape
Soldering iron
Solder;
, Your clip-on ferrite should be comprised of an outer case that houses a magnetic core made of iron oxide and other metals. It is typically dark in color and is often used in electric transformers and inductors where components like your solenoid wire are wound around the inner core.


Clip-on ferrite is usually shaped so that there is a circular hole through the middle where a cord can pass, and can be opened the side opposite from where the two halves hinge.
Your core may be circular in shape or rectangular, but it is important you position your clip-on ferrite so that one side is open, much like a book. Without opening the ferrite, it will be difficult to wrap your solenoid wire around the core to make your inductive tap.
 Leave yourself a few inches to spare at each end of the wire. These will be used to connect your jack plug.
 Now you can use fine sandpaper or some other mild abrasive to remove the enamel coating on the last inch of your wire tips.


Exercise care when removing the enamel coating. It's easy to nick a wire, but doing so will ruin your inductive tap.
 This will protect your inductive tap against damage and you from shocks from open wires.Remember to leave enough poking out of the end so you can connect the jack plug.


In place of shrink wrap, you can also use electrical tape to insulate your wires.
 Do this by soldering the ends of your miniature phone plug cable to your wire ends. Do not overheat your wire or else it will become brittle and potentially snap off.


The best soldering joint requires you to prepare the surface by cleaning the area you will solder with denatured alcohol., This will cause your shrink the wrap to shrivel so that it is drawn tight.


If using a lighter, hold your flame at a distance of about an inch and a half from the shrink wrap.
If you have insulated with electrical tape, this step should be skipped.
 For your inductive tap to work, you will need a POTS telephone (a standard landline telephone). Remove the plastic casing but be careful not to cut through the wires inside. This will cause your telephone to break, and your inductive tap to not work.
 Either of these two wires, which make up the phone line pair, will suffice. You should be careful to avoid the yellow wire. Placing this inside your ferrite will prevent your tap from receiving signal.
 A 3.5mm audio extension cable may be needed if there is considerable distance between the tap and the amplifier.
 When the telephone is in use, the signal should be transferred to the amplifier through the induction of your phone's electrical signals.Stand back and admire your handiwork as everyone around you calls you a genius.

