 It is important to remember that people wear makeup for a variety of reasons. Moreover, it is personal choice and personal taste that determine the amount and type of makeup one wears. Questions to consider include:


Is she attempting to cover a flaw?
Does she enjoy bold and bright colored makeup?
Is this makeup done for the wearer or for someone else?
Is she wearing makeup to enhance her features?
An example of how you might begin this conversation would be to say: “I notice that you often wear a lot of makeup and I was wondering if you could explain to me why women wear makeup and what your personal reasons are for doing your makeup the way that you do?”;
, Many people wear makeup to feel prettier or because they believe that they will be perceived negatively without it.Others wear makeup to fit in. It’s been proven that people who wear makeup are often perceived as more trustworthy, competent, and likeable than their bare-faced counterparts.Discuss openly and kindly what your partner shares with you.
Do not make criticisms about your significant other’s feelings about herself and/or makeup.
Listen carefully to what you are being told and do not pass judgments.
You might say something like, “I was wondering if you could tell me what it’s like to be you? I mean, in general, how do you feel about yourself and your appearance at any given time?” Once she has answered this, you might segue into discussing how she feels about wearing makeup and if that changes how she feels about her appearance. Make sure to empathize with her when she answers this question and do not ask the question in a way that might sound like an accusation.
 After listening to her description of her understanding of your likes and dislikes pertaining to cosmetics, you should talk about your preferences. Explain why you like a natural look with less makeup on a person more than a robust makeup application.


Remember to be kind and careful with your words.
Don’t take this opportunity to insult your significant other’s makeup applications, or to offer criticism.
Be objective.
Make your preferences about you and not about your significant other.
You might begin this conversation by asking, “What kind of makeup do you think I like best?” or by asking, “What type of makeup do you think I find the most attractive and why?”

, Complimenting your significant other when she is fresh-faced is a sweet gesture.This will help to build your mate’s self-confidence and may provide enough of a hint to let your significant other know that you wish they would wear less makeup without your actually saying so.


Repeat your compliments of your significant other whenever she is free of makeup as positive reinforcement.
Make sure that you mean what you are saying and that you are not offering empty compliments.
Make sure that your compliments are not backhanded compliments that could double as insults, or which contain snark.
Make sure that your compliments do not come off as a criticism of your significant other’s makeup skills.
 Perhaps she has naturally alluring eyes or full lips. Tell your partner about your favorite part of their face and why. Again, this will boost your significant other’s self-esteem and self-confidence., Rather than focusing on superficial beauty, express your appreciation for his/her depth and character.Reinforce that she is a beautiful human being inside and out regardless of the amount of make she is wearing.
 Tell your significant other how much you love her by treating her to a spa day. Be sure you purchase the package that includes a makeover. She may love her new, more subtle makeup, providing you with a sneaky, but sweet way to revise her look.


Speak with the spa professionals about what you hope to achieve. Be sure you tell the makeup technician that you do not want her to know you ordered a makeover, but that she wears too much makeup, which detracts from her appearance.
Be sure you include other spa goodies such as a massage and a manicure or pedicure to complete the day. If you only have her go for makeup, she will most likely be suspicious of your intent.
 While this may feel abnormal for you or your partner, you should use positive reinforcement in order to build your significant other’s confidence and self-esteem, as well as to effect a more permanent change in his/her makeup application. Additionally, this will help revise your partner’s desire to appeal to the mistaken preference that you have like heavy makeup. , Let them know that you found this particular item of makeup and you knew it would help to enhance their natural beauty without overpowering it.
 If this occurs you should accept her decision, as the way she applies her makeup is wholly her choice. You won’t always be attracted to your partner, but if you love them, you need to accept them as they are or want to be., You selected your partner for a reason and during the courtship phase of your relationship you accepted her flaws, including her decision to wear a lot of makeup.Ask yourself why you are now willing to criticize what you previously managed to overlook.


What will you gain from this criticism?
Are you simply trying to change your partner to be more to your liking?
Are you willing to hurt her feelings, diminish her self-esteem, or damage your intimacy in your quest to change her appearance?

, It will display respect for her autonomy and decision-making process. Finally, it will show that you value her and accept her choices even when you disagree with them, which is an exhibition of unconditional love.

