 First you need to clean your shrimp by using a pair of scissors and trimming off the legs. Then cut off the tip of the shrimp's head. Now cut the back of the shrimp until the last segment of the shrimp. This will expose the dirty elements within the shrimp that you can remove with a paring knife. Clean all the remaining shrimp in the same manner.;
, Pour one tablespoon of rice wine into the bowl of cleaned shrimp and mix thoroughly. The rice wine will diminish any fishy taste the shrimp might have. Let this marinate for at least ten minutes. Then pour in two tablespoons of corn starch and thoroughly coat all the shrimp.
 Heat two to three inches of frying oil in a wok or large skillet to 325o - 350o (163o- 177o C). When you start to see smoke or little squiggly lines in the oil, it is hot enough to begin cooking. Slowly add the shrimp, one at a time, into the hot oil. A pound of shrimp will require two to three batches of frying to cook. You are only partially cooking the shrimp, so as soon as they start turning pink, remove them from the oil and drain on a paper towel.
 Using the heel of a large chef knife, push down on a peeled garlic clove to flatten and then finely mince. To prepare the red chili peppers, start by cutting off their heads and then slicing them down the middle. This will expose the chili's membranes and seeds. Use a paring knife to scrape them out. Stack the chili pepper halves on top of one another and thinly slice. Prepare the green onion by cutting off both ends, but still leaving a little green and then finely mincing. It is important to remember that when working with red chilies not to touch your eyes after handling them without first washing your hands.
 After pre-heating your wok until it starts to smoke, add a tablespoon of vegetable oil around the sides of the wok. Allow the oil to get hot. In quick succession, add the prepared garlic, chili peppers, and shrimp into the wok and stir them together. Add a few grinds of pepper and a few of salt and continue stirring. Now, turn off the heat to the stovetop. Add and stir in the cut green onions. Do not overcook the green onions. After adding them into the mix, cook for ten to fifteen seconds and then plate your dish. Serve immediately. Enjoy.

