 Exercise helps improve your overall health, makes you stronger, and makes your body work more efficiently. All these combined will make you more energetic.


Choose exercise activities that you enjoy. Some people associate exercising with going to the gym or physical education class, but that is only a small fraction of what exercise can be. You can go walking, hiking, dancing, bicycling, or jogging, or you can play tennis, golf, racquetball, or some other sport.
Not only will exercise improve your health and make you feel more energetic, it also helps you to become happier, more positive, and less anxious.
Engage in some form of physical exercise at least 3-4 times or 150 minutes per week.;
, Our bodies need fuel for energy; that fuel is food. Build your diet around healthy non-processed foods that provide all the necessary nutrients and help raise your energy levels.Avoid foods high in sugar and low in nutrition (called empty-calorie foods), such as pre-packaged meals, chips, sodas, and candy bars. These foods actually decrease energy levels after providing a very short energy boost.An ideal mix of ingredients to eat includes foods that provide complex carbohydrates, are low in fat, and contain moderate amount of protein.
Spread your daily calories evenly and avoid skipping a meal only to have a huge meal later. If possible, eat five meals a day, keeping the amount of calories in a day where you want.
Do not skip any meals. This will cause a loss of energy. Your body needs food to keep going in the same way a vehicle needs gas to keep going.
Also, drink plenty of water. Dehydration leads to low energy. Drink 8-9 glasses of water each day.
 Consuming caffeine can have a positive effect on your energy levels. In addition to boosting your mental and physical energy, caffeine also increases your fat oxidation and metabolic rate.Caution: caffeine is known to cause sleeplessness and jitteriness. The amount of caffeine you would need to consume to experience these effects differs from person to person and depends on your sensitivity to caffeine.
The majority of healthy adults can safely consume caffeine in the amount of 400 milligrams (mg) a day.
 B vitamins and iron are important micronutrients that help support your energy levels. If you are deficient in these nutrients, you can experience lowered energy levels.B vitamins and iron are extremely important for your body’s ability to create and use energy. Vitamin 12, vitamin 6, thiamine, niacin, and folic acid support your body’s energy metabolism, while iron is needed for healthy red blood cells that are responsible for carrying oxygen.
Deficiency in B vitamins and iron can lead to anemia and fatigue.If you are not getting enough of these and other micronutrients in your diet, consider taking a multivitamin with iron and essential B vitamins.
 If you suffer from lack of energy, it might be because you are not getting enough sleep. According to the Sleep Foundation, adults should get between 7 and 9 hours of sleep each night.Make sure you get enough sleep. Set a regular bedtime and stick to it every night, even during the weekends. If you need to adjust your bedtime, make small daily increments (15 min earlier every night) until you achieve the target bedtime. Also, wake up the same time every morning.Avoid heavy meals and too much alcohol just before bedtime as these might make sleeping more difficult.
If you suffer from insomnia or sleep disturbances, it can lead to fatigue and lack of motivation. However, fatigue can also be a sign of a more serious health condition. If you don't get energized by getting enough sleep and good nutrition, you should get evaluated by your doctor., Practicing yoga can help reduce fatigue and boost your energy levels in addition to the other health benefits it has to your muscles and cardiovascular system.During yoga poses, breathe deeply to bring fresh oxygen to your blood. This will stimulate your nervous system and make you feel more energetic.Try the following breathing exercise: sit on the floor with your spine straight. Breathe in through your nose and count to four. Then exhale while counting to eight. Repeat.
Try the Uttanasana yoga pose, which is an energizing forward bend: start by standing and bending forward and down. Keep your knees slightly bent and allow your upper body to hang toward the toes. Breathe deeply, while allowing your spine to lengthen.