 Reading a text that is printed on a page, rather than on a computer, will make it easier for your eyes to focus on the text. Print out texts that are online or on a computer so you have the physical copy. This way, your eyes will not have to strain to read the text on a computer screen.If you are worried about using too much paper, print on both sides of the paper. Choose the double sided option when you print the text. You can also use recycled paper to print the text.
Alternatively, you can read the text on an eReader or on a screen designed for reading small print. Make the text large and easy to read on an eReader so you do not have to strain your eyes when reading.
 Look for words that are repeated several times. Identify ideas that seem important to the rest of the text. Notice themes that reappear from page to page. Skimming the text for these elements will make it easier for you to then understand the rest of the text when you read it in full.Keep these keywords, ideas, and themes in mind when you read the text in detail. Use them as a guide for your reading.
 Reading the text aloud to yourself can help you slow down and read the text more carefully. Listen to each sentence as you read it aloud. Pay attention to how the words sound on the page. Notice repetition, turns of phrase, and the language used in the text.To keep the reading engaging, you may try reading the text aloud with a peer or friend. Take turns reading the text aloud. This will allow you to listen to the text when it is being read by someone else.
 If you struggle with certain sentences or sections in the text, re-read them. Read each word slowly and consider the meaning of each sentence in the section. Spend some time pulling apart the passage. This will help you better understand it.Once you have re read the passage, consider it within the context of the rest of the text. Ask yourself, “How does this passage relate to the text as a whole?” “What does this passage say about the key themes or ideas in the text?”

