 Punk clothing is iconic because it captures a a unique sense of rebellion and individualism. Let that anti-establishment attitude show in your outfits.


Punks are known for being unique - don't let yourself worry that you don't look like punk. Wear what you want, make sure its relatively alternative, and you'll fit in with any punk crowd.
Make your own clothes if possible. Invest in a sewing machine. This way you can create truly unique looks without supporting the establishment.
DIY (do it yourself). A lot of punk clothing has a DIY look to it. For a punk, it's always better to remake something old than support consumerism and buy something new.
 If you're at a loss on how to build a punk wardrobe, here are some items to consider:


Skinny jeans or cargo jeans
Black leather jackets or denim vests
Studded or spiked clothing and bracelets
Safety pins
Pin-on buttons (side note: use tape if you put them on backpacks, or they may fall off)
Mostly black clothes
Tartan, camouflage, animal print and blood stains.
Ripped clothing held together with safety pins
Band T-shirts
Punk band patches
Black shirts
Spiky hair, Mohawks or dyed hair
Leather (or pleather) jackets with band patches, safety pins, or painted-on details such as an anarchy symbol.
Bondage pants, or pants with added embellishments such as zippers going up the back of the legs, chains, metal rings, or other add-ons.
Bullet belts
Fishnets
Classic accessories can include arm warmers, studded belts, bullet belts, and wristbands with pyramid studs, stars or spikes.
 This is similar to remaking, but with an eye for little touches that express your unique viewpoints. Maybe by cutting off the sleeves, sewing political patches on, or just cutting the neckline, or back differently – these are all things that the traditional person wouldn't dare try - especially not for aesthetic effect.


Rip or cut out a section of clothing, and replace it with a row of safety pins holding the fabric together, or expose your layers.
Stencil band names or symbols onto your clothes yourself.
Sew some patches on your jacket.
Distress your own denim. Use scissors or an x-acto knife to make cuts, or run sandpaper over the fabric to make it look worn out.
Strategically drip bleach onto jeans or T-shirts to make interesting patterns, or make them look more worn-in.
 Consider that you may be walking more given your punk lifestyle, since its pretty common that punks ditch private transport whenever possible. You need a sturdy, long lasting pair of shoes, or two, but you need to obtain them in an a-traditional way.


Boots - for men and women. Boots are often dark and are usually the best choice: they last a long time, you can find them on the cheap and the aesthetic works with the rest of your clothes.
Stay away from shoe brands. Because commercialism and materialism are frowned upon by punks, a lot of them choose to buy boots from the army surplus store.
Common punk shoes include black boots, Dr. Martens, Converse and some skate shoes like Draven and T.U.Ks. Note that because these are owned by corporations, some punks refuse to buy from them despite the aesthetic and you may run into people who disagree with your shoe choice.
Thrift stores are a good place to buy cheap shoes and boots, and then you don't have to think about whether your money is going to a multinational corporation.
 Spike it up, or even put it in a mohawk. You can also dye it.


Both males and females can sport a mohawk, and (though a primarily 'guy' hairstyle) some girls can pull off a Devilock nicely. Research the different kinds and think about what best expresses you. You might want a fanned Mohawk, Bihawk, Trihawk, "bitch" handles, or even liberty spikes.
If you're worried about fitting into a conservative work situation, there's always the "Fauxhawk" (a wider strip of stand up hair that can be combed down to hide the shaved sides of your head). Be warned, though, his style is sometimes frowned upon by other punks since the look can adapt to the mainstream world so well.
Although it is most common for punks to have hair no longer than chin length, long hair is acceptable if you want to be a punk. Remember: It's about breaking away from expectations and "The Norm"
Having random things - such as beads, ribbons and ties - in your hair also makes you stand out if that's what you're going for.
There has also been a variety of 80s haircuts and even dreadlocks that have made appearances in punk subculture. Dreadlocks are often frowned upon by punks if they are on a white person because this can be considered cultural appropriation. Racism is NOT Punk.
Consider dying your hair. You could go jet black, platinum blonde, bright red, or some unnatural color like green or blue. Whatever you choose, be prepared to stick with it for awhile (or try a temporary dye first).
If you don't want to hassle with complicated hairstyles, shave your head. This is a huge message to others: you don't need to do what others do! A shaved head has always been a classic punk look, and can be used for both men and women.
 Body modification is another outlet that punks use to identify themselves.


You will see many punks with their ears gauged with rings, often to quite large sizes.
Septum and lip piercings can be used for any gender.
With tattoos, you will see a wide variety of images. A lot of punks sport their favorite band logos, or have spiderwebs on their elbows (please be aware that in the UK at least, spiderwebs on the elbow signify that you have been in prison). Straightedge punks sometimes have X's on each fist. Old-school-style tattoos (Sailor Jerry, for example) are also very popular, especially for chest pieces and sleeves.
Just remember whatever tattoo you choose, it will be there forever! Make sure that you choose something that reflects your personality, not just a current band that you like!

, Many people will tell you to avoid going from preppy to punk in one step, or that it's best if you ease into being punk or you may appear like a poser. This is kind of true, but there is no way to go from not punk to punk overnight. You can't buy knowledge of punk music and you can't get an entire punk wardrobe without searching hard. Go to shows, introduce yourself to other punks, and gradually your style will develop from there.

