 This is perhaps the most basic standing pose in yoga, and will strengthen your thighs and knees. This pose is also good for people suffering from knee osteoarthritis.


Stand straight with your feet together on a yoga mat or exercise mat. Make sure your big toes are touching and your heels are slightly apart.
Spread your toes so your weight is balanced equally on each foot.
Roll your shoulders back and look straight ahead.
Remain in this position for about a minute and continue to breathe slowly and deeply.
Raise your arms above your head, bend your arms at the elbow and join your hands together to form a prayer or ‘namaste’ shape, the Indian greeting, above your head.
Hold this for 10 seconds or several deep breaths and bring your arms back down to your sides.
Repeat this pose 10 times a day, 2 to 3 minutes each time.;
, Though your thighs might be burning a little after doing this pose, your legs and knee joints will become much stronger the more you practice this pose.


Stand with your back facing the wall, about 1-2 feet away from it.
Breathe slowly. As you exhale, slide your back down the wall so that your knees are bent and your thighs are almost parallel to the ground. When you look down, you should be able to see your toes just ahead of your knees.
Raise your head and look straight ahead. Stay in this pose for five to ten seconds or five to six breaths and then slowly stand up to the starting position.
Repeat this pose 10 times daily, holding for five breaths each time.
 This pose involves supporting your body weight with your legs and your core muscles, but feel free to use a wall as a support so there is less stress on your knee joints.


Standing straight, place your hands against a wall. Your hands should be level with your shoulders.
Place your right foot by the wall so that your toes touch the wall and at the same time, bend your elbows as if you are trying to push the wall.
Move your left foot 1-3 feet behind you and bend your left knee so it faces the floor.
Hold this pose for five deep breaths and then slowly straighten your left leg while keeping your right knee in a bent position. Make sure your right knee does not extend beyond your ankle.
Hold on this pose for another five deep breaths and then step the left foot forward so that it meets the right foot.
Repeat this asana by alternating the leg positions for 10 counts on each side.
 The traditional posture involves using your body strength and weight to strengthen your vastus medialis, a muscle located in your inner thigh, just above your knee. It extends to your knee and stabilizes your kneecap.


Stand straight on a yoga mat, with your legs at a distance of four feet (or one leg length) apart.
Raise your arms so they are on either side of your body. Keep them in line with your shoulders.
Turn your right leg out so your foot faces the front of the room. It should be parallel to your mat.
Turn your left leg slightly towards the right leg direction. It should be at a 45 degree angle.
Bend your right leg so that your right leg knee is perpendicular to the floor and your thigh is parallel to the ground. It should form a 90 degree angle. Make sure your ankle and your knee are aligned. You don’t want your knee to extend beyond your ankle as this could agitate your knee.
Turn your head to your right and look straight ahead. Place equal weight in both legs.
Remain in this pose for 30 seconds or five to eight deep breaths.
Repeat the same pose in the opposite direction.
 This is a slightly more advanced version of Warrior 1 pose.


Stand straight on a yoga mat with your feet apart. They should be at a distance of about 4 feet (or one leg length).
Raise your arms so that they are parallel to the floor and your palms are facing the floor.
Keep your left foot straight and move your right foot perpendicular to your left foot so your heels are aligned.
Make sure you are breathing deeply and steadily. As you exhale, bend your right knee so your shin is perpendicular to the floor. You will be making a 90 degree angle with your right leg.
Keep your arms outstretched so that they are parallel to the floor and turn your head to the right.
Maintain this position for a minute or six to eight deep breaths and then switch sides so you are bending into your left leg. Repeat this pose five times on each leg.
 This pose also stretches your inner thigh muscles.


Stand straight on a yoga mat with your feet apart. There should be a two-foot width between your feet.
Raise your arms up so they are on either side of your body. Make sure they are in line with your shoulders. There should be a straight line running from fingertip to fingertip.
Twist your body to face the front of the room. Your front hip should be facing the front of the room and your back hip should be facing the side of the room. Make sure you are not locking out your knee on your right leg. It’s fine to bend it a little.
Stretch forward with your arms and body, towards the front of the room. Tip over your right leg and place your right palm on the outer side of your right foot.
Keep your left arm in the air, pointing towards the ceiling. It should be in line with your shoulder. Try to keep your elbows and knees straight and strong.
Remain in this pose for 30 seconds or five to six deep breaths. Repeat the same pose on your left side.
 This is a more challenging standing posture in that it involves balancing on one leg. However, with practice, you should be able to maintain your balance and reap the benefits of balancing on one leg. Make sure you continue to breath and engage your core muscles as you do this pose.


Stand straight on your mat so your weight is equally distributed across both legs.
Press the toes of your right foot into the mat. Keeping your weight on your right leg, lift your left foot and bring the sole of your foot to rest on the calf or the inner thigh of your right leg. It’s okay if you can only raise your foot to meet your calf. Avoid placing your foot on the inside of your knee, as this will cause further stress on the knee joint.
Stretch out your left knee to the side, or as far as it feels comfortable, to open your hips.
Join your hands in front of your body in the ‘namaste’ position and place them on your chest, close to your heart. It helps to maintain your balance if you look at a space on the floor or mat just ahead of you.
Breath steadily and hold this position for five breaths and then repeat the pose with the other leg.
Repeat this posture five times, for five breaths, with each leg.
 This asana also called Stick pose, as you want to have strong muscle engagement and proper alignment so you can appear as straight as a stick.


Sit on a yoga mat with your legs outstretched in of you. You can also sit against a wall so that your back is supported by the wall.
Roll your shoulders back and keep your upper body as straight as you can.
If you’re using a wall for support, align your back so that just your shoulder blades are in contact with the wall, and the back of your head does not touch the wall.
Adjust your thighs by pressing them downwards and rotating them towards each other.
Flex your toes so they are facing upward. This will also flex your ankles and engage your thighs. You can place your hands on either side of your legs to help you sit up straight.
Tuck your chin towards your chest and stay in this position for a minute or twenty to thirty breaths.
Do this pose 10 times a day, for twenty to thirty breaths each time, to get the best results.
 You can do this pose with the help of a strap that lengthens and stretches your entire leg as you also strengthen your knee. This pose works from hip to toe so it also helps to relieve backaches and pain as a result of sciatica.


You can purchase a yoga strap at most yoga studios. A strap is a great tool to help stretch and strengthen weaken joins because it provides some oppositional force as you do poses and you can control how deep you stretch your body based on how much leeway you give the strap.
To do this pose, lie flat on your back with your knees bent.
Take the strap, place it under the arch of your right foot and hold it with your arms on either side of your leg. The strap should act as a kind of sling for your foot.
Breathe slowly and deeply. As you exhale, pull your hands towards your body so your leg rises up and the strap tightens under the arch of your foot.
Raise your leg further upwards until it is perpendicular to the other leg on the floor. If you feel any pain or muscle tension, only raise your leg as far as is comfortable. Let the strap help you do this.
Take five breaths in this position. Then, as you exhale, slowly lower your leg by loosening the strap to the floor.
Relax and take a breath or two and then do the same exercise for the other leg.
Repeat this pose for 10 counts with each leg.
This pose should be avoided if you suffer from hypertension, headaches and digestion problems.
 The idea is to create the shape of a butterfly’s wings with your legs.


Sit on your mat with your legs outstretched in front of you.
Bend your knees so that the soles of your feet touch each other and your heels are flat on the ground. Your heels should be sitting directly in front of your pelvis.
Squeeze the muscles of your feet and drop your knees to the sides. Make sure the outer edges of your feet are in contact with the floor.
Do not force your knees to touch the floor with your hands or by straining your legs.
Hold this position for six to eight breaths or as long as it is comfortable.
 The Sivananda is a style of yoga centered on various stretches that help to protect your joints and prevent arthritis. This particular Sivananda knee bend pose is called Janu Naman pose.


Sit down on a mat with your legs extended in front of you.
Slowly bend your left knee so it is near your chest, while keeping the right leg in an extended position.
Place your hands on the inside of the left thigh, close to the knee. Interlace your fingers but not too tightly as you want them to be loose.
As you inhale, slowly extend your left leg upward until it is straight ahead or close to straight and then lower it in front of your body in an extended position. Do not let it touch to the floor. You want to keep it a few inches above the ground.
As you exhale, bend your knee and lead the extended leg back towards your chest.
Repeat this circular motion of your leg so that is in sync with your inhales and exhales (inhale to extend, exhale to bend). Do this cycle 5-10 times and then repeat it with the other leg.
Individuals suffering from hypertension or any other cardiovascular issues should not perform this exercise as it might lead to a sudden rise in the blood pressure.
 This pose should not be performed if you suffer from a neck injury or glaucoma as it might worsen the condition.


Lie flat on your back on a mat and bend your legs so your knees form a 90 degree angle.
Place your feet on the floor so they are hip distance apart from each other and your heels are close to your buttocks. Make sure your ankles, calves and knees are aligned in this pose.
Check your alignment by extending your arms out on either side of your body. If you can touch your heels with your fingers, your alignment is correct.
Keep your arms extended on the floor for support and inhale deeply. As you exhale, press your feet on the ground as if pushing the ground away from you and slowly raise your tailbone and your pelvis upward while squeezing your buttock.
Press your feet into the mat and try to lift your chest up towards the ceiling. You can tuck your shoulders underneath you so they are against the mat, place your hands underneath your raised pelvis, and interlace your fingers if this feels comfortable.
Take several breaths in this pose and then as you exhale, slowly release your interlaced fingers and lower your body to back to the floor. As you return back down to the mat, make sure you begin by lowering your shoulders and then end up lowering your tailbone and pelvis.
Repeat this asana for 10 counts, holding for several breaths each time.
 Your knee joint is the most important weight bearing joint in your body and is subjected to repeated wear and tear every day.


Some of the common causes of knee pain include overuse, a knee injury, a dislocated kneecap and an altered gait where you tend to stress your knees more, as well as aging and certain medications.
Knee pain can also be caused by medical conditions involving the knee joints, the tissues and the bones that surround the knees.
 If your knee joint is stressed, damaged, or over used, it can undergo various changes like inflammation, loss of the lubricating synovial fluid that lines the joints and cartilages and weakness of the muscles that support the joint. These symptoms can then lead to osteoarthritis in your knee.


Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis in the knee. It is a degenerative,"wear-and-tear" type of arthritis that occurs most often in people 50 years of age and older, but may occur in younger people, too., Yoga stretches your muscles and joints gradually, over a period of breaths and through a series of poses, which stimulates positive growth in them. These poses also stretch the tendons and ligaments surrounding the knee joint, thereby preventing ligament tears around the joint and the potential for knee surgery to correct a torn ligament.


Yoga also helps to relax and stretch inflamed tissues, thereby encouraging circulation, which helps to address knee pain.
Making yoga a part of your regular exercise regimen will help to manage your osteoarthritis and keep you knee joint supple and nimble as you age.
In fact, yoga has been found to be beneficial for people recovering from knee surgery as it has shown positive results in post surgery care for pain and mobility of a recovering knee joint., Yoga is not all about poses. It also involves focused breathing as you perform a pose.

