 A basic slow breathing pattern is breathing in twice to every single time you breathe out. It's a quicker breathing pattern than how you breathe normally, about twice as fast as normal.You can try breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth, though do whatever you are most comfortable with. You'll be using this type of breathing later on in your labor.
You can also use a more even ratio, such as one-to-one, or a higher ratio, using up to six breaths in for every breath out.
Try out different patterns to figure out what seems best to you. You should feel comfortable using the breathing pattern, and you should fall into what seems easiest to you.;
, Slow breathing can help you get through the early contractions. When using slow patterned breathing, you should be at about half your normal breathing pace. It can help to take a very deep breath at the beginning and at the end of your slow, patterned breathing, particularly when you're starting and ending a contraction.Close your eyes, and breathe in to the count of four through your nose. Breathe out to the count of four through your mouth. Continue at this slow pace.
 A focus can help keep your attention away from your pain and on your breathing. You can use an actual object, such as a picture or even just a dot you isolate on the ceiling. You can also create an image in your mind, or focus on someone close to you., You want your patterned breathing to become a normal response to stress and pain. Therefore, you need to employ it in your everyday life. When you find yourself feeling stressed, slip into your special pattern of breathing, using it to calm yourself down.Try the slow breathing when you're feeling stressed.
 Another way to normalize this type of breathing is to try it when you are in pain. For instance, you can try it when you have a headache, or even if you have a cut (that you've cleaned and bandaged) causing you pain. Try to use your breathing to distract you from the pain.Try the faster breathing when you're trying to work through pain.
 If you find you aren't getting enough practice, one way to get practice in is to try holding an ice cube in your hand. As you hold it, try to breathe through the cold and pain, using the pattern you chose. Doing this exercise regularly can help you learn to use it when you're in labor.Try both types of breathing in this exercise.
 It can be beneficial to have someone work on breathing with you. It should be the person who will be with you when you have the baby. That way, if you feel like you can't slip into your breathing pattern, the person can help coach you through it.Have them coach you on breathing when you're trying to work through pain. They can breathe with you, or use words to help you breath "in-in-out, in-in-out."

, When your early contractions start getting to the point that they make you stop what you're doing, it's time to start some slow breathing. Breathe in through your nose, taking a deep breath. As you breathe out through your mouth, let your body relax completely. Keep taking slow, deep breaths, focusing your attention on relaxing your body., As your contractions get more intense and closer again, you can slip into the patterned breathing that you chose. For more painful contractions, you may need the quicker, shorter pattern to help you get through them. Don't forget to focus on something if you need to, such as a picture or your partner.Try panting. You may need to move to short, shallow breaths to get through some of the more intense pain, panting almost like a dog., Your birthing team and your support person will be there to help you. Of course, you need to do what feels right, but they can help you get back on track with your breathing if you get off. Try to listen to them to help you find your rhythm., Don't be afraid to cry out, scream, or moan. You do what you need to do to get through labor. Your birthing team has heard it all, and making any noise you need to can help you get through it. In fact, most of the noises you make will be involuntary., During labor, you may find that the pattern you chose earlier doesn't work as well as you'd hoped. Let your body guide you. Use whatever breathing pattern helps you through the labor process, as that is what's best for you in the moment.