 If you have a current account with a bank, and it offers online or mobile banking, sign up for an online account if you are not automatically registered for one. Visit your bank’s webpage and search for “online banking” or “internet banking.” Follow the instructions for setting up an account. These will vary somewhat from bank to bank, but generally they will ask you to:


Provide an email address and/or mobile numberCreate a username and password for your accountWith some banks, a username and password may be provided for you.;
, Once you have registered for online banking, and created an account, you will need to log in whenever you want to make to send money through Internet banking.
 After you have logged in to your Internet banking account, you will need to find the section for sending money. Your account interface should have a tab or section labeled “transfers,” “send money,” or something similar.If you cannot locate this section, search for these terms or contact your bank’s customer service department.
 Common types of transfers available through Internet banking include general transfers (to an account you hold, or to another recipient’s account), wire transfers (typically for larger amounts of money), and transfers sent abroad (which need additional information). Your bank’s Internet banking interface will allow you to select from among the options that are available to you.
 Fees associated with sending money by Internet banking vary from bank to bank and may depend on the type of transaction. For instance, many banks will not charge a fee to transfer money between different accounts you have, or to send money to another customer of the same bank, but might charge a fee to send money abroad by wire transfer., Banks take many measures to ensure security for their customers, especially for Internet banking.Many banks also have a no-fraud guarantee that reimburses you if you are the victim of fraud.You can help keep your accounts and transactions secure by:Creating a strong password.
Keeping your username and password confidential. Don’t write them down, or store them in your phone.
Logging off of your Internet banking account when you are finished with your transaction, or if you have to leave your computer unattended.
Not transferring money to individuals, companies, or organizations you don’t know or can’t verify.
Checking your balance and transaction history on a regular basis, and letting your bank know of any suspicious activity.

