 These are listed below under "Things You'll Need". If you don't already have a chocolate bunny mold, this can be obtained from places that sell chocolate making accessories, such as craft, candy, cake and party stores, or check online.


The style of bunny mold doesn't really matter, as long as it is large enough to be able to make additions to. If you make flat bunnies, there will be less opportunity to make open brains but you can still make great open sides to reveal "organs".;
, Or, if it is without instructions, follow this potted version:


Break chocolate into smaller pieces if it isn't already.
Add to a double boiler (bain marie) - water should be in the bottom layer of the double boiler.
Heat the water. The steam will hit the base of the bowl holding the chocolate and the heat will melt the chocolate. Stir constantly until it is melted and smooth.
Don't heat any more than it takes to melt the chocolate.
Do not add water as the chocolate will become unusable. Take care not to accidentally introduce droplets of water to the chocolate with the stirring implement.
Be sure to temper the chocolate before using it in the mold.
 Remove any stuck melted chocolate using a rubber spatula.
 Follow any instructions provided with the mold but basically it is a case of waiting patiently, then carefully removing the chocolate from the mold for the next steps.
 You can use small blobs of melted chocolate to act as "glue" when adding the decorative items to the chocolate. And there are no rules. You can zombie your rabbit however you like but the following suggestions are provided to help guide you if you're stuck for ideas.
 There are likely to be any number of possible zombie eye combinations but here are a few:


Glue on a little yellow candy or M&M style chocolate where the eyes are (or should be). Place a small blob of chocolate in the center of the circle for a pupil.
Make an eyeball that hangs out from the socket. Find a red twisted or straight candy length (such as a red shoestring licorice length) and glue one end to the eye socket. At the other end, add an eyeball candy. If you can't find candy that looks like an eyeball, use a small white, round candy with a chocolate blob in the center or a dab of blue or green food coloring.
 If you have made a zombie bunny with frontal head space, turn this into an open skull with brains oozing out. Scrape away a decent area of the forehead without breaking right through the chocolate. Use red food coloring to outline the edges of this area. Use melted white chocolate across the area (if the bunny is not already white) and use a toothpick or similar implement to try to make the little curly brain look. Once the chocolate has set, draw over with red food dye to make it appear like blood. You can also add a few gory hanging out bits by gluing on red shoestring licorice lengths.
 Use white chocolate (if the bunny is not already white) to draw revealed ribs in the ribcage area of the bunny. If the bunny is already white, swap to using a dark chocolate blob glued in place, then white chocolate lines drawn onto the blob.


Use a raisin painted red with food coloring to look like an open kidney or liver.
Use squished candies to look like oozing intestines.
 Using white chocolate (if the bunny isn't already white), paint over the ear hole. Then use red food coloring to establish how much blood is oozing forth. Add some red shoestring licorice lengths coming out of the

, The only issue here is how obvious it looks; on white, green or light brown bunnies, it should be obvious. On dark bunnies, it might be difficult to see. Judge it by whatever bunny you've made.

