 Create one or choose one from the family bucket. In creating your family, you don't have to be serious; you can name them whatever you want.
 If you're using a family from the bucket, still buy a cheap house. This will be a big help.,

Make sure your fireplace is easy to get to. Don't put it behind tables or objects, as sims in The Sims 1 don't know how to get to places when there are objects in the way.
 Only adult Sims can do this.

Click the fireplace and select "light a fire".


Make the chair accessible, too, and as close to the fireplace as possible.
Make sure you have a wooden chair, or else it won't work.
 The reason you would want to do this one by one is so the chairs are accessible to all Sims.,

This is why your chairs should be wooden. Wooden objects ignite the fire faster. If any object is too close to a fireplace, a fire will surely start, but wooden objects cause fires faster.
Go to settings and turn off free will for a while. This will help a lot.
If one or more of your Sims stand up and a fire hasn't started yet (or if a fire has started) then let them sit down again. Disabling free will helps kill them off faster, as they won't disobey you.


If this doesn't work, wait for about 4-5 fires and let them roam around for a bit, but close  to the fire. Then have one Sim try to extinguish the fire. Don't let any other Sim help.
Only adult Sims can extinguish fires.
While the Sim is extinguishing the fire, the fire should trap him/her and kill that Sim.
If you have a child Sim, keep them close to the Sim that's extinguishing the fire. They all should die.
 In this method, it is required.,, They should all die of hunger,

Go to build mode
Click on the water tool
Start building a pool

,, Buy multiple playgrounds for your child Sims.

Why multiple? Sims can't interact with the same object and do the same interaction twice (like talking to a person twice)

,,

Even when it says "Go here" with a pair of shoes as an icon, your Sim will swim there.
,,

If you used the fire method in killing off the family, you might want to make them hire a maid to sweep up all the burn marks

, Give the house a brand new look., Never make your family mourn for the dead sims. If your dead Sims are in the form of urns, place the urns in a bedroom. If they are tombstones, do not put water in front of the tombstones and the house. Ghosts can't cross water., Ghosts don't always appear, but sometimes at 11:00-daybreak they show up. They can scare a Sim to death (literally) if the scared Sim's needs are very low, and that's fine.

If ghosts do that to all your current family members, move in a new family and have lots of ghosts haunt the place.

