 It can be a dress, a ring, or something more intimate, just make sure you get the right size. Pick something you know she'll love, or ask for help from a friend if you don't feel confident doing it. Buying her something pretty will help her to feel more beautiful, and it will show you appreciate her beauty., Tell her to get dressed up in something nice, and go take photos. You can take them yourself or hire a professional. Help her see herself the way you see her by capturing her beauty.Pick a pretty outdoor setting on a sunny day. The light near dusk can help bring out a person's natural beauty.
Try taking pictures with flowers, near trees, or on low tree branches or bushes. These props will help you to create beautiful shots.
Once you've taken the pictures, take some time to pick the best ones, and edit them if you have the skills. That is, pick the ones that really show off her beauty, and then do crop them and adjust the color to make them even more beautiful. If you don't know how, ask for some help from a friend.
 Pick a song that celebrates a woman's beauty, and one that relates to her particular style. For instance, you could pick "All About That Bass" by Meghan Trainor if your friend or girlfriend is a curvy lady or "What Makes You Beautiful" by One Direction if she has a hard time believing she's beautiful. Pick a moment she's down to have an impromptu concert.For instance, maybe she had a bad day at work. Try cooking her dinner and singing to her as you cook.
Some other options for songs are "Flawless" by Beyonce, "Just the Way You Are" by Bruno Mars.
 It doesn't need to be perfect, it just needs to say how you really feel about your friend or girlfriend. Try to be as specific as possible about what you love about her, both her personality and her body.


For instance, you could write: "You are the light of my life. / I love all your curves, / and the way your hair / flows down your back. / More importantly, / I love who you are, / the way you make people / feel like they are noticed and important, / the way you help when no else notices. / You are a star in a midnight sky."
If you don't have it in you to write a poem, you can use someone else's to express how you feel, though you should give them credit. For example, you could use Lord Byron's "She Walks in Beauty Like the Night.", Many celebrity women have commented on what makes a woman truly beautiful. You can use one of those quotes to help your friend or girlfriend feel beautiful by including it in your card. Just be sure to say where it came from.For instance, you could use this quote from Audrey Hepburn: "The beauty of a woman is not in the clothes she wears, the figure that she carries, or the way she combs her hair. The beauty of a woman is seen in her eyes, because that is the doorway to her heart, the place where love resides. True beauty in a woman is reflected in her soul. It’s the caring that she lovingly gives, the passion that she shows. The beauty of a woman only grows with passing years."