 If a dog is beginning to develop separation anxiety, it's not uncommon for it to begin displaying anxious behaviors before you even leave the home. Before you leave, watch your dog and see if it appears agitated.Your dog may begin pacing, panting, drooling, trembling, and whining as soon as it sees you're trying to leave.
Your dog may also look very sad. Your dog may appear lethargic or depressed prior to your leaving.;
, One of the most frustrating issues regarding separation anxiety is that dogs often react by whining or howling when left alone. Listen when you leave the house. After you, say, step out of your apartment, stand in the hallway. If you hear barking, whining, or howling, your dog may have separation anxiety., If your dog is nervous or depressed in your absence, it may stop eating. Pay attention to how full the food bowl is before and after you're gone. If it rarely looks like your dog eats in your absence, this may be a case of separation anxiety.If you feed your dog on a schedule, try giving your dog its regular meal before you leave. If you get back and your dog has not eaten, this may be separation anxiety.
 Dogs with separation anxiety issues often dislike being left home alone so much they try to escape. You may see marks by your doors and windows, indicating your dog has tried to paw or chew through these areas. If your dog has gotten loose while your gone before, this is also an indication of separation anxiety., If you're noticing symptoms of separation anxiety, think about whether your dog has any special risk factors making it more prone to the disease. Separation anxiety can sometimes happen with age, or get worse with age. However, any recent changes in your home could potentially be a cause of separation anxiety.If a household member recently moved away, this can cause separation anxiety.
If you moved to a new home recently, this can also cause separation anxiety.
A major change in your schedule can also cause separation anxiety. Your dog may get increasingly agitated if you, say, recently took on a more demanding job and are gone from the home more often.
 It's not uncommon for separation anxiety to lead to other behavioral issues. One of these is house soiling. If your dog is urinating or defecating inside the home, this can indicate separation anxiety.Usually, urinating or defecating while you're home is not a cause for separation anxiety. Dogs suffering from separation anxiety will only urinate or defecate when you're gone.
House soiling can be a sign of a medical issue. This should be addressed by a vet. Do not assume it's due to separation anxiety without confirmation from a vet.
 If a dog is developing anxiety, it may become more vocal in general. In addition to barking when you leave, a dog with separation anxiety may bark or howl more often throughout the day. If your dog is anxious, it may bark or howl at very small noises and triggers even while you're home.This can also be a sign of an underlying medical issue and should be addressed by a vet.
 With separation anxiety, it's not uncommon to come home to find your dog has been behaving in a destructive fashion. Dogs with separation anxiety may dig, chew, or destroy household objects.If you frequently come home and find your dog has chewed something up or gotten into the garbage, this may be separation anxiety.
Destructive behaviors caused by separation anxiety often border on self-harm. A dog with separation anxiety may have broken teeth or scrapes on their paws and nails.
Destructive behaviors that are due to separation anxiety rarely occur in the guardians presence. You're unlikely to ever see your dog being destructive in your presence if your dog has separation anxiety.
 Dogs also act out when their bored. If your dog is bored, you may mistake this for separation anxiety. However, there are several ways to differentiate between negative behaviors caused by boredom and those that are caused by anxiety.Dogs who are bored tend to bark in a monotone. Their barks are usually in response to something outside, such as another dog or a car, rather than their owner leaving.
Destructive behavior in a bored dog usually has an obvious cause. A bored dog will get into the garbage to get food. If you, say, recently threw out leftover chicken, a bored dog will get into the garbage to get this. Bored dogs will also chew items that give off a fragrant smell, such as leather.
Anxious dogs engage in destructive behavior without an obvious trigger. They will chew any item that's left out, regardless of how it smells, and get into the garbage even if there's nothing of interest in it.
 Any change in behavior can indicate a medical condition. If a dog is acting strange, it may not be feeling well physically. Therefore, you should see a vet to rule out an underlying medical condition. If an underlying medical condition is not detected, your vet can help you find a treatment plan for separation anxiety.Your vet will give your dog a medical exam and may also order certain tests, depending on your dog's current health and medical history.
Let your vet know about all the symptoms your dog is displaying. This can help the vet make as informed a diagnosis as possible.
 Counterconditioning is a process by which you work on changing your dog's reactions to a variety of situations. It requires a lot of time and patience, but it can be a successful means to treat separation anxiety in dogs.For counter conditioning, you work on replacing a fearful situation with one a dog loves. For example, if your dog starts howling each time you put on your shoes to leave, give your dog a treat when you put on your shoes. This can help your dog feel more positive and relaxed about your leaving.
It can also help to give your dog something to do while you're gone. Like any animal, dogs crave stimulation. Many owners find it's helpful to leave their dog with a puzzle toy that contains food. Instead of getting anxious about their owner leaving, dogs see this as exciting as they're given a toy and a treat.
 In severe cases, a dog may benefit from being medicated for separation anxiety. Talk to your vet about medication if you believe it would help your dog. Usually, medication is recommended when other treatment options aren't working.Usually, a dog is given anti-anxiety medication. The medication your vet selects depends on your dog's history and current health. As older dogs are often on existing meds, your vet will want to find a medication that does not interact poorly with your dog's medication regimen.
Medication is rarely used as the only means to treat a dog's separation anxiety. Usually, it's used alongside behavior modification.
 If your dog's separation anxiety is severe, sometimes you need to have someone watch your dog. Older dogs may be very resistant to change. If possible, try to leave your dog with another household member or look into doggy daycare., Never punish a dog who's suffering from separation anxiety. Berating an already anxious dog for, say, urinating in the house will only increase its anxiety. Remind yourself your dog is acting out due to anxiety and the behavior is not deliberate. Punishing an anxious dog will not stop the behavior.