 Like a business client, you probably cannot afford to cross your boss openly. Try to anticipate them, instead. Do they have a habit of shortening your deadlines? Recognize this and adjust project timelines accordingly. Imagine their likely demands and be as prepared for them as you can, avoiding a situation where you might be forced to object or give ground.
 Again like a business client, be very careful of what you say in front of a narcissistic boss. Do not openly criticize or challenge them. Narcissists cannot take criticism and you will find yourself the target of their anger or, worse, out of a job. It may be to your advantage to stroke their ego or even to take the blame when something goes wrong. Whether you do so is your choice. After all, you are in subordinate position and must deal with their traits somehow.At the same time, set limits on extreme behavior. A narcissistic boss will encroach on your boundaries and expect you to cater to their every whim. Be gentle and matter-of-fact: you will respond to their 2 a.m. calls or emails in the morning, not immediately. You will be in touch again as soon as your vacation ends.If you want to speak up, do so carefully. Schedule a private meeting. Tell your boss all the things that you appreciate about them, and then make specific and constructive suggestions. Frame the issue so that it is about the workplace as a whole and not a personal complaint about them., A narcissistic boss becomes dangerous if they see you as a threat. Let them make the decisions. Follow directions to the letter and present your ideas as if they were their own, while being very specific about their expectations. Follow up and let them know how you are progressing on the task. But do not expect that good results will lead them to reward you or even treat you better. To a narcissistic boss good work is a result of their managerial skill, not your industry. You cannot win and would do better not to play the game. At the same time, however, you should not overtly complain or underperform. This too could provoke your boss’ ire., Working for an overly controlling boss is taxing, exhausting, and stressful. You cannot expect such a personality type to change – in fact, narcissists rarely seek treatment for their behavior. Have an escape plan if you can. Look for jobs elsewhere and send out applications. Do this very discreetly, as your boss might interpret it as an act of disloyalty or even, if they are paranoid, a personal attack. Narcissists are not loyal but often expect utter loyalty in others.Protect yourself until something concrete comes up. Tell only those you really trust about your search. There is no need to be dishonest but also no need to say too much. If you have to leave the office for an interview, tell your boss you have a “personal appointment.” Having a plan in place will give you peace of mind.