


Prepare items to sell at craft shows by making a complete list of all the inventory you're taking with you. List items by lowest to highest price or by size and include details like color or sizes. This inventory list will help you find items quickly if a shopper wants something specific and allows you to track which items sell better than others.;
,


You will have plenty to do setting up your booth and arranging your displays on the day of the show, so get ready for craft shows by pricing and labeling individual items before packing them for the show. This can be time-consuming, but it's important to price and label everything correctly, so do it the night before when you have the time to make sure it's done right.



You might be in your booth by yourself for the whole show, so be sure to include a cooler with snacks and beverages when you prepare for a craft show. This will eliminate the extra cost of having to buy food there and will help keep you focused and energized throughout the show.



In addition to your crafts and displays, you need to bring a number of office supplies to the craft show. Be sure to bring bags for customer purchases, chairs, receipts, a credit card machine and tape, pens or pencils, notepaper, a stapler and staples. These are all items that will be needed to complete a purchase, so organize them and have them ready to go.



Use the craft show as an advertising opportunity by bringing plenty of business cards or flyers to hand out or include in bags with customer purchases. If you sell at a lot of craft shows, consider investing in a banner for the front of your booth to attract more attention.



Check out all of the display units you will use to show your art or crafts and verify that they're in good working order. Dust or polish them if necessary, wash any tablecloths or covers and be sure you have any nails, screws, bolts or tools needed for assembly at the show.



Prepare yourself physically for craft shows by getting plenty of sleep the night before. Being well-rested will keep you going through the day, help you stay positive if sales are slow and give you the energy to be your own best salesperson.

