 The harder your footwear, the louder the noise. The best type of footwear is socks or leather moccasins, but form-fitting boots or sneakers also work well. Avoid hard-soled boots, shoes with heels or tough soles, and shoes that are difficult to walk in. Comfortable, soft shoes are the way to go.


Sweaty socks can make noise when you walk. If you sweat too much in your socks, wear a double pair of socks to mask the sound.
Walking in bare feet can be the quietest way to move, but it can also be the loudest - if you step on a sharp object and exclaim in pain, giving yourself away. Plus, if your feet are sweaty, they might stick to the coating on the floor and make a "stripping" sound. It is possible to avoid making this sound by decreasing contact with the floor and walking on the outside edges of the balls of your feet, but be careful, as this requires greater strength and balance. Decide whether going barefoot is the wisest choice for the environment you're moving through.
Make sure your footwear is completely dry; not only can it squeak, but damp spots on the floor can alert someone to your presence. When these damp footprints dry, they can leave obvious "clean prints" in the shape of your shoes, especially on surfaces like concrete.
 If your foot slides at all in your footwear, it can produce a squeaking noise, especially if your feet are sweaty. If you are wearing shoes with shoelaces, tuck the laces into your shoe. If you don't, they may click against the shoe or the floor as you walk.
 Loose pants can rub against your legs when you're walking, making a rustling sound. Wearing tight pants can minimize this possibility. Wearing very soft clothing, light cotton sweatpants, will also keep noise to a minimum.


Tuck your shirt into your pants, and tuck your pant legs into your shoes or socks. This will prevent them from flapping around.
Shorts are more prone to moving around and making noise than pants, and you can't tuck shorts into your socks. If you must wear shorts, try tying a piece of string or elastic around them at your knees, but not so tightly that you will cut off circulation.

