 Place your egg yolk and half the sugar in a mixing bowl. Use a wire whisk to beat the egg yolk and sugar together. Keep beating until everything is mixed evenly. Then, set this mixture aside for now., In a pot, mix your cream, half-and-half, remaining sugar, and salt. Place the pot over medium-high heat. Stir the mixture often. Bring the mixture to a simmer and then reduce the heat to medium., Pour half a cup of your egg yolk mixture into the cream, half-and-half, and salt mixture. Add the egg yolk mixture gradually while whisking the half-and-half mixture constantly. Keep pouring and whisking until all the ingredients are evenly combined., Add another half a cup of the egg yolk mixture to the pot. Repeat the exact same process. Pour the mixture in gradually while whisking constantly to mix everything together., Use a heat proof spatula. Keeping the pot over medium heat, stir the mixture constantly. Cook the mixture until it begins to thicken. Times will vary depending on the precise heat of your stove. Once the mixture begins to coat the spatula, cook it for an additional one to two minutes before removing it from the heat., Get a clean bowl and a fine mesh sieve. Strain the mixture into the clean bowl through the sieve., Use a wire whisk and vigorously beat the ingredients together. Keep whisking everything together until it's mixed evenly., Fill a larger bowl with ice. Place the bowl with your ingredients into the ice bath. Use a wire whisk to stir the mixture occasionally. Keep the bowl in the ice bath until the mixture cools to room temperature., Take the bowl out of the ice bath. Cover it completely with plastic wrap. Freeze the bowl for at least two hours. However, it's best to freeze the bowl overnight.Make sure the bowl you're using is freezer safe. If it's not, transfer the mixture to a freezer safe bowl.
 When you're ready to serve the ice cream, use a spatula or wire whisk to vigorously churn the mixture. This will remove any ice chunks and get it to a creamy texture. Then, place it back in the freezer for 30 minutes and stir it again. Repeat this process until you have a light, fluffy texture.