 Boils can cause pain that ranges from mild to severe. Use an over-the-counter pain reliever to help alleviate associated pain and possible swelling.


Take over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen. Ibuprofen may also help alleviate some of the swelling associated with the procedure.
 Wash the boil and surrounding area with a medicated, germ killing cleanser. This may not only help rupture and drain the boil, but may also keep infection from spreading.You can get antiseptic washes at most pharmacies and health supply stores.
 Apply an antibacterial ointment up to twice per day and cover the surface with a bandage. This can help to kill any bacteria in the boil or on the affected area.You can use an antibiotic ointment such as bacitracin, neomycin, polymyxin B, or a combination. Many brands will put the three into one product and call it “triple antibiotic ointment.”Use the ointment as indicated on the packaging.
Some people have allergies to antibiotic ointment, particularly bacitracin. Do a patch trial on an unaffected area of skin before using antibiotic ointment.
You can purchase antibiotic ointments and creams at most pharmacies and some grocery stores.
 Over-the-counter benzoyl peroxide creams, which are usually used for acne, may help dry out a boil. Dab on a small amount of this topical antiseptic twice a day to help reduce the boil.You can purchase benzoyl peroxide creams at most pharmacies, some health supply stores and even some grocery stores.
 Loosely cover the boil with a sterile gauze pad or bandage when it begins draining.This can help keep the area dry, clean, and prevent infection from spreading.Replace the gauze or bandage any time it gets moist.You can purchase sterile gauze and bandages at any pharmacy, health supply store, and some grocery stores.
 If home treatment doesn’t heal a boil or if it returns, make an appointment with your doctor. This can help ensure you don’t have a serious infection and may help prevent further boils.Be aware of MRSA, a potentially life-threatening form of staph that is resistant to antibiotics.MRSA can look like a common staph infection, so it is important to see your doctor if symptoms don't improve or you have been in contact with someone with MRSA or who has a chronic illness.
If your boil lasts longer than two weeks, make sure to see a doctor.If you have a boil on your spine or the middle of your face, see your doctor as soon as possible.If you have or develop a fever with a boil, consult a physician. This may be a sign of larger infection or one that has spread.Your doctor may need to lance your boil if it doesn’t rupture on its own or it is very serious.