 Cara's eyebrows are iconic because they are thick. While most models wax or pluck their eyebrows into perfect thin arches, Cara lets hers grow out naturally.


If you have a unibrow, go ahead and keep plucking or waxing the center. Cara herself would have a unibrow if she didn't pluck it. In fact, the center is the only part of her brows that she does pluck.Many people cannot achieve Cara's eyebrow thickness naturally. Luckily, there are many tricks you can use to make your eyebrows look much fuller and denser.
 If you've successfully grown out your bushy brows, you still want to keep them more-or-less in the same shape. Cara uses a dab of gel to hold hers in place.Many cosmetic companies now manufacture clear holding gels specifically for eyebrows. They come in tubes with brushes similar to mascara. Simply brush the gel on in one direction away from your nose for all-day hold.
It's a good idea to use specially formulated brow gel over hair gel. Hair gel is more likely to flake or be too sticky to use comfortably on your face., If you already have dark eyebrows that are simply a little thin in patches, just fill them in. While common makeup wisdom suggests using a dark powder as a foundation, for a more natural look go for a pencil or cream-based brow products.


Use a color that either matches your natural brow color is only slightly darker. If it's too different a color, your eyebrows will look drawn-on.
Avoid products that have a red tint.Even if your hair naturally has some red pigment, this is difficult to reproduce exactly with cosmetics. Find a more neutral color that is otherwise close to your natural shade.
 Darker eyebrows look fuller than lighter ones. If you have particularly light eyebrows, consider tinting them. You can either get this done by a professional stylistor use a kit at home.In addition to the basic clear variety, brow gels also come in tinted versions. If you want to kill two birds with one stone, temporarily color and tame your eyebrows with a single product., In the wake of the thick eyebrow trend that most credit Cara with starting, more and more stylists are offering eyebrow extension services. Like other types of hair extensions, fibers are added one by one to your existing hairs to make your eyebrows longer and thicker. Keep in mind that this process takes a lot of patience and skill and consequently typically costs hundreds of dollars.