 Family members are often happy to hire their relative to help with chores around the house. Tell them what you specialize in, but be open to doing whatever they need. If they sympathize with your cause, they are more likely to hire you.


Do your grandparents need help with physical labor too demanding for them. Ask if they need anything carried or moved that they might not be able to do on their own.
Are your siblings messy? Offer to clean up their rooms for a nominal fee.
Look for opportunities when your parents are overburdened. If you hear your father say, “I wish I had research the times for all our favorite shows so we don’t miss anything,” that’s the type of opportunity you can use to strike. Ask if he’d be willing to let you coordinate for five dollars.
 This is a way to make sure that only trusted people in your neighborhood are contracting your services, preferably individuals you already know. If there are community centers in your area, put up fliers on the bulletin board with tear-off phone number tabs. This makes it easy for people to grab your contact information on their way out the door.
 The easiest way to get the word out about your services is on internet classifieds. Make sure you are not putting any specific information about your identity or residence in the ad. Only reply to legitimate sounding solicitations. There are a variety of ways to advertise locally online.



Post an ad on Craigslist. Find your local city, look for the type of jobs needing help, and post an ad offering the same type of help. Or it may also be beneficial to reply to a few of the odds and ends jobs.

Advertise on Facebook. Nearly everyone uses Facebook, and saturating the market is easier when everyone uses the same source.This is also a great way to reach out to the extended family and friend list willing to support your endeavors.
Create a quick website and market your services. There are a variety of creative ways to use a very simple website to make money., Though these are less utilized than their internet counterparts, many people still peruse them for goods and services.You’re more likely to reach and older audience who hasn’t quite caught on to everything being online; so, tailor your ads to jobs they’d most likely want.
 When asking family, friends, and neighbors to hire you for jobs, remember that it is more of a favor to you than them. Your reason for wanting to earn $100 fast can either make or break this for you. Without good reasoning, they may be less likely to employ you for odds and ends.


Good reason – You’d like to better yourself by taking music courses at the local community college.
Good reason – There is a charity 5k you’d like to sign you and your sibling up for, but you don’t have the registration funds.
Bad reason – Buying a new smart-phone because you broke your current one might display a lack of responsibility.
Bad reason – Paying back someone at school for something you didn’t need in the first place.

