 Keeping your teeth clean is the easiest way to reduce your chances of having tooth pain. If it’s already too late for that, you also don't want to worsen a cavity or abscess by allowing plaque and tartar to build up on your sore tooth.You should brush your teeth at least twice a day — once in the morning and again before bed.
Many dentists recommend using a soft bristled electric toothbrush to brush your teeth, but any standard toothbrush is preferable to none at all.
To brush your teeth effectively, put a pea sized amount of toothpaste on your toothbrush. If you have a toothache, you can try using a toothpaste for sensitive teeth.
Position your brush at a 45 degree angle towards your gums and teeth. Use small side to side strokes and brush the front, back, sides and tops of each tooth.
Make sure you hit all areas of your mouth as well, including your gums and tongue.
 It is nearly impossible to keep the tight spaces between teeth clean otherwise. Also, an existing toothache can be caused or aggravated by food and other debris getting stuck between your teeth.You should floss at least once a day — the time of day does not matter, nor does your choice to floss before or after brushing.
Using a piece of string floss or a floss pick, slide the floss through the space between each tooth.
Slide the floss down to the base of each tooth, getting under the gum line. Then slide the floss back and forth to loosen and remove food and debris.
Do this for all of your teeth.
If you dislodge a piece of debris and your toothache suddenly subsides, that may have been the cause of your pain.
 Both commercial mouthwashes and home-made rinses can help keep teeth clean.


A salt water rinse can help temporarily reduce mouth bacteria, including those that can be associated with abscesses. Mix one-half teaspoon of table salt to one cup of lukewarm water, swish around the mouth, and spit out. Repeat several times per day as desired.Salt water rinses are commonly prescribed starting 24 hours after dental surgery.
In the mouthwash section of the drugstore, you’ll find both cosmetic and therapeutic mouthwashes. The former merely mask bad breath, while the latter (which are generally preferable) also treat problems like tartar and plaque buildup. Read the package labels for more information on each type/brand, and follow the instructions for use., If you visit your dentist for regular cleanings, you may avoid ever having to visit him/her with emergency tooth pain.


Two cleanings per year is a common recommendation, and is often the frequency covered by dental insurance. Some people may need more frequent cleanings, however.Even if going to the dentist twice per year is a minor annoyance, it is far preferable to having major dental procedures done because of abscesses, for instance.
 Even the cleanest of teeth will become painful if cracked, chipped, broken, or otherwise traumatized, so protection of the mouth and teeth is essential.Always wear an approved protective mouthguard when playing sports or engaging in other activities where injuries to the mouth or teeth are not uncommon.
Take special care — or avoid entirely — chewing on ice, popcorn kernels, hard candy, and other similar foods that can crack or chip teeth.
Never use your teeth to cut, tear, or separate anything that doesn’t belong in your mouth. Use scissors.

