 Just like the before mentioned bath solution, if you have sensitive skin, use something that has a sensitive skin label. You can use a bar of soap or try a liquid body wash. Some soaps are more mild than others, so you may want to research the type you buy to make sure the product will be easy on your skin.
 When getting clean in the bath, you will want to start with washing your hair. Dunk your head under the water to get your hair completely wet. Then, depending on how much hair you have, put about a quarter size of shampoo in your palm. Lather in the shampoo and massage your scalp.


You do not want to scratch your scalp with your nails, instead try using your finger tips.
 Baths are a great time to take advantage of a deep conditioner treatment that might require anywhere from 5-15 minutes of leave in time. After you put on the hair conditioner, you can wash the rest of your body or just lay and relax as your hair is getting treated.The best way to rinse your hair is to take a cup and fill it with clean water from the faucet. Keep pouring it over your hair with your head tilted back so the shampoo and conditioner doesn't get in your eyes.
 For optimal relaxation, you will want to spend at least 20 minutes in the bath. Soak in the bath for at least ten minutes to get rid of the dirt and eliminate bacteria. This will open up your pores and soften your skin so you can get a better clean.Keep soaking for several minutes after to make sure everything is cleaned off.
While scientists say it is safe to bathe for over an hour as long as the bath isn't too hot, make sure you get out before you get too tired. Falling asleep in the tub could be dangerous and lead to drowning.
 Exfoliation removes dead skin cells, leaving your skin glowing and smooth. You can start at your shoulders, using circular motions, and then work your way down to your feet. You don't want to scrub your skin too hard because that can cause skin irritation. Gently applying pressure is all you need for a good clean. Select exfoliating cleansers that contain sea salt, sugar, ground almonds, walnuts, seeds or other grainy components.There are many types of tools you can use to exfoliate including an exfoliating cleanser, loofah, pumice stone, body brush or exfoliating gloves.
Be extra gentle when exfoliating your face and neck because the skin is extra sensitive in those areas.
Don't use a body wash on your face. Use only face washes specifically designed for faces.

