 For some people, success means making money. For others it may be helping those who are less fortunate. Before you can achieve your goals, you have to decide what success looks like for you. It can be something as simple as getting all “A”s this semester, or as complex as becoming a successful lawyer. Whatever you want to achieve, start planning with the end in sight and always be ready to move the goal forward.Try making a list of you values in several areas to help you identify what you really value. For example, you may find that you do not value going to college at this point in your life, despite how much your parents may be pressuring you to do so.;
, You wouldn’t assume that you could run a marathon with a week of training, and you shouldn’t think that being successful is something that will happen overnight. Instead, think of achieving success like walking a mile. Every step gets you a little closer and every step matters. Create a daily, weekly, and monthly to do list, and do your best to complete your goals.


Make SMART plans. SMART is an acronym that stands for Specific Measurable Attainable Realistic and Timely. When you start planning to achieve your goals, make sure each step to get you there is SMART!
For instance, if you want to be a lawyer, you’ll need to go to law school, but that’s not something you are likely to achieve as a teen. Instead, set achievable goals like research into the types of law.
If you’re interested in being a veterinarian, you may want to start by observing your local vet or volunteering with an animal rescue organization., One of the most important things we learn in our teenage years is that mistakes will happen, and that it is not the end of the world. Instead of being discouraged or ashamed when you don’t succeed right away, give yourself permission to be imperfect and try again. Remember most new discoveries only happen after many failures. If you learn from your mistakes as a teen, you’ll already be on your way to being successful.The scientific method (hypothesis, test, results, and retest) is one of the most respected techniques for determining the validity of new ideas, and the entire process is based on failure.
Try achieving success through the lens of scientific method. You make your best effort at something new, gauge your level of success, make adjustments, and try again.
Be flexible with your goals and be open to changing them. As you gain more information through experience, then you may find yourself reevaluating your goals and values.

