 Attempting to install a multi-conductor wiring or cables yourself can involve a fair amount of risk. You can not only damage the area you’re attempting to work on, but you can also cause yourself injury from faulty wiring, especially if there’s electricity running.


If you haven’t previously installed cables and wires yourself, familiarize yourself with the proper tools and skills needed for the project. Any wires you use should meet local building and fire codes. 
If the house you are installing the wire in is still under construction, consult and follow the builder’s safety procedures—especially those having to do with using and storing extension cords and power tools.;
, In order to perform a project successfully, you need to make sure you have the right tools at hand.


For most projects, common tools include hammers, tape measures, small levels, linesman pliers, wire cutters and strippers, and laser levels or chalk lines. Most common drills should be ½” or larger.
You may also need spade bits from ¼” to 1 ½”. Other common tools for a wiring project include step ladders, wire labels, electrical tape, wire ties and attachments, nail plates, junction boxes, and backless brackets or P-rings.
 Multi-conductor cables are designed for a diverse range of communications applications.


These include the common household uses such as audio and video systems, but can also include more advanced applications such as public address systems, actuator controls, remote control circuits, and data transmission. For in-wall installations of speaker and audio/video cables, use UL-rated wire labeled CL2 or CL3. For installing Ethernet cable, use CM, CMR, or CMP wire.
 Multi-conductor cables and wire are usually available in 14 to 24 AWG (American Wire Gauge). They come in a variety of configurations, featuring annealed stranded tinned copper wire, which is RoHS, CSA, and UL compliant.


You can also find insulation in a number of UL styles such as a color coded PVC or with a chrome gray PVC outer jacket that can withstand temperature ranges from (CM) -20°C to 80°C (-4°F to 176°F) and (UL) -40°C to +80°C, depending on what application for which the cable will be used.
 Choosing the right wire is essential for the project. For speaker wire, you need to pick the right gauge for the distance from speaker to amplifier.


If the speaker is less than 80 feet (24.4 m) away from the amplifier, you should use a 16 gauge wire. If it’s between 80 and 200 feet, you should use a 14 gauge wire. For lengths over 200 feet (61.0 m), a 12 gauge wire is recommended.
 Before drilling, make sure that you don’t get too close to AC power wires, since you run the risk of damaging them. Avoid them altogether if you’re running A/V cables. If you have to cross AC and low-voltage wires, make sure they’re at 90° angles.
 When running the wire through the route, drill holes in the center of studs in order to avoid nails, taking care to avoid making large holes in load-bearing walls.


The diameter of the hole should be around twice the size of the total diameter of all the wires you plan to pull through. Avoid running multiple cables through one hole. 
Center all holes vertically in a joist, and avoid drilling holes within 2 inches (5.1 cm) of the top or bottom of the joist. Avoid drilling in support beams or headers.
Roof and floor trusses or I-beams often provide you with “web” space that lets you avoid drilling unnecessary holes.

