 The USPTO website makes it clear that conducting your own patent research is a difficult task. However, it is possible.In addition, even if you are going to hire someone to help, it is good to know what process they are going through and how they are finding results. Before you start, understand that the search process will take days, if not weeks, to complete.


Spend a few hours simply navigating the search tools and learning about the process.
Make sure you record your search process as you move along. You will want to include the databases used, the date and time of your searches, the classes searched, and the materials retrieved.;
, Write down an accurate description of your invention and avoid using broad or general terms. For example, try not to use words like "device", "process", or "system."Use as many keywords and technical terms as you can. Also, try to think of synonyms of the words you are writing down and use them as well. Ask yourself questions to help you with your brainstorming process. For example: what is the purpose of your invention, is it a process or a product, what is your invention made of, how is your invention used, and can you describe the nature of the invention?


As an example, assume you have invented an umbrella with a new design that keeps it from collapsing in strong wind conditions.
The purpose of this invention is to eliminate collapsing in high winds.
The invention is a product and an improvement in umbrellas that will help alleviate the need to replace them so often.
The invention has a framework with ribs, stretchers and a main frame, securing rings, mounting brackets, and fabric and joint connectors., With the preliminary work done, access the USPTO website and use the general search function, which is found in the upper right hand corner of the website. Start your search by typing in "CPC scheme." This indicates that you are conducting a patent search using the USPTO's new classification system.After "CPC scheme", type in a keyword or some of your keywords that you brainstormed before you started. For example, you may type in "umbrella" after "CPC scheme" then hit search. If you are not happy with your results, go back and try using different keywords.


When you click search you will be given various results with letters and numbers that do not make sense. The letters and numbers are classes and sub-classes of inventions. For example, if a search result bears the sequence A45B, the A is a class of inventions for "human necessities." The 45B is a sub-class for walking sticks, umbrellas, and a few other things. Click on the result that gives you the most in-depth and on point information.
Once you click on a result, you will be taken to a page that further breaks down your results. Search within this page for a concept that most closely fits your search criteria. The dots you see tell you how specific a concept is. The more dots there are next to a result, the more specific the concept is. For example, continuing with your umbrella search, you will see a result titled "A45B 25/22 Devices for increasing the resistance of umbrellas to wind", but it only has one dot next to it. However, when we keep looking, there are no other results with more specificity that are still relevant. Therefore, you should click on that search result., Once you click on the result that best matches your search, you will be taken to a CPC Classification Definition. These definitions will often include useful information you can use to better search for patents and applications. Use the definition to refine your search keywords. Write down the definition and keep it by you.


For example, in the umbrella search, the CPC Classification Definition happens to be a series of images. This will not be particularly helpful for you. However, most definitions will include text., Now that you have a relevant CPC classification (i.e., the series of letters and numbers that identify the inventions you are looking for), you will use that information to find all of the patents that have been issued and assigned to that classification. To do so, go to the USPTO homepage and click on the "PatFT" under the "Quick Links" menu. The PatFT database is where you look for patents that have already been issued (i.e., not patent applications). Type in your CPC classification in the Term 1 box and in the Field 1 box select "current CPC classification." When you select years, select "1790 to present", which will allow you to search the entire database. Click the search button to retrieve your results.


In the umbrella example, you would type in A45B25/22 in Term 1 box. Once you complete the other information mentioned you will click search., The results you see on the page will be all of the patents related to the CPC classification you searched under. Click on each result (and there may be a lot of them) and then click the "images" button in order to get a PDF version of the patent. Read the front page and look closely at the abstract and representative drawing. Note any patent number that seems similar to the invention you have.


Once you have done a cursory search of patents, take the ones you thought were similar and look at their patents in more depth. Look for similarities between your invention and the inventions that have already been patented. Keep track of any similar inventions., In addition to searching for issued patents, you will also need to search published patent applications. Go back to the USPTO website and click the "AppFT" button under "Quick Links." Enter the information in the boxes just as you did for the issued patents. However, when you get to "select years", you will only be able to go back to 2001. Click search.


Just like you did with issued patents, look through the patent applications and determine the ones that are similar to your invention. Keep track of those patent numbers., If you conducted a search and didn't find any issued patents or published applications, try broadening your search until you get results.Repeat the process until you are happy with the results you have.

