 You could work at a concession booth, games and rides, or in the kitchen. Concession booths are owned and operated by the booth owner, sometimes independently of the festival. You will need to find the owner and fill out an application. When you look for a job at a Renaissance fair, you may fill out more than 1 application to ensure you obtain employment.


Working for concessions may require you to have previous customer service experience. You’ll also be dealing with crowds and money all day, so you should be asked to perform well in a high pressure environment.
Most entry level jobs will pay an hourly wage.
 If you have acting talent, you may want employment as a performing artist. If you are a musician, sign up for the music guild, and if you are a dancer, sign up for the dance guild. Other guilds may include the Irish guild, the peasant guild, or the court guild.
 If you currently woodwork as a hobby, you might be able to turn that into a full time profession. Leather working, clothing design, glass blowing, and welding are all potential craft careersthat you could get into at a Renaissance fair. You’ll need to prove that you’re capable and produce some of your own work to show them.


The upside to being an artisan is that you are your own boss and you can work your own hours, sell your crafts to people at the fair, and enjoy your hobby while making money. The downside is that your costs will be high and you have no safety net. If no one buys anything that you’re selling, you’ll be stuck. There is no hourly wage for artisans., Even if you don’t land any of the jobs that you applied for you still may be able to find some work if you go to the fair and make connections. Talk to artisans that you would like to work with and see if they’ll pay you a small sum to help out through the course of the festival. It isn’t hard to find work if you are industrious.You can also do basic work like bookkeeping or security. , When working at a Renaissance trade fair you may have to audition for a part.Make sure you have prepared a bit that shows you are a good fit for the role you are applying for. You may sign up with as many guilds as you are interested in, but you need to make sure that the audition times don't overlap. You aren’t guaranteed to get an audition.


Similarly, you may get an interview to work for an entry-level job in the kitchen, for games and rides, or cleaning. If that’s the case you should bring a resume that shows you have the skills to work that job.

