 All the fruit should be ripe (or even overripe)--ripened fruit is sweeter, so you won't need to add any extra sugar., Use a small, sharp knife to cut the core out of the strawberries.


Insert the tip of the knife into the top of the strawberry, right where it turns white.
Cut out the white center of the strawberry. In doing so, you will remove the leaves as well.
 The taste might not be as intense or fresh, but it will still be delicious!


Clean the blender after use, since you will be using it again for the peaches and the kiwi.
 This should catch all the strawberry seeds so they don't end up in your frozen lolly.,


You can substitute another sweetener for simple syrup. Try honey, agave nectar, or maple syrup.
Sample a little of the puree to make sure it's sweet enough. If not, add a little bit more sweetener, to taste.



If you don't have an ice pop mold, you can substitute a paper or disposable plastic cup.
Don't try to substitute a glass for the pop mold--as the juice freezes, it expands, and it may break the glass. This will ruin your pop and make a dangerous, sharp mess in your freezer.
 This should take 1 1/2 to 2 hours.Cover the mold with plastic wrap or aluminum foil. If the molds came with covers that double as a handle/popsicle stick, wait to use these. If the first layer of your ice lolly freezes around the stick, you won't be able to add the next two layers.
 If you don't have fresh peaches, you can use canned peaches that are already peeled, stoned, and sliced. Just drain the water from the can.
 Your blender won't have to work as hard to puree the fruit if it's cut into little slices. Using a paring knife, cut all the way through one side of the peach, until your knife hits the pit.Run the knife all the way around the peach, keeping the blade against the pit, cutting the peach in half.Hold the peach in your hands and twist each half in opposite directions until the come apart. The pit should still be stuck in one half of the peach.Remove the pit with your fingers or the tip of the knife., If it's not sweet enough, and a little simple syrup until it's to your liking.


Clean the blender so it will be ready for the kiwi puree.
 Only fill the mold another 1/3 of the way to the top.Cover the mold with tinfoil or plastic wrap.


Make sure the strawberry puree is completely frozen before you add the peach puree, or they will mix together. This will probably taste good, but the effect of having 3 individual sections of flavors will be ruined.
 This should take another 1 1/2 to 2 hours., Make sure you remove all the fuzzy skin and discard the top and bottom tips., Again, you may want to taste the puree to make sure it's sweet enough.
 Don't let the kiwi spill out of the top of the mold, or your lollies will all freeze together. Leave a little room at the top so you can insert the handle and give the puree a little room to expand as it freezes.
 Usually, molds come with a lid that also acts as the handle. You may have to push it into the already frozen part of the lollie.


If your mold didn't come with a lid, you lost the lid, or you're using cups instead of store-bought molds, cover the top tightly with aluminum foil.
Insert a popsicle stick through the aluminum foil. Make sure it is straight. It's okay if you have to push it into the frozen peach layer to make sure it's secure.



Test that the juice is completely frozen by wiggling the handle of one of the pops. It should be firm in the juice and not move at all. You can run warm water over the sides and bottom mold to help release ice lollies in one piece--just don't loosen them from the handle!, After you've enjoyed these frozen treats, consider experimenting with other flavors. Try to stick with fruits that are all in season at the same time for the most harmonious flavors.Spring and summer fruits include blackberries, blueberries, raspberries, strawberries, boysenberries, grapes, melons, nectarines, plums, peaches, and pluots.Blackberries, apples, kiwis, dates, kumquats, peaches, pomegranates, and raspberries are all in season during late summer and fall.Try grapefruit, kumquats, limes, mandarins, and pomelos in the winter.Oranges are in season all year long.