 For this body wash, you will need 2 cups (450 milliliters) of unscented liquid Castile soap, 1 cup (225 milliliters) of rose water, 3 tablespoons of melted coconut oil, and 15-20 drops lavender essential oil. You will also need a quart-sized mason jar for mixing the body wash.


If you do not have rose water, you can make you own by adding 12 drops of rose oil to 1 cup (225 milliliters) of distilled water, and mixing.After you have mixed your body wash, you can transfer it into smaller bottles or old body wash containers.
 Unlike most oils, coconut oil is very thick and solid. You will need to soften it before you can use it in this recipe. You can do this by heating it in the microwave for a few seconds or warming it in a double boiler.
 You can transfer all of your ingredients into a smaller container later.


If you are mixing your own rose water, you will need to do that first in a separate container before adding it to the coconut oil, essential oil, and soap.
 Keep shaking until all of the ingredients are combined.
 The quart-sized mason jar might be cumbersome to handle to the shower. You can pour your body wash into smaller containers, such as mini mason jars, small glass bottles, or even old body wash bottles. If your new container has a small mouth, such as a bottle, then you can place a funnel over the mouth of the small container first before pouring in the body wash. The funnel will make sure that everything goes into the new container and that nothing gets spilt or goes to waste.
 You can leave the smaller containers as they are, or you can give them a personal touch by embellishing them with labels, twine, and other decorations. You can even pour the body wash into tiny bottles and use them as party favors. Here are some decorating ideas:


Print out a label and stick it on the bottle or jar.
Tie a piece of twine or ribbon around the jar lid.
Decorate the bottle or jar with gemstones. You can glue them on using hot glue or purchase stick-on gemstones.
Decorate the cork or lid. You can paint the jar lid with acrylic paint. You can also decorate the lid or cork by hot gluing rhinestones and fancy buttons onto it.
