 If you want shorter, lighter periods, prescription birth control pills can help. Ask your doctor about starting birth control.


Most oral contraceptives (birth control pills) come in a 28-day pack. The first 21 pills contain a combination of estrogen and progesterone that prevent ovulation and therefore pregnancy. The last 7 pills in the pack are placebo pills without any hormones.
While you're on the last pills of the pack, you will experience a period of withdrawal bleeding similar to a period. However, the biological processes behind withdraw bleeding are different from those that happen during menstruation. Many women experience shorter, lighter periods while on birth control pills.;
, What this means is that you have 24 rather than 21 hormone pills, and only 4 placebo pills, which tends to limit the withdrawal bleeding ("period") to being 4 days or less.This is not guaranteed to work, but if you stick with it over a number of months your body will likely adjust and begin to have shorter periods. Determination is key as many women do not get results until 3 or so months of consistent use.
 This is another very effective option for women who are troubled by their period, as it actually eliminates many of your periods! Most of these "extended cycle" pills give you hormone pills for 3 months, followed by one withdrawal bleed ("period"). What this means is that you are bleeding on average once every 3 months, rather than once a month.Note that this will not necessarily shorten your periods, but it will make them less frequent, so it may be a very good option for you to try.
 It is also important to be aware of side effects that could occur, particularly in the first few months of starting the birth control pill.


One of the most common side effects is breakthrough bleeding and spotting. What this means is you may have some bleeding or spotting even on the days when you are taking hormone pills, as your body adjusts to having an "external" (outside) source of hormones. This will likely go away after using the pill for a few months consistently.
Other possible side effects include breast tenderness, nausea, stomach cramps, bloating, diarrhea or constipation, or weight gain.
Note that, if you continue to have unwanted side effects with your current birth control pill, you can always speak to your doctor about switching to another brand. Different pills have different ratios of estrogen to progesterone, and it often takes women a few tries to find the pill that is right for them.
 IUD stands for intrauterine device. An IUD is a t-shape device made of copper or plastic that a health care professional inserts into a woman's uterus in order to prevent pregnancy. Depending on the type of IUD, it may also be helpful in shortening your menstrual cycle.The copper IUD is cheaper and lasts longer (up to 10 years), but it also is known to cause heavier periods and more cramping, so this would not be the right choice for you if you are trying to shorten (and/or lighten) your periods.
The Mirena IUD, however, is an excellent choice. It is made up of progesterone (a female hormone) and is the "gold standard" form of birth control. It is nearly 100% effective at preventing pregnancy, lasts for up to 5 years, and also significantly lightens periods (and, for some women, actually gets rid of periods altogether).
The downside to the Mirena IUD is cost, which is normally a few hundred dollars. However, if you are able to get one, it is by far your best bet at having shorter and lighter periods.



However, women who are educated around IUDs are far more likely to get them put in, as they realize that the benefits are numerous. Not only are periods lighter and shorter, it is also the most effective form of contraception, and, despite the initial cost, over the course of 5 years it actually costs less than continually purchasing birth control pills.
 In some women, it may be the sign of an underlying medical condition that needs to be diagnosed and treated, so it is always best to see a doctor to either rule these things out, or to get treatment as needed.While the duration and intensity of menstrual cycles vary between women, there are several factors that might warrant medical concern. If you need to use double sanitary protection to control flow, pass blood clots more than one day of your cycle, soak through a sanitary napkin or tampon within an hour, must change menstrual protection during the night, have periods that last longer than week, or have symptoms like tiredness and shortness of breath you should see your gynecologist.There are a number of possible causes for abnormally heavy menstrual bleeding. Causes can range from fairly benign hormone imbalances, such as an under-active thyroid, or certain medications, but they can also be quite serious. Certain cancers and ovarian diseases can cause abnormal bleeding. Your doctor should be able to figure out the cause by performing a routine pelvic exam and taking stock of your medical history. Additional blood tests, x-rays, and ultrasounds may be needed depending on what your doctor suspects is the cause.Treatment depends on the cause of the bleeding. Iron supplements, ibuprofen, oral contraceptives, or intrauterine devices (IUDs) may help reduce symptoms.Before your appointment, make sure you know about any pre-appointment instructions such as not eating the night before or tracking your cycle. You should also have a list of any medications you are on, any recent changes in your life, the symptoms you're experiencing, and any questions you might have for your doctor.