 Curcumin is the primary active ingredient in the spice tumeric. This ingredient can increase blood flow to the brain, making it easier for you to focus. Studies have shown that it increases concentration in as little as an hour after taking it.In addition, curcumin may also help with stress and depression, conditions which can affect your focus.;
, Some people have luck with this supplement improving concentration. It likely works by reducing fatigue, which in turn helps your concentration. Studies have shown that it can help older adults with focus., This supplement has been known to help some with focus and memory, and clinical trials have shown it is effective. In fact, some studies have shown that it can even help treat the effects of dementia., This supplement has been around for a long time, and it's main purpose is to increase attention and memory. One study showed it improved word recall better than a placebo in senior adults., Like many other brain supplements, citcoline can help with focus and concentration. However, this supplement has also helped some people with severe conditions, such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease., While gingko biloba is commonly thought to improve concentration and memory, studies have been mixed on its effectiveness. However, studies have shown that it can help with recall in dementia and Alzheimer's patients, so using it for that purpose may be effective., Once you've narrowed down what ingredients you'd like to see in your supplement, try reading reviews of similar supplements. While this method isn't scientific, you may find that people had better luck with one supplement over another., If more than one ingredient sounds interesting, you may be able to find it combined with another supplement. The label will tell you how much of each active ingredient is in the supplement., Some supplements are more effective in some forms than others. For instance, while curcumin is found in tumeric, taking just curcumin is often more effective.Similarly, some varieties of plants might be more effective than others, just as some parts of the plant (root verses the leaf) might be more effective., Supplements are still drugs that affect your body chemistry. They can also interact with medications you're on in harmful ways. Before you start a supplement, research the supplement to see if it interacts with anything you're on.It's also important to research each ingredient to make sure it's something you want in your supplement.
 The FDA regulates supplements just like other drugs. Before starting on a supplement, look it up on the FDA's website to see if they note any negative effects for the supplement., Supplements can affect your health, just like any drug. It's always a good idea to talk to your doctor before taking a supplement. You may find it worsens one of your other health problems, for instance., The label will tell you how much you should take of the supplement to benefit your mental health. You can back that up with information from your doctor to ensure you're taking the right dose.Also, pay attention to the expiration date, as supplements won't be as effective over time.

