 Each state defines “good cause” differently. Accordingly, the only way you can know for sure whether you qualify is if you research your state’s law. You should contact your state’s unemployment agency and ask if the reason why you want to quit qualifies.


You can find a link to your state’s office at the federal government’s Career Onestop website: http://www.careeronestop.org/localhelp/unemploymentbenefits/unemployment-benefits.aspx.
Click on your state.;
, There are some work-related reasons that justify quitting your job and will count as “good cause.” For example, the following might qualify, depending on your state:unsafe work conditions, such as dangerous equipment
a transfer to work that isn’t suitable for you
a permanent change in your terms of employment, including lower pay or fewer hours
unlawful harassment or discrimination, including sexual, racial, and other harassment

, Some reasons for quitting your job might be more personal in nature. For example, the following personal reasons qualify in many states as good cause for leaving a job:your health has declined (though in some states your illness must be job-related)you left a job for another job, which never materialized
union rules
lack of transportation (in some situations)
taking care of a sick family member
domestic violence
leave to handle urgent, unforeseen child care arrangements

, In some states, you are required to try and resolve issues with your employer before quitting. If you don’t, then you won’t be eligible for unemployment benefits because your state won’t find “good cause” for quitting.For example, if you find the equipment is unsafe, you can ask your employer to upgrade the equipment or provide safety devices like goggles.
Basically, you should show that quitting was your last choice.
However, you generally don’t need to work around the issue if you quit because of harassment, discrimination, or domestic violence.
 If you are quitting for personal reasons, then some states might require that you try to get a leave of absence that will allow you to handle the issue before returning to work. Even if your employer won’t agree, you should still ask.For example, if your mother is sick, you should try to get a leave of absence before quitting your job. If you don’t, then your state might find that you don’t have “good cause.”
You don’t need to ask for leave if you are quitting due to harassment, discrimination, or domestic violence.
 Only a qualified attorney can answer your question whether you have good cause under your state law. An attorney can also help you put together the strongest case for when you apply for unemployment. You should get a referral to an attorney and schedule a consultation.


Money might be tight. However, you could ask the attorney if you can pay for a half-hour of advice.
You might also qualify for legal aid if your income is less than 125% of the federal poverty level.For example, a single person would qualify for legal aid if they had an annual income of $14,850. For a family of three, the maximum is $25,200.You can find the nearest legal aid office by visiting the Legal Services Corporation’s website at http://www.lsc.gov/. Click on “Find Legal Aid” and enter your address.
 If you are quitting because the job is dangerous, then you should be able to point to specific hazards. For example, the equipment might be old or the building might lack proper ventilation. Try to get the following evidence:


Take pictures of any hazards. For example, if there are holes in the floor or dangerous sparks caused by equipment, you can take pictures or video.
Get a copy of any complaint form that you filed with OSHA or an equivalent state agency.
 If you have to quit for medical reasons, then you should get a letter from your doctor. Get the letter if you have to quit because of your own poor health or because you need to take care of a family member. The letter should generally contain the following information:identification of the health problem
what activities you shouldn’t do at work because of the health issue
how the job affects your health
whether you should continue in your current job
the types of work you can do in spite of your current health condition

, If you are quitting because of domestic violence, then you should ideally already have in place a restraining order (also called a “protective order”). Find your copy of the protective order because it is excellent evidence that you have been harassed.


If you haven’t yet filed for a protective order, then you should do so promptly.
See Get a Protective Order for more information.
 You can expect your employer to challenge any claim that you experienced harassment or discrimination at work. For this reason, you should gather as much evidence as possible. For example, look for the following:


Any communication that is abusive, including emails, letters, notes, and voicemail recordings.
Names of witnesses who observed the harassment.
Your own written recollections. Try to be as detailed as possible. Write down who harassed you, as well as where and when.Copies of any grievances filed with your boss or other complaints made. It helps if you can show that you let your employer know of the abusive behavior.
 Find your state’s unemployment office and apply. They should provide a phone number you can call or a link to the site where you can apply.If you have questions, look for a phone number and call.


It’s important to apply right away. You shouldn’t delay.
 After you apply, the office will review your information and then decide whether you qualify. Since you quit your job, you shouldn’t be surprised if you get a denial letter. This letter should tell you how to request a hearing.


In some states, the unemployment office might just go ahead and schedule a hearing. In their letter, they will tell you the date, time, and location. In many states, the hearing will be held by telephone.If you can’t make the hearing, then you should call as soon as possible to reschedule.
 You can have witnesses testify for you at the hearing.For example, if you are taking care of a sick relative, then they could speak over the phone.


You can also collect relevant documents and put them in some kind of logical order.
If your hearing is by phone, you will probably have to fax your documents or mail them to the unemployment office ahead of time.
 You must explain to the unemployment representative that quitting was the only reasonable thing to do.You should try to write out a couple paragraphs explaining your situation.


Practice explaining your situation to a friend or family member. You don’t want to memorize what you will say. However, you want to be sufficiently familiar with the facts of your case so that you can answer questions comfortably.
 Your employer has the option of contesting your application for unemployment benefits. In particular, your employer will probably challenge that your work environment was harassing. You should take some time to think about what your employer will say.


Also consider your response. For example, an employer might argue that you weren’t harassed on the job by your coworkers. However, your employer might not have worked anywhere near you and your coworkers. You can point that out.
 Whether the hearing is held in person or over the telephone, you should be sure that you are not late. Have your supporting evidence with you to look at. If you want witnesses to testify for you, then make sure that they arrive at least 15 minutes early.


The initial hearing might not be recorded, but the person running it should come up with a hearing report. You should try to review the report and correct any mistakes., You also have the right to an appeal. You should read your denial letter or check with your state’s unemployment agency for details on how to appeal.You only have a limited amount of time, so don’t delay.The unemployment agency will hold another hearing. However, this hearing might be more formal than the initial hearing.
Be sure to talk with an attorney in order to prepare for your appeal. Each state’s appeal process is somewhat different, so only an attorney can provide tailored advice.
 At the hearing, the person running it (called the “referee” or something similar) will tell you the procedure and also start recording the hearing. You should remember the following tips:Arrive early. You and your witnesses should arrive at least 15 minutes ahead of time.
Answer questions honestly and fully. However, don’t guess. If you don’t know the answer, say, “I can’t remember” or “I don’t know.”
Remain calm. You will appear more credible if you don’t lose your temper.
Avoid talking until the referee tells you it is your turn to talk.
 Depending on your state, you might be able to bring more appeals if you lose the initial one. Your denial letter should tell you whether additional appeals are available.


For example, in Connecticut, if you lose your appeal you can appeal to the Board of Review and then bring an appeal in court.Always remember your deadlines. States set strict deadlines which you must meet whenever filing for an appeal.
 You need to file for unemployment even if you are initially denied. In fact, you should continue to file until you receive a rejection on your very last appeal.If you win your appeal, then you will be paid unemployment benefits for each week that you filed. If you didn’t file as you waited for your appeal, you won’t get any of that money owed to you.

