 Once your child is born, it's a good idea to regularly have your child screened up until the age of three. This will allow you to keep track of developmental milestones, making sure that your child is developing normally.
 If you have noticed signs like those listed in the previous method, make an appointment with a doctor who specifically deals with developmental issues in children. Make the appointment as soon as you spot symptoms, because early intervention can greatly increase your child’s ability to interact with others.Research has shown that intervening early on can improve a child's overall development.It has been shown that early treatment and education, allows autistic children to gain social skills.
 Diagnosing your child will not happen overnight, as there's unfortunately no single medical test to give you a definitive answer. Multiple evaluations will be used, and these will yield a more accurate diagnosis.
 A parental interview is when your doctor asks you questions about your child’s medial background, as well as about the symptoms that you have noticed. He or she may also ask you about your family’s medical and mental history. In particular, talk to the doctor about:


What symptoms you have noticed
When you began noticing the symptoms
How severe the symptoms are

, Your doctor will examine your child in the same way that your child would be examined during a normal doctors appointment. On top of the normal physical test, the doctor is likely to do:A neurological exam.
Genetic testing.
Other lab tests.
 If a child has trouble hearing, it can greatly affect her language and social skills. If there's a hearing impairment, you may not be dealing with autism at all, as hearing impairments can lead to similar symptoms to those of autism.
 Your child will be observed within various settings and environments. The doctor will be looking for abnormal behaviors, and how your child interacts with people around her.For example, one observational period may involve the doctor giving your child a specific toy and watching how your child plays with the toy.
 These tests include:


Cognitive assessments: This may be in the form of an intelligence test, or some sort of cognitive assessment.
Speech evaluation: A specialist will focus on your child's speech, and how she communicates. The specialist will be looking for symptoms directly related to autism. These may be strange tones, or lack of response to verbal cues.
Adaptive assessment: This will test your child's problem solving skills in real life scenarios. These can be tasks like feeding themselves, or simply testing their verbal skills.
Sensory-motor tasks: A physical therapist will observe your child's motor skills, and sensory processing skills.

