 Are you doing it to fit in at school? Do you want to be able to wear that gorgeous pair of earrings you just got for your birthday? Do you just really like the way pierced ears look? Thinking about your motives will help put the piercing itself in perspective, and remind you that the benefits of having your ears pierced will outweigh the pain of actually doing it.;
, Know that you can wear clip-on earrings or use converters to wear pierced earrings, if you want to wear earrings without the pain of the piercing.


If you're nervous about getting your ears pierced, seriously consider these options. Try wearing clip on earrings for a few days to see if you like them. You might decide that you don't need to get your ears pierced at all, saving you a lot of stress and pain.
 Investigate the health and safety hazards of piercing your ears. Consider any allergies to different types of metals you might have, as that will affect what earrings you can safely wear. Learn about how to take care of your ears after piercing them, including how long to keep your earrings in and how to clean your ears. Make sure you're comfortable with the risks of piercing your ears, and be confident that you'll be able to take care of them after they're pierced.


Knowing about the risks is the first step towards overcoming them. Think about ways to mitigate any risks you learn about, and come up with a plan to keep your ears clean and safe.
 Make an appointment at a shop approved by the Association of Professional Piercers. Consider reviews and ratings, prices, and store hours before making your appointment.


If you're worried about your safety, don't go to a shop such as Claire's that uses a piercing gun. The only way to sterilize piercing equipment is through the use of an autoclave, which would ruin a plastic gun. Choose a place that properly sanitizes their equipment, and be sure to use only high-quality jewelry.
 You'll be asked to sign a waiver. If you're worried about the legal side and about what your rights will be if anything goes wrong, take time to read the waiver through. Ask them about anything that looks confusing, or if you have any questions. Make sure you understand the waiver and are okay with everything it says before signing it.
 When you get your ears pierced, the piercer will mark a dot on each ear. Be absolutely sure it's in the right place. Take the time to look at your ears in the mirror. Consider them from different angles, and get your friend's and the piercer's input. Think about what they will look like with earrings on, and be totally comfortable with the placement of the dots before they make the piercings.
 They will bring you into a cubicle and have you sit down in a chair and they will get their materials out. If any of the materials look intimidating or scary, ask the piercer about them. Make sure you understand what each tool is used for and how it works. You can also ask about their cleaning and sterilization process. Become comfortable with the tools before proceeding.
 Know that your ears might actively hurt for a little while directly afterwards, but remember that it will stop soon. Ask your piercer for written information about caring for your ears. Make sure you're comfortable with your pierced ears and know how to take care of them.

