 If you have an Airprint printer, printing to it is a very straightforward process. Most new printers that support Wi-Fi also support AirPrint. You can check Apple's list at support.apple.com/en-us/HT201311 for your specific model.


The list is quite long, so press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+F and type your model to search for it on the page.;
, Follow the documentation for your printer to get it connected to your wireless network. The printer will need to be connected to the same network that you connect your iPhone to.
 Most apps that deal with text or photos allows you to print from them. Below are just some of the popular apps that support AirPrint:


Mail
Safari
Photos
Pages
Keynote
Evernote
Google Drive
iBooks

, Once you've opened the app, open the item you want to print. This could be an email, a web page, a PDF file, or any other document or photo.
 This usually looks like a square with an arrow coming out of the top. This will open the Share menu.


There are some exceptions to this. For example, in the Mail app, tap the "Reply" button to reveal the "Print" option.
 You'll find this in the bottom row of options. You may have to scroll to see it.


If there is no Print button, the app you are using does not support printing.
 This will display all of the AirPrint printers connected to the network., There are multiple reasons a printer may not appear as available:


Make sure it is turned on and connected to the same wireless network as your iPhone.
If the printer is not AirPrint-compatible, it will not appear.
If you just turned the printer on, you may have to wait several minutes until it appears.
If the printer has been on for a while and is not appearing, turn it off and then turn it back on again. Wait a few minutes for it to start up and then check again.
 You'll have limited print options, depending on the item being printed. You can choose how many copies to print, and what range of pages if the document has more than one page.
 The file will be sent to the printer, which should start printing it after preparing. Some printers take longer to begin printing than others.

