 A bar graph, usually used to show how much of one thing exists compared to another, is easy to create and looks like a series of vertical or horizontal rectangles of different lengths. The y-axis will indicate how much of something there is and the x-axis will represent what you are measuring (if you want your rectangles to be vertical). If you would like them to be horizontal, switch which type of data goes on which axis.


A histogram is a special bar graph designed to show the distribution of data. On this type of bar graph, both axes will have number values, since numbers will be the value being measured.
 This type of graph shows data as points and connects those points with a line. It is useful for showing how a particular variable has changed over time, like weight, height, salary, or a company’s GDP for example.


An area graph is a special kind of line graph, which shows multiple sets of these changes on the same graph so as to make them easy to compare. The area below each line will be filled in a different color. This allows people to easily see which data sets were more negative or positive. An example of the type of data used on such a chart is showing the change over time in average house prices in three separate neighborhoods.
 This is a circle graph which is comprised of a circle, broken up into individually colored sections which represent data. These sections or slices are sized relative to the amount of data they represent. This type of chart is useful for showing how the different parts of a whole compare to each other. It is difficult to draw accurately by hand, however, since you need to be able to calculate the angles necessary to represent percentages of a whole. Drawing one will require a protractor, though there are many computer programs and websites which will make a chart for you if you enter the data. For example, you can use a pie chart to show relatively how many members of a class are of a particular ethnicity or what types of colleges or work forces students from a particular high school went on to after graduating.

