 It may seem like it's counterproductive, but healthy fats will keep you from eating less -- and unsaturated fats (the good kind) will give you energy and are a necessary part of any healthy diet.


Go for avocados, almonds, and olives. Note that the hunger-reducing effects of nuts tend to take about half an hour before you feel them, so eat them before you reach the point of being extremely hungry, or you’ll be tempted to eat more than you need., Although grapefruit diets are now just a relic of the 80s, research is still headed in its favor. At San Diego's Nutrition and Metabolic Research Center, a study was conducted where participants ate half a grapefruit with each meal. In three months, they lost an average of 3.6 pounds. Not bad for such little work.And that's not changing anything else about their diet.


If you're wondering why, you're not alone. It's believed that grapefruit lowers your post-eating levels of insulin, which can skyrocket after meals.
 And especially in the morning. Protein controls how much you eat by making you feel fuller faster. If you start off with it, you'll want to eat less throughout the day.


Eating lean protein (think Canadian bacon, low-fat yogurt, and egg whites) at breakfast can actually keep you fuller longer than if you were to eat it at lunch or dinner, says Purdue University. So aim to get at least one ounce (or 30 grams) of protein each time the sun rolls around., The good, healthy kind at least. It's good carbs you want, not simple ones lathered in butter -- and potatoes are just that. They take a while to break down; they stay in your intestine longer, delaying the onset of those treacherous tummy rumblings.


Substitute just about anything for a baked potato -- a medium-sized tater is only 100 calories -- if you watch your butter and sour cream. And chilled, cooked potatoes are even better -- when cold, their hunger-thwarting powers are increased (go for potato salad with vinegar). But know that eating potatoes doesn't mean super-sizing your order of fries or chowing down on a bag of chips. Anything cooked and slathered in oil has lost all its health benefits.