 Now download the setup for your Operating System by clicking on the link right besides the package name. For this article, I have downloaded, VirtualBox 4.3.16 for Windows hosts. Make sure you download the latest version of VirtualBox for your Operating System. I am presently working on Windows 8.1.;
,,, If you like to place a shortcut icon for VirtualBox on your Desktop and in the Quick Launch Bar, leave the first two boxes selected.
 This will help you to access Internet and other network resources from Windows 10.
 Now sit back and chillax while VirtualBox installs on your system. Depending on the security settings on your Operating System and available system drivers, your Operating System may ask you to allow or deny the Setup proceed and install few drivers. This is essential for your VirtualBox to let Windows 10 access hardware and other resources on your host operating system (the operating system you are using right now). You may choose to accept and install them.
, We will come back to this once we download an official copy of Windows 10 Technical Preview. We are now ready to download and install Windows 10 Technical Preview on our VirtualBox.
 To join the program, visit https://insider.windows.com and click on Join now.
 If you do not have one, you can click on Sign up now to create one and then go back to the previous step of this tutorial. If you were already logged in the Microsoft account, you would not be shown a Sign in page.
 Once you have read this page and all the relevant information, you may choose to click on, œI Accept and then proceed with this article.
, You will see a list of available downloads. Depending on your language and your system architecture you may download one of those files. If you are not sure whether you are working on a 64-bit or 32-bit machine, you can download the 32-bit (x86) file by clicking on the Download link right besides it. To make use of 64 bit you may need to enable Virtualisation from your BIOS. If you are not aware of these concepts or do not know how to do it, download the 32-bit (x86) file for a safer bet. In this article I have picked English 64-bit (x64) as I am working on a machine with a 64-bit processor with a 64-bit Operating System.
, Now select Windows 8.1 (64 bit) as the version. If you had downloaded a 32 bit Windows 10 Technical Preview file then select Windows 8.1 (32 bit) from the list. Now click on Next. If you had downloaded the 64 bit Windows 10 Technical Preview file and if you do not see Windows 8.1 (64 bit) in the Version list then you might need to enable Virtualisation in your BIOS. If your are not aware of how to do so, you may search for a tutorial using your favourite search engine or go back a couple of steps in this tutorial and download a 32 bit (x86) Windows 10 Technical Preview file.
,,,, Leave the size of the virtual hard disk to its default value and click on Create.
 Now click on Start to boot up our Virtual Machine.
 Click on the browse folder icon.
,, This is what we have been waiting for. Just a few more steps and you would then be using the new version of Windows! Click Next on Windows Setup running on your Virtual Machine.
,,, If you wish you can click on Customize and follow the onscreen instructions till Windows 10 has been installed. In this article, we are following the Express Settings.
, Follow the onscreen instructions and continue to the next step in this tutorial.
,, This is what we have been excited about. Your Windows 10 Technical preview is up and running! Go ahead, experiment with it. Check out new features and share it with the world.Check out the Start button! It is back! Enjoy Windows 10...

