 Knowing the flavor you are aiming for will help you pick out the best tobacco to use for the flavoring process. Pipe tobacco, much like cigars, has a base flavor profile that may or may not go with certain flavors. Whichever flavor you decide on, you'll want it to come in liquid form.
 There are many different kinds of tobacco you could flavor, and many of them have unique base flavors that could affect the end result of your flavoring. Some popular kinds of tobacco you may want to consider include:


Virginia tobacco. This comes in many varieties (red, black, lemon, etc.), each with slight differences in character. It is generally considered a mild leaf that has a light taste and is also sweet.
Burley tobacco. Burley is a dryer form of tobacco, making it more receptive to flavoring. You can expect this kind to burn slow and have a cool flavor.
Oriental tobacco. This kind of tobacco covers many different sub-categories, like the kinds grown in Turkey and Russia. In most cases, you'll find that this leaf is dry and has a moderately sour aroma., This ensures your flavoring agent permeates your tobacco when it is added and also helps to prevent spillage. Spread your tobacco around the container so it is in an even layer. This will encourage an even distribution of your flavoring.


A snuff box/snus tin can be made relatively airtight by covering the edges of the box/tin where it opens with tape. Electrical tape or duct tape work well for this purpose.
Sturdy tupperware containers also work well for this, though you should make sure that the one you use is airtight for best results.
A durable plastic baggie can work well as a substitute for a container. One with a double seal will often provide a more airtight barrier for your tobacco.
While getting the hang of flavoring your tobacco, you may want to start flavoring in small batches. This way, if you make a mistake when flavoring, less tobacco is wasted.
 You can drizzle your liquid flavoring over your tobacco, but you may find you have a better distribution of flavor when using an atomizer, like a spray bottle. Use your flavoring agent sparingly. In many cases a single capful of liquor/liqueur will be enough to flavor several ounces of tobacco, depending on your preferences.


Essential oils are very potent, so when using these to flavor your tobacco you should dilute the oil in distilled water., To help the infusing process along, as well as encourage a uniform distribution of flavor, you should shake your container so the tobacco mixes thoroughly with the flavoring. Then, you'll have to give the tobacco time to absorb the flavor.


Depending on the kind of tobacco and flavoring agent you've used, keeping the tobacco in the container for longer may create a stronger flavor.
Generally, your tobacco will have sufficiently infused with your flavor in one to five hours., Open your container and spread your tobacco in a thin layer on a piece of parchment paper or paper towel. You'll need to give your tobacco some time to dry before adding more flavoring to it.


When your tobacco is approaching your desired level of moistness, you should sniff it to determine the potency of the flavor. If the scent of the flavoring is weak, you'll likely need to apply another round of flavoring.
In most cases, an hour should be enough for your tobacco to reach the level of moisture common in most kinds of pipe tobacco., If you find that your tobacco has not yet reached the potency or level of moisture that you desire, return your tobacco to the airtight container and apply the flavoring agent as you did before. After allowing time for infusion, remove the tobacco and allow it to dry until it is at your preferred level of moistness.
 Mason jars are available at most grocery stores and are excellent for this purpose, so long as you buy the kind with an airtight rubber seal. You could also use tupperware or the kind of airtight jars often used to keep coffee fresh. Remove your tobacco from the jar whenever you want to smoke and enjoy.Thrift stores are a great place to purchase cheap airtight containers. You'll want to look for those that have a rubber seal on the lid. You can check air tightness by sealing the container and submerging it in water. If no water leaks in, it's airtight.
As long as the seal on your container is not broken, your tobacco can keep for a long period of time. Airtight seals should be used for any storage exceeding 2 months.
You should check your tobacco regularly to ensure the seal has not broken and the tobacco is still good. Once a month should be enough to prevent major losses.

