 If you cut your nails you won't really be able to pick your blemishes and spots. (If you prefer to, you can also file your nails.);
, Your obsessive skin picking could be a condition known as Dermatillomania (now known as Excoriation disorder)-- a compulsive disorder where a person has an intense urge and need to pick at ones own skin, and you will need help and a good treatment to beat it. Use resources for more information, such as online sites, forums or read "Skin Picking: How to Cure Dermatillomania" by A Foxwell.
 Seriously—eliminating the temptation to use them on your skin will help you beat your picking., Use Neosporin or another antibacterial ointment on your newer scars, and try not to touch them., It is hard and will take patience, but nobody wants spots anyway. Use a daily cleanser and eat healthy. If acne causes you to pick, purchase a cleanser with Salicylic acid in it, or with Benzoyl Peroxide. You can also try using a mild skin lightening cream with Hydroquinone to gradually reduce the appearance of scars. This will take time though, but hopefully it will all be worth it.
 For example:



Make a closed fist for one minute instead of picking or in response to condition that usually provokes picking behavior.

Go for a walk outside every time you feel an urge to pick.Punish yourself with something for picking but not too drastic -- to do the dishes or no TV for a day or something like that. It might sound so crazy but it actually works and sooner or later you will have ditched your obsession.
, You can wear a mask if you pick at your face, you can wear long pants if you pick at your legs, etc. You can also wear gloves or bandaids on your fingers when you feel the urge to pick. , Do you have triggers? This often occurs as a result of some triggering cause. Some common triggers are irregularities on the skin -- or anxiety or other negative feelings., Embrace the idea that nobody has perfect skin, and that your imperfections are what make you unique. You are beautiful, and don't you forget it.

