 Just as you should learn to say “no” to excessive demands that don’t serve your greater purpose, you should learn to say “heck yea!” to any invitations for fun. If you’re always busy, you may relegate leisure activities to the bottom of your list, placing emphasis on work and other responsibilities. Fun is just important for health and well-being as productivity, though.Say “yes” when a coworker asks you out for after-work cocktails. Say “yes” when your partner asks you on a weekend getaway. Nod with excitement when your kids ask you to play hide-and-seek. Take out time regularly to enjoy yourself and the people who are important to you.
 Animals and small children have a special ability to lift your mood when you’re overwhelmed from the demands of life. Set aside time each day to play with your pets and/or children.Toss a Frisbee to your dog or take a walk around the neighborhood. Shut down your laptop early and read your child a bedtime story. Dedicate some special time for these little ones and you’ll naturally feel better.
 Remember, all work and no play doesn’t make you very happy. Schedule in time, at least once a week, to do something just for you.Visit a nearby spa for a massage. Take a book out on the lawn or near a body of water for a relaxing reading hour. Wake up 30 minutes early to enjoy your coffee in quiet. Take yourself out on a date to a nice restaurant. Any of these can help you unwind so you’re at the top of your game at work or at home.
 Exercise is the ultimate mood-booster. Sadly, physical activity falls into “would be nice to do” the category for many busy adults. As you reduce the non-essentials on your schedule, work in more time to get active.Set aside at least 30 minutes per day on most days of the week for exercise. Go for a walk or run. Get on a rowing machine or stationary bike at the gym. Have an intense dance session with your best friend or kids. Just do something to get your heart pumping.
 You already know that you should aim for seven to nine hours of sleep each night. But getting there doesn’t have to be another chore to check off your to-do list. Make sleep an experience by creating a special bedtime ritual.Light a scented candle. Turn on some relaxing music. Run a warm bubble bath or take a shower. Journal. Shut down your computer and phone and do some light reading instead.

