 Most Lolita styles include a blouse with puffy sleeves and ruffles. The sleeves can be long or short, but for a traditional approach, they should cover the shoulder. The most traditional blouses also have a button front and rounded collars.;
, The ideal silhouette for the Lolita look is the bell, though some voluminous A-line skirts may also work. It should fall no shorter than two inches above the knee. Look for skirts that are decorated with frills, lace, ribbons, or bows.
 A jumper skirt has a full skirt at the bottom and a top portion that comes over a separate blouse worn underneath. The upper portion should have a low enough neckline to reveal the blouse beneath it, and the skirt should flare out in a bell or full A-line shape.
 If coordinating blouses and skirts seems like too much hassle, or if you're committed to something with a little more Lolita flair, consider wearing a frilly dress. The skirt portion should still retain a bell shape, and the top should still cover your arms with poofy sleeves and ruffles.
 While these pieces are necessary to create a full bell shape in your skirt or dress, they may take your style over the top. Instead of adding a “simple touch” of Lolita to your clothing, petticoats and bloomers add a very noticeable touch. If you opt for these pieces, consider toning down your accessories and staying away from ruffles and lace on your outer clothes.
 Classic Lolita is the tamest and easiest to wear for everyday purposes. Many skirts in this branch of Lolita fashion stick with a classic A-line skirt, rather than the extensive bell skirt. Consider a fancy garden party dress with a rose print or other pastel floral design.
 Gothic Lolita mixes the darkness of Gothic fashion with the frilliness of Lolita fashion. Look for frilly pieces that are all black or a mix of black and white. Alternatively, you can also look at other dark colors like burgundy, deep purple, and navy.
 Sweet Lolita is the most doll-like and extravagant in nature, and it may be difficult to incorporate small amounts of the style into your everyday outfit. If you want to try, however, gravitate toward light colors with white accents. Pink and baby blue are especially common. Also look for pieces with subtle heart designs, cherries, candies, or fairy tale themes.

