 Everyone loves the phrase "what's up", but honestly, it's gotta go. Because those of you who use it, what's the answer you always get? "Nothing much, you?" or "nm u?". So think outside of the box, and try something more along the lines of "What are you up to?" "Whatcha doing?" Something playful that will catch their attention. They may answer something like "Hanging out", which is perfectly okay, because at least you know that they're hanging out and not dying in the void of "not much"-ness.;
, If you text her and she doesn't respond, be patient. Don't text her again or ask her if she got your text. Play it cool; otherwise you will look needy.
 Just deal with it for now, because sometimes they may be interested in you and are just shy, or they don't have very good typing skills on their phone.
 You have to excuse the single-lined "lol" text messages that may come. If the conversation comes to a halt with one of these, just stop it right there. If you reply afterwards with something like, "So... That paper we had to write last week was really hard," you might seem a bit desperate, so just end it right there. If you two are closer, like friends, you may want to say goodbye first, like "I'm gonna go listen to music. ttyl?" If not yet, just end it. Seriously, it's always annoying when you desperately want the conversation to end, but it never does because they won't leave you alone.
 It leaves the other person possibly wanting more. Try to recognize when the conversations are slowing down so that you can be the first one to cut it off. She/he will love you for this eventually, because bad, lazy conversations usually end in bored pauses and no actual interesting points.
 Unless it's a fantastic day where you're both flirting and having a great time texting each other, never start a conversation more than twice a day.


Moreover, never, ever try to keep talking after they've stopped the conversation. This is considered annoying and is often disliked in most cultures.
 Only ask this when they say something that might mean that they're busy or need to concentrate


For example, if they say they're working on an essay for English, you can say "Just let me know if I'm distracting you, I don't want to bother you." This they can reply to politely. If to this they reply that they'll text you back later, don't expect them to. If after an hour or two they don't, don't freak out. Just let them text you when they want to.
 Using constant chat speak is seldom attractive. It's okay to use it among regular conversation, but never compose your entire text of all chatspeak.


Remember to blend to their style. For example, if they use "idk" often enough, but they prefer to speak in actual words, try it. They probably speak like this because they don't like chatspeak, and it would make it easier for them to talk to you if you use their form of dialogue. It goes the same way for people who speak in all chatspeak, try their language if you haven't already.
 The title says it all. It's all about the other person. Remember that people LOVE to talk about themselves, and this benefits you too because you'd be finding out more about them. Ask them questions, like "what do you like to do?" or "do you play any sports?" However, you must wait until you know them a bit before you start asking these questions.


Perhaps during the third text conversation, begin questioning about their personality and interests. After a few questions, just let them know that you're kinda bored or whatever and want to know what they're into anyway, so that's why you're asking so many questions.
In a conversation, it is also pretty crucial not to creep them out, so try to veer into a conversation after one of the questions, like "What sport do you play?" -"I fence." -"Oh, that's cool! I've always wanted to do that, but I never got to." -"It's a lot of fun, you should try it." -"What's it like?" Etc., etc. Even if you're not interested, try to make it seem like you are.
 No, you're the one interested. Granted, you shouldn't text him every single day; try every other day or every few days, giving him a chance to initiate as well. Maybe he likes talking to you, who knows.


Also, never act like an obsessive one. Don't immediately flirt with him the moment you text him, pretend that he's another girl that you just met and want to be friends with, and after a while flirt a little, and as everything progresses, flirt some more.
 She could be pretty and have an absolutely horrendous personality, so just try talking to her in person as well as texting her to see who she really is. Flirt with her once you've actually decided that you like her.
 "Hey." "hi." "What's up?" "Nothing much. you?" "Same." "Yep." "We won our Hockey game, yesterday." "Congrats." "Thanks." ... No. Fill your conversation with color! Act like you're genuinely excited to talk to this person, you're happy to!


Saying "Hey! Whatcha doing?" will save you a text, in case you have limited texting. Always have a backup topic to start, such as "So, Merry Christmas! Did you get anything good?" Or "I can't believe it's already 2014."
Or "Any idea what the word 'zyzzyva' means? I just found out and wanted to know if you did ;)" Be someone fun to talk to! And overall, be someone reliable, so that they won't be afraid to say, "Can you help me out...?" when they need someone. Trust is key in a relationship.
 Text things like “Hey! Stop thinking about me! :P” or “I just made you look at your phone for no reason… looks like I got you in check =]”

, Be more creative, these are common messages that everyone gets all the time. It gets boring quickly so text something more interesting to differentiate yourself.

