 Before you can begin to compose a song, you will need to have a basic idea of how the song should sound. This tune should be the essence of the song and will be what you build everything else off of.


One starting point would be the melody. This is the basic line of music, usually thought of as the “singable” part of a song. This is a tune which you can easily write lyrics to and build off of.
Another method would be to start with a chord progression. This is a series of chords which will give the overall feel of the song. This may be a better place to start if you don’t have a very good idea of the melody or are having trouble coming up with one.
 A hook is a memorable line or series of lines in a song. Think of it as the part that gets stuck in your head. This catchy bit of tune and lyrics is what will grab your listener's attention and keep them thinking about the song later. A riff serves a similar purpose: it is a noticeable and memorable instrumental piece which is separate from the melody.
 If you want to write song, it is important to understand the basic song structures or forms which dominate popular music. Using these forms will give you a comfortable model on which to build but it will also create a song more in keeping with what your audience is used to hearing. A song too outside of the norm can be off-putting for the majority of audience members, even if it is otherwise good or well performed.


AAAC: This is the title given to song forms in which each verse is musically the same but differs in lyrics. Though uncommon in mainstream music, it can still be found readily elsewhere. A solid example of this song structure is “Amazing Grace”, a common American traditional song.
AABA: This is considered the most common form for popular music today. It comes an a number of variations and can be observed across most genres. In its most basic form, the AABA structure begins with two musically similar verses, breaks for a bridge (the "B" in the formula), and then returns for another verse. There are many examples of such a song but a good one is “Something” by The Beatles.

AABABA is probably the most common variant of the overall structure. ABAB, is another variant but less common. ABCD (which is a progressive, non-repeating form) is also sometimes used.


Verse-Chorus: This form is not so common as it once was, but many songs from the first half of the 20th century used it widely. It was still common well into the 1960’s. With this form, the verse takes a backseat to the chorus, which is repeated frequently. A perfect example would be “All You Need is Love” by The Beatles.

There are two major variants of the form: simple and contrasting. In the contrasting form, the music for the verse will be different from the music for the chorus. The simple form, then, is obviously one in which the music is the same.
There is an additional variant, termed Verse-Chorus-Bridge, which adds two or more bars as a small break between choruses. This bridge is always shorter than the verse, and often is followed with a key or tempo change.
 For composing, it can also be helpful to understand classical song forms. These can be used to inspire newer style songs, or they can be used as the basis for more instrumental pieces.


A canon is a song form in which an imitation or repetition of the melody is played after the main melody has begun. It makes use of several layered, echoing “voices” to create its unique sound. A canon in which all of the voices are identical is called a round. An example of this is the song “Row, Row, Row Your Boat”.
The sonata begins with the exposition, which is an introduction to the theme. It is then followed by a section called the development, which explores the themes of the piece. The last section is called the recapitulation, which returns to the theme (usually with a key change) and provides a sense of closure.

