 After the cards have been dealt, each player looks at their cards and then chooses three cards to pass to an opponent. When everyone has selected their three cards, everyone passes at the same time. Usually, since you want to avoid taking tricks, it's a smart idea to pass your highest-ranking cards to another player. This minimizes your trick-winning potential.









Another passing strategy is to "short-suit" yourself (see below).
Passing direction changes every hand. On the first hand, pass to the player left of you. On the second hand, pass to the right. On the third hand, pass to the player across from you. On the fourth hand, no cards are passed. At the fifth hand, the cycle starts again.

There may be different house rules on passing depending on where you play.
 The player with the Two of Clubs must lead with this card as the first play of the game. Each player after the lead must follow suit if he can. If a player cannot follow suit (on any trick), they may play a card in any other suit. A player wins a trick when he or she plays the highest card of the suit that is led. The winner of the trick leads the next.











On the first trick of each hand, no points (Hearts or the Queen of Spades) may be played, even by a player who can't follow suit. Such a player must play a card of a non-scoring suit.
 It's "tricky" to have to lead a trick. Unless you're starting a hand off by leading with the Two of Clubs, most of your cards are valid possibilities, so it can be difficult to decide how to proceed. When in doubt, go low - play a low-ranking card from a suit that hasn't been played heavily in the current round. Odds are that most, if not all of the players will have cards of this suit in their hands. If you play a low-ranking card, most of the time, someone will be forced to play a card of the same suit that's higher, ensuring that you don't take the trick.









There are exceptions to this generality - for instance, if you're trying to shoot the moon, you may want to play high cards, or if you've been keeping track of the cards being played and think it's likely that everyone has at least one card of a certain suit, you may want to lead high. You also may be forced to lead high as you run out of cards.
As noted above, you can't lead with a Heart until Hearts are broken when a player lacks a card in the suit that has been led, so he or she throws down a heart instead. As also noted above, most common Hearts variations don't allow Hearts to be broken on the first trick. The exception to these rules is when a player has voided all other suits and possesses only Hearts.
 If someone else leads the trick and you have one or more cards that are the same suit as the lead card, you have to follow suit. If you can, play a card lower than the lead card so that you won't take the trick. This is especially important if other players have yet to play their cards, as you have no way of knowing whether they'll play hearts or the Queen of Spades, leaving you to pick up the points









If you don't have cards of the same suit as the lead card, you usually want to either play a point card so that whoever wins the trick will gain points or get rid of a high-value off-suit card so that you're less likely to win tricks in the future.
 Generally, it's a good idea to get rid of all of the cards of one or more suits in your hand as quickly as possible. This is called "short-suiting" yourself. Once you've eliminated all the cards of one suit from your hand, you'll be able to play whatever you want when other players lead with cards of this suit. This can give you an opportunity to get rid of high-ranking cards, "dump" point cards on other players, and so on.









One way to short-suit yourself (or, at the very least, prepare to do so) is via the "pass" at the beginning of the hand. If you have, for instance, four Clubs in your hand and you pass three to another player, you'll have only one Club left to get rid of before you're short-suited (assuming another player doesn't pass you any additional Clubs).
 Shooting the moon can completely upend the dynamic of a game of Hearts, allowing you to move up several places in the rankings. However, shooting the moon is very risky, so you'll want to think carefully before you do it. Obviously, you won't want to try to shoot the moon if someone else has already gotten at least one point. You also won't want to shoot the moon if you have lots of low-ranking cards, as the likelihood that you'll be able to win every trick with such a hand is quite low. Generally, you should only try to shoot the moon when you have lots of high-ranking cards (not necessarily Hearts), especially if you're already well on your way to winning all the points in a round or most of your cards are of one suit.









Remember that if no one can follow the suit of the lead card, the player who leads wins the trick automatically. Use this to your advantage. If it seems like everyone is out of a certain suit, lead with cards of this suit, starting with your highest and working to your lowest, and you'll collect tons of points.

