 A VPN (Virtual Private Network) is an encrypted connection to a remote server that allow you to access the internet from behind restrictive firewalls. VPNs affect all of your internet traffic, which means Skype and other messaging services are not stuck behind the firewall either. VPNs are not free, but some offer monthly plans as opposed to yearly fee, which can be very useful for travelers.
;
, Some of the major VPN servers have been blocked by the Chinese government and are no longer accessible. Check with the company that you are signing up with and read reviews of the service online.
 Some VPN services will provide you with a VPN client that needs to be installed on your computer. Others will provide you connection information that you can enter into Windows’ or Mac’s connection manager.


Ideally, you should download and install your VPN software before you visit China. Many of the popular VPN programs are blocked, preventing you from signing up or downloading any clients. Setting your VPN up outside of China will make it easier to contact customer support if there are any issues.
Some VPN services offer mobile apps that you can use on your iPhone, iPad, or Android device.
 Either run the client, or enter your VPN information into your operating system’s connection settings. VPN clients that are provided with the service are already pre-configured and only require you to enter your login information.


For Windows, search for VPN on your computer and then select “Set up a virtual private network (VPN) connection” (Windows Vista/7) or “Add a VPN connection” (Windows 8). Enter your connection information. Your VPN service should have provided you with a server to connect to, as well as a username and password. Enter these into the VPN connection settings
For Mac OS X, click the Apple menu and select System Preferences. Click on Network. Click the Add (+) button at the bottom of the list, and then select VPN from the list of options. Choose the type of VPN you are connecting to. This will be provided by your VPN service. Enter your VPN settings, including the server you are connecting to and your username and password.
Click Connect to connect to your VPN. Most VPNs should connect automatically. If you cannot establish a connection, contact your VPN’s support service to troubleshoot the problem.
 Once your VPN is connected, you can visit any of the blocked sites that weren't previously accessible, as well as use any other internet-enabled programs such as Skype. You may notice a slow connection, but this is normal due to the distance between yourself and the VPN server.

