 Rinse the plums under cool running water, scrubbing gently with your fingers to remove any surface debris.


You should also sort through the plums and remove any small bits of stems, leaves, or other contaminants.
Toss out any soft, mushy fruit. Only use plums that are fresh and ripe for your jam.;
, Bring a large stockpot of water to a boil over high heat, then quickly dunk the plums in the boiling water for 30 to 60 seconds.Using a slotted spoon, immediately transfer the blanched plums to a large bowl of ice water to stop the cooking process.
You only need to blanch the plums if you plan on removing the skins. Skins can be included in the jam, if desired, but may give your preserves a chewier texture.
 Pinch the skin of each plum in between your fingers and slide it off the fruit.


If the plums are ripe, you should be able to remove the skins without difficulty. Unripe plums may need a longer blanching time before you can remove their skins.
 Cut the plums in half and dig out the pits with a spoon. Continue chopping the plums into small pieces.


As you chop up the plums, discard any brown spots or mushy portions.
Note that you could also grind the fruit or chop it into slightly larger pieces if you would prefer the jam to be smoother or chunkier, respectively.
 Place the plum pieces in a large mixing bowl and add the lemon juice. Toss the plums with the lemon juice until well-coated.


The lemon juice isn't strictly necessary, but using it will help prevent the plums from browning as you work.
 Place the plums in a 6-qt to 8-qt (6-L to 8-L) pot, then cover the fruit with 1/2 cup (125 ml) of water. Set the pot on the stove over medium-high heat.


Stir the contents of the pot as they heat up to prevent the plums from burning.
If you prefer thinner jam, you can use up to 1-1/2 cups (375 ml) of water. Adding too much water could prevent the jam from setting properly, though.
 Once the water reaches a full boil, reduce the heat to medium-low and cover the pot. Allow the plums to simmer for 5 minutes.


Note that it will usually take 5 to 10 minutes for the water to reach a steady, rolling boil. Only reduce the heat after this "full boil" stage has been cleared.
 Sprinkle the sugar into the pot and add the butter. Turn the heat back up to medium-high and allow the contents to reach another full boil.


Leave the pot uncovered and stir its contents continuously to prevent the plums from burning.
The use of butter or margarine is only optional. Adding it can help reduce the amount of foaming, but if the mixture hasn't developed much foam by this point, the butter probably won't be necessary.
 Add the pectin to the contents of the pot, stirring it into the mixture as quickly as possible. Boil the entire mixture for an additional minute.Continue stirring the contents of the pot continuously during this final minute. You should also skim off any foam that develops using a large metal spoon.
You don't need to use a cooking thermometer to test the jam, but if you do opt to use one, the temperature of the jam will need to reach approximately 220 degrees Fahrenheit (104.4 degrees Celsius).
 Test the consistency of the jam by removing a spoonful using an ice-cold metal spoon. Let the jam cool on the spoon and note its texture.Remove the jam from the heat source while testing it to avoid accidentally over-cooking it.
Keep the metal spoon submerged in ice water before the test so that it is thoroughly cold by the time you use it.
Wait until the mixture cools to room temperature on the spoon. If the jam thickens to your desired consistency, it's ready to use and ready to can. If it's still too thin, boil the jam for another minute and test again.
 Wash the jars and screw bands in hot, soapy water, then rinse them off with warm water. Pour boiling water over the flat lids, cleaned jars, and cleaned bands, then allow them to soak for at least five minutes.


Note that you can also wash the jars in your dishwasher if your machine has a “sterilize” setting, but the lids and bands should still be washed by hand.
You can prepare the jars after the jam is finished, but to improve efficiency and reduce the total amount of time, you may wish the sterilize the jars, lids, and bands before or while you work on preparing the jam.
 Fill a boiling water canner halfway with water. Set it on your stove and allow the water to reach a full boil.


If you don't have an actual boiling water canner, you can use a large stockpot. Place a metal rack at the bottom of the stockpot before adding and boiling the water. This rack should prevent the glass canning jars from coming into direct contact with the heat source.
 Fill eight 8 half-pint (250 ml) jars with your plum jam, leaving 1/4 inch (1.25 ml) empty head space at the top of each jar.After filling the jars, wipe away any spilled jam using a clean, damp towel, then secure the lids and screw bands over the top of each jar.
Note that pint-sized (500-ml) jars may also be used, but you'll only need about four of them.
Leave the same amount of headspace regardless of the jar size. The headspace prevents the jam from expanding and cracking the glass jars.
 Use jar tongs to lower the filled, sealed jars into the boiling water of the canner.


Keep at least 2 inches (5 cm) of space in between the jars to prevent them from hitting each other as they process.
Note that there should be at least 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water covering the tops of the jars. If there isn't enough water in the canner, add more boiling water before you begin processing the jars.
 Cover the canner and process the jars of jam for 5 to 15 minutes, depending on your altitude.Keep the water boiling throughout this entire time.


For altitudes between 0 and 1000 ft (0 and 305 m), process the jars for 5 minutes.
For altitudes between 1001 and 6000 ft (305 and 1830 m), process the jars for 10 minutes.
For altitudes above 6000 feet (1.83 km), process the jars for 15 minutes.
Also note that these processing times should remain the same for both half-pint (250-ml) and pint (500-ml) jars.
 Carefully remove the processed jars of jam from the hot water. Transfer them to a cloth-covered surface and allow them to cool to room temperature.


Make sure that the jars do not hit the canner or each other on the way out. The glass may break if this happens.
It will usually take several hours for the jars to completely cool. You may even need to wait overnight depending on when you started the process.
 Once the jars are completely cool, test the seal by pressing down on the button at the center of each lid. That button should not move up and down when pressed.


Test the seal on each jar. Do not assume that all seals are fine just because the first one or two seem secure.
If the jar has not been sealed correctly, transfer it to the refrigerator and use the jam within a few weeks.
If you do not want to use any unsealed jam immediately, you could also try reheating the jam, placing it a new jar with a new lid, and processing it again.
 Label the jars with their contents and the current date, then store the finished jam in a cool, dry, and dark place for 6 to 8 months.


After opening a jar of plum jam, store it in your refrigerator and use it within three weeks.

