 Conscientious objectors are excused from military service in many countries. In the US, they not only include members of pacifist churches like the Jehovah’s Witnesses, Quakers, Mennonites, and Amish but also anyone who claims, and can prove, to have a “firm, fixed and sincere objection to participation in war in any form or the bearing of arms, by reason of religious training and belief.” There are also two distinct classes: Class 1-O and Class 1-A-O. The first is for people who sincerely object to any participation in war whatsoever. The second group object to participation in war as combatants, but not to participation in a non-combatant role.

To start the process, you will have to file a formal application. You will have to document your views and prove to the investigators of your claim that you are not objecting simply to avoid service or out of expedience. You have to show that your reasons are based on sincere belief. Your investigators will judge your participation in a religious organization, your pattern of conduct, whether your beliefs were shaped by serious ethical or moral study, and other factors., You will most likely be interviewed as part of the review of your conscientious objector application. Very probably you will have to speak with a psychologist, a military chaplain (a pastor, rabbi, or imam depending on your religious affiliation), and finally an investigating officer in a hearing. They will be judging the sincerity of your beliefs and whether your claim is credible. Again, you will have to give detailed information about your beliefs and their basis as well as your religious life. You may also be able to have third parties testify on your behalf.Keep in mind that your interviews are not “privileged.” This means, for example, that they can ask confidential questions about you from a chaplain who knows you previously. In this case, you should request to be interviewed by a different chaplain., After the interviews, the investigating officer will file a report on your case. This usually consists of items like statements and other documents received during the hearing, summaries of witness testimony, conclusions about the basis of your objections, and recommendations for your classification as a conscientious objector. The whole file will then be reviewed by a military judge advocate, and sent on to whatever headquarters makes the final decision.Since the US now has a voluntary military and requires you to swear an oath at your induction into the service, becoming a conscientious objector is hard. Basically, you have to be able to prove that your views on war changed after you swore the military oath.