 When your friend starts to irritate you with their incessant bragging, remember why you’re friends in the first place. Inside your friend you’ve seen a great person who’s deserved your time and attention, so don’t abandon them just because they’ve developed a nasty bragging habit.


Look at old photos of you two together.
Send them a text about a shared joke or an old story.
Invite them out to a place you two have enjoyed in the past.
Think about the times that your friend has been there for you in the past.;
, If your friend starts a brag, cut into the conversation before they get bogged down in talking about how great their kid is.


As soon as your friend brings up her child, say something like, “She’s doing so well! Have you tried that pizza place yet?”
Avoid a topic that connects back to the child. For example, don’t say, “I can’t believe it’s only three weeks until Christmas/summer!”

, When your friend brags about their child’s accomplishment, acknowledge what they’ve said but don’t elaborate.Acknowledging their comments will help them realize you do care, even if you don’t want them to keep talking about it.


Say something like “I always knew she was going to be a star!” or “He’s been kicking that soccer ball since he was born!”
Keep it simple. The goal is to end the bragging, so saying too much is counterproductive.
 Steer the conversation to a topic you both enjoy. While it may take time to be fully effective, over time your friend should get the message.Try planning a few alternative subjects in advance so you’re prepared to respond to different types of brags. For example, when your friend brags about their child making the all star little league team, you could say “Did you see that viral video of the kiss cam?”
Stay upbeat. Your positivity will keep your friend from feeling like you don’t care about their child. The issue is the bragging, not the child.
Shift the conversation to the news or a popular TV show that both of you enjoy. You could say, “That reminds me! Have you watched the latest episode of Big Bang Theory?
Avoid pivoting to a topic that makes you look good or that your friend isn’t interested in.
 When your friend brags about their child’s accomplishment, ask them how their child achieved it. When you ask for advice, it makes people think more highly of you and shows them you’re open to what they have to teach you.This both validates your friend whose child is doing well and closes down exaggerations.


When your friend brags that their child kicked the winning goal, ask, “What are you doing to coach her?” Your friend may have great tips to offer, or they may duck the question and change the subject on their own.
Listen to your friend’s answer.
Don’t give up on your friend if they respond with more exaggerations, but do try a different tactic.
 If you have a child, avoid the urge to respond with bragging of your own. Not only does this perpetuate the cycle, but it also sends the message to your friend that you feel that your child is more important than theirs.