 Know what a fair price is for what you're buying. You can use comparison sites or simply look up prices on some of the major retail sites. For cars, you can find the approximate value on Kelley Blue Book.Check out the price of what you're buying at competing stores and dealerships.Think about profit margin. You're seller may be willing to mark the item down more if they have a high profit margin. For instance, you may be able to find out how much a dealership actually pays for a car, which gives you room for negotiation., You may not feel like you can negotiate in a certain situation, but it never hurts to try. You may be able to get away with it in smaller, locally owned stores especially.For instance, at a local store you could say, "I really like this item, but I was wondering if you ever give discounts for items like this one?"

, Know what you're willing to pay, and don't go above it. If the seller wants you to pay more, you can always walk away., Make sure the person you are negotiating with has the authority to cut you a deal. If he or she doesn't, you may need to go higher., You don't have to guard all your secrets. Opening up a bit will create trust and a rapport with the person. Essentially, you're creating a relationship, and that will benefit you, as it will make the person more likely to give into you.As an example, you could talk about why you're shopping for a new car. Maybe you just lost your old one, or you need to buy one for your mother.
 Negotiating means making counter offers, and both of you will be happier if you feel like you settled on a fair price. Don't be afraid to offer another price.For instance, you could say, "That's a good offer but not quite what I'm looking to pay. Would you take (insert offer)?"

, That is, stop talking for a few minutes to consider the offer because silence makes people uncomfortable. The seller will try to fill the space and may talk him- or herself into accepting a lower price., You may not get the exact price you want, but the seller may be willing to throw something else in, such as a free gift. If you're trying to buy a car, maybe you can negotiate free oil changes at the dealership., Don't give up just because you're tired, and don't signal to the other side that you're ready to stop unless you have the deal you want. The seller will zero in on that weakness and try to get you to accept the deal as is.