 After loosening the fuel cap, gently squeeze the retainer on the end of the fuel cap chain and remove it from inside the tank., Twist the fuel gauge assembly clockwise until the tabs allow the gauge to be removed.

When unlocking the gauge from the tank, do not turn the gauge more than 1/4-turn or damage may result to the fuel gauge float should it come in contact with the sides of the fuel reservoir.
When removing the gauge, again use caution and remove it slowly at a slight angle as the fuel gauge float may become damaged.
Allow time for any fumes or residual fuel in the tank to dissipate before proceeding.
 Holding the grill handle perpendicular to the grill, gently pull both ends of the handle out through their keyed-slots., Using a Phillips screwdriver, remove the screw from the center of the wick control knob. Note that the control-knob screw is machined with left hand threads! To remove the screw it must be turned to the right. After the knob has been removed, also remove the control dial directly behind the knob. This dial-indicator has a large spring behind it that keeps it snug to the rear of the control-knob., Remove the gear assembly by pulling the gear itself off the gear-shaft. Be aware that the metal tabs in front of the gear are actually a part of the assembly and care must be taken as to not bend, twist, or otherwise damage these tabs. Also, there is a coil-spring loaded into the face of the gear and care must be observed as to not allow the spring to disengage form its securing pins or become disengaged from the gear-face., Removal of the wick guide cylinder top requires special attention due to the type of screws that are used to fasten the top to the guide cylinder. These screws (as shown in the photo) have a smooth shank between the threads and the head of the screw which prevent them from inadvertently backing out caused by repeated heating and cooling. To remove these screws, lift and hold the screws up as far as they will go and then using a Phillips screwdriver, remove them., Using a 3/4" wrench, loosen the nut through which the wick control gear shaft passes and is holding the emergency shut-off device assembly to the fuel reservoir (the nut itself cannot be removed from the shaft from either end unless the rolling pin piercing the shaft is also removed). Once the nut has come loose, pull the gear-shaft out and then lift off the emergency shut-off device., The battery holder is fastened onto the fuel reservoir by a single 9/32" nut. Remove it and lift the holder off the stud taking care that it is also still attached to the ignition device assembly and the insulation plates., There are two additional grill base mounting brackets besides the battery holder bracket, that serve to hold the grill and its base. These brackets are held down onto the fuel reservoir by 9/32" nuts. NOTE: The photo shows how the brackets are situated when they are reinstalled (with the small tabs facing outwards and serving as a seat for the grill base)., There are four (4)-9/32" brass nuts that serve as shims for the grill base mounted down flush on studs. These should be removed if the heater is being thoroughly cleaned and maintained., In order to separate the grill from its base, four (4)-5/16" sheet-metal nuts located on the underside of the base are removed and the grill separates. Care must be taken when removing and reinstalling these type nuts as they are inherently fragile in the nature of the material by which they are made.
