 In order to get married in Pennsylvania, you and your significant other must be at least 18 years-old with a government-issued photo ID as evidence of age, or follow the procedures for an underage marriage.It is legal to get married in PA if you are 16 or 17 years old, but parental consent is required before a marriage license can be issued. An original copy of the underage bride’s or groom’s birth certificate is also required.
If either party is under 16, parental consent is required, along with an order of approval from a judge of the Orphans Court.;
, In addition to a government issued photo ID, there are several other documents that you may need depending on your situation.Both parties must possess a valid Social Security number.
Both parties must also provide evidence that any prior marriages have been legally ended through divorce, annulment or death. The bride and groom may not be legally married to any other individual at the time of application.
If you and/or your significant other were married before, you will need to bring appropriate documentation to prove that you are no longer married. This documentation could be an official divorce decree, annulment decree or death certificate.
 There are some special rules that you should be aware of in case one of them applies to your situation.


Same sex marriage is legal in Pennsylvania as of May 20, 2014.If you or your significant other is a foreign national, you must present a valid and unexpired passport at the time you apply for the license.
If one of the applicants does not speak English, a 3rd party translator who is at least 18 years old must be present at the time of the application. Applicants are not allowed to translate for each other.First cousins who are blood relatives are not eligible to get married under the laws of Pennsylvania.
 Most Pennsylvania counties require a 72-hour waiting period following the date of the most recent application. Check with your local office of vital statistics for specific application deadlines and estimated processing time., Both you and your significant other are required to be present at the time of signing the marriage license. Remember to bring all of the documents and people that you have determined you will need in order to apply for a marriage license.
 You must use blue or black ink and print clearly. Make sure that all of the information that you write while filling out the application is true and accurate. Read through the application after you have finished it to make sure there are no mistakes.
 The typical fee is $80, however you should confirm payment requirements with the specific county office to which you are submitting your application., Since PA requires a 72 hour waiting period, it will take at least three days to get your license. It may take four or five days depending on when you apply for a license. For example, if you apply for your license on a Wednesday, you may not get your license until Monday because the office will be closed for the weekend., Pennsylvania marriage licenses are valid for 60 days, during which time the marriage must be solemnized and the completed marriage license returned to the county register of wills.