 While going back to school for a degree may not be necessary or desirable, life enrichment and educational classes can help you feel productive. Classes provide regular structure over a few months, so that you're more accountable to keep up the activities or work. It can help to distract you from sadness or boredom.Search for classes at a local community college. Oftentimes it is easy to enroll in one or two classes for your own knowledge and interest.
If you have an interest in the arts, there are often art centers or programs that offer short-term classes for the spring, summer, and fall.
Consider online courses that could help to further your knowledge or career. You may find technical classes related to computers and design helpful for work or a future job.
 When you're sad, you may feel stuck and unmotivated. Try to get out of your normal routine more often. This can help you to feel more confident and boost your spirits. Being adventurous can have different meanings for different people. You define what adventure looks like to you.


Travel for a weekend getaway. You may find yourself happier and more relaxed when you're in the great outdoors or sipping drinks on the beach.
Go to a new place to eat. Make new and different meals at home. Search for ingredients that aren't so typical. Try out new recipes.
Do something a little outside of your comfort zone. Maybe you've always wanted to learn archery or go surfing. Schedule to take a class or learn more about what that activity would entail.
 Exercise can help boost your mood, and make you feel more energized. It doesn't mean that you need to hit the gym every day to help make yourself feel better. But, it's important to keep your body moving as it helps to reduce feelings of sadness and depression.Take a walk outside. Go for a hike. Get outdoors for run or bike ride.
Take a fitness class or dance lessons. Try a new workout routine.
Schedule times to go to the gym. Consider having a workout buddy or getting a personal trainer.
 Make time for things that interest you. They don't have to be costly or time-consuming, just fun and enjoyable. Set aside time after work, school, or taking care of the kids to do something for yourself. Prioritize this time for you, so that it's consistent rather than sporadic.Join a book club or read more for fun.
Get crafty or artistic. Draw. Paint. Sculpt. Knit. Build things.
Get involved with a local, intramural sports team through work, school, or in the community.
Get geeky. Join a science or technology organization. Learn computer applications or programs. Find groups that are interested in comics, sci-fi, or fantasy games.

