 Children may have a hard time grasping why they have to wear winter clothes. However, it is still important to try to explain the concept of winter clothes to your child. Try sitting your child down for a quick chat about winter clothes before you first try getting your child dressed. Explain that the outside gets really cold during wintertime, and that winter clothes protect you from the cold.


You can also try reading a book about winter and winter clothes to your child. One such book is Thomas’ Snowsuit by Robert Munsch.
 If your child has a hard time grasping the reason why he has to put on winter clothes, and refuses to keep on a specific item, such as his mittens, then let him go outside without his mittens. His hands will start to get cold and you can put on his mittens to show him that they will warm his hands up.


The next time he doesn’t want to put on mittens, remind him of when his hands got cold because he didn’t wear his mittens. Tell him that today is the same sort of day, and that his hands will get cold again if he doesn’t put on mittens.You should also take time to explain to your toddler that if he doesn't dress warmly enough, he might get sick. Then he wouldn't be able to go outside and play at all!

, Hurrying your child while putting on his winter clothes will most likely make him more hesitant about putting the winter clothes on. Instead, set ‘deadlines’ for when your child needs to be ready by, and then start preparing at least an hour beforehand.


For example, tell your child the night before that you are going to start getting him ready to leave the house at 8 AM because you need to leave the house by 9 AM. Do not tell him the consequences of being late. Simply, show him that you expect he will be ready and that there is no getting around your expectations.
 Toddlers generally enjoy imitating adults. If you don’t wear a winter hat, it is a lot less likely that your toddler will want to wear his hat. Being a role model can be hard, but it is important to try to show your toddler what you want through your own actions.Get dressed up in your winter clothes (or at least some of them) and then tell your toddler that putting on winter clothes is the ‘grown up thing to do’. Chances are, your child will see putting on winter clothes as a chance to be independent and grown up.
Use your child’s friends or siblings as role models. Remind your toddler that all of his friends will be wearing snow suits.
 Sometimes, giving your child a bit of responsibility will help him to feel more independent, and will thus put up less of a fight when it is time to get dressed. Only give your child two choices. These choices can be to wear one shirt or another under his winter clothes.


Alternatively you could use something as simple as color to give your child the impression of choice. Show your toddler two identical fleeces, one green, one red and let him choose which one he wants - either way he'll be just as warm!
If your child has two winter hats, or two pairs of mittens, let your child choose which pair or hat to wear.
 This method requires that you be prepared to change your plans for the day to teach your child that his actions have consequences. If your child continuously fights you about putting on his winter clothes, leave him alone for a moment and let his frustration play out. When you come back, tell him that there will be no going outside to play, or that he won’t be seeing his friends today, since he refuses to put on his winter clothes.


Once your child realizes that you are serious about the consequences you may find that your child is much more willing to put his winter clothes on.
If you were supposed to go to the grocery store, tell him that you really wanted to go to the grocery store, but since he refused to get dressed, he won’t be able to eat the delicious soft pretzel you were going to get him. This incentive may also make him want to put his winter clothes on.
 Try making getting dressed into a race. When your child wins, consider giving him a treat, or telling him that he can spend five extra minutes playing in the snow.


You could also try singing a song or telling your child a story while you get him dressed. Your words may help to distract him from trying to take off his winter clothes. Make the story into a tale about a character who is very similar to your child, that set off on an adventure into the winter wonderland with the help of his magic snowsuit.

