 Use the string to measure out the width of your cuff. Then cut about 20 centimeter (8 in) of wire off for your cuff and make the small loop with the point of the pliers around the very end of wire.
 Place one-half of the pliers in the loop, the other underneath. Then bend the wire around the pliers to form a figure eight at the bottom of the wire.
 You'll be bending this wire above the figure eight, then curve it back down so you have a little three-leaf clover, with the wire pointing downward.
 Keep doubling the wire up until you have roughly one free length of wire left. You should be making an M or W shaped center for your cuff.
 Simply reverse the methods above to create another clover on the opposite end. You could create any design you want, of course, but matching clovers will look extra professional.
 Remember that you may want to experiment with the pen size, and need to mold the final shape a bit by hand.
 Just like the last two designs, cut out some wire to work with and sand out any jagged edges with the nail file.
 Use the pliers to bend a loop into the wire, turning it into a subtle L-shape. The "ends" extending off the loop should be roughly perpendicular.
 Measure down the long end, away from your loop, then pinch this spot with the pliers.
 Tuck it back behind the loop, keeping it back behind the cuff.
 Things will look a bit like a bow at this point, or a tied up paperclip. There is the loop in front, with a small wire hanging down, and long rounded wire behind the loop. There should still be a long area of wire still available behind the loop.
 Now the bow shape will start to come together. There should be two loops on top and the hanging bits of wire below, with a long, oval-like wire behind everything.
 Come up and around the center of your two bows to hold everything in place. Use your fingers and the pliers to keep adjusting, keeping things in place and shaping the bow how you want it. Cut off any excess wire and sand any jagged edges.
 This is your cuff, and the bow needs to stay nice and flat. Simple bend this long cuff around your pen, molding it so it fits on your ear.
 This small little cuff is meant to fit on you "tragus," the little, rounded flap where your ear meets your jawbone. If you have larger ears, go closer to 3cm.
 Use the pliers and your fingers to bring both sides of the wire close, so that they are basically doubled up.
 You'll end up with a heart-shaped set of wires. Use the pliers to try and keep the bottom still nice and tight.









Use your fingers and the pliers to keep molding your heart shape. The tips of the pliers are really good to bend small circles or loops around.
 This is the curve that keeps it on your tragus. Use your fingers and/or the pliers to mold it so that it fits snugly on your ear.








