 Control is a very important part of soccer. The best way to practice control is to juggle and practice dribbling a ball. Keep the ball as close to your body as possible and try to get as many touches on the ball as you can to keep the ball under control.



Juggling: Use your whole body (other than arms and hands) to keep the ball from hitting the ground. How many touches can you get?

Cone Workouts: Set up a pattern of cones, then dribble through them as fast as you can without touching a cone. If you touch a cone, you have to do another lap.

Close Touch Drills: Bounce the ball between your feet quickly. Leave the ball in place and toe tap it with each foot rapidly, rolling it slightly under your sole. Roll ball to either side of you, then chop it back to the other foot. Basically, use every part of your foot to practice keeping the ball close., The more of the field you can see as you dribble, the better you next pass, move, or shot will be. Focus on keeping your head up at all times when dribbling to greatly increase your touch and your skills.


Practice picking your head up with every dribbling drill you do, especially in practice., Winning balls out of the air is essential, but it's not always going to be clean and easy. With a partner, hit crosses back and forth to each other, letting them bounce, catching them out of the air, and driving them at different heights. Work on using as few touches as possible to get the ball ready to hit back. Move quickly, but without sacrificing quality -- you want to work at game pace, but not if it becomes sloppy.
 The way you strike a soccer ball depends on what you're trying to do with it. Train your foot to hit the ball in different ways to greatly increase your control and expand your offensive arsenal.


Use the inside of your foot for short, controlled passes.
Hit the ball with your laces on the lower, outside thirds of the ball to spin or curl it. You should use the outside of your foot to curl the opposite direction.
Hit the ball with your laces in the dead center of the ball, avoiding a follow through, to hit a knuckleball.
Hit the ball on the lower third with a small, minimal follow through to chip the ball with backspin, preventing it from skipping off., Soccer rewards "complete players" more than most sports, since the free-flowing game requires all players to defend, attack, cross, shoot, and pass with both feet. The better you get with both feet, in every area of control, the more dangerous you become on the field. Common areas people neglect include:



Your opposite foot gives you literally twice as many options on the ball if it is good enough to use. You become much harder to defend and way less predictable.

Trapping, or stopping the ball, is essential from the air and ground. Your first touch should stop the ball within a foot or so of your body, or into space if you're trapping on the run. Have a friend hit crosses and work on bringing them down smoothly.

