 Re-naming yourself can be easier to do if you know what kind of characteristics you have. For example are you shy, or are you loud and out there? Are you into Greek mythology, ancient civilizations, girly girl stuff?;
, These websites are full of different names, and can help you come up with ideas. Try seeing which names were popular during the decade in which you were born.
 Try involving your closest loved ones and getting their feedback as you choose a new name.
 This can be easier to remember and get used to for both your loved ones and yourself. Samantha can turn into Sam, Jesse can turn into Jessica, and Elliot can turn into Ellen or Ella.
 Riley, Taylor, Casey, Kai, Jamie, Avery, Shannon and Quinn are examples of unisex names.If you want to pass as either male or female, avoid unisex names (or names that sound unisex, such as Gene/Jean). These are more likely to leave people wondering whether you're a boy or a girl.
 Janet Mock chose her name from Janet Jackson. Consider a person who inspires you (musician, artist, activist, relative), a character, or an idea.
 You may wish to choose a name that embraces your ethnicity or your ancestry. You could also name yourself after someone in your family tree, such as your remarkable great-aunt Elizabeth or great-grandfather Frederic.
 This can help mark your transition and distance you from online information with your dead name. However, it also is more complicated that way, may come off badly to loved ones, and will make you need to explain why your last name is different from your family's name.Evaluate the benefits and drawbacks, and choose what is best for you.


Try taking on a family last name, such as the maiden name of a beloved family member (besides your mother, for security purposes).
 Sign each potential name as a signature. Say them out loud and hear how they flow. Write down your initials. Consider any nicknames that could result in shortening your name.


Consider how easy the name is to spell and pronounce. Will other people be able to get it right? If you're soft-spoken, are people likely to misinterpret you? (for example, mishearing Greg as "Craig")
Be aware that some feminine names can be given a boyish nickname (e.g. Alexandra shortening to Alex). If you don't like this, choose a name that can't be shortened this way., This is a big step it takes a while to warm up to a name and if by some chance it doesn't feel right, change it, yes you can do that!

, Choosing a name is a process, and it takes longer for some people than for others. You don't have a deadline, and there is no right or wrong way to choose a name.Give yourself time to play around with different names. You'll find a good name in time.

