 If you have a suspicion that you'll have an argument, you can prepare beforehand. Research all aspects and views of the argument online. Not having the proper facts to back up your case can make it much harder to win. You can use stats, reports, and quotes as evidence to support your claims. Find popular arguments or talking points that support your side of the argument and emulate them.
Research opposing views so you know the probable points the other person may bring up and prepare retorts for those points.
 Becoming emotional in the midst of an argument can cloud your thoughts, escalate a conflict, and give your opponent the advantage.Refrain from showing your emotion and do not raise your voice or yell. Keep your cool and practice self-control. If you can outwit and outsmart your opponent and get them to react emotionally, you'll have the upper hand in the argument.


If you feel yourself getting angry, take deep breaths and use mental imagery to relax. Calm yourself by counting back from ten or repeating a calming word such as "relax" in your head., If you give the slightest inclination that you know that you're wrong, the other person may take advantage of your weakness and exploit it. The best way to avoid this is to by repeating your talking points and to not concede ground. The only time in which you should concede a point is if it has no effect on the outcome of the argument overall.


An example of when to concede ground includes, "The prison system does not help with repeat offenders, but it still serves as a punishment for criminals.", If you are starting to lose the argument, you can defer attention to their previous acts to make your transgressions seem less severe. This is best used when the argument is personal in nature. Try to think of a situation in the past that's similar to this situation and pinpoint a time where your opponent acted poorly or in bad taste. Redirecting the conversation to their acts could sway the argument in your favor.For instance, you can say something like "You seem pretty upset that I kissed another boy. Is that because you did the same thing last year?"

