 It is essential to know what type of pest you are dealing with, as it will help you select the correct pesticides or other preventative control methods. Rodents can often be eradicated with traps, whereas cockroaches may require poison spray.;
, The most basic form of pest control is eliminating the areas where they live and breed.


Take out the trash regularly.
Seal food containers and clean the property regularly.
Reduce moisture in the building. Repair any leaks in roofs and check for leaking pipes.
 Biopesticides are usually less toxic to humans than conventional poisons. They are made from natural materials found in plants, bacteria, animals and minerals.


Commercially available biopesticides target a wide variety of insects and weeds, which will be indicated on the label. For example, many products use the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis, but each is designed to kill specific insect larvae.
Biopesticides are available at hardware and garden stores in many forms, from liquid sprays to pheromone lures that attract specific pests to a trap.
 There is a variety of trap types available depending on the task at hand.


Set snap traps if you have rodents, but keep them out of the reach of children and pets.
Set sticky traps for spiders and insects. These are often available in box form, which you should check regularly.
Use flypaper, indoor light traps and a flyswatter for flies.
 These are available at most home-supply stores, but they can be dangerous if used improperly.


Read the label carefully. It will indicate the type of pest the product is designed to control, and it will provide necessary precautions.
Pesticides come in the form of aerosol, dust or bait and are often diluted to a specific ratio.
Sprays should be applied only to specific targeted areas, such as cracks in the wall.
Use poison bait if a rodent problem is not resolved with snap traps. Poison baits must be kept out of reach of children and pets.



Fumigation might be necessary in cases of extreme infestation, particularly with termites. This is the process of releasing poisonous gas or vapor throughout a vacant building, which is covered in a specialized tent.
Although it's a more expensive option, a pest management professional will likely have extensive knowledge of the issue and access to proper equipment.

