 If you are packing clothing in your carry-on, you should fold or roll each item. Place clothing on the bottom of your bag. If you have any other items that you will not need until you land, place them with the clothing., Even if your local airport offers plastic bags, you should pack your own liquids ahead of time. Find a one-quart clear plastic bag. Containers for liquids must be no larger than 3.4 ounces or 100 ml, and they must fit into the plastic bag.If the containers are larger than 3.4 ounces, they must be placed in a checked bag, even if the amount of liquid inside is less than that amount.
Instead of buying travel sized versions of your toiletries, you can purchase reusable travel-sized bottles. Fill these up at home with your favorite shampoo, conditioner, soap, and other toiletries.
 Laptops and liquids must be removed when going through security. To remove these as quickly as possible, place these items at the top of your bag. Make sure that they are easy to access so that you can pull them out quickly., You will need to have your documents and wallet handy. They cannot be placed in your pockets as you go through security. Put your wallet and documents in an outer pocket of your luggage. You can pull out your ID and ticket when you need it to go through security.If you are bringing a purse or briefcase as an extra personal item, you can put your ID and ticket in there, but make sure that you can pull it out quickly. You do not want to have to rummage through your bag to find your ticket.
 Well-organized bags allow security to look through your bag quickly on the x-ray. When placing items in your bag, make sure that they are neatly stacked and arranged.Clothing should be folded. You can buy packing cubes to help keep clothing from crumpling in your bag.
Wind up chargers, and stick them next to the electronics.
Books should be stacked together.
Large electronics such as laptops must be removed before being placed in the x-ray. If you place the electronics near the top of your bag, you can quickly remove them without messing up the rest of your luggage.

