 This does not always mean that you need to feed your dog a top-end pet store diet. For instance, the pâté-type diets can be very rich and high in minerals (such as salt) to make them palatable for fussy eaters (in much the same way chocolate cake is more appealing than a bean salad — tasty and healthy don't always match up). Instead, look for a food that lists meat as the main ingredient. It must list actual "meat" and not "meat derivatives," "meat offal," or "meat by-products."


Choose white meats (low-fat) such as chicken, turkey, rabbit, or white fish. Look for a low number of ingredients, since the food is likely to contain less processed ingredients and preservatives, and contain ingredients closer to the actual food.
Look for the carbohydrate in the form of rice, wheat, oats, or barley, rather than soy or soya products.Although price is no guarantee of quality, expect to pay more for a good quality food than a highly processed, cereal high product simply because you are paying for better quality ingredients.
 The only milk suitable for dogs is bitch's milk. For young nursing puppies this is available as a milk replacer, Lactol, which is made up with water. If your pup is very young and you have just switched them to a milk replacement diet, you should select a lactose-free replacement if you notice your puppy is passing soft stools. Some puppies are born with a deficiency in an enzyme called lactase. This enzyme breaks down the primary sugar component in milk, which is lactose. In effect, puppies with this deficiency cannot break down lactose into sugars that can be digested and absorbed. Because undigested sugars draw water from the intestine, the puppy then passes soft stools., Remember that wet diets (canned or pouched) contain around 75% water, whereas dry diets are around 10% moisture. This higher moisture content translates into wetter, more bulky stools. This will make a big impact on the volume (reduces it) and moisture content (much harder and firmer) of the stool.Take your time to switch a dog over to a new diet. Take at least four to five days, gradually adding the new diet into your dog's existing food and cutting back on the original food. This gives the bowel flora and fauna that aid digestion a chance to adapt.
High protein diets, like beef, chicken, and dog foods with high protein content can also soften stools. By-products of protein digestion also draw water from the intestines.
Wheat-based dog foods, or foods that are high in wheat content can also cause soft stools.
 You should also avoid fats that easily become rancid. Do not give fried fast foods to your dog. Usually fried commercial fast foods are fried using palm oil; this oil is hard to digest and can easily turn rancid. Bad fats can form a layer in the intestine, causing your dog to have watery stools.
 A bland diet would consist of soft cooked rice and lean ground pork or lamb. Feed your dog this mixture for at least five days and check to see if their stool firms up at all. Keep in mind that most commercially available dog foods that are made for improving stool are rice-based because rice is low in protein and salt, and is a very digestible starch.Dog foods that promote more solid stools include: Hill’s Prescription Diet i/d, Royal Canin Intestinal, Eukanuba, Royal Canin Digestive Low Fat, and Hill's Science Diet. 