 Prequels are movies that are set before other well known movies, like Prometheus and X-Men: First Class.
 Use movies like The Matrix Reloaded and Jaws 2 as a guideline.
 Classic movies have a wide appeal, and are extremely popular, despite having been made as early as the sixties. Movies like Citizen Kane, Psycho, 2001: A Space Odyssey, It's A Wonderful World, Metropolis, North By Northwest, The Birds, Fantasia, and Reefer Madness, are considered classic movies, and are still widely enjoyed today.
 Modern classics are generally movies released from the 2000s upward that were/are so successful they will most likely become classics in the future. The Marvel franchise, Mad Max: Fury Road, The Dark Knight, Inception, and The Departed could be considered modern classics.
 Cult classics are movies that initially received mediocre to negative feedback, but, over the years, have acquired a dedicated fanbase or cult following. Cult classics tend to be weird, sometimes controversial, and geared towards adults. Movies like Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Pulp Fiction, Enter The Void, They Live, Dazed And Confused, the 1968 Planet of the Apes, This Is The End, and Friday the 13th are all considered cult classics.


You may have to look up your movie to see whether it's a cult classic.
 Family films are generally well received movies that are usually rated PG or below and can be viewed for a fun "family movie night". Think movies like Toy Story, The Jungle Book, and Big Hero 6.
 These films are, well, silent, and have no lines of dialogue. However, some later silent films may have lines printed on the screen. Movies like A Trip To The Moon and Metropolis are silent.
 These movies are told out of sequence, meaning you don't watch them in chronological order. Movies like Cloud Atlas, Pulp Fiction, and Memento have non-linear storylines.
 Movies like Watchmen and Hellboy originally came from graphic novels.
 It would then be considered a comic book movie.
 It's then a book adaptation.
 It's then a play movie.
 You may be surprised! Films such as O Brother, Where Art Thou?, Mulan, and Braveheart were all inspired by poems.
 Some more well known video game movies are films such as Warcraft, Silent Hill, and Final Fantasy. And of course, the infamous Super Mario Bros.
 There are many popular films you may not have known come from TV shows, such as the Mission: Impossible franchise, Serenity, and The Man From U.N.C.L.E.
 This could be done in numerous ways, such as traditional animation (Snow White), CGI (Up), or rotoscoping (A Scanner Darkly).
 Think movies like Team America: World Police.
 This includes movies like The Nightmare Before Christmas or The Corpse Bride.
 This means the characters inside the film either break the fourth wall numerous times, contribute to the making of the film, reference other movies is a way that suggests they know they themselves are in a movie, or acknowledge that they're in a film. Popular media that has meta themes include Deadpool, Scream, Birdman, This Is The End, and the TV show Psych.
 Erotic films typically center around sexual experiences of the main characters, and can be quite controversial. Movies like Eyes Wide Shut, American Pie, and American Beauty fall under this category.
 This is a paranoia film. Some movies center around this "conspiracy theory", like Disturbia and The Machinist, while other contain themes of unrest and/or paranoia, like Inception (what if your life is a dream you refuse to wake up from?), The Matrix (what if your life is a simulated reality?), The Truman Show (what if your life is a reality television show?), Donnie Darko (what if you live in the wrong alternate reality?), and Blade Runner (what if you have, your entire life, been told the wrong definition of what it is to be a human?).
 This secret meaning is often moral, political, or social. It's up to you, however, to decide whether the movie is allegorical. Some film's directors have confirmed the symbolism (like Captain America: The Winter Soldier), while others are ambiguous (like American Beauty), or have been revealed by third party sources (like Jaws).
 This is a black comedy. Movies like Cool Runnings and White Men Can't Jump fall under this category.


Black comedy is not to be confused with dark comedy (above), which is sometimes also known as a black comedy.
 Ultraviolent films have heavy amounts of Gore and blood. Movies like The Hills Have Eyes, Hostel, A Clockwork Orange, and basically all of Quentin Tarantino's films, but most notably Pulp Fiction, are examples of ultraviolence.
 Gothic films often feature strong emotional cues and lots of angst. Think movies like The City Of The Dead and The Innocents.
 Noir films typically feature crime, mysterious themes, and are filmed in black and white. Famous movies like Sunset Blvd. and The Spiral Staircase belong to this category.
 This means it has the themes of a noir film, but has an updated visual style. Films like Dark City, Chinatown, Brick, and Blade Runner fall into this category.
 This means the film is distributed by a television company (i.e., a Netflix Original). Films like Who Is The Black Dahlia? and World On A Wire were originally made by television companies.
 Remakes just means the basic plot was kept, but the actors and actresses were altered, and all the visual effects were updated. Films like the 2014 RoboCop, the 2013 American Oldboy and the 2012 Total Recall.
 Coming of age films typically feature young characters that evolve in the process of the film. Take movies such as Boyhood, The Breakfast Club, The Perks Of Being A Wallflower, Easy Rider, and The Spectacular NOW for example.
 Musicals feature many songs and musical numbers the characters sing throughout the movie. Movies like The Sound of Music, and Grease fall under this category.
 This is a Japanese type of movie that features the protagonist facing off against monsters similar to the Western vampires or zombies. Mr. Vampire and Encounters Of A Spooky Kind are jiangishi.
 This means, obviously, it centers around a certain type of sport. Movies like Rocky, its continuation Creed, Raging Bull, and 42 are all sports films.
 Biopics center around characters that either actually lived or are heavily based on real life people. Take films like American Splendor and A Beautiful Mind for example.
 This is a Japanese-originated style of movie where the protagonist(s) face off against a huge creature. Movies like Pacific Rim and the franchise that should have been ended long ago, Godzilla, are kaiju movies.
 Teen films center around teens and their lives. Movies such as Pretty In Pink, American Pie, Mean Girls, and The Breakfast Club fall into this category.
 Parody films typically poke fun at a famous movie or its tropes. They can also poke fun at other movie genres. Look to films like Scary Movie, Galaxy Quest, and Spaceballs if you're confused.
 Indie stands for independent, and indie films are ones that were mostly produced outside a major film studio and also distributed by lesser known studios. Films like Lost In Translation and Requiem For A Dream are indie films.

