 The basis for your claim of unemployment benefits is usually the amount of past wages you have earned during "base periods", which are the first four of five quarters in which you last worked. In order to receive unemployment benefits, you must have earned a certain amount of money during your base period.


For example, in Texas, you must have earned at least 37 times your weekly benefit amount in order to qualify.;
, In addition to earning enough wages to qualify, you must have also terminated your employment for allowable reasons. In general, this means you must have lost your job through no fault of your own.


In Texas, acceptable reasons include:

Being laid off;
Having a reduction in hours not related to misconduct;
Being fired for reasons other than misconduct; or
quitting with good cause related to work., Even if you are initially eligible for unemployment benefits, you must meet ongoing requirements in order to remain eligible. In Texas, you must:


Meet work search requirements, which asks you to be actively looking for a job.
Request unemployment payments when necessary.
Be physically and mentally able to work.
Be available for full-time work.
Participate in reemployment activities when required.
Respond to government requests when required., You do not need to attend a hearing in order to apply for unemployment. Instead, you will want to request a hearing should you be denied benefits. If you were denied, then the agency should have told you the reasons why. The letter should also outline the appeal process.


If the letter is silent about your appeal rights, then contact the agency at the number provided on the letterhead. Ask how you can appeal the denial.
 When you receive a response from your state government, it may include a statement of wages and potential benefit amounts. In Texas, this form tells you the amount of wages your employer reported paying you during your base period; whether you have enough wages to qualify for benefits; and what type of benefits you qualify for.


This form is important to pay attention to as you want to make sure it accurately reflects your wages. If something on the form is wrong or missing, contact your state's unemployment agency to correct the problem., You will also receive multiple letters assessing your eligibility based on the requirements of your state. Each letter will assess your eligibility on a single issue. Each letter will contain a statement of the issue, the decision that was made, the reason for that decision, a legal citation, and information on what you can do to appeal the decision.


For example, assume you were fired for not showing up to work for six days. Assume your truck broke and once you got it fixed you returned to work.

To receive benefits, you will need to meet the wage requirements, job separation requirements, and ongoing eligibility requirements.
In this scenario, you will likely receive three determination letters stating that you are eligible based on past wages and for the transportation issue, but that you are not eligible based on the job separation requirement., You can be denied unemployment benefits for any reason that results in you not meeting any one of the eligibility requirements. Some of the most common reasons include voluntarily quitting, being fired for misconduct, or not earning enough during your base period.Make sure you understand why your benefits claim was denied so you can prepare a successful appeal.
 If you want to appeal the denial, then you should think about meeting with a lawyer. Your employer will probably be represented by a lawyer at the hearing.Accordingly, you might want to meet with a lawyer to help you come up with a solid argument.


You can find an attorney by visiting your state’s bar association. Most state bar associations run a referral service.
Realize that some states allow attorneys to provide “limited scope representation.” If you do not want to pay for a lawyer to handle the whole case, then you can contract with a lawyer to provide discrete tasks for a fixed fee. For example, the lawyer could help you prepare for your hearing or look over your forms. Not all states allow this kind of “unbundled” legal services, but many states do. You can ask a lawyer during a telephone consultation if he or she offers this service.
Also look into non-profit legal aid agencies. Legal aid provides free or reduced-cost legal services to people in financial need. To find a legal aid organization near you, visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website. You can search for legal aid by zip code on their home page.
 Every state will have a time limit on appealing a benefits denial. The time limit will be clearly stated on your determination notice so you need to be careful to read it as soon as you receive it.


In Texas, you have 14 days to appeal from the date the determination letter was sent. The date the letter was sent is on the top of the letter and the last day you can file an appeal is also stated in that letter., Your first appeal will begin with a written appeal form being filled out. Most states will have forms you can use some states even allow you to fill out an online form to start the process.


In Texas, your written appeal can be submitted online, in person, or by mailing or faxing your appeal letter. In general, your appeal letter should contain the following information:

Your name;
Your Social Security number;
Your current address;
The date you were mailed the determination letter;
A copy of the determination letter; and
Any dates you will not be able to attend a hearing.As you can see, the written portion of your first appeal is a simple notice to the state agency that you will be appealing. You do not need to argue anything or provide any evidence at this stage. You will do all of this during your hearing.
 When you send in your appeal letter, make sure you keep a copy for your own records. This will help you in case you need to refer back to the letter at a later date or if the state agency fails to receive your letter.
 If you failed to inform your state agency about hearing accommodations in your written appeal, you will need to inform them as soon as possible so you can be taken care of. In Texas, you should inform the state if you:


Need interpreters for yourself or your witnesses;
Have a hearing impairment; or
Need access to a telephone or fax machine., Six to eight weeks after you make your written appeal, you will receive a packet of information detailing your hearing. Usually your hearing will be five to ten days after you receive your packet. In Texas, this packet will include:


The date and time of the hearing;
Instructions on how to participate and submit documents;
Information the state received in response to your claim;
All statements the state received when investigating your appeal issues;
Any protests to your appeal; and
The issues up for discussion., You should have documents that support your assertion that you are entitled to unemployment insurance benefits. At a hearing, you will make a stronger case for yourself if you have supporting evidence. You may need:pay stubs
copies of your performance review or evaluation
reprimands or warnings
employee manuals.
 You can prepare by taking some time to think about what you want to say at the hearing. Think about what evidence supports your claim for unemployment benefits. Then arrange these points in a logical order.Practice with a friend. Take out your bullet points and run down through them, pretending that you are talking to a judge. Try to predict what questions you will be asked. Then practice giving answers.
You also should ask any witnesses to attend the hearing with you. They can testify on your behalf. If you are worried that a witness will not appear voluntarily, then ask the court clerk to issue a subpoena., On the day of your hearing, arrive early and dress professionally. If you have a telephone hearing, make sure your telephone is charged and working properly. Be sure you have all of your documents you want to submit and be sure your witnesses re ready to go. At this point you have gathered your evidence and you have prepared. Take part in the hearing and be confident in your preparations.
 After your hearing is over, a decision will be made regarding your appeal. This may take multiple weeks so be prepared to wait. You will usually obtain a letter in the mail informing you of the decision that has been made.


If you agree with the decision, follow the directions in your mailing in order to collect benefits and remain eligible.
If you disagree with the initial appeal, you may want to try subsequent appeals.
 If you do not agree with the outcome of your initial appeal, you may have the ability to make further appeals. In Texas, the first step is to appeal to the entire Workforce Commission. This appeal must be made within 14 days of your receipt of the first appeal decision and must be written.


Your second written appeal should include all of your personal information, the date of your first appeal decision letter, our appeal number from your first appeal, and a description of the reasons you disagree with the initial decision.
You can submit this appeal online, in person, or through the mail or fax., After you receive your second appeal decision, if you still do not agree, you can file a motion for a rehearing. In Texas, you must do this within 14 days of the date the state mailed you the Commission decision.


The Workforce Commission will only grant a rehearing if you can show all of the following:

Important new information about your case;
A compelling reason for not submitting this information during the first Commission appeal; and
Why you think this information should change the outcome of your case., Only after you have exhausted all other appeal opportunities discussed can you appeal your decision to a court (except for the motion for a rehearing, which is optional). In Texas, you must appeal to a civil court between 15 and 28 days after the Commission mailed you their decision. The instructions for submitting an appeal in court will be included with the Commission's decision.