 Fold and unfold the bill in half lengthwise. Whether you choose the face of the bill or not won't matter for this model.(Creases are simply to guide folds in later step.);
, Fold one of the short edges to meet the length of the bill creating a point as shown in the image. Unfold and repeat on closest corner. The two creases should intersect forming a large "X" on one end of the bill.
 Align the triangle to the back along the edge that overlaps with the bill. Make sure you only have the triangle folded back and you avoid any additional paper. Once unfolded you should see a perfect square on one end of the bill.
 Align the short edge with the middle crease. Repeat this on both sides with adjacent edges to corresponding creases. Choose one of the diagonals and stick with it for your folds.
 Fold the "square" back. This is best done by refolding a corner and then realigning it to the overlapping edge of the triangle.
 This completes a diamond shape where the "X" used to be. Unfold.
 Fold the outside edges to the center. The edges will line up to create a diamond along with a left over flap. This is where the creases really come into play so make sure you have done them right.
 Let the flap follow the crease and sit in the middle of the diamond.
 Fold the top two corners of the "flap" in towards the center twice as if making the Classic Airplane.
 Align the edges of the created tip with the center of the model. Repeat for other edge and unfold. This will again create an "X" assisting in the next fold.
 Allow the paper to follow the creases while you bringing the tip upright.
 Fold the tip down and tuck half of the diamond behind the model. From the side your model should look like a big mountain with a little one overlapped behind.
 Take the big mountain and fold it over onto the model so that it aligns with the small mountain behind it. The direction of this step will determine if you have feet or not. You have folded wrong if the bigger "mountain" covers the lesser.
 Slightly open the top of the model, push the tip forward, and then flatten the model once again. The location of this fold can be adjust for different head sizes.
 To round off beak repeat one more time this time tucking into the model.
 If the wings are missing go back to step 7 and rework.
 Flatten the bottom of the model, fold out the smaller flap, and then flatten the model. Very similar fold as step 16 but is more difficult as there are more layers to worry about.
 Repeating the previous step one more time, adjust the desired length of the claws to fit your finger or desired perch.

