 Fasten the yarn to your hook with a slipknot, then work up nine chain stitches from the loop on your hook.


This foundation chain will be the center of your leaf.
If you do not know how to make a slipknot or a chain stitch, check the "Tips" section for more detailed instructions.
 Work one single crochet into the second chain from the hook. Single crochet once into each chain after that.


You should make a total of eight stitches in this step.
Turn the work over once you reach the end of the row.
For instructions on making the single crochet stitch, please check the "Tips" section of this article.
 You will need to work a series of single crochets and half double crochets into each stitch of your previous row.


Work one single crochet into each of the first three stitches from the hook.
Work one half double crochet into each of the next two stitches.

If you do not know how to half double crochet, check the "Tips" section.
These half double crochets will create the rounded outer edge of the leaf.


Work one single crochet into each of the last three stitches.
 Once you reach the end of the row and the top of the leaf, work one chain stitch.
 You will use the same pattern of single crochets and half double crochets to complete the other side edge of the leaf. Work each of these stitches into the straight edge of the piece, which should also be the original chain.


Skip the chain stitch you just completed.
Single crochet once into each of the next three stitches.
Half double crochet twice into each of the following two stitches.
Work one single crochet into each of the last three stitches.
 Work one slip stitch into the first stitch of the opposite edge, creating a rounded base.


This slip stitch joins the two edges together. After you make it, you should be left with a smooth, connected edge all the way around the leaf.
Check the "Tips" section of this article for help if you do not know how to make a slip stitch.
 Cut the yarn, leaving at least a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to create a knot and tie off the piece.


You can trim this tail down by one-half and weave the rest into the back of the leaf, if desired, or leave the tail as it is and use it to connect the leaf to a larger work.
Completing this step finishes the leaf.

