 This is an oldie but a goodie. Simply open a door part of the way and place a bucket filled with water above it so it rests between the wall and the top of the door. When your brother opens it, he'll be taking a little impromptu bath! This works best in the kitchen or another part of your house where it won't matter if you get water everywhere. And hey, if you can do it somewhere else, even better!

, Put some clear tape on the light switches early in the morning. Your brother will still be nice and groggy, wondering why none of the lights in the house work! When he sees you, tell him your house has no power. Wait for him to figure out that you're lying on his own. You can even tell him that the water in the house doesn't work, either, and see if he falls for it.
 Wait until your brother has turned away from you, and then sneak up on him as quietly as you can. Reach down to grab his underwear and pull it up as high as you can. This is guaranteed to make him scream and squirm! If you're really feeling up for it, you can try to give him an atomic wedgie, trying to pull his underwear up so high that you can wrap it over his head. This works best if your brother is a lot smaller than you are!

, Go into his room and either switch up his drawers, if that's possible, or just work to move the contents of one drawer into another until you've switched up all of his drawers. He will be completely confused and this is a perfect and unexpected prank. Plus, you can have the bonus of snooping through his things while you're at it! If he asks you if you've gone into his room, then just act completely oblivious.
 This one is especially fun if your brother is still growing. Just stuff a little bit of cotton in your brother's shoes. The next time he'll put them on, he'll think something funny is going on, like maybe that he's outgrown his shoes. He may even walk around like that all day if he's not smart enough to think some funny business is going on! This is perfect for boots or sneakers.
 This is another quick and easy prank. Get a piece of paper that's a similar color to a surface like a couch or a chair, or just get whatever color you want if your brother doesn't really pay attention to where he sits. Place some glue or double-sided tape on the piece of paper, and wait until he sits down. When he gets up, he'll be walking around with a piece of paper on his butt! This is an updated version of the always-effective "kick me" sign!

, This is a fun one. Show your brother that you've gotten really good at balancing a glass of water on your hand when your palm is down on a table. Bet him that he can't do it with both hands; he'll likely be up for the challenge. Then, have him put both of his palms down on a table while you place two full glasses of water over his hands. Then, say "Bye!" or "Good luck!" and casually walk out of the room. He'll be trapped -- he'll have to dump water all over himself before he can be set free!

