 One of the best ways to reduce fear is through education. In many contexts, the better you understand something, the less it will frighten you. Accordingly, get in the habit of keeping up with the types of investments you may be interested in making.Simply by watching a certain group of stocks, for instance, you will develop a sense of what to look for, and when to buy and sell. Not only will simply watching the market before investing make you more comfortable doing so, it will also likely make you a more successful investor.;
, A great way to practice investing and increase your comfort is by limiting your risk. Start by investing small amounts of money. Or make investments that are very likely to be successful - even if only modestly so. Not only will these investments give you valuable experience, they will also increase your comfort with the practice and culture of investing.


For example, purchase a single share of a mutual fund, a bond, or a stock in a specific company, simply to familiarize yourself with the process of doing so.
 One of the likely reasons you’re hesitating to invest is the fear of losing some of the money you use. Here’s the truth: you probably will. That’s part of investing, and you need to acknowledge this reality in order to develop the confidence necessary to invest successfully.The fact of the matter is that your future investment decisions will be better informed following each setback. For instance, if you ignore certain signs that a certain investment should be adjusted and suffer losses for doing so, you will be less likely to ignore such signs moving forward.
 Financial advisers and financial planners are people with the training and expertise to offer you guidance regarding your investments. Not only can they offer you advice about investment strategies or opportunities, they can also help allay any fears about investing in general.Make sure any financial professional is both certified and experienced.
A certified financial planner (CFP) can advise you on investment options and other financial issues generally. With at least three years of experience, a chartered financial consultant (ChFC) or chartered financial analyst (CFA) has already demonstrated their skill in financial planning.
 Whatever your intentions are with your current job (and even if you don’t plan to be there forever), you should take advantage of any retirement plan incentives or contributions they offer. Most importantly, you will be able to “rollover” most accounts, including 401(k)s if and when you do leave.It is especially important to start a retirement fund if your current employer is willing to match contributions. Failing to do so amounts to turning down free money.

