 Video games can be the perfect way to make a boring day way more exciting. There are games for everyone, from high paced shooters to find-the-hidden-object style games. Whatever type of video game you're into, playing your favorite game can be the perfect way to put and end to a boring day at home. It's also a fun way to spend time with friends online when you can't leave the house.


If you have lots of time, explore a complicated game like Minecraft, Team Fortress 2 (now free), or World of Warcraft.
If you're just looking for some relaxing fun, try Club Penguin or Animal Jam, or search app stores or the internet for flash games.
You can even make your own text-based game or code a flash game if you're feeling ambitious!;
, You might want to spend some time writing while home alone to help keep you busy and pass the time. Writing can help you tell a story, organize your thoughts, or express your feelings. Let your creativity flow onto the page to fight feeling bored while home alone.


You could write a short story, a poem, a myth, or a daily journal.
 Don't worry, you don't have to be a trained painter or artist to create your own works of art. Painting or drawing a picture can be a good way to express yourself and fight boredom. If you are bored and stuck at home, make the day a lot more fun by creating some interesting art.


Anyone can learn the basics of painting or sketching. If you're already an artist, set yourself a challenge, such as painting a river rock or learning to draw a horse.
There are plenty of other arts and crafts to try as well, from wet chalk drawing to sculpture. Have you ever made an infinity mirror or galaxy jar?

, If you enjoy playing or making music, spend some time making some new tunes. Writing new music can be a lot of fun and make the day much less boring. So if you're stuck at home, break out your favorite instrument and get creative.


If you don't play an instrument, learn how to sing or make your own simple music maker.
If you like your new song, you can record it at home.
 Redecorating your house or room can be a fun way to fight feeling bored. Changing up the decor can also make your room or house feel brand new and exciting. You can redecorate as much or as little as you like, making your space one that you enjoy. So if you're stuck at home, try redecorating to help make the day and your house feel more fun.


You might move your furniture around to change how a space feels.
Try taking things from one room and seeing how they look in another.
You can try making something fun, like a pillow or blanket fort.
You could paint a picture and hang it up to give a room a new look.
 Being stuck at home is a great chance to make something delicious. Don't settle for something pre-made or boring. Try making your favorite meal or something new to help add a some excitement to your day at home.


Just looking for something easy and delicious? Try nachos or spaghetti.
Are you a committed cook interested in trying new recipes? Make candied bacon, or mix your own okonomiyaki (Japanese savory pancake).
 Watching a movie can be a great way to pass the time when home alone. Go through your movie collection to find an old favorite or look for something new that you might like. Once you find a movie that looks interesting, settle down and enjoy.
 YouTube is an excellent place to look for videos. YouTube will almost always have something for you to watch, whatever you might be in the mood for. New videos are posted constantly, so you there is always something to catch up on.
 There are few things that can get you moving more than your favorite songs. You can listen to old favorites or go searching for new music that you might like. Whatever music you might want to listen to, hit play and have a blast.


Try exploring new styles of music or different artists that you might not have tried before.
Build some playlists of your own. Try making a playlist for relaxing, working out, or reading.
 Board games have long been a favorite when it comes to passing the time and fighting boredom. Try asking your family if they want to play a board game with you. Most board games are designed for multiple players and they can help everyone stay entertained.
 Although it might not be your first thought, cleaning and organizing your house or room can help keep you busy on a boring day. It might seem like work, but having a clean house can feel great. Take some time during a boring day at home to clean up and organize to help fight boredom.


Organizing your closet or dresser can help make finding your favorite outfit a bit easier.
Help your family organize things in the kitchen.
Team up with your family and tackle cleaning the entire house.
 If you are bored and stuck at home, you might try asking someone to help you make a tasty treat. Spend some time together making something you both enjoy to help fight feeling bored.


You might both enjoy baking cookies, a cake or brownies.
You can try making s'mores on the stove-top.
Blend up some fruit and enjoy a smoothie together.
Have fun making something new.
 Being stuck at home can be a great time to sit down with your family and have a fun chat. Sharing exciting or funny stories with your family can help keep everyone from feeling bored. You can share stories of your own or ones that you heard from somewhere else. Feel free to talk about whatever you and your family find interesting to make the day more amusing.
 A great way to spend time together on a boring day is to make some crafts. Have some fun building, creating, and decorating whatever crafts you all want to make. Let your imaginations run free and enjoy making some of your favorite crafts to help make the day more exciting.Try drawing a shape or picture on some paper with glue. Before it dries, sprinkle glitter or colored sand in it to make a shiny art piece.
You can glue two toilet paper rolls together to build a pair of "binoculars".
Make your own trees by gluing a stick and colored paper “leaves” to a piece of construction paper or cardboard.
You could glue popsicle sticks together to build a houses or castles.
 Sit down with someone else and talk about your dream vacation spots. Discuss where you would like to go and what you might want to do there. Feel free to imagine whatever kinds of adventures you would both like to go on.


Talk about what you both think your adventure would be like.
Talk about some of your favorite things in the places you want to visit.
You can get out some maps and have fun drawing your travel routes on them.
It can be fun to use Google Street View to go on virtual walks of places you want to visit.
You could even go crazy and plan trips to other planets.
 Dancing is a simple way that you can get in some exercise and have fun. Find some of your favorite songs, turn up the volume, and get moving. You don't need to know the moves, feel free to dance however you want.


You might want to create a play-list of your favorite dance songs.
Come up with your own dance moves or learn the moves to a new style of dancing.
 Just because you are home alone all day doesn't mean that you can't get in some exercise. Many workouts don't require any equipment, requiring only your own bodyweight or movements.. Try getting in a good workout during your day at home to help fight boredom.


There are many free workout videos available on-line.
Doing things like push-ups or squats can strengthen your muscles, without using any weights.
Doing things like jumping jacks can be a good way to get in some cardio.
 Whether you work out or not, it can be a good idea to get in some stretching during your time home alone. Stretching can help you relax mentally and improve your body's range of motion and flexibility. When your stuck at home, try getting in some light stretching to help keep you active and fight boredom.


Always move gently into stretches to avoid injury. Stop the stretch if you feel any pain during the movement.
There are many free yoga videos that you can find on-line.

