 Place the butter and the marshmallows into a microwave-safe bowl. This will be the first of your six colors: red/pink, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple. Set the rest of the butter and marshmallows aside for now.You can use fewer colors if you want. You'll still use the same amount of butter and marshmallows for each color, however.;
, This will take about 2 minutes.After 1 minute, pause the microwave and give the mixture a stir with a rubber spatula. If the marshmallows still aren't melted after 2 minutes, continue heating them at 1-minute intervals, stirring between each one., You will only need a few drops of red or pink food coloring.The more you add, the brighter your color will be. You can use either liquid or gel food coloring, but gel would give you the best results.

You can start with purple instead, if you prefer. This will be the bottom layer.
 Fold it in using a rubber spatula.Scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often so that everything mixes in evenly., Generously butter a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) baking pan. Use a rubber spatula to spread the marshmallow mixture evenly across the bottom, from corner-to-corner.For a neater finish, place a sheet of greased wax or parchment paper on top, then pat it down. This will help get the mixture into the corners. Peel away the paper when finished.
 Using a clean bowl, melt together 2 tablespoons (30 grams) of butter and 1½ cups (75 grams) of mini marshmallows. Stir in a few drops of your next color, then add in 2 cups (50 grams) of puffed rice cereal. Spread it across the rice krispie mixture in the pan, and pat it down. Keep doing this until you reach purple.If you are using a different color scheme, use 2 tablespoons (30 grams) butter, 1½ cups (75 grams) mini marshmallows, and 2 cups (50 grams) of cereal for each color.
For an extra touch, add some rainbow sprinkles on top of the final layer., This will take 1 to 2 hours.If you are in a hurry, chill the rice krispies in the freezer for 30 minutes., This recipe makes at least 16 to 20 bars.You can also cut 35 smaller bars instead.