 This is to verify location, directions and call times.;
, Don't make other arrangements that will cause you anxiety; by knowing the hours in advance, you'll be ready to stay for as long as it takes.
 Ensure you have this prepared before you commit to a job regardless of where set may be.
, Arrive ready with any other tools you need to do your job.
 Don't aim for prima donna status, especially without a solid history of your worth to back you. Always call the on set contact or talent agent if you will be late or are unable to attend a job.


Note: Do not wait until the last minute. This is a big fail and could cause you to be scrapped from the production.
 Meals are generally provided by the production if you are on set before and after a lunchtime hour. However bring your own snacks and water to the set, just in case. If you have specialist dietary needs, discuss ahead or bring your own on the first day at least.
 This will allow time for parking and wardrobe. Do some networking, learn where the equipment is, read the call sheet, have a coffee. Do whatever it takes to prepare yourself for the day.
 This person is referred to as your 'on set contact'.


At top of the day, report to your department head, introduce yourself and be respectful.
 Whether you're an extra or the leading star, the director and others in charge will expect you to be all ears and ready to do as asked.


When given instructions in person or over the walkie talkie be sure to acknowledge by saying "copy" or "copy that". Do not copy if you do not fully understand the instructions. Feel free to repeat back, ask questions or do whatever it takes to fully understand what you are being instructed to do.
Constructive discussion about what might work better will depend on how open the director is to listening. Be aware of your director's openness to discussion before trying to make suggestions. If you're an extra, expect that you won't be listened to unless you're a known expert in whatever it is (such as being a maker of medieval armor).
 Never bring cameras, alcohol/drugs, or family and friends on a job. Some sets do allow personal photography, but always ask prior to showing up with a camera.


Drug and alcohol use is frowned upon on set. It could be enough to get you fired.
 Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.


Respect the chain of command.
Be polite, say please and thank you.
Learn people’s names. This is a big one, camera department gets to cheat and tape the actors grid that's on the call sheet to the camera, others aren't so lucky.
Be watchful and respectful of your co-workers. Just because farting is okay on the grip truck doesn’t mean its okay in front of the talent.
 When in need of a washroom break be sure to tell your boss. In film school you might have been told to always tell the Assistant Director as well. That is great in theory, but on larger sets the AD has so much to deal with that they really don't need to know which tech is pooping. You are fine as long as your boss knows and someone is around to cover you. Now, that goes for lower level crew mainly, as a cinematographer or any higher up position, the AD must be told.
 Watch your boss and be aware of what is going on in your department and around you.


Allow others to do their jobs, don’t be a hero. Don't chirp in about things that have nothing to do with you or your department.
 For example, when turning on a light, flying in track, dolly or anything in general, call it out. Don't just walk on to set with a 10 foot (3.0 m) chunk of metal. That's how people get hurt.


If you want to help another department, ask them if they need it first. A simple “may I?” before moving a camera case or stand can save you a lot of grief later. The bigger the set the less likely you will be allowed to touch anything that doesn't belong to your department.
Do not just plug items into any available outlet. Never unplug anything. Always ask a set electrician.
 "Work smart, not hard" is a good motto to follow, but that doesn’t mean be lazy. Pace yourself, the days are long and there will be plenty of work.
 In most cases, many of your questions can be answered by looking at the call sheet.
 It can help you to be ready for future days.
 Everyone must be in their assigned spots and doing what is instructed to them.
"Background" - Extras must be in their assigned spots and doing what is instructed to them.
"Back to One" - Return to your starting position for shot.
"Blocking" - Preplanned movement in a scene.
"Call Time" - The time you are required to be on the set.
"Continuity" - Doing everything exactly as it was done in the previous take.
"Cut" - Stop all action.
"Extras" - Paid / non-paid actors.
"Flashing" - This is said, only when the film/videotape is not running and someone is using their flash photography to take photos. It helps everyone to know that none of the various light bulbs have blown.
"Quiet On The Set" - All voices quiet
"Places" or "Places everyone" - This means that were ever you are assigned to be, please head immediately and quietly to that spot and await further instructions
"Speed/Rolling" - Film is moving.

