 Here are two allies that would definitely save your life more than once during your stay underground. Bunnymen can be befriended with carrots, and Rock Lobsters can be befriended with rocks or flint. Most experienced players, however, agree that Rock Lobsters are best since they can hide and regenerate whenever they’re too damaged, but either creatures will follow you around when fed their favorite food, making them easier to lure into designated areas and whatnot. You don’t actually need to feed them for them to kill Depths Worms, though.


Don’t bring meat with you when trying to befriend the Bunnymen. They turn extremely hostile when you carry meat, unless you put it in Chester.
You can actually use any mineral material to befriend the Rock Lobsters, but it’s advisable that you hang on to your Gold and Gems for more important things. They also don’t accept marble.;
, Now, take your friends and lure them into a wide enclosed area made from walls, and close the opening. The walls should be placed about one space apart, which gives you a small gap you can pass through even when enclosed. Since Rock Lobsters and Bunnymen are larger than you are, they will not be able to pass through the gaps as easily, which means you can keep slipping in to feed them whenever possible to keep them friendly. You can even craft multiple pens near areas you frequent the most. Stone walls, of course, are the best to use, since it’s the second sturdiest wall type and uses up rocks, which are abundant in the Caves and Ruins. You can even reinforce them at least once, since you can probably get the required materials in a short time.


If you want to use Bunnymen, you’ll be better off making a larger pen or placing walls around a Bunnyman Village. The Bunnymen are less powerful than the Rock Lobsters, after all, but respawn from their assigned Rabbit Hutches. You don’t even really need to section the village or self-made rabbit hutches off since they attack the Worms on sight, though it might be better for you in the long run if you accidentally bring meat with you.
You may need to rotate the camera a single degree, whether left or right, to better see the gaps when you build the wall because the default angling of the camera sometimes makes it so that anything placed horizontally and vertically have no gaps in between, and trying to make a diagonal pen can be very trying, with frequent mistakes in placing.
It’s also preferable to set up the pen about 10 seconds or so away from your base camp, for easy access.
 Make the area easy to live in by placing the barest minimum of structures. The only real requirement is a Fire Pit (and Endothermic Fire Pit in Reign of Giants), but you can add a chest or a backpack of necessities (food, weapons, armor) nearby as well. You don’t need much, just enough to ensure you can stay there for a short time until it’s safer.
 If you don’t fancy joining your friends in the melee later, you can invest in a Bush Hat. If you don’t know how to get one, you can learn to make it from the Alchemy Engine’s Dress tab for 1 Rope, 1 Berry Bush, and 1 Straw Hat. When you equip it, you can then right-click on it any time to hide from anything aggressive, as long as you’re not in their direct line of sight or are being pursued by an enemy. Best of all, it never breaks! The only drawbacks are that it can’t be used as an armor and you can’t use it with a Miner’s Hat.


You can also grind for a Snurtle Shell Armor, which functions the same, but is on the armor slot instead and is quite rare. This, paired with a Miner’s hat, would negate the need to rekindle the Fire Pit often, since your surroundings are illuminated. However, if used as an armor itself, it loses durability and will eventually break.
 Now, when you hear the sinister rumbling that signals the assault, run immediately to the Bunnymen or Rock Lobster pen, light up the Fire Pit, and wait. If you have your Bush Hat or Snurtle Shell Armor, go and hide! If not, position yourself next to the walls of your pen, equip your best armor and weapon, and brace yourself. The Rock Lobsters would make short work off the Depths Worms, and they would also leave the loot alone.


The best tactic if you choose to fight the Worms is by kiting around the pen or even going into the pen and dealing the occasional hit to the Worms while the Lobsters do the rest. Just be careful not to hit the denizens of your pen.
If you’re using Bunnymen, take care to pick up the Monster Meat and Glow Berries quickly. Meat, as you know, enrages them to no end, and Glow Berries are a very tempting treat for the Bunnymen, who tend to gobble it up quickly.

