 The best type of paper to use is an ordinary 8 ½ in (21.5 cm) by 11 in (28 cm) printer or A4 paper. Perform a book fold to begin. Make a book fold by folding your paper in half the long way. You can use any 8 ½ by 11 in piece of paper like notebook paper, construction paper, or printer paper.
For best results, lay your paper on a flat surface like a desk.
Crease your fold with the edge of your finger, then unfold.;
, Take the top corners of your paper and fold each one into meet at the center crease. You will have two triangular flaps on top of the rectangular portion of your paper.


Your center crease should be in a valley fold, meaning the crease points down and the paper lifts up toward you, like a valley. Crease the outer diagonal edges of your folds to keep each fold in place.
 Repeat the same type of fold you just made. Fold in the outer points at the base of each triangle. Fold toward the crease.


You will now have two isosceles triangle flaps folded down. An isosceles triangle means that two sides are of equal length while the third is a different length.
 Take your plane and fold it back in a mountain fold.


This is another hot dog style fold on the center crease.
The flaps you previously folded down should now be on the outside of your plane.
 Position the plane so the straight portion is on the bottom. Fold the wings down to line up with the base of your plane.


Fold the wings down so the small flat portion in the back of each one aligns to the base of the plane.
 The base of your plane should be flat and at the top you should have a flat edge starting about halfway back. Fold the paper down to align your edges.


Again, fold your wing flaps down over your previous folds to align the flat portion that was at the top of the wing to the flat base.
The distance from the base of your plane to the top should be about 1 inch (25 mm) tall.
Crease the wings with your finger.
 Now pull the top layer of folds up to fan out the wings. You will have two larger, flat wings on the top with a few smaller wings below.


You should have a long, narrow plane now ready for flight.
 Test your plane by flicking your wrist.


This plane is great for a long, straight flight.
Hold your plane parallel to the ground and throw. You can tape the nose of your plane shut to keep the wings together.

