 The viruses and bacteria that cause a cold or upper respiratory infections are often spread by coughing and sneezing. To prevent laryngitis, avoid contact with other people who have a cold.If someone at your work or school is sick, stay away from them as symptoms persist.
Never share utensils or a drink with someone suffering from a cold.;
, Viruses and bacteria are also spread by contact with hands. Frequent hand washing can keep bacteria away, lessening your likelihood of getting a cold. Wash your hands throughout the day, especially before eating and after using the bathroom. If someone you work in close proximity with is sick, wash your hands more often.Apply soap on your hands and work it into a lather. Make sure to scrub all of your hands, including between your fingers, the backs of your hands, and under your fingernails.Wash your hands for at least 20 seconds. Then, dry your hands with a clean, dry towel.
 Even if you're not sick, you can wind up with laryngitis. You can end up with laryngitis due to exposure to substances that irritate the throat. Manage your exposure to anything that causes a sore throat or coughing to prevent laryngitis.Cigarette smoke can irritate the throat. If you smoke, talk to your doctor about quitting. If you don't smoke, make sure you stay away from secondhand smoke.
If you're regularly exposed to harsh chemicals or allergens at work or home, make sure to wear a face mask.
Stomach acid can also irritate the throat. If you notice you're experiencing symptoms of acid reflux, take medication right away to manage symptoms.
 Alcohol can easily dry out the throat, making you vulnerable to laryngitis. Drinking in excess should be avoided if you're trying to prevent laryngitis.If you do drink, stick to one to two drinks a day. Avoid drinking for days on end.
If you're trying to avoid laryngitis in preparation for something like a speaking event, it's a good idea to refrain from drinking altogether in the days leading up to the event.
 Laryngitis can also be caused by strain to the vocal chords. Talking or singing loudly for days on end can cause laryngitis. Work on preventing your voice from becoming strained if you want to prevent laryngitis.Do not talk or sing too loud. Use a microphone if you need to project your voice.
Avoid events where there will be yelling. If you go to, say, a sports match, try not to participate in things like loud screaming and cheering.
 Caffeine can also dry out your throat, increasing your risk of laryngitis. If you want to prevent laryngitis, do not over do it on substances like coffee and soda. Stick to one or two caffeinated beverages each day to protect yourself from laryngitis., In general, a salt water solution is better for your throat than most oral mouthwashes. If you do use mouthwash, make sure to choose a brand that does not use alcohol or other irritating chemicals.If you're using mouthwash to counteract persistent bad breath, talk to your doctor or dentist. Bad breath may have underlying causes.
 Spicy foods can trigger acid reflux, causing stomach acid to travel to the throat. This can irritate the throat, causing laryngitis. Limit your consumption of spicy foods, or any other foods that cause symptoms of heartburn and acid reflux., A diet that encourages throat health can help prevent laryngitis. Whole grains, fruits, and vegetables contain many vital nutrients for throat health.Work on choosing whole grains over white breads and pastas. You should also opt for brown rice over white rice.
Make sure to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. Strive to include a serving of fruits and vegetables in each meal you consume.
 Even if you work hard to prevent a respiratory infection, you can still end up with laryngitis. Symptoms include hoarseness, a weak voice, sore throat, or a tickling sensation in your throat. If you notice these symptoms, make an appointment with your doctor.Make sure you have all the information your doctor will need on hand. Jot down when your symptoms started and any risk factors, such as a recent cold or flu, that may have caused laryngitis. You should also have a list of any medications you're currently taking.
Your doctor will provide a basic physical exam and probably look at your throat. They will then ask questions about your symptoms and general lifestyle to asses the best treatment plan for you.
 If medication is required, laryngitis is generally treated with either antibiotics or corticosteroids. If you are prescribed a medication, take it exactly as instructed. Ask your doctor any questions you have before leaving the office.Antibiotics are usually prescribed for bacterial laryngitis. Make sure you take all your antibiotics, even after symptoms have passed, as your doctor instructs.
Corticosteroids are usually only used for intense symptoms of laryngitis. They also may be used if you need to clear up symptoms quickly in order to give a speech, sing, or do something else with your voice.
 Do not use your voice that often when recovering from laryngitis. Do not talk more than you have to, and avoid talking loudly. Make use of a microphone or megaphone when speaking in front of groups., A dry throat can make symptoms of laryngitis worse, so take steps to keep your throat moist. This will help laryngitis resolve faster.Drink plenty of fluids during the day, especially water.
Gargle with salt water, suck on lozenges, or chew gum during the day.
Try using a humidifier in your bedroom. You can also try breathing in steam from a bowl of hot water.
 You may be inclined to whisper after contracting laryngitis; however, whispering actually puts more strain on your voice than talking as you normally would. If you need to talk, simply talk in your normal voice. Do not whisper.