 Some individuals are prohibited from purchasing a gun.


You will not be allowed clearance to buy a gun if you are a convicted felon, a fugitive from the justice system, an illegal alien, addicted to drugs or alcohol, mentally ill, dishonorably discharged from the military, or convicted of domestic violence or any other type of harassment.
You must be at least 18 years of age to buy a rifle or shotgun and 21 to buy a handgun from a federal firearms dealer.;
,


The gun dealer will require you to provide a form of government-issued photograph identification; such as your Nevada drivers license or identification card from the Department of Motor Vehicles.
Bring 25 dollars (18 euros) to cover the POS background check. The fee is non-refundable, even if you do not pass the background check.



Look in your city's local phone directory or perform an online search to locate the names and addresses of Nevada gun dealerships you can visit.
Bring your identification and fees with you to the gun dealership.
 After deciding on the type of gun you want to buy, the dealer will provide you with a form to complete for the background check.


Enter the information required on the form; including your full name, type of gun you plan on buying, maiden or former names, gender, date of birth, and state of residence.
 After receiving your completed form, the gun dealer will call the POS program to conduct the background check. You can buy a gun after passing the background check.


The background check can only be conducted daily between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., excluding legal holidays. If you visit a gun dealership outside of these hours, you may have to revisit the gun dealership at another time to complete the background check.
In some cases, the POS representative performing the background check may ask the dealer for additional information about yourself; such as your race, height, weight, Social Security Number, or other characteristics.
 Most counties in Nevada allow you to buy your gun and take it home after passing the background check; however, if you reside in Clark County (excluding Boulder City), you will be required to wait 24 hours to receive your gun.

