 You can banish negative thoughts about your freckles by trying to view them as an essential and beneficial part of your appearance. Your genetic makeup makes you appear unique and different from others. But appearing different from others can be a positive thing, as it can allow you to stand out and be noticed for your interesting look.


The next time you catch yourself thinking something negative about your freckles, try to reframe it as something positive. For example, if you catch yourself thinking, "I hate my freckles," then you can reframe it to something like, "My freckles are part of who I am. They are part of what makes me special."You may get in the habit of looking at your freckles in the mirror every day and being grateful for their appearance. Remind yourself that you would not be you without your freckles and that these marks make you uniquely beautiful and attractive.
 It can be easy to only focus on the negative portrayals of freckles in the media and pop culture and filter out all the positive things about having freckles.Try to remember the times when you received compliments about your freckles. Focus on the positive comments that you have heard from others about your freckles so you are less negative about them. Combat mental filtering by focusing on nice compliments and letting them sink in.For example, maybe a close friend recently commented that your freckles make you look sunkissed, or an acquaintance commented on how your freckles bring warmth to your face. Focus on these comments rather than any negative comments you have heard about your freckles.
If you are involved with someone romantically, then your partner may tell you that he or she finds your freckles attractive, cute, or sexy. Focus on these comments rather than any negative ideas that you have about your freckles.
 You can also use positive affirmations to remove negative thoughts about your freckles from your thoughts. Positive affirmations can be good daily reminders to embrace your whole self, freckles and all.Make sure you always use “I” statements for your positive affirmations. For example, you may say to yourself every morning, “I will embrace and love my freckles”, “I think my freckles are beautiful and unique”, or “I believe my freckles make me more attractive.”
You may repeat these affirmations in front of a mirror in the morning before you get ready for the day or at night before you go to bed. Try to repeat your positive affirmations at least once a day so you are full of positive thoughts about your freckles. Over time, you may come to embrace and accept your freckles as a positive aspect of who you are.

