 When your toddler reaches the ages of two and three, she will most likely begin to start role playing. She may be a princess one day, a pirate the next, and an astronaut or ballerina the following day. Encourage her to act out these roles by engaging in her role playing.


For example, if she is a ballerina one day, create a simple ‘stage’ for her to perform her dances on. Put on music and pretend you are the audience. You could even set up her toys so that they are also ‘watching’ her performance.
 To develop your toddler’s listening skills and creativity, continue singing songs, reading rhymes and making up funny names for every member of the family. These activities foster creativity. Action games can also be a fun pastime; re-telling or re-enacting a story by pretending that she is the hero or heroine can be a great way to have fun with your toddler..Since your toddler most likely tags along with you almost everywhere, make shopping time fun by asking for your child’s opinion on what to buy; when she chooses something, ask her why she chose that object. You can also make the supermarket into a fortress where you have to collect items on a list to win a prize, like a healthy snack.
 Make it a habit to spend quiet time reading books with your toddler. Books with interesting pictures or pop up art can be a fun way to engage your child while you read.


Reading also helps to develop your child’s cognitive and language skills.
 Because your child’s hands are more dexterous now, start playing with clay, drawing on canvas or paper, or drawing on the sidewalk with colored chalk. Making projects together can be fun and can also stimulate your child’s creativity.You can also consider doing finger painting or doing face painting.
 Taking your kid out for an outdoor adventure can improve her awareness of her surroundings. Here are some activities that you can try:


Stroll around the park and play at the local playground.
Go on a hike (but be sure to bring a backpack carrier you can put her in if she gets tired).
Going to a petting zoo or fair.
 On top of teaching your child through fun activities, there are also games you can play that are just pure fun. Some activities might need more than two participants, so get siblings or other children involved. Fun games include:


Following the leader, tag, hide and seek, jumping, hopping, skipping, hula-hoop, and dancing.
Crafting, drawing and puzzles.
Charades or miming.
Ball games, blowing bubbles, swimming and horseback riding, walking in the park and playing with other kids.
 At this stage, your toddler’s language is continually developing so she will begin interacting with other children. She will be more interested in exploration as she grows. Her body will become stronger and sturdier so she will be more likely to climb and participate in other physical activities.Your toddler may begin to engage in symbolic play, which is similar to pretend play but more descriptive and intricate.

