 Write the author (last name or organization name) and year in parentheses with a comma in between. If you pulled a direct quote from the original text, add "p." and a space before the page number if the statement is a direct quote. If the author is already mentioned in the statement, put the year in parentheses next to the name (and put the page number in parentheses at the end of the statement, if applicable). Place the citation before the final punctuation mark. If there are two or three authors in parentheses, use "&" instead of “and". You don't need to indicate that this source is in a PDF file here.Basic example: Higher education professionals think that “education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world” (Mandela, 1996, p. 35).If your file does not have page numbers and you want to use a direct quotation, provide a paragraph number: Higher education professionals think that “education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world” (Mandela, 1996, para. 18).
You can also use a shortened heading in quotation marks: Higher education professionals think that “education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world” (Mandela, 1996, “A few words on education”).
 In APA style, you must state the type of file you consulted in square brackets, such as or If you are using a proprietary ebook format, such as a Kindle file, you should note this too.The basic format is: Author’s last name, Author’s first initial. (Year of publication). ‘’Book title’’ . Available from web address:Basic example: Smith, J. (2011). The fantastic novel . Available from http://www.books.google.com
For a proprietary file, provide the e-reader version in square brackets: Smith, J. (2011). The fantastic novel . Retrieved from http://www.amazon.com

, APA style does not use “title caps” for journal article titles. This means you only capitalize the first word of the title. Do not use quotation marks to set off titles.The basic format is: Author's last name, Author’s first initial. (Year of publication). Title of article . Journal title, volume number(issue number), page numbers. Retrieved from web address: Basic example: Doe, J. (2006). Interesting citation article . Online Journal of Citation Information, 4(3), 82-5. Retrieved from http://www.random-example-URL.com
Note that the volume number is italicized but the issue number (in parentheses) is not!
If your article includes a doi number, provide this at the end of the citation.

