 If it's a baby or toddler,make sure food is either mashed or cut up into bite sized, non-rounded pieces. Don't feed them anything sugary or with too many simple carbs. This will make them very hyper for a few hours, and they will be hungry in only two or three hours.;
, Kids five or older may want to go off on their own. This is fine, but kids under five should be supervised at all times.Take them outside if the weather is nice.Some games to play:


All kids 2-8: Jump rope, tag, ball, and pretend, are all great games for both boys and girls.Going to the park a park with a playground is also a great idea.
Girls:2-8: Dress up and house are great games to play. Coloring is a great activity.
Boys 2-8: Trucks,cars,and building blocks are great for boys this age. Most boys will also like to wrestle, but don't let them. They could seriously hurt themselves.
All kids 9 and up: Try a board game, races, a chapter book, or just taking a walk.
 Some good meals are:


A PB&J sandwich with juice and some kind of fruit or vegetable.
Chicken fingers and applesauce.
Pizza or hot dogs(Only on occasion.Too often and kids will become unhealthy.)

, Most kids 5 or older don't take naps, but babies and toddlers will. Rock them, change their diapers if they still wear one, and set them down. Kids vary in the amount of sleep they are used to, so make sure to ask the parents about the routine before you babysit.


When they wake up, change the diaper if it is a baby or toddler and if they went.
 Make sure the craft is safe and appropriate. They could also just color or draw.
 Most parents have restrictions on TV; make sure you obey their rules.
 Some parents will have dinner set up for you. Make sure you know where the kids are. Let younger kids help a little with preparations such as getting things out or stirring something. Make sure the toddler or baby has a bib.
, If it's dark or the weather's cold, play a board game, read a book, or do a craft. Now is not the time to get them hyper; it is too close too bedtime and they won't sleep.
 Older kids usually take showers and don't need to be supervised. Kids under 5 should never be left alone in a tub. Make sure the water isn't too hot or too cold. Ask the parents what the norms in the house are and what they're comfortable with, when it comes to both supervision of bath time and the children being undressed.
 If the parents have a set bedtime routine, keep it that way. Make them use the bathroom too.
 Read them a story if they want. Get one or two stuffed animals if you want.
 Parents will appreciate this a lot. Just don't go in the parent's room or home office. Do the dishes, clean up downstairs or sweep and mop the kitchen. Just make sure you're not too loud!

,, Don't do anything loud or wake the kids up. Be careful not to fall asleep.

