 If you are the student who will be skipping a grade, you need to carefully examine the advantages and disadvantages of moving up a grade since you will be the one most affected. If it’s not something that you are comfortable with or happy about, this will make the process more difficult.Try to think about how this decision might impact you in the future. For example, if you are interested in participating in sports, being younger than other students might make it harder to compete on the same level. If you skip a grade, will you be driving later than other students? How would that make you feel?
Don’t let others make the decision for you. Instead, take an active role in your education and share your concerns and feelings about skipping a grade with your parents or school officials.;
, Skipping a grade can cause intellectual, emotional, and physical challenges that you will need to be able to deal with. If you are worried about receiving perfect grades and get frustrated quickly, skipping a grade might not be the best choice for you., To be successful in your new grade, you’ll need the support of your parents. They know you better than anyone else and want you to be ready to advance a grade. They can also help you think about some of the social and academic challenges that might occur when skipping a grade.
 Your teachers and guidance counselors have a great deal of experience working with and evaluating students, and they can help you determine whether you are ready to skip a grade. Ask for their advice on how to handle the change.They will probably appreciate that you respect their opinion, and might offer valuable advice on how best to handle skipping a grade.
It’s also possible that your teachers or guidance counselors will know your new teacher, and they can introduce you or help you adjust to your new situation.
 Although some tests might indicate you are more than prepared to skip a grade, it’s a good idea to find out what you will be learning and work with your guidance counselors or a private tutor to make sure you are prepared to tackle the advanced classes. If there’s anything you need help with, ask your parents and school what you can do to catch up and be as ready as possible.For example, should you have a specific skill such as typing before skipping a grade? If so, arrange to take a typing class or work with a private tutor who can make sure you are prepared when you skip a grade.
This will help you feel more confident about skipping a grade and entering a class with students who are older.
 Learning about all the options available will help you make the best decision for your situation. Skipping a grade is not necessarily the only choice available to advanced students. Consider or ask about these potential options or programs:Is it possible for you to take some advanced classes with older students or receive individual tutoring while still remaining in your current grade?
Can you participate in a summer program or distance-learning program offered by a university in your area? Duke, Johns Hopkins, Carnegie Mellon, Northwestern, and other universities offer specific programs designed to help identify and support gifted students.
Would an independent study project or competition such as the science fair or math team help meet your intellectual needs without requiring you to skip a grade?

, Skipping a grade can be hard, and it isn’t for everyone. So that you can test out what it is like to skip a grade without feeling as much pressure, ask your school or guidance counselors to give you a trial period.Knowing that you can easily switch back might help you feel more comfortable in the beginning.
If you decide this isn’t working out the way you hoped or you are unhappy, don’t feel ashamed or that you have failed. Admitting that you might be out of your depth and overwhelmed demonstrates maturity.
 Adjusting to skipping a grade won’t happen overnight, so don’t be hard on yourself and expect it to occur right away. Give yourself, your parents, and your new teachers and classmates time to adjust to the situation.