 When you begin training your dog to focus, you want to start in a place with as few distractions as possible. Find a place that is quiet, where you can control the circumstances during training.An indoor space in your house may be ideal.
Turn off devices such as phones and televisions.
Keep children and other animals in another room so they don’t distract the dog.;
, This should be the food that your dog already knows and eats. Hold as much of the kibble in your hand as you can. Offer it to the dog.Open your hand and let him eat the food directly from your hand.
 Go to the same location that you trained in yesterday. Hold the handful of kibble the same way you did the day before. Wait until your dog makes eye contact with you. When he does, offer him the kibble.Offer him the entire ration of kibble at this time.
If the dog does not make eye contact with you on his own, you can say his name to get his attention.
Do not open your hand to show or offer the kibble until he makes eye contact. That will defeat the training.
 The next day, go to the same place, free from distractions. Hold the kibble in your hand so that he can see your hand. Wait until your dog makes eye contact with you for three entire seconds. When he does, say, “take it,” and open your hand for him to eat.Practice this everyday. Each day, require that he maintain eye contact for a little bit longer, until he can maintain eye contact for at least eight seconds before you offer the ration of kibble.
 Once the dog has mastered eye contact and focus in the calm environment, begin to practice in places with distractions. There can be other people around, or even other animals. You may want to try going outside while keeping the dog on a leash, just in case.Do not attempt to practice in a place with distractions until the dog has mastered eye contact and focus in a controlled environment.
Increase the amount of distractions slowly. Don’t just go from complete seclusion to a raucous dog park.
Once your dog has mastered the behavior in a place with distractions, practice without offering him a treat. Instead, simply give him verbal praise and pet him.

