 Don't just use what "everyone else" is using, but find a weapon that makes you comfortable. There are currently four different snipers in Black Ops 2 and they are as followed: SVU-AS, DSR 50, Ballista and XPR-50. There are strengths and weaknesses on each and it also corresponds to your play style. The DSR 50 is the best weapon to land a one-shot kill because everything from the waist up is one bullet, it's a great weapon for inexperienced snipers who don't quite have that amazing accuracy...yet. Then the Ballista. The Ballista is more for the experienced players because it kills from the chest up in one shot however, it has faster handling speeds for scoping in and out. Lastly there are the two semi-automatic sniper rifles, the SVU-AS and the XPR-50. Both are great for spamming the controller and sending a torrent of bullets in your opponents path. All of these are great choices, but the important thing is finding what works for you!;
, If you stay in one place but are picking off every member of the enemy team, eventually one of them will become very vengeful and kill you. So for the sake of staying alive, move around. Movement is important because if you stay in one area, that little red dot on the radar will do you in. You want to keep your enemies on their toes so they cannot pinpoint your location. You could do this by taking a few shots and moving on to another location. Just like a real life sniper.
 This is crucial, because if you know nothing about the map you are in, well that's just asking to get owned. The other great advantage it gives you is knowing all the spots to get people from.
 Because you are a sniper, it isn't ideal to go chaotic in a CQC battle against an opponent with an assault rifle or sub machine gun. You will more than likely lose. It is a sniper rifle for the reason that you keep your distance, and take the shot where the deck is stacked more in your favor than theirs, giving you that guaranteed kill.
 If in your mind, you know for a fact that you probably will not land the shot, then don't take it in the first place, it will give away your position and that is a big no no.
 If you take your time in the field, you will find yourself not in so many sticky situations as you were before, and you will find yourself ending up with less deaths at the end of the match.
 For some, it would be fast mag or variable zoom, this is really a matter of personal preference though as it can vary greatly depending on the player.
 When you take your time shooting, you may get killed more at first, but it will greatly help you with that time on target. The speed will come after that.
 To help improve your accuracy laser sight is a great attachment and works as steady aim making your cross-hairs smaller helping you hit the shots without much effort.
 If you're an experienced sniper user then by now you've probably learned to rush with it but in order to do this just keep a fair distance away from your opponent. Take the shot, if you miss then whip out your pistol and show off your trigger finger.

