 When multi-tasking by listening to your music or fiddling with your technical gadget, and trying to switch lanes and change gears at the same time, or cross a busy road, your efficiency is reduced considerably and you are, in effect, "cocooned" from the rest of the world. Your concentration needs to be focused on the task that matters most – whether it be walking, cycling, jogging, or driving – not on the appreciation of the music at the expense of all else.


Problems that can arise when your attention is diverted by texting, emailing, or listening to music include "unintentional blindness" or "divided attention".The inattention caused by "gadget fiddling" affects cyclists, joggers, "pedestrians", and drivers. The error of inattention is compounded when you're listening to the iPod and texting or talking on your phone simultaneously.Avoid switching off your brain when you switch on your gadget.;
, Be a savvy "pedestrian" and take great care when walking and listening to your iPod at the same time, especially in busy city areas.


Always turn off the iPod when crossing roads.The music can distract you from hearing cars suddenly turning around the corner into your trajectory. It does happen, more often than pedestrians realize.
It is even better to visibly remove your earphones from your ears before crossing, because if you are hit by a car (and survive to tell the tale), it will likely be argued in a court or insurance case that you were distracted by the iPod. If your earphones have been removed, it's harder to argue this!
Look before crossing the road. Both ways. And again. Don't allow iPod oblivion to give you a sense of invulnerability.
Never assume that a driver has seen you and will stop. Don't walk across the road jiving to your groove with an unrealistic hope that all the cars are going to just stop - be sure that the cars have actually stopped first.
Turn down the iPod when walking past construction sites or roadworks. You need to remain alert for danger around construction sites or roadworks that provide pedestrian walk-around areas. Someone might make a mistake and call out a warning – best if you're able to heed it rather than remaining in oblivion.
While jogging, don't allow the heady mix of fast exercise and fast-paced music dull your traffic senses.

Be courteous to others on the sidewalk. Wearing an iPod is not an excuse for ignoring other people and walking into them. Be conscious of other people around you and avoid walking into them.
 Cycling in the city is dangerous enough without cutting yourself off from the noise that can alert you to the potential of danger.


Turn down the sound level of your iPod so that it is similar to background noise, not like a front row at a concerto. Make sure that you can hear traffic noise.
Avoid using the iPod when you are navigating heavy traffic and dangerous intersections. Flick to "pause" when safe to to do so, or even better, think ahead and don't switch it on at all prior to entering such a zone.
Don't use your iPod when cycling in known dangerous areas, such as crossing a bridge, cycling under a tunnel, around blind corners, etc., and anywhere where you share the bike lane with pedestrians but you lack a clear sight of possible pedestrians (who might be suffering from iPod oblivion themselves).
 While you can plug your iPod into the car stereo, your enjoyment of the music could overwhelm your traffic senses.


Don't play the music loudly. Loud music is a driving distraction and can prevent you from hearing sirens from emergency vehicles, or can remove warning sounds from other vehicles performing maneuvers hat might be about to affect or even impact you.
Avoid using an iPod when working with heavy machinery at work. Your mind should be on the job, not the iPod. No doubt your boss agrees!

, While listening to an iPod can while away boring minutes and even hours when using public transportation, there are times when it is important to take care not to fall into iPod oblivion.



Stay alert when traveling late at night. By all means enjoy your music, but be alert for possible dangers at all times. An opportunistic thief or drunk might see your iPod oblivion as a good reason to choose you to harass.
Be sure to keep a good eye on when it's your stop to get off. iPod oblivion shouldn't be the excuse for not arriving at work on time!

, Wearing an iPod at the check-out counter might enable you to blot out the realities of grocery shopping, but it's discourteous to use iPod oblivion as a way to disconnect from the human beings with whom you're interacting. Remove your iPod before purchasing items and connect – talk to the cashier, smile, and make it clear that you're no zombie. While this isn't likely to cause an accident, it is likely to improve your shopping experience and the retail assistant will feel a lot better about serving you as a result.

