 Mark off each day on the calendar and congratulate yourself on getting through the day. Focus on living one day at a time. A loved one’s absence shifts life into a different gear. For the person left to manage life when the other person is gone, it is essential to focus on successfully getting through each day!;
, Time is a precious commodity. You now have the time to reach out to those people you care about, but don't share quality time together as often as you would like. This includes your partner or spouse and friends and family living outside your home.


If you’ve been tied up with raising your children and they are away at college, you now have the time to do the things you have been postponing. , Prepare care packages and send them to the person. Each item you shop for will allow you the opportunity to focus on the person, do something for her, and then send all that love to her. If you have children, set aside a night of the week that you and your children can make arts and crafts that can be included in the care package.
 Staying busy around the house provides a healthy distraction and will improve your living environment. Focusing on tasks and completing them will make time pass quickly. Some days might be tougher than others, but there's always something you can do around the house.


Improve your living arrangements when a roommate is on vacation. Make your living environment something your roommate will be excited about when she returns. Even if it is simply cleaning and organizing, it will be an improvement. This will give you something to do, and the pay-off will be positive.
Add plants to bring in a living energy into your living space.
Clean the windows and screens. Everyone enjoys a clean fresh view outside.
Paint a fence that has gotten rusty.
Fix squeaky doors, leaking faucets, or take broken items to be fixed.
Improve the curb appeal of your house. Planting a few colorful plants in your walkway or placing a beautiful potted plant on your porch will brighten the situation.
 There are projects that take more time and effort to complete. If you've got a lot of time to fill, consider a project that will purposely not end until after the person returns. This will give you and the person something to look forward to and will give you accountability to live up to your promise.


If your spouse is deployed, tell her that you plan to complete a project like building a wood deck in the backyard.
If you have children, join together on a project that will help all of you get through the time of absence.
Start the garden you have always wanted.
Raise funds for a cause that benefits the military or a cause that is important to your spouse. Reporting your progress to your spouse will help her feel like she is missed, but also that she is still loved and needed at home.
 Communicate via skype, email, or letters and cards. This is beneficial because you look forward to communicating. When you are writing to her you feel closer to her, and receiving a reply is exciting too. The positive feelings are spaced out over time, which helps manage the time you spend away from her.

