 There are areas of your car that collect more tar than others. Since you are mostly in the front of the car, your dashboard, the tops of the front windows, and the surface of the windows will collect more tar than others. To cover up the smell of the smoke, wash and deodorize these areas often.


If any other part of your car is discolored or sticky, wash these areas as well.
You can keep deodorizing wipes in your car so you can clean these common areas quickly ti hide the smell., Cleaning your floor mats will remove any smoke smells that have been by absorbed the carpet fibers. To clean them, sprinkle baking soda on your mats and let the mixture sit for one hour before vacuuming. You can also shampoo the mats to help cover the smell.


If the mats smell to strongly, you can replace them instead.
You should provide the same treatment to the carpet in your car as well., Citrus is a natural deodorizer that will help cover up and remove smoke smells from your car. Place piles of citrus peels around your car to cover the scent of smoke. You can also clean the inside of your car with a citrus scented cleaner to help with the smell.


Try opening and peeling the fruit inside your car to provide a quick fix for the smoke smell.
Try cleansers with citrus oils in them to make a larger impact on the scent.
 Your air system in your car will retain the smoke smell, which will cause the smell to come out when you use the heat or air conditioning. To help cover up these odors, turn your air conditioning on full blast. Locate your air intake vent, which is typically found under the front fender on the passenger’s side. Spray an air deodorizer into the intake vent. Switch to the heat setting and repeat.


Be sure to air out the car after doing this. If not, the smell of air deodorizer may be too strong or cause breathing problems.Make sure you use deodorizing spray and not just air freshener. This won't help eliminate the odor.
 One way to help make the smell of smoke in your car less obvious is to smoke with your windows open. The smoke will still get int he car, but this will make the smell less obvious and strong than in you smoked with it closed or cracked.


Make sure you blow your smoke out the window as well, so you limit the smoke exposure to the inside of your car., Ashtrays can keep the smoke smell in your car long after you have finished smoking. If you have an ashtray in your car, you need to empty it every time you get out of the car. This will help cover up any strong smoke smell in your car.


You should also clean out the ashtray with a deodorizing cleanser to get rid of the smell as well.