 The groom might understandably be nervous. Calm his wedding jitters in whatever way you can. Tell him, for example, “You’ve got nothing to worry about. You will do just fine.” If you’ve been married yourself, explain to the groom, “It’s normal to be nervous. I felt the same way before I got married.”


Do not let the groom consume alcohol or drugs to calm himself.
 Be available for last minute troubleshooting. For instance, perhaps some out-of-town guests need directions to the wedding hall. Perhaps the photographer needs to get paid. Whatever comes up, be ready to take it on.


Pack a portable sewing kit. If the groom, you, or anyone else involved in the wedding has a wardrobe malfunction, it helps to have some thread and needle on hand to salvage the situation.
If you’re tasked with holding the bride’s ring, keep the ring in your breast pocket or side pocket of your suit. Double-check your pocket to ensure it doesn’t have any holes. Then check the pocket again., This usually occurs after the bride and groom walk up the aisle, followed by the flower girl and ring bearer. Do not walk too fast when walking up the aisle. Keep pace with the maid of honor. Smile as you walk.


After you and the maid of honor walk up the aisle, you’ll be followed by the rest of the groomsmen and bridesmaids.
 A common best man duty is to take pictures of the wedding ceremony. Be sure to capture the bridesmaids, groomsmen, bride, groom, and assembled guests. Use a digital camera so you can easily distribute pictures after taking them, and can correct your camera settings if your initial exposures are not as good as you want them to be.If you do not feel comfortable photographing the wedding because you are not good with photography, tell the groom.He might choose to have someone else take photos, or obtain help from an additional photographer.
 The groom will likely rely on you to provide one of the signatures. Don’t rush off to the wedding reception too soon. Locate the officiant who married the couple (who must also sign the license) and sign the license.


Double check with the groom before the marriage to ensure they have brought the license with them.

