 Sometimes, it can feel like you don’t even know what you’re feeling. Taking the time to reflect on your feelings and identify them can give your emotions structure, which will help you feel more stable and able to handle them.Regularly identifying your feelings increases your self-awareness, which is a key component of self-confidence.You may find that having a list of names handy for possible emotions can help you identify what you’re feeling in the moment.Make sure that your list includes pleasant emotions, such as love, joy, enchantment, compassion, amusement, and hope.
Unpleasant emotions may include disgust, irritation, sadness, grief, anger, frustration, or gloom.
Remember that just because emotions are unpleasant doesn’t mean they’re negative. Fear and anger, for example, evolved to keep us safe from danger. They can alert us when there’s a threat. The trick is to recognize when these emotions aren’t helpful.

A list of “clues” can also help you identify your emotions. For example, a list of body and behavioral cues for love could include: feeling excited, warm, or trusting; having a rapid heartbeat; hugging or cuddling; saying or hearing “I love you.”

, Once you’ve identified the general feeling you’re experiencing, it’s helpful to tease out the other emotions that may be involved in your overall emotional experience. When you feel overwhelmed by emotions, it’s often because you’re feeling many things at once (or in rapid succession). Take a moment to think about the different emotions you may be feeling.For example, if your romantic partner is chatting with another person at a party and you feel angry, that would be the primary emotion.
However, if you examine your thinking and feelings, you might also discover that you’re feeling jealous. Jealousy is actually a manifestation of fear: fear that you're not "as good" as something else, or fear of being abandoned because you can only perceive what you see as negative, not the things that make you lovely.You could discover that you’re actually feeling angry at yourself because your mean inner critic believes that you’re foolish for thinking that your partner could love you with all the things you dislike about yourself.
You might also feel embarrassed that your partner is showing someone else attention, instead of paying attention to you. You might believe that others are judging your relationship based on this incident.
Once you understand the other emotions at play in a situation, you can figure out why you’re feeling the way you do. You can also take actions to avoid letting those feelings overwhelm you.
For example, you can consider whether your reactions have a rational basis. If your partner has cheated on you before, for example, you may feel more justified in being suspicious of even innocent-seeming interactions. If your relationship is generally stable and happy, you may find it helpful to remind yourself that your partner has chosen to be with you, not anyone else.
 Journaling about your emotions can help you learn to identify your feelings. It will also help you learn to recognize what may trigger certain emotions and will help you recognize helpful and unhelpful ways of dealing with them.Journaling can also help you learn to recognize an emotion from the moment it materializes, as opposed to letting it build up and intensify. When you ignore or repress your feelings, they tend to get worse and erupt later.
One way to journal is to write down whatever mood or feeling you’re experiencing, and then think backwards from there to reflect on what may have brought it on.For example, your boss may not have made eye contact with you at lunch. Without even being aware of it, the thought may have been in the back of your mind, "He's getting ready to fire me!" This may have made you anxious or irritable for the rest of the day.
Ask yourself questions in your journal entries. Good questions to ask include:

How am I feeling right now?
Do I think anything happened to provoke this response?
What do I need when I feel this way?
Have I felt this way before?


You should also practice self-acceptance in your journal. Try not to judge your emotions, even the ones you see as negative. Remember that feelings are not something you can control, but you can control how you interpret and respond to them.Write about any events or experiences that you feel bad about. For example, perhaps you yelled at a server who spilled your drink on you. Try to write what happened without being judgmental of yourself or others: “The server spilled my tea on me. I got angry and yelled at her. I was upset because it was a new shirt that I really liked.”
Remind yourself that everyone makes mistakes. This isn’t a way of excusing bad behavior. It’s a way of reminding yourself that you are human, and like all humans, you do things you regret. Beating yourself up over something can leave you focused on the past, instead of the future.
Show yourself some kindness. Forgive yourself for your negative action. Think about ways that you can make the situation right. Consider how you want to react to similar situations in the future and make a plan. For example: “I yelled at that server, which I don’t like because I don’t want to be unkind to others. I let my anger get the better of me. The next time I eat there, I will apologize to the server for my previous behavior. If an accident happens again, I will remind myself that everyone, including me and the other person, makes mistakes. I will speak with kindness instead of anger.”
Take ownership of your emotions. Recognize when you try to blame other people for your emotions. Taking full responsibility for your emotions will help you better control them.
 Studies have shown that people who are generally optimistic respond better to stress.Learning to become more positive in your outlook takes time and practice, but it can also enhance your resilience to uncertain or disturbing emotions and experiences.Look for the positives. Humans have a bad tendency to focus mainly on the negative things in our experience and let the positives fly right by. Take time to list the small beautiful things about each day.Practice replacing global, permanent statements with limited, flexible ones. For example, someone might experience stress over a big exam and think, “It’s no use. I just suck at history. Why even bother studying when I’m going to fail?” This thinking assumes that history skills are permanent, rather than something to be attained with practice and work. It can lead to a self-fulfilling prophecy, where you fail because you don’t work (because you expect to fail).Instead, you might experience stress over a big exam and think, “I’m worried that I haven’t prepared enough. I’ll use my time to make extra flash cards and join a study group. I may not ace the test, but I’ll know I did my best.” By viewing the experience as flexible -- something to be changed with a little effort -- you are more likely to succeed.
 There are many irrational ideas that repeatedly upset us.They are all false, but many of us are inclined to believe at least some of them part of the time. Here are some preconceived notions about the self that can hold you back from feeling good about yourself and your life."I must be perfect in all respects in order to be worthwhile." Nobody can be perfect in everything that we have to do in life. There is no one standard for perfection and holding yourself to an unattainable standard can cause you a lot of misery. Instead, shoot for an ideal that's meaningful to you, but remember there's a reason it's called an "ideal.""I must be loved and approved of by everyone who is important to me." Each person is unique, and some people simply don’t fit together well. Trying to control others’ responses to you is not only futile, it will leave you feeling unhappy and dissatisfied.
"When people treat me unfairly, it is because they are bad people." Everyone makes mistakes. Much of the time, people may not even know that they’re treating you badly. People are fallible, and nobody is “all good” or “all bad.”
"It is unbearable when I am seriously frustrated, treated badly, or rejected." Some people have such a short fuse that they are constantly losing jobs or endangering friendships because they are unable to endure the slightest frustration. Be considerate of other people.
"If something is dangerous or fearful, I have to worry about it." Many people believe that "the work of worrying" will help to make problems go away. They drive themselves crazy by making up things to worry about. "Okay, that's over. Now, what's the next thing on the list that I have to worry about?" Remember that you cannot control anything other than your own actions and responses.
"It is terrible when things do not work out exactly as I want them to." Could you have predicted the course of your own life? Probably not. By the same token, you can't predict that things are going to work out exactly as you want them to, even in the short term.
 Your habits of thinking may have developed some beliefs about yourself that are now deeply ingrained. Learning to see these as fallacies can help you work past them."Misery comes from outside forces that I can’t do very much to change." Many prison inmates describe their life as if it were a cork, bobbing up and down on waves of circumstance. You can choose whether to see yourself as an effect of your circumstances, or a cause. Take responsibility for your actions.
"It is easier to avoid life’s difficulties and responsibilities than to face them." Even painful experiences, once we can get through them, can serve as a basis for learning and future growth.
"Because things in my past controlled my life, they have to keep doing so now and in the future." If this were really true, it would mean that we are prisoners of our past, and change is impossible. But people change all the time — and sometimes they change dramatically! You have the ability to be essentially who you want to be; you just have to believe in yourself.
"I can be as happy as possible by just doing nothing and enjoying myself, taking life as it comes." If this were true, almost every wealthy or comfortably retired person would do as little as possible. But instead, they seek new challenges as a pathway to further growth. You're tricking yourself into believing that you'd be really happy doing nothing. People need novelty to stay satisfied.

