 Use a comb to achieve a precise part. Working with hair that is slightly damp might make it easier as well. You can use hair ties or clips to hold the sections as you create them., Ask for help if you have a hard time French braiding your own hair. Two sets of hands will help speed up the process. Depending on how many sections you decide to braid, this step could take several hours, so you might appreciate the help and the company.

If your braid is thicker than a half inch, you need to section off your hair in smaller widths. A braid that is too thick will only achieve wavy hair. Make smaller sections of tighter braids to give yourself the fullest afro possible.
 A volumizing mousse or setting lotion will help to create firm, long-lasting curls.

To simplify this step, you can make a solution of 20% setting lotion or gel and 80% water and saturate the braids with the solution.,

Start with wet or damp hair before bed, and you will be ready to finish your afro when you get up in the morning.
If you don't want to wait, you can use a hair dryer to dry the braids faster.
 Make sure the braids are completely dry before taking them out. If your hair seems tangled, apply a moisturizer like shea or coconut butter to the remaining braids to make the rest of the process easier., If you have long hair, bend over and let the weight of your hair and gravity help the process. Your hair should appear much more curly than before., Do this one section at a time. Creating smaller sections to backcomb will help to create greater volume than larger chunks of hair., Use a fine-toothed comb and brush your hair gently from the tip to the scalp to separate the hairs from the section. This will create tangles in the hair that will give your afro more volume. Repeat until your hair has the desired fullness.

Do not use too much pressure when backcombing. You don't want the hair to break.
 A little hairspray is all you need to hold your afro in place. You can carry a pick comb around to keep your afro detangled and looking fabulous everywhere you go.