 Don’t touch your eyes, nose, or mouth without washing your hands first. These are all entry points for cold viruses. By washing your hands frequently, you can reduce the amount of viruses on your hands.Rub your hands together with soap under running water for at least 20 seconds. If it is available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
Wash your hands after coughing, sneezing, blowing your nose, or shaking hands with other people.
 This means not shaking hands, hugging, kissing, or touching people who have symptoms. If possible, disinfect objects like keyboards, doorknobs, or toys that sick people or children have been touching. You can also limit your exposure to sick people by avoiding crowds. This is particularly true of crowds in small spaces with little air circulation such as:Schools
Offices
Public transportation
Auditoriums

, Most colds do not take away your appetite. If you think a cold is coming on, make sure to supply your body with the nutrients it needs to stay healthy and fight off the virus.


Eat diverse fruits and vegetables to make sure you get the vitamins you need.
Whole-grain breads are excellent sources of energy and fiber.
Get protein through healthy, low fat sources such as poultry, beans, fish and eggs.
Even though you may be tired, avoid eating pre-packaged processed foods. They are likely to have a lot of sugar, salt and fat. This will make you feel full without providing a balanced diet with the nutrients you need.
 Stress causes hormonal and physiological changes in your body which can suppress your immune system and increase your chances of getting an infection. You can cope with stress by:Exercising daily. This will release endorphins which will improve your mood and help you relax physically and emotionally.
Sleep for 8 hours each night. Some adults may need as many as 10 hours. Try to stick to a regular schedule that allows you enough sleep so that you can wake up without being exhausted in the morning.
Meditation
Yoga
Massage
Having close relationships that provide social support

