 Attach the yarn to the crochet hook using a standard slip knot.


You'll need approximately five skeins of super bulky (level 6) yarn and an M-13 (9.0 mm) or larger crochet hook.
The yarn gauge isn't crucial for this project since you can alter the pattern as you go along, but for best results, note that eight stitches should produce 4 inches (10 cm) of material.;
, Chain stitch 85 times to create the foundation of your sweater.


This foundation chain will match the overall sweater length, not the sweater width.
Alter the number of chain stitches as desired to change the length of the sweater to your preference. On an adult woman of average height, 85 chains should create a sweater that drapes from the shoulder to the upper-mid thigh.
 Work one single crochet into the second chain from the hook and into each of the remaining chains across your foundation row.


Turn your work once you reach the end of the row.
 Chain one, then single crochet once into each of the stitches in the previous row, working each single crochet into the back loops only.


The back loops are the loops that are furthest away from you as you work across the row. By working only in the back loops, you will give the final sweater a ribbed texture.
Once you reach the end of the row, turn the work over to the other side.
 Continue working additional rows of crochet that are identical to the second row. Repeat until you have approximately 38 inches (96.5 cm) of material width.


Expect to work 50 to 60 rows in this manner. You don't need to keep count, though, since the final measurement is more important than the precise number of rows.
For each row, chain one at the beginning and single crochet once into the back loops of each stitch. Turn once you reach the end of the row.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a long tail that matches the approximate length of your overall sweater piece. Pull the tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off your stitches.


Do not trim the tail or weave it under your stitches yet. You'll use this yarn to stitch up one side of your sweater.
 Fold the rectangle in half so that the rows run vertically.


The width of the rectangle should not change once you fold it, but the length will temporarily halve.
 Using a yarn needle and the remaining tail of yarn, whip stitch along two-thirds of one vertical side.


Leave approximately 7 to 8 inches (18 to 20 cm) of space in between the fold and your final whip stitch. This space will create the armhole of the sweater, so it should be about as long as half the circumference of your upper arm.
It may help to measure out the armhole length and mark the bottom with a stitch marker before stitching along the side.
 Using fresh yarn and a yarn needle, whip stitch along two-thirds of the other vertical side.


The stitched portion of this side should match the stitched portion of the other side, and both open armholes should measure the same length.
Both stitched seams should fall beneath your arms when you put on the sweater.
 Trim each excess yarn tail to a length of 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm). Weave the tails into the underside of the surrounding stitches.


Once you complete this step, the main body of the sweater is done. You can actually stop here and wear the sweater as it is if you do not wish to include a collar or sleeve edging.
 Use stitch markers to tag the upper midline, start point, and end point of your collar.


To find the upper midline, lay the sweater flat with the opening facing you. The upper midline is the halfway point along the top width of the sweater.
The start and end points should mirror one another. They should be about three-quarters down the length of the sweater, or 10 to 15 rows beneath the arm seam. If desired, you can try the sweater on in front of a mirror and visually mark the points that look best.
 Starting with new yarn, crochet a series of slip stitches, single crochets, half double crochets, and double crochets. This base should span between your starting marker and your upper midline marker.


Attach the yarn to your sweater using a slip stitch.
Slip stitch once into each of the next two stitches, single crochet once into each of the next two stitches, and half double crochet once into each of the two stitches after that.
Double crochet once into each of the remaining stitches until you reach your upper midline marker, keeping count as work.
Double crochet once into the midline stitch.
 Reverse the previous pattern from the midline point to the end point. Once you reach the end point, you've completed the first collar row.


Repeat the same number of double crochet across the row, stopping once there are only six stitches left.
Half double crochet once into each of the next two stitches, single crochet once into each of the two stitches after that, and slip stitch once into the final two stitches.
Slip stitch once to the next stitch just outside of your stitch marker, then turn the work over.
 Alternate back and forth between front post double crochet and back post double crochet along the second row.


Before you reach the ribbing, you'll need to build the base. Slip stitch once into each of the first two stitches, single crochet twice into the next two stitches, and half double crochet into each of the two stitches after that.
Alternate back and forth between front post double crochet and back post double crochet, working only one of either option into each stitch across the row. Continue until only six stitches remain.
For the last six stitches, mirror the starting pattern: half double crochet into each of the first two stitches, single crochet into each of the next two stitches, and slip stitch into each of the final two stitches.
Slip stitch once into the base of the row, then turn the work over.
 The third row follows the same pattern as the second row, but the back post double crochets and front post double crochets should be reversed.


Slip stitch into two stitches, single crochet into two stitches, and half double crochet into two stitches.
Alternate back and forth between back post double crochet and front post double crochet until only six stitches remain.
Half double crochet into two stitches, single crochet into two stitches, and slip stitch into two stitches.
Slip stitch into the base of the row and turn the work.
 The fourth row should be worked in a pattern that is identical to the second row.


Slip stitch into two stitches, single crochet into two stitches, and half double crochet into two stitches.
Alternate between front post double crochet and back post double crochet until only six stitches remain.
Half double crochet into two stitches, single crochet into two stitches, and slip stitch into two stitches.
Slip stitch into the base of the row.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail of 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm). Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the work.


Weave the remaining excess into the underside of your stitches.
This step completes the collar. If desired, you can wear the sweater as it is without completing the sleeve edging.
 Use a slip stitch to join new yarn to the sweater at the arm seam, then single crochet once into each stitch around the entire armhole.


Begin and end at the arm seam. Once you reach the end of the round, slip stitch the last single crochet to the first.
 Double crochet once into each stitch across the round.


When you reach the end of the round, slip stitch the last and first double crochets together.
 Chain four, then double crochet once into the original stitch at base of the chain.


Afterward, chain two, then double crochet once into the next stitch. Repeat this pattern all the way around the third and final round.
Slip stitch the final double crochet to the third chain in your chain-four.
 Cut the yarn, leaving 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) of excess. Pull this excess tail through the loop on your hook to fasten off the edging.


Weave the remaining tail into the underside of your stitches.
 Repeat the same pattern around the other armhole to create identical edging.


Once you finish the edging on both armholes/sleeves, the entire sweater is complete and ready to wear.

