 Before talking with your relative, write down what types of food they give your dog. They may forget what food they gave your dog, but it will be important for you to know. Examples of table food to watch out for are:Bits of meat
Leftover bones
Junk food, like fries or potato chips;
, Your relative may think that feeding your dog table food only occasionally won’t do any harm. Even if your dog doesn’t get sick from the occasional morsel of table food, it will encourage the dog to beg for table food.


When you write down what table food your relative gave your dog, record how often they gave it (for example, once a day or at each meal).
 Because table food is richer in flavor than your dog’s regular food, it can upset your dog’s digestive system and cause diarrhea and vomiting.Write down if your dog becomes sick after your relative gives it table food.
 You may be very unhappy with your relative feeding your dog table food; however, you should not talk with your relative when you’re feeling upset. Your emotions could get the best of you and the conversation could turn into an argument.


Talk with your relative when you feel calm and your emotions are under control.
Find a time when you and your relative can talk in private, rather than when other people are around.
 Your relative may not understand that table food can make your dog sick. Also, they may not realize you have a rule against feeding your dog table food. To get your relative to stop feeding your dog table food, you will need to clearly explain why they should stop doing it. Plan out the conversation by thinking about these points:


The importance of keeping your dog healthy
What can happen (or does happen) when your dog eats table food
Your ‘no table food’ rule

, When you feel confident and calm, let your relative know you’d like to speak with them. To start the conversation, explain why you want to talk your relative. Some possible conversation starters are:


"Do you have some time to talk? I'm concerned about my dog eating table food."
"It looks like my dog loves getting table food from you; however, that food can make him sick. Can we talk one-on-one about this?"
"My vet said that table food isn't good for dogs. Can you and I talk about not feeding my dog table food anymore?"

, Once you have your relative's attention, continue talking about the problem of feeding your dog table food. Discuss what table food can do to your dog's health:


"Although table food tastes really good to my dog, it can upset his stomach and cause him to throw up or have diarrhea. That's such a mess to clean up!"
"Table food can make a dog gain weight and possibly become obese. I don't feed my dog table food because I want him to stay at a healthy weight."
"Dogs that eat a lot of table food can become so sick that they need to be treated by a vet. I don't want my dog getting that sick."

, Don't do all of the talking during the conversation. Allow your relative some time to say why they feed your dog table food. They may something like:


"It's really hard to ignore your dog when he's begging at the table. I give him food to keep him quiet."
"I didn't know table food was so bad for dogs. Thanks for letting me know."

, After your relative has said what they want to say about the problem, ask them to stop feeding the table food. Here are a few ways to be direct, yet polite, with your request:


"If my dog is begging you for table food, simply ignore him and continue eating. You don't even have to feel guilty about it."
"Cleaning up after my dog when he gets sick from eating table food is no fun. I'd appreciate if you could stop feeding him table food."
"My dog will be just fine without eating table food. Please stop feeding from your plate."

, Ideally, your relative will no longer give your dog table food. The next time you are all at the table, watch their behavior. If they give in to your dog’s begging, you may need to talk with them again.

