 Asking your girlfriend’s parents for her hand in marriage can be nerve-wracking. If you are very nervous or afraid that you’ll forget what you want to say to her parents, it would be helpful to memorize and practice the speech beforehand. If you want a more natural conversation, or feel comfortable asking for your girlfriend’s hand in marriage, don’t prepare a speech. Whatever you do, try not to overthink it.


If you prepare a speech, practice reading it to a close friend.Solicit feedback to help you figure out how to best phrase what you want to say.
 In the case of divorced parents, however, consult only your girlfriend’s primary parent. For instance, if your girlfriend grew up with her mom and rarely or never saw her father, do not feel obligated to ask him for his daughter’s hand in marriage. After her mother has agreed to the marriage, inform her father that you’ve asked for his daughter’s hand in marriage.
 For instance, you might say, “She’s a wonderful woman who inspires me to be the best person I can be. She makes me laugh and always understands what I’m thinking.”


Think about why you love your girlfriend when crafting your explanation.
Don’t exaggerate or say vague things like, “She’s perfect,” or “We never have any problems.” Conclude by informing them that they’ve raised a wonderful daughter.
 But in order to justify marriage, you have to express your undying commitment to their daughter. Tell them that you want to spend your life with her.


Say, “I pledge my whole heart to your daughter and will do everything in my power to provide for her the best life I can.” Then take a deep breath and ask directly, “I would like your approval to marry (your girlfriend’s name).”
Do not say, "I would like to marry your daughter.” A comedic parent might ruin the solemnity of the moment by asking “Which one?” if they have multiple daughters.
 They will likely want to know when you intend to pop the question on your girlfriend, and when you plan on having the wedding. They might have more practical concerns, too, like where you intend to live together or what your job will be (if you expect to change it). Listen carefully to what they have to say and don’t be afraid to say that you don’t have those answers yet. Don’t make up answers in order to appear as if you have everything all planned out when you don’t.

