 Smokeless tobacco products come in a variety of different cuts, which each have slightly different qualities. The main cuts are long cut and fine cut. Snuff is a name given to finely ground tobacco, which you can buy in pouches, or loose. These are the most common types of dip, which you have to spit out when you are done.


Pouches make it easier to hold the tobacco in your mouth, as well as putting it in and taking it out.
If you use pouches you are also less likely to swallow any of the tobacco, which is not advisable.
If you are not using a pouch, long cuts are easier to manoeuvre and control in your mouth than fine cuts.;
, You can buy snuff in a variety of flavours, ranging from fruit and mint flavours, to the more “natural” tobacco flavours. Some of the fruit flavours include apple, berry, citrus, peach and grape.You can try a variety of different fruit flavours to find the one that you like the most. If you don’t like the sweeter fruity flavours, you can go for a mint or “natural” flavour.


There are a number of minty flavours available, such as regular mint, spearmint, and menthol flavours.
The “natural” flavours will have a more authentic tobacco taste, but will not be for everyone.
 There are a number of major brands in the US, who sell a variety of different flavours and cuts of moist snuff. Some of the most popular brands include Copenhagen, Skoal, Timberwolf, and Husky. The different products available vary from the premium more expensive snuffs of Copenhagen, to the cheaper brands like Husky.


You can read user reviews and recommendations on the different brands and flavours available online., If you enjoy the physical sensation of dipping, but don’t want to risk nicotine addiction and the health risks associated with dipping and smokeless tobacco, there are some alternatives. These products are sometimes known as “fake dip” or “fake tobacco.” There is an extensive list of these products online.Some of these non-nicotine alternatives are coffee flavoured.


Some non-nicotine and non-tobacco chews and dips are made from FDA approved ingredients.
Because of the contents of these products, it is not necessary to spit, and you can swallow it.Switching to “fake dip” can be an excellent way to quit the tobacco and nicotine version., Smokeless tobacco products contain at least three elements which are known carcinogenic agents: N-nitrosamines, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and polonium 210.The tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines (TSNAs)are present in extremely high levels in many snuff products, both moist and dry. These TSNAs are thought to present the highest carcinogenic risk associated with dip and snuff.As dipping has become more popular, scientists have begun to conduct more detailed research into the contents and carcinogenic effects of smokeless tobacco.
Scientists have identified the presence of at least 23 different polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in popular snuff brands.
9 of the PAHs detected so far are carcinogens., Moist snuff can lead to a number of very serious health problems, including oral cancers, cardiovascular diseases and gingival diseases. Scientists and researchers have studied these effects and recommended that snuff be considered a public health problem in the same way that smoking is.As well as the risk of disease, dipping can lead to discoloured teeth, receding gums, chronic oral sores, and bad breath.The nicotine raises your blood pressure and cholesterol level, and this can increase your risk of a heart attack., Smokeless tobacco products, such as moist snuff, contain very high amounts of nicotine. Research has shown that two of the most popular snuff brands are 3.3% and 3.2% nicotine. This is considerably higher than the equivalent in cigarettes, which typically have between 1.5% and 2.5% nicotine.Snuff products also deliver this nicotine very rapidly, and can very easily lead to nicotine dependency.Holding an average sized dip in your mouth for half an hour will deliver as much nicotine as chain-smoking three cigarettes.
 If you are regularly dipping, it is highly likely than you will develop a level of addiction or dependency, due to high levels of nicotine in snuff. It’s important to think about the different indicators that help to identify the level of your addiction. Did you feel dizzy or sick when you first began dipping, but don’t now? Do you dip more often, and in a variety of settings? Have you switched to stronger snuff with higher nicotine content?


Do you regularly swallow the juice from the tobacco?
Do you ever sleep with dip in your mouth?
Do you have strong cravings when you go without dip?
Do you find it hard to go for more than a few hours without dipping?

, If you decide that you want to quit dipping, and break free of your addiction, that are a number organisations that can help you.Once you decide to quit, pick a day and get emotionally ready for it. You can try to quit quickly cold turkey, or you could set a date a little in the future and try to gradually cut down in advance of your final quitting date.



Try to be excited about it rather than anxious. It’ll be tough to quit, but the long-term benefits far out way the short-term pains.
You will have to make a clear plan, and be prepared for the withdrawal symptoms if your attempt to quit is to be successful.

