 If you find a nest with no mother, you may have inadvertently frightened the mother away or she left to find food to eat. Leave it alone and check back later – if the mother has not returned, she will most likely not return.Try to handle them as little as possible, but don't worry too much about this. Unlike birds, mice will not reject their young simply because they have human scent on them.
After 4-6 hours, if you check the babies and they do not have white bands on their tummies (“milk bellies”), this means they have not been fed. The mother is either deceased, or has abandoned the nest.
 If you find a baby wild mouse (or an empty nest of baby mice), call your local wildlife rehabilitation office. Transferring the baby mouse to a wildlife professional is the best chance it has for survival. In the meantime, there are things you can do to try to keep the baby alive.If there is no rehabilitation office in your area, the next best option is to try to hand-feed the baby.
When you call, ask the rehabilitator what they plan to do with the mice. They may try to raise them, or they may use them to feed other animals they are taking care of. If you don't want your baby mouse to wind up as owl food, you'll need to care for them yourself.
 If the mouse has been attacked by a cat, bacteria in the cat's mouth will almost always cause a fatal infection called septicemia. You can take the mouse to a vet for emergency treatment, but it is unlikely to survive., Line a box with clean, soft rags. Trim off any loose threads that might become tangled around the mouse's legs.Always wash your hands after handling wild mice. They can carry a very dangerous, highly contagious virus called Hantavirus.
If the baby survives the first few days, transfer it to a glass or plastic ventilated container that it won't be able to chew through.
 A baby mouse should be kept warm – 80-100 degrees Fahrenheit is ideal (you can check this with a thermometer.) Turn a heating pad to its lowest setting and wrap it in a soft, clean towel or rag. Place the heating pad under the box, below the mouse.Be sure the heating pad isn't too hot – if it feels even slightly hot to your hand, let it cool in the box for a minute before pressing it up against the mouse.
If you don't have a heating pad, try using a bottle or bag filled with warm, cooked rice. You'll need to keep warming or refreshing the rice as it cools. Use any kind of bottle that can be reheated – a plastic bottle or thick zip-lock freezer bag would work well.
A healthy mouse will be able to maintain its own body temperature at about 2 and ½ weeks old, as long as its container is in a warm, indoor room.
 An eye-dropper is too large to feed a small baby mouse. You will need a tiny syringe (without the needle.) Pet stores often have small syringes with slender, curved spouts specifically for feeding baby rodents.
 Unless you are certain the baby was with its mother less than an hour ago, you should rehydrate the baby before feeding it formula. Feed 3 - 4 drops of a non-flavored electrolyte beverage like Pedialyte directly into the baby's mouth. Wait an hour before feeding formula.