 The human body feels stress when there is a real or perceived threat. This causes a release of hormones that prepare us for a “fight or flight” response. Unless you are in real danger, many stressful situations can be eased by practicing a mindful change in attitude.Keep things in perspective. Work, school, and family commitments are common stressors in the 21st century. The pressures you feel are real, but are not always life-or-death situations. Try to recognize the positive and see how things can be worked out in the future.Set realistic expectations. Some people feel overly stressed because of the pressure they put on themselves to do things perfectly. Try to set expectations that are fit your situation. Stick to a realistic goal and try not to push yourself over the edge.Don’t over think things that are out of your control. If you have a problem, set an action plan to work things out in the best way possible. Do what you can, and try not to worry once matters are out of your hands.;
, Set aside time to relax and do the things that make you happy. Watch a movie, read, or take a warm bath. Make sure it is an activity that brings you joy and comfort., Meditation can make you more aware of your thoughts and general mental state. Bringing awareness to your stress can often help reduce its presence. There are many types of meditation, so do some research to find what is best for you.To do a simple meditation, find a comfortable place and sit or lie down. Then, you can focus your eyes on an object or candle flame, or close your eyes to begin meditating.
Try to clear your mind and focus on an object or repeat a mantra to yourself, such as, "I am calm and serene."
If your mind wanders, then try to notice the thought and then let it pass, like watching a cloud float away.
Start by just meditating for 5 to 10 minutes and then work up to meditating for longer periods as you get better at it.
 If your home is a relaxing place, then you may find it easier to relax. Try keep your home, or at least one room in your home, clean and clutter-free.


Try decorating a room with calming things, such as by painting it a soothing color, like light blue or lavender.
Use as much natural lighting in your home as possible.
You can also try using aromatherapy in your home, such as by burning a calming scented candle, such as a lavender scented candle.

