 They generally ripen 35 to 45 days after the plant blooms.When the watermelon is ripe, the curly tendril on the vine will dry up and turn brown and the white spot on the bottom of the watermelon will turn yellow. The watermelon will also lose its shine and become dull-looking.;
, These are all indications of diseases like bacterial wilt and anthracnose.The seeds could be infected, which means they will produce diseased plants.
 Watermelons cross pollinate, so seeds collected from a watermelon that was cross-pollinated with a different cultivar may produce watermelons that do not have the desired characteristics.


While you can use seeds that have been collected from a watermelon that has been purchased from a store or local vendor, there is no way to tell from the watermelon whether or not it has been cross pollinated. So, the watermelons that grow from the seeds may be different from the watermelon you bought., Wash the soil off the watermelon with clean water before cutting it open.


Seeds can be collected when the watermelon is eaten or you can cut the watermelon open and pick the seeds out by hand.
 Stir the seeds around with a spoon to wash off the pulp. Let them sit in the water at room temperature for two to three days, stirring them gently once each day., Leave any seeds at the bottom in the container.
 This will give the seeds a good rinse.
 Spread the seeds out on several layers of paper towel or newspaper and let them dry at room temperature.


Dry them in an area that is slightly warmer than room temperature and has good air circulation, like the top of your refrigerator.
Do not expose the seeds to direct sunlight.
 A plastic container with a lid that seals, a plastic sandwich or storage bag with a zipper seal or a clean glass jar with a lid that screws down tight will work., Put the container in the refrigerator to keep them cool and dormant.


The seeds can be stored for up to five years.
 Do this two to four weeks before the last expected frost.
 The soil temperatures should rise above 65ʡF (18ʡC)., Once the seeds are planted in the garden in the spring, you should expect ripe watermelons in the summer every year.