 This is the end of your line and the part that will be doing the knot tying. Designate the end of your rope before you start.;
, This is the rest of your line that would run up toward a reel if you were fishing, or a cinch if you were rock climbing. Basically it is all the middle section of your rope.
 The turn is when the end of the rope – the tag end – passes completely around the standing line. Some call this a wrap. , The end in your left hand is end 2, and the end in your right hand is end 1. End 1 will be doing the knot tying, so recognize this as the tag line. Make sure you give yourself plenty of slack. It’s helpful to have a lot of string or rope to work with as you learn.
 You want to cross them so that end 2 lies over end 1. The end of the tagline (end 2) will be behind the loop you have created and pointing downwards. You can leave a short tail or a long tail depending on how much rope you have. To start, make sure that you have at least six inches of rope to do the tying. This means that you should have six inches of rope above where you crossed it.
 You've crossed your two lines, so one line should be dangling over the other. Take the dangling piece and start to wrap it around the other piece. As you do this, the part of rope that you originally crossed will form start to form a loop. So instead of wrapping that dangling piece (end 2) around end 1, pull end 2 through the loop and up to the left. This will create a smaller loop on top of the larger loop underneath. Keep the loops loose so you’re able to get the line through the hole.
 Using your right hand pull end 2 through the smaller loop. You should enter the smaller loop from the back and pull up to the front.
 You can tighten the loop by pulling the tagline with your right hand and end 1 with your left hand. End 1 will be next to the bigger loop at this point. This will create a knot on top of your larger loop. End 1 should be able to slide back and forth enabling you to adjust the loop the appropriate size. If you have ever tied a tie before, it’s a similar concept to the tightening of a tie.
 To continue tightening your knot pull end 1 through the large loop from behind. Imagine a tie that has already been tied. If you were following instructions to make a tighter fisherman's knot you would take the bottom of the tie and stick it in through the top of the knot that is holding your tie in place. Once you've done this pull the line upwards once again. This will proceed to make another create a small loop on top of the larger loop you just pulled your rope through.
 Make sure you pull it through the loop from behind. Pull the loop to tighten it using your left hand.
 Just like you tightened the first knot, tighten this knot by pulling the larger loop from either side. If you plan to undo your work and try again then you probably shouldn’t pull too hard or it will be hard to untie the knot.

