 One of the hardest parts about having anxiety is accepting the uncertainty of situations. The effects of aging are not under your control and are largely uncertain. Thinking about all the things that could go wrong doesn’t make life any easier or more predictable. Instead of focusing your thoughts on worries, focus on accepting uncertainty. Recognize that life is not predictable and it’s impossible to have 100% certainty on everything.Ask yourself, “Is this a reasonable concern to think about right now? Can I be okay knowing that this is uncertain? Is it possible to live with the possibility of something going poorly, even if it’s a small chance?”

, A big part of anxiety is negative thought patterns. You might overestimate the possibility of something going wrong or consistently assume the worst. You might underestimate your ability to handle problems. For example, you may focus on all of the negative things and ignore positive things or possibilities. Learn to challenge these thoughts and replace them with more positive ones.For example, if you feel anxious about health problems, ask yourself, “Is there a more positive way to look at this? Am I looking at it objectively? How is this thought hurting me, and is there a more realistic way to approach it?”

, If anxiety is a large part of your day, engage in relaxation as a regular practice. Relaxation can help calm your body and mind. This can help you calm your anxious thoughts and deal with them daily. Aim to relax 30 minutes each day.Find relaxation methods that feel good that you can practice daily. Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation.
 Lean on your partner, siblings, friends and family as a source of support. Even if they cannot change things for you, it can be helpful to know you have someone to talk to when you feel anxious or worried. Even the act of talking about your feelings can help you experience a sense of relief and support. Being near people who love you and support you can be integral in helping you deal with your anxieties.Avoid talking about your worries with people who will make you feel more anxious; instead, talk to someone who is loving, calm, and supportive.
 If your fears of aging seem too much for you to handle, discuss them with a therapist. Therapy is a safe place for you to talk about your fears openly. Your therapist can help you understand your fears and how to work with them or overcome them. Consider using a therapist who practices cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT), as this is the most widely-used form of therapy treatment. CBT allows you to confront and address negative thought patterns that contribute to anxiety.CBT can help you look at the thoughts that contribute to anxiety and respond differently to them.
 Often, anxiety is treated through both therapy and medication. If your anxiety has become excessive and interferes in various areas of your life, consider discussing medication with your prescriber. Look over your symptoms of anxiety and talk about them with your physician to decide whether medication is right for you.You may feel more comfortable talking with your regular physician than seeing someone new. Ask your physician whether they are comfortable treating anxiety before pursuing treatment. If your physician is not comfortable, then consider a referral to a mental health specialist.

