 South Dakota provides fill-in-the-blank forms you can use to create your petition. The state courts provide detailed instructions on how to complete these forms.


Generally, your petition needs to include your current name and address, the new name you want, and why you want to change your name.
Along with your petition, you will fill out a notice of hearing and an order for the judge to sign if she approves your name change.;
, Once you’ve finished writing your petition, you need to sign it in the presence of a notary public.


No other witnesses apart from the notary are required.
The notary will charge a fee for her services.
, South Dakota requires you to publish a notice in your local newspaper once a week for at least four weeks before your name change hearing.The purpose of this notice is to allow anyone who might object to your name change the opportunity to appear at your hearing and contest your petition.
You must use the legal newspaper of record, not just any newspaper. If you’re unsure which newspaper to use, you can contact the Auditor’s office in your county.
Your local newspaper will charge a fee for this publication, which can be as much as several hundred dollars.
 Come to court at the date and time for your hearing. Dress professionally and arrive early with copies of all your documents related to your name change.


Be prepared to answer the judge’s questions about your name change.
The judge will grant your order if she is satisfied you are not trying to change your name for a dishonest or illegal purpose, such as to avoid debts.
 Once the judge has signed your order, use the official, certified copy to get your name changed with Social Security.


You’ll have to go to your local SSA office and complete the application to change your name.
The SSA will need to see your birth certificate or passport as well as your name change order, to prove your citizenship and identity.
There is never a fee to change your name on your Social Security card. They will mail you a new card after your application is completed., You also will need to bring your official, stamped copy of the order to the Department of Public Safety to prove your name change.


You will also need to bring your new Social Security card and two documents that prove your current address.You’ll need to pay $28 for a new license with your name changed., Once you have your new name on your Social Security card and your photo ID, you should have no difficulty getting your name changed on other accounts such as credit card and bank accounts.

