 What you eat can affect how you smell. If you are having problems with body odor, try to steer clear of certain foods, and up your intake of others. These foods include:


Foods to avoid: large quantities of red meat, garlic and onions, spicy foods, and heavily processed foods that contain high amounts of sugar. All of these foods can make your body odor worse. You should also avoid caffeinated drinks as those can add to body odor.
Some foods to eat are: leafy vegetables, whole grains, raw nuts and seeds, healthy oils (olive oil, salmon, avocado, etc.), and phytonutrients that cleanse your insides (like parsley, cilantro, celery, mints, sage, rosemary, thyme, and oregano.
 Some intense cases of body odor can be caused by a problem with your gut. Your gut may not be able to completely digest certain foods, which in turn can lead to an increase in body odor. You can try boosting your gut health at home, but if it continues to be a problem you should seek the help of a doctor. Ways to boost your gut health include:


Taking a probiotic supplement to help boost your intestinal flora quality.
Taking digestive enzymes with your meals or taking some apple cider vinegar to help aid your digestion.
 Chlorophyll supplements are thought to act as natural deodorizers, which can help to keep you from getting smelly throughout the day. Add a chlorophyll supplement to your normal vitamin regimen., Stress stimulates the apocrine glands, which are a type of gland that causes body odor. This means that when you are anxious or angry and under stress you're more likely to produce more body odor.



Meditation may help to cut down the amount of stress you feel. Meditate for 15 minutes each day and you may find that your stress is becoming more manageable (and therefore you will smell better).

Yoga is another good way to cut down on your stress.
 Cleansing your body, especially if your body odor problem comes from your gut or the food you've been eating, may help to reduce body odor and set you on the path towards smelling clean and fresh.


There are lots of different types of detoxes, so plan to talk to your doctor before you attempt one, especially one of the more rigorous cleanses. This is particularly important to do if you have a medical condition.
 Drinking plenty of liquid throughout the day can help to wash out the toxins in your body. This can help to promote good gut health, which in turn can make you less smelly.


The average adult woman generally needs 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water, while the average adult man generally needs 3 liters (0.8 US gal)., While this might sound counterintuitive because exercising makes you sweat, getting plenty of physical exercise can actually help to combat body odor in the long run. Exercising can help you to sweat out toxins that have built up in your body that could potentially cause body odor.


However, make sure to take a shower after you exercise and dry off thoroughly, as mentioned above.
 If you have tried the above steps and nothing seems to be eliminating your body odor, you may have a medical condition that is causing the smell. Go to a doctor or dermatologist to discuss your body odor issue and get a diagnosis. You might be diagnosed with Bromhidrosis, a condition that causes people to have excessive body odor</ref>


Doctors can prescribe prescription-level antiperspirants. These can cause skin irritation, so make sure you're only using this if you have an actual medical issue (like Bromhidrosis or Hyperhidrosis).
Botox can also block sweat glands and eliminate your sweating. Again, you don't want to do this unless you have an actual medical problem, because it is both expensive and painful. The effects may only last for a few months and aren't always a long-term solution.

