 Call up a friend. Spending time with your friends, even if it’s just to watch a silly television show or take a walk, will take your mind off of what’s bothering you. You’ll feel supported and less alone., You may be feeling down because of not getting enough sunlight. Go outside when it’s sunny. 10 to 15 minutes a day is all you need.This will boost your mood by increasing the production of melatonin, a hormone that has an effect on mood and sleep.If it’s not sunny where you are right now, buy a high-intensity indoor light. Although it won’t be as effective as sunshine, it will help in the short-term.
 Take a short walk, do some jumping jacks, run in place, dance around your room, or go for a bike ride. Even short exercise sessions of just 10 minutes can be effective in reducing stress and lifting your spirits.If you’re injured, disabled, or don’t want to do a faster-paced workout, try some simple stretches while standing or sitting.
 Starting a new project will help to distract you, and as an added bonus will give you a sense of accomplishment. Maybe you’ll tackle a project you’ve been meaning to do for a long time, or maybe you’ll be inspired to start something new. Either way, start with something small and enjoyable at first to get you out of your funk. Some ideas:Organize photos
Redecorate your bedroom
Find something crafty to do off of Pinterest
Start a blog
Wash and clean out your car
Learn a new language

, Choose some music you enjoy that’s positive and upbeat. Turn it up and dance it out. The music itself will activate the pleasure centers in your brain and dancing will release endorphins, both of which will lift your mood.Music can bring back happy memories, give you a boost of energy, and allow you to let out some emotion.
 Watching something funny will likely make you laugh and smile. Laughing and smiling will naturally stimulate happier emotions, even if you weren’t necessarily feeling happy to begin with.

Laughter releases dopamine in the brain, which lifts your mood, and also releases more oxygen in the body, which allows you to feel less stressed and more relaxed., Spending time cuddling with a beloved pet will not only get your mind off your worries, but will also lower your blood pressure and reduce other physical signs of stress.If you don’t have a pet, consider going to your local humane society or to a local adoption event at a pet store. Even if you can’t adopt a pet right now, you’ll get a chance to pet animals, socialize with other humans, and maybe even think about volunteering for those organizations.
 If you have a friend or loved one nearby, give them a hug. Hugging lowers stress hormones and releases oxytocin, which can boost your mood.If you don’t have anyone to hug, that’s okay. Give yourself a quick massage, which can reduce stress hormones and lower heart rate. Try rubbing your shoulders, neck, and temples., Getting control of your breath will focus your mind, lower your heart rate, ease tension in your body, and lift your mood. Find a quiet and comfortable place to sit before you get started.Close your eyes
Inhale slowly through your nose for several seconds
Exhale slowly through your mouth for several seconds
Silently repeat a word to yourself every time you exhale, like “relax”
Repeat 10 times

, Get yourself a bouquet of flowers or plant some flowers in a pot or garden. Being around the colors and scents from plants and flowers reduces stress and feelings of sadness.Plants and flowers typically lift your mood more than if you just bought yourself any other gift, too.