 You want to make sure the copyright registration is under the author's name and that there aren't already any options, etc. The database goes back as far as 1978, so works made before then will not be listed online. To find works before 1978, you may need to buy a copyright report from a search firm.


The copyright search firm will be able to you help you, but their services may be expensive.
 Contact the author's publisher to see whether the rights to the work whose rights you want to purchase are available. Contact information for publishers is usually included somewhere on the work itself. If you cannot find the contact information, do an internet search to find the rights and acquisitions department.The rights and acquisition department should be able to tell you whether the film rights to the work are available, unavailable, or in the public domain.
Public domain rights mean you can adapt and sell your adaptation without having to purchase rights from the author or the author's estate.
If the publisher does not control the rights, check with the author's agent.
 Entertainment lawyers are experienced in the film industry and can help you with the process of securing film rights to established works. Hiring an entertainment lawyer prior to negotiations may make the process easier for you., Once you have been in contact with the publisher of the work for which you wish to purchase the film rights, negotiate a deal to buy the film rights. This is a more rare way of doing things because it requires a complete payment up front, before a film has even been planned.Buying a film's rights outright allows you to completely control the work's film rights up front, except for any agreements you may make with the author's agent or whoever holds the rights before you purchase them.
 The terms of the sale can include the buyer and writer retaining certain rights. These rights may include the role of the author or other person holding the rights prior to purchase (if any).The agreement may include rights to adapt the literary work into a major motion picture in addition to other routes, such as home videos, sequel or remake rights, advertising and promotional rights, or the right to change any part of the original work when adapting it into a movie.
 Ensure that both you and the writer sign the agreement drawn up for the sale of the movie rights. Unlike the option method of securing rights, the purchaser would need to pay the full agreed-upon amount up front for the rights.