 Look online at your town or city's codes, by-laws or dog legislation. There may be a code against unruly pets or incessant barking at night; many places have legislation or regulations in place that deal specifically with dogs and/or noise. There might also be a code covering ignoring requests from neighbors.


Often neighborhood or civil dispute centers produce small briefs on dog issues, as they're rather commonplace complaints. See if a precedent has already been set in your neighborhood.
You may want to share your findings with your neighbor to give him or her one last chance to change before you call the authorities. If you're pretty sure it won't work, move straight to the next step.
 Find out what town hall/council/municipal office or other relevant authority to call so you can file a report on your neighbors for a noise complaint.The authorities will talk to the dog owner and assess the situation. They will usually inform you of the outcome. If nothing changes, call again a few days later.You might want to ask if anonymity is an option when you file the report. In some cases, this may not be an issue for you, especially if it's plain-as-day that you're the one pointing the finger thanks to previous attempts. However, if you have various upset neighbors, maintaining anonymity may be useful to prevent retaliation of any sort.
Some jurisdictions will act on anonymous complaints, while others require your name and address but won't reveal this to the neighbor complained about. Check the public or private status of making a complaint before making it.
 If you believe the barking is a result of neglect or another form of abuse, you have the right to call animal control. If the dog is being severely abused it will be confiscated from the owner, but in most cases animal control won't take the dog away. Instead, they'll come to assess the situation and try to educate the owners as to how to properly care for the dog.


If the dog is left outside during extreme heat or cold, this would be considered a good reason to call animal control.
If the dog looks underfed or dehydrated, you can call animal control.
 If the authorities get multiple calls about the same dog owner, they'll be more likely to take action quickly. There's definitely strength in numbers in this situation, so rally as many people as you can to remedy the situation., Even after getting the authorities involved, some stubborn dog owners won't comply with requests to quiet the dog. If nothing else works, you can sue for nuisance in small claims court. The goal will be to make a case that the dog's barking is preventing you from enjoying your own home.If you win, the dog owner will have to pay a small sum of money. Prepare to sue by doing the following:


Try to negotiate with your neighbor, so you can show the judge that you made an effort.
Decide how much you want to sue for. An attorney can help you figure out a dollar amount.
Gather witnesses and other proof, like photos or recordings.

