 The physical outcome of the surgery will depend upon how much tissue your surgeon removes. In some cases, muscle is also removed to prevent or remove cancerous tissue. This will have an impact on the amount of pain you experience and the potential risks for post-surgical outcomes. You should discuss the various mastectomy procedures available with your surgeon before the operation.;
, During a simple or total mastectomy, the surgeon will remove all the breast tissue but no muscle tissue and not the lymph nodes located under the arm.Women with large areas of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) or women who are getting a mastectomy for prophylactic reasons will get a total mastectomy.
 During a modified radical mastectomy, the surgeon will remove all the breast tissue and most of the lymph nodes under the arm. No muscle is removed from beneath the breast.Women with invasive cancer who choose surgery will receive a modified radical mastectomy, so the physician can evaluate the lymph nodes to determine the extent of the spread of the disease.
 During a radical mastectomy, the surgeon removes all of the breast tissue, all of the lymph nodes in the area, and the muscle against the chest wall beneath the breast.This is very rarely performed today, and usually only when the breast cancer has spread to the muscles under the breast.


This procedure is used only when the cancer has not spread to the chest wall. The modified radical mastectomy has proven to have similar results and is less disfiguring than a radical mastectomy.
 During a partial mastectomy, the cancerous area and some of the normal surrounding tissue is removed. A lumpectomy is a type of partial mastectomy, but more surrounding tissue is removed during a partial mastectomy than in a lumpectomy., A subcutaneous or “nipple-sparing” mastectomy means that all of the breast tissue is removed, but the nipple is left. This procedure is not commonly performed because it potentially leaves behind some breast tissue that may later develop cancer.If reconstructive surgery is performed at the same time, the nipple may be distorted and numb following this procedure.
 Recovery periods for each of these different surgeries will depend upon several factors, including your previous medical history, overall health and wellness, and your ability to follow the prescribed exercise routine that increases your flexibility and reduces the risk of lymphedema. Surgeries that remove the least amount of tissue will often have the shortest recovery periods.


Hospital stays average three days or fewer.The skin will heal completely within two weeks if no complications with the surgical incision arise.Your body will continue to adjust over the coming months. You may experience transient fatigue over that period of time, you but will have a better recovery if you continue all of your recommended recovery exercises., Reconstruction of the breast tissue can be done at the time of the surgery using your body tissue or an implant called immediate reconstruction. You can also have reconstruction done at a later time, which is called delayed reconstruction.The need for chemotherapy and/or radiation may delay reconstruction.

