 Some studies suggest that yoga therapy can help reduce the frequency and intensity of migraines in some individuals.Yoga therapy is considered a type of relaxation technique, as it can help manage stress as well as the physical symptoms of a migraine. Yoga therapy focuses on breathing and relaxation, but it goes beyond a normal yoga class to address specific medical issues (in this case, migraine prevention).


Unlike a conventional yoga class, yoga therapy is done in small groups and resembles physical therapy/rehabilitation more than a conventional yoga class.You can find yoga therapy instructors online, or by searching in the phone book.
Make sure your yoga therapy instructor has specialized training, ideally with some medical background like nursing or physical therapy.;
, Meditation and deep breathing are two popular relaxation technique that can reduce the symptoms of migraines and their frequency.However, in order to achieve maximum results, meditation and deep breathing should be practiced on a daily basis.Find a quiet place where you won't be disturbed. Sit in a relaxing position with your eyes open or closed (whatever you're most comfortable with).
Breathe deeply into your diaphragm (down in your belly, below your rib cage). You should feel your belly rise and fall with each inhalation and exhalation., Relaxation techniques like yoga and tai chi are a wonderful way to reduce stress and prevent migraines.You can take classes in relaxation techniques, either through your doctor's recommendations, or though a local class in your area. Talk to your doctor about which relaxation techniques are best for your symptoms.
 A common cause of migraines is emotional stress. If you're trying to squeeze too many activities into your day, you might be setting yourself up for a migraine. Try cutting down on the number of activities you commit to each day and managing your time a little more efficiently to reduce your migraine frequency.Prioritize your daily schedule. Obviously work and/or school comes first, and family and friends second - what else in your day could you not live without?
If something doesn't need to get done today and can be safely put off until tomorrow or the next day, then don't try to cram it into your already-packed schedule.
Allow yourself to take breaks during the day. Even a five minute walk away from your desk can help clear your head and improve your circulation.
 Reframing your perspective takes time and effort. It is not always easy, but it can be very rewarding in the long run. Not only can it help with migraines; it can also help you feel better and happier in general.Try not to dwell on negative thoughts. Any time you catch yourself, think about something more positive and affirmative.
Instead of thinking, "I can't do this, it's impossible," try thinking, "This will challenge me, but I know I can do it."

