 It can be harmful to your hamster to disrupt their sleep schedule. Sleep-deprived hamsters may become irritable and even bite their owners, or they may develop stress-induced illnesses.Do not force your hamster to be awake at a time when it normally wouldn’t be.


Since hamsters are not strictly nocturnal, they will naturally have periods of activity during the day. Don’t expect a healthy hamster to sleep through the whole day without stirring., Since these are the times that your hamster will naturally be most awake and hence most playful, plan on daily playtimes with your hamster, especially in the evening.Regular play with your hamster will also help tire it out, so it will sleep more soundly during the day.


If can encourage your hamster to run on its wheel before you’re in bed and asleep, it may result in your hamster being more relaxed and quiet while you’re asleep.
 This issue is important for both you and your hamster. If you don’t want to be kept awake at night by your hamster as it eats, runs about its cage, and is generally active, put its cage somewhere out of earshot. For example, you could keep your hamster’s cage:On the floor in your bathroom.
In a spare room or guest room in your house.
In your living room, if it will be quiet and dark at night.
 It’s important to give your hamster a quiet space to sleep in, so it can fully rest during the day and not become sick or stressed. For example, if your living room is often loud and crowded during the day, that would not be a good location to keep your hamster’s cage.
If you recently bought your hamster from a bright, crowded pet store, it may take time for them to settle into a regular sleeping routine. To help them along, keep their cage for a quiet room for as much of the day as possible., Your hamster’s cage should be located in a room that is not lit at night, either by streetlights or by internal lights in the room. Hamsters need to be in a fully dark setting at night, just like they would be in nature. If you have a night light in your room, or keep your hamster in a room that stays bright at night, you’ll need to move the cage location.Darkness at night will make your hamster feel energized and comfortable. If it’s light at night, your hamster may become confused & uncertain how it should behave.
Be consistent with the amount of light and darkness your hamster receives every day. In general, hamsters should have 12 hours of light and 12 hours of dark a day.