 If you are trying to decide which type of debt to pay off first or whether it makes sense for you to take out a payday loan in order to pay off your other debts, it's important to have a good understanding of how payday loans work. These loans are typically only a good option if you are sure that you will be able to pay them back by the due date because they become very expensive if you don't.Payday loans are intended for short-term borrowing. You must repay the money on a specific date, typically within one month's time.
You will be charged a specific amount of interest for a payday loan, even if you pay the loan back on time. If you do not pay the loan back on time, you will be charged fees.
You may have the option to roll your payday loan over if you are unable to pay it back in time, but this typically comes with more interest and more fees.
When you take out a payday loan, you typically authorize the lender to withdraw the money you owe (including interest) from your account on the due date, either by writing them a post-dated check or by signing something that allows them to make an automatic deduction from your checking account. If you don't have enough money to cover the payment in your account on the due date, you will incur fees from the lender and probably from your bank as well.;
, It extremely important that you consider the fees that will accumulate if you fail to pay off your payday loan on time. Read the fine print to understand how fees accumulate for the specific loan. Compare this to the fees that you will owe if you fail to pay off your other debt in order to determine which is more affordable., When comparing different types of debt, look at the annual percentage rates, or APR. This is the percentage of interest that will be charged over a period of one year. It typically would not make sense to take out a loan with a higher APR in order to pay off a loan with a lower APR.


Be aware that the percentage rate the payday loan company advertises is not equivalent to APR because this is the amount of interest that accumulates over a very short period of time. If you pay 15% for a two-week loan, this equates to an APR of 460%.Use this formula to calculate the APR of a payday loan: (((Fees/Amount borrowed) x 365)/(The term of the loan in days)) x 100.One major difference between credit cards and payday loans is that payday loans charge interest even if you pay your loan back on time, while credit cards only charge interest if you do not pay off your balance each month., Another thing to consider when deciding whether to take out a payday loan in order to pay off other debts is what effect it may have on your credit score. If you end up defaulting on your payday loan, your account will most likely be sent to collections, which will look very bad on your credit report. With credit card debt, you can avoid collections by continuing to make minimum monthly payments.Credit card debt has an effect on your credit score as well. Even if you do not default on your credit card payments, carrying a large balance may lower your credit score.
 Unless you absolutely need to pay off your other debts right away and you know you will be able to pay back your payday loan on time, it rarely makes sense to use payday loans as a means of settling other debt. There are, however, other options that may help you.If you have balances on multiple credit cards, look into consolidating it on one card. Many credit card companies offer cards with 0% introductory rates. If you transfer all of your balances onto this one card, you will only have one payment to make each month and you will be able to pay off your balance faster.
If you need to pay off your other debt, you may be able to take out a personal loan from a bank or credit union. These loans typically offer much lower interest rates than payday lenders and allow you to pay the sum back in small payments over a longer period of time. You could also consider taking a cash advance on your credit card, if available.
Consider asking your lender if it is possible to set up a payment plan so you have more time to settle your debt without facing collections.If possible, borrow money from your own savings account, or even from a friend, as long as you can pay it back.In some cases it may make more sense to simply continue making the minimum payments on your credit card debt instead of taking out a payday loan. While this will not get you out of debt any time soon, it will keep your monthly payments relatively low, and as long as you keep making payments, your account won't be sent to collections.
 Each payday lender offers different loan rates, so if you decide to take out a payday loan, be sure to shop around. Compare the interest rates and fees offered by various lenders to find the most affordable loan. You should also research the company to make sure they have a good reputation before working with them


You can get payday loans at both brick and mortar locations and online.
Be sure to consider the term of the loan. Some lenders may offer loans for longer terms than others.
If the lender does not provide you with documentation regarding exactly how much the loan will cost, it is best not to do business with them, as they are not following the law.If your state has laws that require payday lenders to enter your name into a database before issuing the loan, beware of lenders who do not follow this procedure.It's a good idea to understand the laws about installment plans in your state as well. If you state requires that payday lenders make installment plans available to customers who cannot pay their loans back, ask the lender about their policies before you sign. If they do not offer installment plans even though they are required to, do not work with them.You can read reviews of different payday lenders online.You may want to take a look at these before you borrow to understand what kind of experience other customers have had with the company.
 Applying for a payday loan is usually pretty easy because these lenders do not perform credit checks. They may, however, ask you to provide proof of employment.Be sure to have a photo ID with you when you apply for your loan.
In order to prove that you will be able to pay the loan back, the lender may ask you to provide a recent pay stub.
 Once you are approved for a payday loan, the money will be deposited directly into your bank account. You can then use this money to pay off your other debts.


There are a variety of ways to pay your lenders. You may be able to use online banking, send a check or money order in the mail, or make your payment over the phone, depending on the lender.
It's always a good idea to keep a record of your payment, either by writing down your confirmation number, by keeping a copy of your money order, or by sending your check by Certified Mail.
It's also a good idea to obtain a written letter that states that your debt has been paid off in full. Many lenders will send these automatically.
 Remember that just because your other debts are paid off does not mean you are in the clear yet; you still have your payday loan to pay off. Do your best to pay your payday loan off on time in order to avoid getting yourself further into debt than you were to start with.Because payday lenders typically withdraw money directly from your checking account, you need to make sure the necessary funds are available on the due date. You can also make the payment in person if you prefer, but this must be done in advance so that the payment doesn’t draft automatically.
If you plan on letting the lender withdraw money from your account, be absolutely certain that you understand how much they will withdraw. Some lenders will automatically withdraw only the fee necessary to renew the loan unless you tell them to do otherwise, which leaves you on the hook for more interest and fees.
If your payday lender offers to let you roll the loan over, make sure you understand the fees and interest charges that this involves before you accept.

