 Go through your closet periodically and decide what you want to keep. Consider taking out anything you haven't worn in over a year.These items just take up space in your closet, but you can put them to good use.


If you don't want to throw these clothes away, you can store them in a suitcase or a box. If a time comes when you decide to wear it again, you can go through storage to retrieve it instead of allowing it to take up closet space.;
, If your clothes don't fit anymore, you can always sell them for a low price at a yard sale.If you don't have enough for a whole yard sale, you can see if you can get some money back for them at Plato's Closet or another thrift store.


Even if your clothes are ripped, some people use ripped t-shirts and clothing for other DIY crafts.
 Lightly used clothing that doesn't fit or you don't like anymore can be donated to stores like Goodwill. There are also clothing donations outside of select Walmarts across the country. This is a good way to help those in need, especially in colder weather.


Be sure to get a receipt when you donate to Goodwill or other donations. Charitable donations are tax-deductible!, Malls are great with a wide variety of clothing stores to choose from to buy the essentials. If you're not a big "mall" person, there are other stores that can offer a variety of styles and prices. Outlet stores are a great way to get discounted prices for designer clothes.Target and Walmart offer different styles, but don't always have the most unique attire. These stores would be a good place to buy the basic must-haves for your wardrobe.
TJ Maxx and Ross are stores based on size, and you can choose from the styles in stock. The problem with these stores are, you may find something you love in a size larger or smaller than you, but it may not be available in your size.
 No matter what style you have, some items are essential for everyday wear.Most essential items can be paired with any outfit you choose, and you wear them more than anything else.


Essential clothing items include things like tanktops and leggings. You'll need at least one for every day of the week, and you can get them in a variety of colors and designs. Be sure to have at least one plain white and one plain black of each.
 Blazers add a classy look to any outfit, and they can also be used for business purposes as well. Cardigans can go over a variety of tops, but they also create an outfit when you put them over a simple tanktop.You can pair blazers and cardigans with almost any outfit, but have enough to choose from throughout the week. Two or three blazers will be good, while you should invest in 3-4 different styles of cardigans.
 Simple t-shirts and sweatpants are perfect for those lazy days around the house. If the t-shirt is stylish enough, you can wear it as part of an outfit. You should have at least one t-shirt for every day of the week, and own about 3-4 pairs of sweatpants for lounging.


Stylish t-shirts include v-neck and flowy tees, and they can come in solid colors or with logos. Try not to get offensive or obscene language on them.
 Even if it's not your style, a little black dress will come in handy when you need to dress up or go on a date.At least one dress is important, but if you like the style, there are many different colors and designs to choose.


Sundresses, if they're your style, are nice for warm sunny days or beach days.
 White dress shirts can be dressy for presentations at school, or they can be casual when paired with some jeans.You should have at least one white dress shirt for professional or business reasons.


If you're going for the casual look, you might not want to button the shirt all the way to the top. You can also roll the sleeves up to be less dressy.
 Denim jeans are must-haves for a night out, and they can go with just about any top. You can wear jeans a couple times in between washes, so 3-4 jeans in different styles would work well. You should own at least one boot-cut and one skinny-leg pair, while having at least one dark-wash and one light-wash pair.Buying jeans can be expensive, but you don't want to be stingy with the quality. If you buy cheaper jeans, they'll be more likely to rip and you might have to buy new ones more often. A good pair of jeans can last you a few years.
 Shorts are important for the warmer days when you don't want to wear long heavy jeans. Skirts can be worn any time depending on what kind of style you prefer. Shorter skirts are available in the summertime, while maxi-skirts can be worn in the winter. If you get 2-3 skirts, you can mix and match during the week.


You should have a variety of shorts and skirts to choose from, and at least one for every day of the week. Denim shorts can last longer than non-denim, but you want to make sure you're comfortable for the hot summer days.
 Pajamas are comfortable at night, but they come in many different styles. Choose what's comfortable for you to get the most rest, and purchase as needed.


Undergarments can be an expensive shopping experience, but it's important to purchase well-fitting items and buy them as needed. You'll notice an immediate difference when you switch from old, worn out underwear that doesn't fit you.
 Depending on where you live, this might be a long trench coat or something heavier like a warm winter parka. This is important for winter wear when the months get a little chillier. A lighter trench coat can come in handy for southern-wear, while a parka would be nice for those northern winter nights.
 Shoes are important for function as well as fashion. You should have at least one pair of shoes for every occasion. Try to have shoes in different colors to match different outfits, primarily focusing on black, grays, browns and tans.High-heeled shoes may seem like an essential shoe style to own, but don't spend too much time shopping for them. High heels should be purchased as needed and as you like them, because they often only fit a limited style or wardrobe.
 Unless you have a pair of tennis shoes that you bought fairly recently, it's important to buy a new pair to keep your feet from hurting. Runners and sneakers should be replaced every 3 months if you exercise regularly, or 6 months to a year if it's just casual.Nike, Adidas and New Balance are popular runners for working out, and they're stylish for casual wear.
 Dress shoes will come in handy during the presentations you might have to deliver in class. These should usually be slick, black, and low-heels or pumps. Shiny pumps can go with almost any dress or skirt.


Pair dress shoes with your little black dress for a nice night out to dinner, or pair them with a white dress shirt for a more business professional look.
 Flats are important for easy slip-on shoes when you're wearing jeans or leggings. Ballet shoes or other closed-toe designs are most popular, but you want to make sure they're comfortable. Some flats can dig into your feet after pro-longed wear.


TOMS is a good brand for flats, and for every pair of shoes you purchase with them, they donate a pair to someone in need., Everyone should have a pair of flip flops or sandals for the warm sunny days, whether you're going to the beach or not. If you're an active person, sandals with a strap in the back secures your feet better than standard flip-flops.
 Galoshes or rainboots can be cute and fashionable when they're not just plain yellow or black. You can buy any style or pattern, and they're great at keeping your legs and feet dry in the rain!


Pair rainboots with leggings or jeans and you'll be more comfortable than anyone else wearing tennis shoes through the rain. Having a cute design enhances your outfit, but you don't have to necessarily match or own multiple pairs.
 Purses and handbags are great accessories to any outfit, and they're practical as well as fashionable. You can either get one big purse that matches any outfit, or you can buy a variety of purses and switch them out if you want. Make sure whatever purse you choose has no open ends for pickpockets and can be completely enclosed.Tote bags are great for the beach, as well as going on short overnight trips. It's good to have one tote bag available in your storage, if you don't use it every day.
Wristlet or clutch purses are great for nights out that you don't want to carry a big purse. Also, they fit in larger purses if you don't want to take out the contents.
Backpacks can be stylish and are not just used for school. You can carry a variety of things including a change of clothes, and the bag can be fashionable with a cute design, as well.
 Belts can be practical and fashionable, and they come in a variety of different styles. It's good to have 2-3 belts, and you can get them in different colors.


It would be good to have one thin belt, one medium belt and one thick belt for each of your outfits.
You can stick with the standard black, brown and gray color scheme to match more outfits, or you can get a variety of colors that match with specific clothing items.
 Scarves can be fashionable in almost any season. In the winter, you should stick to heavy scarves in earthy colors like black, tan and gray. Summer scarves should be lighter material and can have multiple colors or designs.Infinity scarves seem to never go out of style, but it's important to have standard scarves as well. It would be good to have 1-2 winter scarves for warmth, and 3-4 summer scarves to mix and match with the rest of your spring and summer styles.
 Jewelry boxes can come in many different styles and storage containers. Some people get a wide box and open it for jewelry storage, and others just hang jewelry from nails in the wall or on a "jewelry tree." It's important to have storage for jewelry, but you should also make sure that storage space is filled with essential jewelry items:


Pearls are great as necklaces, earrings and bracelets.
Cuffed bracelets can go with almost any outfit. For these, you should stick with gold or silver if you're going with metal. Thicker cuffs or leather bracelets can also be worn in black or brown.
Rhinestone earrings or diamond studs should always be available as these simple-yet-classy fundamentals can subtly enhance your entire outfit.
Necklaces can be purchased to match one sole outfit, or you can get a couple simple necklaces that can go with any outfit. Have at least one silver and one gold necklace that will match the rest of your jewelry.
 Depending on the occasion, it's important to have several go-to outfits already picked out. With each outfit you already have in mind, you can easily alter it or tune it up with the other fundamental items you have.


If you're going to the beach, you can easily slide your favorite sundress over your bathing suit with your flip-flops or sandals. If you want to accessorize, your pearls could come in handy--as long as you're not afraid to lose them in the water.
Keep your pumps ready for dressing up for a fancy dinner. Pumps always look nice with a little black dress and gold jewelry for these special occasions.
 While accessorizing your outfit, it's important to match jewelry to your entire outfit.It's okay to have gold or silver jewelry with black or brown accessories, but try not to mix gold and silver jewelry pieces together.


Pay attention to little things like your belt buckle. If you're wearing all silver but your belt buckle is gold, it may be hard to notice but something may seem off.
 Even if it's warm outside, layers can look good in any season. Wear a tank-top or camisole underneath a crop-top or cardigan, and pair it with a cute skirt. Add a scarf and you have a layered look for spring.


Layering doesn't always mean adding more clothing to cover up. It just adds an extra flair to your outfit so it's not boring and simple.