 Boneless turkey breast can be bought fresh or frozen by the pound. Turkey breasts are much larger than chicken breasts, so you'll want to factor that in when you decide how much to buy. A serving size of turkey breast comes out to 1/4 to 1/2 pound per person. Since cooked turkey keeps well in the refrigerator, you may want to buy extra so you'll have leftovers for sandwiches.


If you're buying fresh turkey, look for tender pink breasts with no spots of discoloration. If you're buying fresh turkey that comes prepackaged, make sure to use or freeze it before the expiration date.
Choose frozen turkey breast with no signs of freezer burn. Uncooked turkey breast can be kept in the freezer for up to nine months.;
, If you try to cook your turkey from a frozen state, it will take an incredibly long time. Using a refrigerator to thaw slowly is the recommended method. The night or so before you plan to cook the turkey breast, place it in the refrigerator so it can slowly thaw. You'll need to allot 24 hours of thawing for every 4 to 5 pounds of weight.


Leave frozen breast, still in its packaging, in the refrigerator for as long as necessary to thaw it out. Put the breast on a plate or tray to catch any juices that might drip out of the packaging as the meat thaws.
If you're pressed for time, thaw the turkey in cold water bath. Submerge the still-wrapped turkey in a large bowl or sink of cold tap water. Replace the water every half hour with fresh cold tap water.Allot half an hour of thawing time per pound of weight using this method.
Use a microwave for the fastest thawing alternative. Remove all packaging from the turkey breast. Place it on a microwave-safe dish to catch any juices. Use the power setting and cooking time recommended for thawing or defrosting meat in the user’s manual.
 Once the breast has thawed, remove any packaging it came in. Fresh or frozen turkey breast often comes wrapped in plastic netting, and you want to be sure to remove this before cooking the turkey. If your breast came rolled up like a roast, unroll it before cooking.
 While using a marinade isn't required, it results in tender, flavorful meat. Make your marinade at least an hour before you plan to cook the turkey. Choose any store-bought marinade to flavor your turkey, or make your own. Place the turkey in a large food storage container and pour the marinade over it. Use one-fourth cup of marinade into the container for every pound of turkey meat.Let it marinate for one to three hours before cooking.


You can whip up a quick marinade by mixing 1/2 cup vinegar, 1/4 cup olive oil, 4 teaspoons minced garlic, 1 teaspoon pepper and 1/2 teaspoon salt for every four pounds of turkey.
Be sure to place the meat back into the refrigerator for the duration of the marination.
Because thawing at high temperatures (cold water bath and microwave) can encourage bacteria growth, it’s recommended that you cook fast-thawed meat immediately. Therefore, you must slow-thaw your turkey breast in the refrigerator if you plan to marinate it for a few hours before cooking.

