 If you are a woman and you have a crush on your female best friend, it's natural to wonder if you have a chance. Before you start with the leading questions, though, ask yourself what your goal is:


Attraction often gets in the way of friendship, and it won't go away if you find out your friend is straight. Sometimes bringing it into the open is what you need to do, regardless of how your friend feels.
On the other hand, if the feelings are not mutual (and they usually aren't), the friendship could end. If this would devastate you, and you don't have a support network to help you out (especially if you are in the closet), it might not be a good idea to continue. Spend at least a couple weeks apart from your friend instead to try and cool down and pick up the friendship at a less intense level.
If you are unsure of your sexuality, or you are straight but have a crush on your friend, focus on yourself instead of her. Look for LGBT resources online or at an LGBT community center to help you figure out your identity.
 Wishful thinking can always cloud your judgement when romance is involved. If your friend has dated men in the past or told you about her crush on a guy, it's very likely that she's straight.


There are no obvious signals that mean someone is a lesbian, especially if she is in the closet. Trying to analyze your friend this way is nearly impossible, especially when attraction is clouding your judgement.
If your friend is attracted to you, she may initiate prolonged physical contact (long hugs, for example) or ask to see you constantly. Unfortunately, it is difficult to tell this apart from close female friendships, especially if she is responding to your own desire for close contact.
 If at all possible, talk to a trusted friend about the situation (preferably someone you can come out to or have already). He or she will have a less biased perspective on whether your friend is interested in you, and can talk you through your feelings. Continue only if you have decided that this is important enough to risk the friendship.
 Before you tell your friend the whole story, get an idea of her views on lesbian and gay relationships. How does she react to fictional and real-life homosexual couples? Does she support gay rights? If she seems accepting, this doesn't mean she's lesbian — but it does make it easier to take the next step. If she reacts to the topic with revulsion, it is not wise to continue the conversation.


One way to bring this up is to mention that you're thinking of attending a Gay Straight Alliance event, which only "outs" you as a straight ally.
Some people raised in homophobic environments express negative views on homosexuality even though they seem attracted to the same sex. If your friend seems defensive on the topic or is sending mixed signals, she may need more time to work out her sexuality. This is not something you can do for her.
 If you are comfortable with your sexual and gender identity, and your friend is an LGBT ally (or at least not in opposition to them), the next step is telling your friend that you are not straight.
 This is the make-or-break moment, and sad though it is, the response is rarely the one you want. But if you can't move on without getting it off your chest, don't pour out your whole soul to your friend. Let her know what's been going on, but do it in a way that doesn't put too much pressure on her or the friendship. This is very personal to your friendship and the conversations you've had together, but here are some examples to start with:


"I think you're attractive, but staying friends is the most important thing for me."
"I've been having feelings for you. I just need a little time apart to clear my head."

(jokingly) "I wish I could find a girlfriend as nice as you!"

, Now your friend knows what you needed her to know. She still might not be ready to talk about her own sexuality or how she feels about your crush. Asking her directly is unlikely to help: if she felt the same way, she would say so. End the conversation and give her time to process what she's heard. The two of you may need to spend some time apart to cool the air.

