 From your desktop, click "Start then All Programs." Look for Microsoft Lync and click on it.;
, Sign in using your username and password. When the main window opens, you will see your name and presence status.
 Click the Options button in the main window. Click My Picture. You can either hide your picture, or connect to a social network and have that picture displayed in your avatar.
 Below your name is an Availability menu. Click on it to set your presence status.


Presence statuses can be set to Available, Busy, Do Not Disturb, Be Right Back, Off Work, and Appear Away.
Setting it to Reset status would bring your presence status to its default.
 Click the note box above your name and type a note or status message. This is publicly seen by your contacts.


To remove this note, just clear the note box by deleting all its contents.
 To let others know where you’re currently seated, click on the arrow next to Set Your Location, type your current location, and click on "Show Others My Location."

, Search by name or e-mail address in the "Find a Contact" text box. A list of matching results will appear.
 Mouse over the name and click on the plus icon to add the contact to your list.


You can also right-click on the name and select "Add to Contacts List."

, You can add a contact to a group by right-clicking on the name and selecting "Add to Contacts List," then a group.


You can also add the contact to a new group by selecting "Add to New Group," and then give that group a name. You can add more contacts to that new group later.
 Repeat steps 1 to 3 as needed.


Remember to organize your contacts into groups to find them easily when you want to chat with them.
 If you have a contact that you don’t need on your list anymore, just right-click on the name and select "Remove from Contacts List."

, From your contacts list, find your contact. Double-click on the name to start a conversation. A chat window will appear.


If the person isn’t on your contacts list yet, you can search for him or her using the search box.
 At the bottom of the chat window, there’s a text box. Use that to type in your messages.


Press the Enter key to send your message.
 Use the Font and Emoticons to personalize your messages.
 Enjoy your conversations with your contacts through Lync.