 Do an inventory of your energy usage, your consuming habits, and your reliance on unsustainable products and make a list of ways you intend to curb your unsustainable activities and habits and replace them with sustainable ones. Set yourself a timeline to meet, with harder changes coming at the end of the timeline.


For instance, consider eating meat-free meals twice a week. You could also make a point of turning off lights and electronics when not in use. Another idea is to commit yourself to walking to work or the market as often as possible.
 Read the labels of origin and manufacture of your goods, and decide if you can make better choices. Find out if your products are certified as sustainable, organic, locally made, or Fair Trade. There are lots of things a label can tell you if you choose to read it.


Sustainable products include those that are sustainably obtained, for example, all forest products with the FSC logo are logged using sustainable forestry practices.
Organic products, such as cotton clothing, cause much less environmental damage than non-organic methods, such as conventional cotton-growing practices.
Locally made products decrease the impact on the environment because they travel less miles, which means less emissions, to make it to the consumer.
Fair Trade products are ethically produced, and take into account the native people as well as the environmental resources, in the areas they are produced.
If you can’t find a label, email or post a message on Facebook to the company, retailer, or manufacturer responsible for the product. Facebook is a great method because lots of other people will check out your question and be waiting for the answer!

, Make a choice to use public transportation more often than you do already to cut back on the amount of noxious fumes introduced into the environment. Carpooling is also a great way to reduce emissions. You can also ride your bicycle or walk to close destinations.
 Today is a great day to sign up and get involved with people who are doing rather than talking or reading. Sign up to help restore an old building in town, or join a local water conservation group.
 If you have a yard or garden that sits empty, make a plan to plant fruits, veggies, and herbs for personal use, or even bee-friendly flowers. Growing your own food helps reduce strain on the environment. Things you can do that will make the most of your garden include:


Compost your scraps. Use this compost to boost the garden's production.
Create a part of it that is edible, and plant seasonal crops. For those of you with merely a balcony or a tiny plot, you can still grow food such as a potato in a bag and small sprout gardens in your windowsill. You could also join a community gardening project.
Grow herbs and spices that add flavor to your food, look beautiful in the garden, and that also have medicinal, beauty, healing, spiritual, or other uses. Borrow a book from the library to learn more about herb and spice use.
Encourage beneficial and friendly wildlife to your garden through careful planting and shelter creation.
Learn to make your own garden sprays using items that are toxic to bugs and mildew but not to people and pets!

, Refuse to buy unsustainable products, reduce your consumption, reuse items and materials around your home, and recycle everything you can. All that clutter has to go somewhere, so make a choice not to bring in into the house to begin with and if it has to leave, make good choices about where it's going to end up!Think about borrowing, sharing, donating, time-sharing, etc., instead of buying for keeps. Or pass it on after you've read/used/watched/worn/enjoyed it.

