 Use your vacuum cleaner to remove and visible bed bugs. During an infestation, you should also regularly vacuum all carpets, rugs, beds, and other upholstered furnishings.


While vacuuming may seem like an obvious remedy, it is fairly unconventional in the sense that it does not usually prove effective against the majority of the bed bugs in a contained area. Due to its low level of effectiveness, it is generally not recommended as a sole treatment. Vacuuming can, however, increase the effectiveness of other treatments.
The reason that this treatment does not kill all bed bugs is simply that a vacuum cleaner is unable to reach all the places that bed bugs might hide out in.
To improve your success rate, make sure to get in all cracks and crevices, and scrape the vacuum against all fabric surfaces to yank any eggs or stubborn adult bugs up.
Place the contents of the vacuum inside a sealed plastic bag when done. Placing the bag in direct sunlight for several hours to days may help kill any of the bugs that managed to survive the vacuuming.
 Apply a thin layer of this powder around problem areas, including both known and suspected hiding places. Gently rub the powder into carpeted areas so that it gets deeper into the carpet.This product is made from ground, fossilized shells. In fact, it is sometimes labeled as "fossil shell flour" or "bed bug dust."
Once a bed bug crawls through the dust, it immediately becomes dehydrated. Infected bugs should die within a few hours.
Use food-grade Diatomaceous Earth. There are some DE products marketed for use in swimming pools, and this can prove dangerous to humans. Food-grade DE should be perfectly safe, though.
 If the problem is still fairly minor, you could try killing off a small population of bed bugs by scattering the leaves of the kidney bean plant around your bed, couch, or other problem locations.This is an old folklore remedy that hails from eastern Europe.
Kidney bean leaves have microscopic hairs that hook the bed bugs' legs at their weakest points. Bed bugs that try to escape will be killed when their trapped leg is ripped off. Most bed bugs, however, will remain trapped. From there the leaves and the bugs can be burned.
Some scientists are looking for a way to develop a synthetic material that will mimic the fine hairs of the kidney bean plant while simultaneously remaining comfortable enough for human use.
 Studies suggest that a minimal dose of a prescription deworming agent known as ivermectin is effective at killing roughly 60 percent of bed bugs within a contaminated area.Note that these studies only began in December 2012, and unless they are officially accepted within the scientific community, your doctor may not be willing to prescribe ivermectin for your bed bug problem.
Ivermectin is considered to be a safe drug, however, and is used in deworming medications for both humans and animals.
This remedy relies on a technique called "xenointoxication." If using this solution, you would take a dewormer before going to sleep. The bed bugs will bite you in the middle of the night, as usual, but will die within a few days since the dewormer will be transmitted to them through your blood.

