 Although there is great overlap between these two concepts (and people often struggle with both simultaneously), there is a distinctive difference. Confidence refers to how you feel about your abilities. You may have self-confidence in your mathematical abilities, but little self-confidence when it comes to sports. Self-esteem, on the other hand, refers to how you view yourself overall, how you feel about yourself and whether or not you really like yourself.Confidence focuses on abilities, while self-esteem focuses on self-like and respect.


Do you believe in your abilities? Do you believe you are worthy of respect from both yourself and others?
Your answer to these questions determines if you are suffering from low self-confidence or low self-esteem. The two differ slightly; nonetheless, you can use the same strategies to increase your belief in your abilities and your worthiness and self-love.
 Since confidence is derived from your own assessment of your abilities, it's situational. To some degree or another, your confidence changes depending on the context or skill-set in question. Perhaps, you feel very smart in math, but have trouble in science. Maybe you have amazing talent in singing, but your dancing skills are laughable. No one is good at everything; therefore, on occasion, we all have to deal with low confidence.


The problem with occasional low confidence is whether you allow it to define you. This practice often starts in childhood.Many people start out with poor abilities as kids, and when those abilities are not strengthened or the child is not praised for being proficient in other areas, he begins to view himself as not good enough. This leads to overall poor self-esteem and a feeling of unworthiness.
 So, maybe you're not buying the idea that having low confidence in some abilities is a common human trait. If so, try this exercise. Take out a sheet of paper and a pen. Think about times when you really excelled. Think about times when you felt immense pride. Write out all the traits or abilities that are associated with these moments to get a better look at the things you are good at.


If you have trouble thinking of situations, or, if you can't hush your inner-critic for long enough to complete this exercise, then make use of those close to you. Reach out to a handful of family members, friends, and coworkers (about five to 10). Ask each of them to tell you about a time when you were at your very best.Look for patterns in their responses. Do some words or characteristics keep popping up in different stories? Using their feedback to assess your strengths can help you develop a plan for greater self-confidence.
 Oftentimes, the loudest critic in our heads was born in our childhoods. A teacher, a parent, a bully at school, or a babysitter: all of these individuals made impressions on how you view yourself. If you are feeling low in confidence, it could be rooted in one of these voices from your past that has stuck with you over the years.

