 Combine a spray bottle with 2 cups (475 milliliters) of water, 2 teaspoons (10 milliliters) of almond oil, 10 drops of chamomile essential oil, and the juice of 2 lemons. Close the bottle, and shake it to mix the ingredients. Spray the mixture onto wet or dry hair a few times a week.The lemon juice and chamomile essential oil will help lighten and brighten your hair. The almond oil will help condition it.
If you have dark hair, consider using oranges instead. It won't lighten your hair as much., Fill a spray bottle with 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water. Add 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of each of the following: Aloe Vera juice, rose water, and vegetable glycerin. Close the bottle, and shake it before using it. Apply the spray whenever you need to tame some frizz.The Aloe Vera juice will help lock moisture in your hair and make it shiny. The rose water will help smooth your hair.
For extra holding power, use Aloe Vera gel instead., Fill a spray bottle with 2 cups (475 milliliters) of water. Add 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of melted coconut oil and 5 drops of rosemary essential oil. Close the bottle and shake it to mix the ingredients. Apply the spray to wet hair, just after you have finished showering.The coconut oil will help moisturize your hair. The rosemary essential oil will help strengthen your hair.
This can also be used on dry hair is well. It is perfect for damaged hair types., Cut a lemon into wedges and boil it with 2 cups (475 milliliters) of water. When the water is reduced by half, strain it into a spray bottle, and let it cool. In a separate bowl, mix 6 to 8 drops of essential oil with 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 milliliters) of vodka, then add it to the citrus water. Close the spray bottle and shake it to mix.Use an orange if you have dark hair. Lemons have the tendency to lighten dark hair.
You can use any type of essential oil. Lavender is the most common.
 Fill a spray bottle 2/3 of the way with warm water. Fill the bottle the rest of the way with your favorite hair conditioner. Close the bottle, and shake it vigorously to mix. Spray the mixture onto your hair to make brushing easier. It can be used on wet or dry hair.