 Locate Amazon on your home screen or app drawer. Tap to open.


If you don’t have the Amazon app on your Android device, you can get it for free here.
 Just like the Google Play Store, Amazon requires each user to login first, so hit “Sign in” and enter your Amazon username and password into the fields provided then tap “Sign in” to proceed.
 At the top of the page, on the left-hand side, there should be a little button that says “Shop by Department.” Tap to activate the drop-down list, and a new page will appear with a list of different Amazon departments. Tap the “Apps & Games” department to continue.
 Once the new page finishes loading, tap the magnifying glass in the upper right-hand corner to start a search. Type in “Live Wallpaper.”

, Once the search results finish loading, there should be several live wallpapers to choose from. Tap one that appeals to you, and you should be taken to the live wallpaper’s info page.
 A “Free” button, if the app is free, should be in the upper right-hand corner of the screen. Tap this, and the button should change to “Get App.” Tap the new “Get App” button to download the app.


If the Live Wallpaper costs money, the “Get App” button will turn into a “Buy App” button. Tap to continue and follow the prompts to purchase your selection. Once done, continue with installation steps below.
 After the download finishes, there may be another screen that asks you to install the Live Wallpaper. Hit “Install” in the lower right-hand corner to continue. After doing this, the wallpaper will now be added to the device Live Wallpaper list.
 Press and hold the main Android home screen, select “Wallpapers” then “Live Wallpapers,” or just “Live Wallpapers” if the option is directly available.


If press-and-hold does not work, use the device Menu button.
 The new live wallpaper that you just downloaded and installed should appear in the Live Wallpaper settings. Tap the name of the live wallpaper you downloaded, wait a moment for it to load, then tap “Apply” in the lower right-hand part of the screen.


You will be taken back to the main home screen, and the new live wallpaper should now be visible there.

