 Basic facial scrubs can be used on the lips as well as the rest of the skin on the face. These do a great job cleansing pores and exfoliating dry, dead skin from the surface. Spend a few minutes massaging this into your lips to remove flaky skin cells that will keep your lips from looking full and healthy.


You can make a natural sugar scrub at home with equal parts of sugar and olive oil, or you can buy these products at most beauty supply outlets. You can also gently brush your lips with a dry toothbrush.;
, Hydrating your lips will keep them from drying out and peeling under your lipstick. You can use a variety of moisturizers and lip balms to keep the skin on your lips from becoming too dry. Try to apply moisturizer ever day, especially if it's cold, or especially dry and windy out.


When applying makeup, start by applying a layer of moisturizer to the outside of your lips and your face. Let it absorb before applying your make-up. You can use a lip balm or a moisturizing face serum on your lips.
Hydrate from the inside out as well. This means drinking a minimum of 64oz (8 cups) of water per day. This is not only healthy for your body but it keeps your skin, and lips, hydrated.
 When choosing a lip colour, try to stick to lighter colours. We are all aware, when dressing ourselves, that dark colours are slimming and light ones are not. The same applies to lipsticks, so any dark tones are going to firstly make your lips look smaller and secondly draw more attention to that fact because of how attention grabbing they are., Line right along the outer edge of your lip using liner, then line just a bit on your actual lip. This helps the lipstick you'll apply last, and will prevent it from running on your face, which sometimes happens, especially with darker colors.Be subtle. Think Kylie Jenner. Don't give yourself a dramatic cupid's bow, this not only draws attention to the fact that your lips are drawn on, but also make them appear smaller. Instead follow the natural shape of your lips.
 Take the lipstick color of your choice and place it onto your lips, using a brush to blend it into your lip liner, as to remove any harsh lines. Take a slightly lighter lipstick in tone to your last one and pat it into the inside of your lips, where they are at their biggest and light would naturally hit it. Take your brush and blend this with the base color to ensure it looks natural.


If you want, try taking a highlighter or use a little white eye shadow and try applying a small amount right above the middle of your upper lip in the "cupid's bow" if you want to try. If using white eye shadow, blend in well so it doesn't look like a glob of white, but a just slightly lighter, slightly shimmery spot. This trick makes your lips appear fuller, but can also make it look a little fake.
 Use a clear gloss on top to help reflect the light to give the illusion of a fuller lip. If you do not like the look of a gloss, then make sure the lighter lip shade you use has a sheen to it and is not matte.Apply it to both top and bottom lip, but apply to the middle of your lips not the right and left sides. It will spread when you smoosh your lips together but will be concentrated in the middle, making your lips look fuller.
 Take a sheer highlighter in your preferred form, brush or liquid, and touch up the top of your natural cupid's bow to make your lips seem fuller. Using a matte bronzer, apply some in the curve under your lips and above your chin. This will give the impression that your lips are more raised up.
 Some people swear by lip plumpers, which are essentially lip-glosses which have irritants contained within them which causes your lips to 'swell' up as blood flow to them increases, hence the tingly feeling. DuWop, Laura Mercier, Smashbox and Dior have some good lip plumpers, however most 'beauty' brands will have one.


Lip-plumpers do have their shortfalls. The effects are temporary and the products can be really drying on your lips.

