 There are two different types of ultraviolet B (UVB) phototherapy, home and clinical. UVB phototherapy is undergone when the light penetrates the skin, which slows down the growth of the skin cells. Whether it is done at home or in a clinic, UVB phototherapy is given for specified periods of time and on a regular schedule.


The specific time periods and your schedule for this treatment depend on how extensive your psoriasis is and the specific areas of your body that are affected.
Home phototherapy can be done with UVB equipment or a newer technology, NarrowBand, which is being increasingly used by dermatologists.
Before you can use any home treatments, you will need to be trained to use the home equipment. You should also go for regular check ups with your physician while doing UVB treatments at home. ;
, Sunlight has always been a traditional and valid form of phototherapy for psoriasis. Sunlight is made up of both UVA and UVB light. Start with five to 10 minutes of sun exposure on the affected areas of your skin every day. To do this, go outside when the sun is highest, which is typically around noon. Cover any unaffected areas of skin with sunscreen, but keep those affected areas unprotected against the UVA and UVB rays.


You can increase your exposure to the sun by one minute until you get to the point where it is too much for your skin. Make sure you get out of the sun before you get sunburned. This can make your psoriasis worse.Talk to your physician before you start using sunlight as a treatment and make sure you tell your doctor what medications you are taking. There are some medications prescribed for psoriasis that may cause your skin to be sensitive to sunlight, which may cause severe sunburn. The medications that can cause this include coal tar, tazarotene, Elidel (pimecrolimus), and Protopic (tacrolimus). Your doctor will be able to tell you how long it is safe to stay in the sun., PUVA (Psoralen + UVA) is a type of phototherapy generally performed in a clinic. During this treatment, your doctor will give you the medication Psoralen orally during the treatment period and then expose you to UVA light.


This treatment is most helpful when used for plaque psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, and psoriasis on the palms and soles.
Side effects of this treatment can include itching, nausea, and redness of the skin., There are two different types of laser phototherapies that can treat psoriasis. A newly approved type of laser phototherapy is the excimer laser therapy, which emits UVB light. This method is best used on chronic, localized psoriasis, with extensive effectiveness on the scalp and with topical steroids. Typically, your skin will respond to the treatment within four to 10 sessions when done twice a week in a clinic or physician’s office.


You can also try pulsed dye laser, which is also used with psoriasis. It uses a dye with light wavelengths not UVA or UVB. Treatment is in a physician’s office or clinic, with treatment given every three weeks and lasting 15 to 30 minutes each session., Although phototherapy is a valid form of treatment for psoriasis, you should never use a tanning bed as a method of exposure to light. Tanning beds will increases your risk of serious skin cancer by almost 60%.


Also, most tanning beds use UVA light, which is a type of light that is less effective in treating psoriasis unless additional medication is used.