 Spotting or light bleeding six to 12 days after your last period could indicate a fertilized egg has embedded itself into your uterine wall.Some women may feel cramping, as if they're about to get their period.
The spotting can be mistaken for a light period, particularly if you have irregular periods.;
, Swollen and tender breast tissue is a sign that hormones are changing in your body. They can begin one to two weeks after conception. Your breasts might start to feel heavier, or fuller.If you frequently have tender breasts, move on to other symptoms to determine if pregnancy is likely.
Some women may even increase in bra size within a few weeks of getting pregnant. If this is the case, you may be pregnant.
Your areolas may also start to darken. This change is also caused by hormones from pregnancy., As your body adjusts to pregnancy, women usually start to feel tired and sluggish. This can occur as early as the week of conception.Fatigue is a result of increased progesterone, which makes you sleepy.
If there’s a chance you’re pregnant, avoid treating fatigue with caffeine. Caffeine isn't proven to be harmful at this early stage but if consumed in excess it can increase the chance of miscarriage. The exact amount is not known, but 200 mg is generally considered the cutoff.
 Morning sickness can start at about two weeks after conception and continue until eight weeks after conception. If you start to feel regular nausea, it is time to take an at-home pregnancy test.Nausea may also accompany food aversions. Some of your favorite foods may make you feel ill while you are pregnant.
Nausea may not always be accompanied by vomiting.
You may notice an increased sensitivity to smells. Even smells you may once have enjoyed may now trigger nausea.
 Even in early pregnancy, hormones alter your desire for particular foods. You may crave strange combinations of foods that you've never desired before. Your formerly favorite foods may cause nausea.You might notice a metallic taste in your mouth. This is normal in early pregnancy.
Many women report feeling disgusted by the smell of coffee when they're pregnant, even if they were heavy coffee drinkers before the pregnancy. If you find yourself nauseated by the smell of coffee, this may be a sign of pregnancy.
 These are characteristic signs of early pregnancy. They are caused by a combination of pregnancy hormones, a larger amount of blood in your system, and kidney function.It's okay to take some over-the-counter pain medication such as acetaminophen to help relieve pain from headaches and backaches. While ibuprofen is generally considered safe in early pregnancy, few physicians will recommend its use unless you are being closely monitored.
Instead of medication, consider treating aches with home remedies such as a warm bath, using a heating pad, getting a massage, etc.
 If you do, take an at-home pregnancy test. With most tests, you'll place the end of a dipstick into a small container of your urine, or move a testing stick into your urine flow. Within a few minutes, the dipstick should indicate results by changing colors, showing the words "pregnant" or "not pregnant" on the stick, or symbols.Most pregnancy tests will not be reliably accurate until the fifth week of pregnancy.
Instructions for home pregnancy tests vary. Follow the directions on the test you choose.
Home pregnancy tests check for the presence of the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) which accompanies pregnancy.
 Although at-home pregnancy tests rarely give false positives, they can give false negatives if it is early in the pregnancy. If you feel you are within a week or two of implantation, you should test twice.Take the home pregnancy test first thing in the morning when your urine is concentrated. Drinking too much fluid before taking a home pregnancy test can result in a false negative.
A false positive result can occur in cases where hormonal changes with menopause are occurring or if you are receiving HcG injections as part of infertility treatment.
 If you are consistently getting positive results in a home pregnancy test, or your symptoms of pregnancy persist despite getting negative results, call your gynecologist or family doctor. Blood tests that doctors perform can pick up on pregnancy quicker than at-home urine tests.The sooner your pregnancy is confirmed, the sooner you can learn about options. Your healthcare provider can discuss options for your pregnancy with you.
If you plan to continue your pregnancy, your healthcare provider can help you with prenatal care.

