 When dealing with emergency injuries, such as a broken leg, you can prevent complications by checking for “CSM” before splinting and regularly afterwards until you get the injured person to a hospital.Watch for changes that happen after the splint is applied – that’s one way to know the splint is too tight, or is otherwise causing problems. Checking the CSM before splinting gives you a baseline, and information to tell emergency services.



Color: Watch for reddening or paling of the injured extremity. If fingers or toes turn white, it means blood flow is restricted. Loosen or remove splinting right away to prevent serious complications.

Sensation: Check the injured person’s ability to feel sensations to make sure they’re not having nerve problems. Have them close their eyes or look away, and touch each toe or finger of the affected limb. Use firm pressure with your thumb and ask them to tell you when you’re touching them. Then check for sharp sensation by applying pressure to each digit with a pin or sharp stick.

Movement: A splint should immobilize a limb, but not prevent movement entirely. If the person loses ability to move a limb once a splint is applied, it could mean that swelling is causing the splint and wrap to be too tight. Remove the splint quickly.;
, You can splint a limb with any strong, straight object you can find. Find a stick, plank, or small log, or roll up a newspaper or towel to use as a splint. Shoelaces, ropes, belts, strips of clothing, or even vines can be used to hold the splint in place. Use excess clothing for padding.If you’re using anything from nature that can splinter, wrap it in clothing first.
 Moving an injured limb can cause further damage. Move the limb as little – and as gently – as possible to get it into a position in which you can splint it. Preferably, do not move it at all and apply the splint the best you can in the limb’s current position., In an emergency, you do not have to know the exact right way to splint an injured joint. Try to minimize movement of the affected joint or limb. The best way to do this is to apply a splint to the joint both above and below the injury.For instance, if the forearm is injured, apply a splint that extends from above the elbow to below the wrist. Secure the splint just below the wrist and above the elbow for best support.


If the elbow or shoulder is injured, tuck the arm close to the body and wrap the whole torso, immobilizing the limb against the body.
If one leg is severely injured and you will be able to carry the victim, splint the injured leg to the uninjured leg.
 Use something for padding such as clothes. Gently wrap the injured area in padding, but do not pull the wrap too tight. Provide cushioning between the person’s skin and the splint without interfering with blood circulation., If there is an open wound or if bone is protruding from the skin, put the splint on the uninjured side of the limb, if possible.
 Tie or tape the splint in place on both ends of the splint. Brace the splint on the outsides of the two joints surrounding the injury.This provides the best support. For instance, tie the splint below the ankle and above the knee for leg injuries.


If using tape, try to tape over the padding and not directly on the person’s skin.
Try not to tie or tape something directly over the injury.
 A good outdoors first-aid kit can include a SAM splint, a moldable aluminum strip between two layers of padding that hardens once put into position. They are small, inexpensive, and light-weight, and can be a good temporizing measure in an emergency; though they do not provide much support. If using a SAM splint, follow these general guidelines:Mold the splint on someone of similar size and shape to the injured person, not directly on the injured person. Once the splint is shaped, apply it to the injured person and hold it in place with anything you have: a sock, torn shirt, tape, cling film, or elastic bandages.
Do not wrap the splint too tightly; it should be snug, but allow room for swelling.

