 It will need to be relatively clean and in good enough condition so that the side walls will not split under weight.


You can choose whatever size tire you like but remember that huge tires can weigh a lot. You do want plenty of room for several kids to sit in the tire, a very large tire may weight too much for a standard tree branch.
 Give it a good wash down with heavy duty detergent, scrubbing it inside and out.


You can also use a tire cleaning product to clean your tire.
 It should be thick and sturdy, about 10 inches diameter and 9 feet from the ground.


Be sure the tree is large and healthy, with no signs to indicate that the tree is unstable or dead inside.
Make sure that the point of attachment for your swing is far enough away from the trunk that the swing will not easily hit the trunk. This means that you need to attach your swing at least a few feet out from the trunk.
The distance between the branch and the tire also dictates how high it will swing. The longer the rope, the higher your swing will go, so you may want to chose a branch that is lower to the ground if you are making a swing for a small child.
 You will need to purchase three "u-bolts," with two matching washers and nuts for each side of the bolt. In other words, you will need to have four washers and four nuts for each u-bolt. In addition you will need to obtain about 10 feet of rope, 20 feet of good galvanized chain, and an "s" hook large enough to have the end of three pieces of your chain hooked into one end of it.It should be quality rope that won't fray or break when weight is applied to it. There are a variety of ropes you can use for your tire swing, such as heavy duty climbing ropes or utility rope.
Instead of a s-hook you can use a carabiner, connector link, or a locking swivel hook. These alternative give you the option of easily taking the swing down but will cost you a little bit more money.The chain does not need to be a huge gauge. When you purchase it, check the weight rating for the chain you intend to get. Make sure the rating is for enough weight that it will hold up a third of the weight of a few kids. It only needs to hold a third of the weight because you will have three chains to dissipate the weight.
Fraying of rope can be prevented by putting tubing around it wherever it comes into contact with the tree.
 This side will be the bottom of the swing. The holes will make sure that any water collecting on the inside of the tire due to rain will easily drain out.


Be careful when drilling the holes through your tire. There may be metal strands on the inside of the tire that you will need to drill through.
 Be sure to place it safely, so that it is on solid ground.


Have a friend hold the ladder steady if you have one helping you out.
 Encircle the branch several times before tying it off with a square knot.You will need to hook the s-hook onto the rope, at the bottom of the branch. Close it around the rope, so that the rope will not be able to slip out of the hook.
Make sure that the knot is solid. If you can't figure out how to make one, find someone who can.
 You will need to determine the length by deciding at what height you want to tire to hang. Measure down from the s-hook to the position you would like the top of the tire. This will be the length of each of your chain pieces.


The tire should be high enough so that your child's legs don't drag, so it should be at least a foot off the ground. However, it shouldn't be too high, so that kids can't get in and out of it on their own.
 Close the s-hook, by clamping it closed with some pliers, so that none of the pieces of chain can come out.
 Be sure you have them spaced equally around the top sidewall of the tire before drilling holes for each end of the u-bolt to go through the sidewall.


You will want to position the u-bolts so that they are near the outside edge of the tire, running along the circle of the tire, not across it. The outside edge of the sidewall is the stronger part of it and will assure that the tire is not misshapen when it's hanging.
Remember to keep the drainage holes at the bottom, with the top of the tire where you are attaching the u-bolts opposite the side with the holes.
 Make sure the chain is not twisted up at the top.
 Have someone help hold it up, so that you can attach the u-bolts. Place one nut and washer on each side of the bolt before sticking them through the holes toward the inside of the tire. Then attach a washer and nut onto the threads on the inside of the tire, so that the sidewall of the tire is sandwiched between the two washers and nuts.


If you don't have a helper, simply place the tire on something that raises it up high enough to get the u-bolts attached. If the tire you used is excessively heavy, this may be a good idea whether you have a helper or not.
 Test your handiwork with a spotter nearby in case anything goes wrong before allowing others to use it. If all goes well, let the kids start playing on it right away!

