


Do not use the very wide stance: a slip or dropping the barbell on your foot could be disastrous. The very wide stance stresses the side, knee ligaments throughout the lift but the medium wide stance stresses the side knee ligaments at the top half of the lift
The very wide stance should be done only by competitive power lifters who are suited to it and understand the risks involved.;
, Squeeze the bar off the floor, holding it close to your shins and do the turnaround at the kneecaps. Do not pull the bar beyond your kneecaps to avoid side stress on your knee ligaments.
 You body will be extremely strong in this position, do more continuous repetitions. This is a smooth deadlift variation that is pretty to watch. Observe someone doing this lift in rapid fire, it looks like an optical illusion of that lifter doing a barbell bent over row and with his elbows constantly bending and extending. In reality, the arms do not bend at the elbows during any part of the deadlift.
Do the conventional deadlift from the floor. You must be able to apply power off the floor with the medium wide, sumo stance and with the narrower, conventional deadlift stance.
Expand your workout into Olympic weightlifting assistance exercises and do a clean shrug to involve the calf, shoulders, upper back and arms further. The clean shrug is a conventional deadlift and a bit more.
For a bit more athleticism or practicality, do some weightlifting or strongman lifts with light to medium weights. Use a barbell, dumbbell or an odd object such as a luggage, a small vehicle, a box, a person or a sand bag. Choose objects that will not hurt your foot, or damage the floor, if the odd object is dropped.
 For example if you are going to do six repetitions for your final deadlift set, do them as six singles or three doubles - it is very important to do the deadlift with good form.


If you must do a nonstop set, you will have to rest and catch your breath at the top or bottom position. At the top position, you will be hanging on to the bar for a couple breaths and a lot of your energy will be spent hanging on to the bar. If resting at the bottom position, you might put the barbell on the floor but still be gripping the bar. Even at the bottom position, it will be tiring to stay stooped and your form will deteriorate.
Do singles or doubles instead. Do a rep, put the barbell on the floor and stand up. While standing, go over the technical aspects of the lift and breathe deeply. After catching your breath do another single and repeat the process.

Keep your spine straight and neither slumped or arched.
Continually shrug your shoulders back. Practice shoulder shrugs from the different angles.
Drive with your hips but do not lead with them. While driving with your hips, also drive your torso back - which may seem futile but this effort is what keeps your form correct. When watching experienced dead lifters and squatters, it may look like the starting drive is with the legs only. This is a dangerous illusion - you could get a horrendous backache by leading with your hips and having to finish with a straight-leg deadlift.
Look forward, do not look down or to the side.
Keep the bar close to your shins to where the knurling could occasionally tear your sweatpants or scrape your shins.
At the start grip the bar evenly and check that the bar is correctly loaded.
Grip the bar fully. If your hands hurt, tense your hand muscles before gripping the bar. Grip the bar, in the meat of your palms, like you would be pressing it instead of pulling.
Explode at the start. After getting a grip on the bar you will be locked to it. Next, pull on the bar and explode. This is not yanking but a mustering of power to get the bar moving upwards.
 If using walking or jogging shoes, do not keep increasing the weight on the bar when your shoes start feeling springy. When using jogging shoes, use a medium - heavy weight at most and do more repetitions.
 Exercise all of your muscles even if just with obligatory effort. Besides all around strength, have flexibility, speed, endurance, skill and agility in your routine.
 Do jumping jacks and lateral, ladder drills also, but not all in the same workout.

