 When you and your partner sign documents together, make sure you are not signing them as a married couple. Always sign the following documents as an individual, or as a pair without portraying your relationship as a marriage:


Real estate documents.
Life insurance policies.
Credit applications.
 Your relationship status plays an important role in filling out tax forms. If you file jointly with your significant other, the government may review your tax return as if you are married. If this is the case, the government will then have direct evidence of you holding yourself out as married. You should always file separately until you are ready to be married.
 Opening up joint accounts is a clear indication of your relationship status. Having a joint account is likely not enough to hold yourself out as married, but it will certainly be strong evidence to that effect. If you really want to share your money, consider sharing cash you both pool together.
 Using your partner's last name is a clear indication that you are holding yourself out as being married. Taking someone else's last name is usually reserved for marriage, and while doing so before you are married may be legal, it will certainly hurt your chances of not being seen as married. Not only will sharing a last name look like you are holding yourself out as being married, it will also confuse things with your legal documents such as your photo ID, passport, birth certificate, and social security card.
 When interacting with others in public, make sure you do not claim you are married. The following examples will give you a good idea of what not to do:


When you move in together, do not tell your neighbors or house guests that you are a married couple.
When you are at social gatherings, do not introduce your significant other as "your spouse."

, You and your partner should not claim you are married on sites such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, or Snapchat. Doing so may be enough for you to be holding yourself out as married. For example:


Do not create a relationship status on Facebook that says "married."
Do not post a photograph on Instagram of you and your significant other with a caption that says "married" or anything else that could be construed that way.
Do not tweet anything on Twitter that states you are married or that you are with your spouse.

