 Like other over-the-counter treatments, you can buy whitening strips from the store. As their name implies, they are strips that fit over your teeth.To use, you cover the front of your teeth with the strips and then leave them on for 30 minutes. You must do this every day for about two weeks.
Make sure that you brush your teeth before you use the whitening strips. This will provide better strip-to-tooth contact, which should improve your results.
You'll need to do this treatment about three times a year.
While this option is one of the more expensive ones for over-the-counter treatments, it is somewhat more effective than other over-the-counter treatments.;
, Another option is paint-on gels. Basically, you apply the gel to your teeth with a small brush. You also have to leave this gel on for about 30 minutes.Some of these types of whiteners are simply a pen filled with the gel that has a brush on one end.Usually, you apply the whitener once or twice a day, with about the same effectiveness as strips.
It can be applied to just one or two teeth, if you need it.
Also, one disadvantage is it can come off pretty easily after you've brushed it on.
The gel is usually not strong enough to cause tooth sensitivity, but it is still important to avoid placing the gel on your gums to avoid causing any burns.
 With whitening trays, you place a whitening agent in a tray, and then you put that on your teeth. You leave these on for a period of time, then take them off.This method can be more effective than strips or brush-on gel.The best kind are the ones that you mold to your teeth at home. Some are not designed to be molded to your teeth and therefore, are harder to keep on.However, trays that your dentist make will be more effective, as they will be made to fit your teeth allowing the gel to spread equally over your teeth and stay coat the entire tooth surface., Whitening toothpastes may not be as effective as other options. However, they can provide some results, and they are by far one of the cheapest options.Whitening toothpastes can use special abrasive material as well as chemicals to whiten your teeth.
Toothpastes do not contain peroxide, like some other whitening options do.
Use a whitening toothpaste to replace a normal toothpaste. Use twice a day, and you may see results in a month to a month and a half. However, look for a brand that's approved by the American Dental Association, as others can damage your teeth over time due to the abrasive ingredients used to remove stains.Toothpastes with blue covarine may show results more quickly.
You can also follow with a whitening mouthwash., One way you may be able to get professional whitening for less is at a dental school. As dentists are learning, they need to practice their skills. Because they are practicing, services will be at a discounted rate to you.Check with your local colleges and universities to see if there is a dental school nearby.
All student dentists will be under the supervision of professionals, so you will be in good hands.

