 Warm saline water rinsed through your sinus cavity is known as “nasal irrigation” and can help dissolve mucus and ease nasal congestion.Be sure to use clean saline water each time you Use a Neti Pot, and disinfect it thoroughly after each use., If you think your sinus problems might be the result of a sinus infection, then you might benefit from taking grapefruit seed extract supplements. There is no scientific evidence that this method works, but some believe grapefruit seed extract has powerful antibiotic properties, and its high vitamin C content may help fight infection.Sinus infections need to be diagnosed by a doctor. Classic symptoms include a thick/white discharge, nasal congestion, tooth discomfort, and facial pain or pressure that is made worse when the person leans forward or someone taps on his sinuses.Be aware that both viruses and bacteria can cause sinusitis. Bacterial infections need to be treated with antibiotics and viruses do not respond to treatment. There is no good way to differentiate between the two, so try waiting a few days to see if the infection improves on its own or with home remedies. If not, see a doctor for treatment.
 As anyone who eats spicy foods knows, enough spice can cause a runny nose. If you’re experiencing congestion, try eating spicy foods to loosen and thin out the mucus in your sinuses. Cayenne pepper and horseradish are good options., Dry air causes nosebleeds and sinus pain and pressure. Invest in a humidifier for your home. For best results, you need to sit or sleep near your humidifier. Don’t keep it across the room, where it won’t do you any good.Avoid making your home too humid, which can promote the growth of mold and dust mites, both of which are bad for people with nasal allergies. Less than 50% humidity is ideal., Nasal strips are sticky cloth strips that go over the bridge of the nose and physically hold nasal passages open to relieve stuffy noses. These are available in any drugstore or convenience store. They typically come in different sizes, so choose the size that best fits your nose.
 Drinking water helps lubricate mucous membranes and inhaling steam helps hydrate dry nasal passages and relieve congestion. Try inhaling the steam from a hot shower or from a pot of hot water.Be careful to avoid burning yourself with the steam. If you opt to use a pot of hot water, drape a towel over your head to trap the steam. This enables you to get the benefit of the steam while keeping your face far enough away from the heat source to avoid a steam burn., Dust, pet dander, pollen, mold, and ragweed are all potential allergens. Other nasal irritants are cigarette smoke and strong perfumes or colognes. Avoid smoking and strong perfumes, and be sure to dust your home frequently to minimize indoor allergens., Do you tend to get congested or have a sneezing fit when you cuddle or play with your dog or cat? If you think you might be allergic to your pet, avoid letting him or her sleep with you at night and give frequent baths to reduce the build-up of pet dander.Frequently vacuuming your carpets or sweeping and mopping hard floors will also help minimize the indoor allergens from your pet's fur.