 Whether you're strong in tone or weak in interpreting rhythms, you need to make sure you have a firm understanding of what needs improvement and what needs to be maintained. If you feel you can't determine your skills on your own, ask a friend or mentor for help.;
, It’s important to target the basics. That means scales, arpeggios, velocity exercises and all that other boring stuff. These concepts are essential to music and the kinds of pieces you’ll be playing in a performance setting. Once you become familiar and proficient in your scales, you’ll start to recognize patterns in your sheet music that’ll look just like scale exercises and you will have a much easier time playing them after extensively practicing your scales.


It can be boring, but it’s your job to make it fun! Play scale exercises in challenging octaves, borrow/purchase scale exercise books with entertaining etudes.
Once you can play your scales and scale exercises in every possible octave, evenly, and at high speeds, you’ll find challenging runs in your music a piece of cake.
 Once you know what needs improvement, all you need is persistence. After practicing your scales, do not hesitate to spend large amounts of time on what needs work. If it’s a difficult passage in a piece of music, count and sing it out. Use your metronome and play the excerpt at a slower tempo. Once you’re proficient at that tempo, speed it up by about 5 clicks and continue until you reach the desired tempo.


It’s okay to get frustrated; that just means your desire for improvement is strong and that ambition will help you get there. Make sure to also briefly go over your strengths; after all, you don't want to lose them!

, For many, the lowest and highest notes of the range of the sax are unfamiliar. To improve your ability to play the whole range well, you have to keep at it. Scales that can be played in multiple octaves really help with this. A fun exercise for fingering the higher and lower notes quickly is to play a velocity type exercise.


For fun, you can start on the low Bb (on alto), then play the next note up chromatically and come back down, go up again adding another note on top, and then come back down. It would read something like this: Bb-B-Bb-B-C-B-Bb-B-C-C#-C-B-Bb etc.
This can also be applied to the upper octave. Remember that playing the exercise evenly is more important than playing it quickly. Quality over speed.
 You could be the best musician technically, playing the hardest passages at incredible speeds, but without good tone, it all goes to waste. In the best bands, tone is valued above all else. As a saxophonist playing classical music, the saxophone sound isn’t always desired. You may often be asked to sound either like a clarinet or French horn. Long tones are the most effective method of developing your sound in this way.


It’s easiest to play a chromatic scale and hold out every note for an extended amount of time. For starters, hold it out for maybe 5 seconds. As you develop your skills, hold it for as long as possible, and you’ll find that you’ll also be improving your lung capacity!
A big factor in your tone is your embouchure (or the way your mouth is placed around the mouthpiece). Embouchure can make or break your playing. Make sure you understand how to achieve a good embouchure.
You may find that once you can “whistle backwards” and apply it on the mouthpiece, you’re set. Whether you can whistle backwards or not, make sure you play with your best tone at all times and you’ll improve in no time.
 When you’re bogged down by drab scales, it can be tempting to break into your sexy sax man persona, belting and thrusting “Careless Whisper”, but it’s important to consider how goof-offs will affect your skills. You can joke around every once in a while, but if you play with poor tone or technique, remember that practice makes for permanence. Make sure not to learn bad habits if you can avoid it. Just take a break instead.


On the reverse side, if your lips are quivering with excruciating pain and you’re feeling weak, then maybe it’s time to put the sax down and drink some water, crazy. Know your limits and know when to take a break!
Sometimes it’s good to practice while doing other things, like during commercials while watching TV. It might seem a little weird, but you won’t become bored or burn out from concentrated practice.
 If you’re a beginner, try to practice as much as you can. Your lips will begin to hurt if you’re applying a good embouchure that you’re not used to. Take it easy and progress in a way that works for you. As a casual student, it’s important to maintain what skills you have acquired.


That means at least half an hour a day of practice. It might seem like too much, but there’s so much to practice! Half an hour barely allows you enough time to go over everything you need to know.
If you feel ready, gradually increase your practice time each day and simultaneously increase your endurance until you feel you’ve reached a convenient amount of practice time that suits your lifestyle. Just remember that it’s vital to practice every day, even if it’s just for five minutes. After all, “for every day you don’t practice, you lose three days of practice!"

, Technology can improve your musicianship immensely! Metronomes and tuners are a must and should be with you and turned on whenever you practice. There is an endless amount of iPhone apps that you can use.


For a metronome, tuner, and tone generator, you can try the Tonal Energy Tuner; it's not free, but worth it. There are plenty of other (free) tuner apps out there as well as apps that will help you with ear training, sight reading, and rhythms! You just have to explore and find what works for you.

