 Try a relaxing exercise or hum the tune to a song, or just sit quietly or perhaps even a little meditation suitable for children. Sit on your bed or a comfy surface so that you feel rested.;
, Erase all the things from your mind from the day; it doesn't matter now, as tomorrow is a fresh start.


Let go of bad thoughts. Things will all seem more tolerable and actionable in the morning. Almost always does letting go of bad thoughts helps
Think of a tower the town can make, with unicorns, and cats, etc. Or think of your stuffed animal, or your animals.
 If you listen to pop songs, rap, or rock your brain will want to party and you might stay up later than usual.
 Choose a calm and soothing tea suitable for bedtime, without caffeine. Drink it slowly.
 Write about your day, or just doodle something to calm your brain down.
 If you're too hot or too cold, it will likely keep you awake.
 If there is light streaming in, shut the curtains, pull the blinds or block the light with a blanket.
 *It's not good for you to play on a computer, phone, iPod and more before bed. These devices are likely to keep your brain too active and the blue back light of many devices can stir your brain into staying awake even longer.


Set up a "Do Not Disturb" type of schedule for as many devices as you can to begin with. This function will deny any of the devices to disturb you during the night, as it will block "sound" signals at night. If you have an iPhone, turn on the "Do Not Disturb" function and keep it running on it's scheduled timing inside the Settings app.
 If you were told off at school, make fun of it or just let it slip from your mind. Thinking about bad experiences may prevent you from sleeping.
 These may keep you awake. Also, keep your sugar consumption low during the evening and night to prevent excess energy from building up.
 Simply shut your eyes and imagine anything you like.


Shut your eyes and think about a nice day ahead of you.
 Reading is a great way to stay relaxed and grow sleepy.


You can try closing your eyes while thinking about the book, such as the characters in it, or why the plot is unfolding the way it is and what you think might happen.
 After, read or listen to relaxing music, etc.
 Feel how soft it is, imagine yourself floating through the sky while being held gently in the folds of the cloud. Or just think about your day or a good day approaching .
 See how many it takes until you fall asleep. It can also help improve math skills.
 It's something to think about that is positive and you will likely dream of good things.


Think about some things you love doing, or what you plan to do the next day. However, don't get too anxious about the things ahead of you. If you have a test ahead of you, it is for the best to distract yourself rather than focusing on it while trying to sleep.
 One of your parents could sit on the floor next to you while holding your hand, slowly caressing your hand to get you to calm down and fall asleep.


If you need to wake up your mom or dad, don't go in, just quietly open the door enough to ask nicely, "Mommy can you come in? I can't fall asleep".
If you wake up at night ask your parents to soothe you and rub on your back or tummy.
 Light Jazz or Soft/light rock work okay, however classical and lullabies are best. Think "calm".



If you have troubles being comfortable in your bed, then try changing the position of how you lay. If you lay on your back, consider laying on your side, or stomach.
If your pillow starts getting too uncomfortable, flip it around, or prop it up on the wall so you aren't facing the wall when you are laying down. When you prop it up on the wall, it might be uncomfortable. So if you have an extra pillow, put that pillow under the extra pillow to get extra fluff, and be more comfortable.
If you enjoy being warm, get a blanket. If it is in the summertime, ask a parent to lower the air so that it gets cooler during the night. Make sure it is not too cold, or you might get goose-bumps, which wakes you up. Or, consider putting a leg over the blanket.
If you want something to cuddle, you can cuddle a nice pet with permission, cuddle a stuffed animal, or cuddle a pillow.
If you roll out of bed during the night, consider tucking your blanket in, so you are more comfortable, and more secure.

