 Some versions of Cranium have special spaces, known as Planet Cranium spaces. Planet Cranium spaces can both help and hurt your team as you move through the board.


If you pass over a Planet Cranium Space as you move through the board, stop. This can be frustrating, as you'll end up not moving across the board as quickly. However, don't get discouraged. Take it in stride and wait for your next turn.
Planet Cranium spaces can also help you. If your version of Cranium has Planet Cranium spaces, your dice will contain a purple space. If you roll purple, move to the next Planet Cranium space on the board. Sometimes, this can mean moving through the board much quicker and without needing to complete an activity., The goal of Cranium is the move through the board faster than the other players. You move through the board by completing activities successfully. When one team finishes their turn, the team on the left plays.Keep in mind that Cranium is designed to be a fun group game for parties. The main goal of Cranium is to get everyone to lighten up and engage with their silly side. Therefore, try to have fun and not obsess over who's moving quickest through the board.
 Once you make it through the outer later of the board, you'll move inward to a place known as Cranium Central. Here, you will have to complete four different activities successfully. Once you complete four activities, you win the game. If you fail at one activity, you'll have to try again on your next turn.Keep your strengths in mind when playing the final activities. Think back on the course of the game up until this point. Which team member seemed to do best on data head activities? Creative cat activities?
Choose a player who has been successful in past activities. This will increase your chances of completing each activity the first time around.
Often, there will be multiple teams in Cranium Central at once. As with the Club Cranium activities, try to remain calm and focus on your own team. Getting too competitive takes away from the fun of the game. It also lessens your chances of winning.
When engaging in activity, focus only on yourself and your team in that moment. Tune out other distractions.

