 Search online or in the store you want to buy from to find out the exact price of the item you want. Save up money from an allowance or job so that you have enough to pay for the item yourself.


Remember that tax will most likely be added when you purchase the item, so the total will be slightly higher than the listed price.
If you can’t come up with enough money of your own, ask a friend or sibling if they’ll give or lend you some, but know that they probably won’t give you money without some sort of exchange. You can also try mowing lawns for neighbors in the summer, shoveling snow in the winter, or babysitting to earn some extra cash.;
, Get a friend, an older sibling, or another person who can drive to take you to the store you want to make your purchase from. Make sure this person is someone you can trust. If you are not allowed to go out, you shouldn't. Avoid using Uber or Lyft, especially because you never know if you run into a shady driver:


If you want to take a bus or train, check the routes and figure out the fastest way to get to your destination. Google Maps is a good way to do this.
Make sure you have a good cover up story if you parents asked why you are late, like "I missed the bus, the next one took ages to come, then I fell asleep on the train!" Or, if you have weekly remedial and there is no remedial on a certain week, buy the item on that day.

Make sure you have enough money! Your parents will be suspicious if you come home late two days in a row.
If you want to buy it after school instead get there as fast as you can, buy it, and then rush home to avoid suspicion.
If you can go out on your own: Try going after school with a friend who can drive or having an older sibling drive you from home. Avoid lying to your parents about where you're going if you can. If the store is close enough, ride a bike or walk there yourself, especially if you can’t get someone else to drive you or don’t want to tell another person what you’re buying.
 Buy your desired item at the store with cash or a gift card, if you have one.


Don’t pay for anything with a credit or debit card, especially if it’s a parent’s account, because the purchase will show up on bills and statements for the card.
Remember that there are age restrictions on certain items and store clerks will ask to see a valid ID before they let you make the purchase. For example, you’ll need to show that you’re 17 in order to buy an M-rated video game, and you have to be 21 to buy alcohol. If you’re not of age to buy the thing you want, consider asking someone older to buy it for you with your money.
 Conceal your package in a backpack or other normal bag you carry so you can easily bring it home without your parents getting suspicious.


Throw away the store bag or any other evidence you don’t need right away.
If what you buy is very large or bulky and you can’t conceal it in a bag, make sure a friend can help you transport it, and only bring it into your house when your parents aren’t home to see you bring it inside.

