 While hygiene is the most important, eating a variety of healthy foods will do your body good. Feed your body nutrient-rich foods and cut down on sugar, processed and fried foods.Keep in mind that there is no proven benefit that eating any certain food will ultimately keep you healthy.A healthier diet does provide nutrition that can help your immune system fight off infections. For example, you cannot eat a bowl of strawberries, not wash your hands all day, and then expect to be healthy. Doing a combination of many strategies will be most helpful in preventing colds.
 Yogurt is part of a healthy diet. Yogurt contains good bacteria, called probiotics, which helps fight infection., Many foods have key vitamins or antioxidants which are helpful in fighting off infection. Some of these foods are:Oranges: These are always a staple when people think of Vitamin C. Eat an orange each day or drink a cup of orange juice to get a good amount of Vitamin C.
Apples: These have an antioxidant effect.
Papayas: These have a ton of Vitamin C.
Grapefruit: These have a lot of vitamin C in them, plus other great nutrients, such as cancer fighters.
Fish: This helps by fighting inflammation associated with colds. Eat deep water fatty fish such as wild salmon, mackerel, and whitefish.Garlic: This has antioxidant properties that help fight a cold.
Red peppers: These have even more Vitamin C than oranges.
Milk: This is a good choice because of its Vitamin D content.
 Keep yourself from getting dehydrated. Men should consume 13 eight-ounce servings of fluids per day and women should drink about 9 eight-ounce servings of fluids per day. This counts both water and fluids you've consumed through food.Water can also prevent dryness in your nose or throat, which may also help you avoid getting a cold.
 Water is generally good for you, and a Japanese study showed that gargling plain tap water could prevent a cold.Researchers for this study suspected that chloride in the water prevented the transmission of colds.

