 Toner does not have to be used evenly on all of your hair. Instead, you can use toner on specific sections of your hair that are not exactly like you want them. Just gather the section of hair you want to use the toner on and apply it.For example, you may want to tone down highlights or your roots.
 Ammonia-based toner is best if your hair is already a shade of blonde. This toner will change the pigment of your hair, so it is considered a demi-permanent dye. However, it will not lift the color of your hair.You can place ammonia-based toners to already bleached hair. You just want to make sure you wait a few days after bleaching to use ammonia. Using ammonia right after bleaching can damage your hair.
Follow the mixing instructions of the toner you purchase. Generally, you mix one part toner with a specific ratio of 20 volume developer. Each toner brand will have different instructions, so don’t try to change them or make up your own ratios.
 Applying purple shampoo as a toner can be done right after bleaching your hair. Purple shampoo is much more gentle, so it won’t damage fragile hair that has just been bleached. Purple shampoo can get rid of brassiness and give your blonde an ashier, cooler tone.You have to wash your hair with purple shampoo two or three times each week to get the best results. Leave the shampoo on your hair for five to ten minutes.
Depending on your original shade of blonde, your hair may start to turn grey instead of blonde. If this occurs, use the purple shampoo every other or every two times you wash your hair.
The strength of the purple toner will depend on the brand you purchase.
 Purple dye can also be used to tone your blonde hair. The purple dye helps get rid of the yellow and brassy tones of your hair. You can use purple dye right after bleaching. Only use a tiny amount of dye, such as a few drops.You will not use the entire bottle of dye. Instead, you will mix a small amount of purple dye with white conditioner. Then, leave this on your hair hair for around 15 to 30 minutes. It is important that you only use a small amount. Too much dye can mess up your color.
 If you have never applied toner before, you should go to a salon. They can properly bleach your hair and choose the right toner for you. If your hair is already blonde, they can help you achieve your desired result.Toning your hair at home if you have no experience with it can result in the wrong shade.
 Toner will start to fade from your hair if you wash it a lot. If you wash your hair often, you will need to touch it up more often. If you wait longer between washes, your toner will last longer.To touch up your toner, you will either have to go to the salon or use an at-home toner.

