 Take some time to reflect on all of the lies of omission that you have told to others lately. Try making a list and seeing what connections you can make. Perhaps there is some negative behavior that you have allowed to have a stronghold in your life. Work to eradicate this behavior.


For instance, when your spouse asks about your day, you might neglect to mention that you have lunch daily with a coworker who you flirt with. Cease having lunches or alone time with this person so that you don’t have any bad information to omit to your partner.;
, In taking some time to reflect on the things you have lied about to others, think about the things that you would like to know were you in their shoes. Perhaps you are having more than the one drink per day that you told your wife you have. Consider if you would want to know if she were drinking more heavily than you thought and use this as an incentive to be more honest., One other way to begin telling the full truth to others is to avoid speaking vaguely. Rather than using abstract language, answer questions fully without being overly detailed. For instance, if you were asked what you did that day, don’t just say that you went to work. Talk about how you got a promotion, had an argument with a coworker, or missed a project deadline.Honesty will help bring you closer to others.
Know that you also don’t have to tell people things just because they ask. You can simply say “I prefer not to talk about it with you.”

, Allow people to get to know you, flaws and all. Know that many of the mistakes that you make, others make as well. Avoid protecting yourself with lies and give others an opportunity to be honest with you about themselves, as well.For instance, perhaps your professor made an error on your exam costing you a few points and you tell people that you failed the course. If you neglect to tell however that you missed half of your classes that semester, you are lying by omission.
 Sometimes, you might lie by omission because you are spending too much time on minor details of an event rather than focusing on larger, more important things. Begin being more direct and avoid beating around the bush when disclosing something to someone. The more you delay the truth, the less likely you are to tell it.For instance, if you got a traffic ticket that day and are avoiding telling your mom or partner, instead of chatting endlessly about other details of your day, address that first and admit to your guilt.

