 It takes great strength to deal with aspects of your personality that you don’t like or don’t understand. Take a deep breath and commit to working through your issues, no matter how uncomfortable the process is.Remind yourself how much happier and freer you will feel after acknowledging and dealing with your issues.
A great way to build courage is to repeat positive mantras like "You can do this" or "Everyone was once a beginner." Then, focus on taking a least one positive step towards your objectives.
 No one is perfect, so don’t be too hard on yourself for the slip-ups you’ve had. Focus on improving yourself for the future, not berating yourself for the mistakes of the past.One good way to move on from the past is to write yourself an apology note. Mail the note to yourself. When it arrives, set aside some quiet time to read it and reflect.
 Do your best to avoid self-victimization. When you are feeling victimized, you may be at higher risk of increased isolative and avoidance behaviors. You are not powerless, you have the choice to make changes in life, and to stand up and face all the challenges you are up against. You are going to face many obstacles in life that will cause issues and you are going to have to learn from them and try to resolve. Here are some victimizing thoughts you should avoid:

Justifying the various ways in which you were wronged in a particular situation.
Frequently complaining about how you were wronged, or how you now feel stuck and helpless in your issue, without trying to look at all the things you can do to change to fix things.
Obsessing and only focused about how you feel sad, angry, guilt, shame, helpless, or hopeless.
 See if you can find a way to laugh about your mistakes. A little levity can help you let go of the past and feel more optimistic about the future.For instance, if you tend to play an embarrassing memory on repeat, finding the humor in the situation can help you get over it.
 Ask yourself whether you’re living according to your own moral compass, or whether you’ve adopted someone else’s. If you feel like you’re living with no sense of direction, think about how you can begin to chart a new course according to your own values.For instance, if integrity is important to you, but you’re working for a company that uses unethical methods to make a profit, you might decide to quit your job and look for one that doesn’t conflict with your values.
If you don’t have a good sense of what your values and principles are, explore different ideas by learning about the world. Read widely, talk to lots of different people, and keep up with current events. Knowledge will empower you to build a moral compass you believe in.
 Observe your current situation, and how you are currently responding. Are you self-aware, holding yourself accountable, and taking action to solve your concerns? Or are you self-victimizing and hiding from your concerns with negative emotions and isolative behaviors? Build a habit of self-empowerment in your life by doing the following:

Letting go of all negative victimizing thoughts and behaviors.
Taking personal responsibility and accountability for solving your problems, and owning up to your role to accomplish this task
Recognizing that change requires action, and will only happen when you change your thinking and behaviors.
 If your problems are too deep-seated or overwhelming to deal with alone, make an appointment with a therapist or counselor. A professional can help you identify your problem behaviors and come up with healthy ways to cope.Seeing a therapist isn’t something to be ashamed of. It takes a lot of bravery to reach out for help. A therapist can help you identify ingrained beliefs you hold about yourself and others that may be holding you back. Plus, they offer an unbiased listening ear--unlike that of friends and family.
 Once you’ve acknowledged your problems, consider how you will go about solving them. Decide what you want your life to look like after resolving your issues, and think about the best way to get there. After that, come up with a series of action steps you can take to make it happen.For example, if your health is declining and you want to improve it, you could decide to start exercising. Some good action steps might include getting a pedometer, taking a walk after dinner every day, and researching gym memberships.

