 To make a potato battery you will need two galvanized nails, two copper coins, two potatoes, three alligator clip leads with clips on both ends, and a small clock.


Galvanized nails are regular nails that have a zinc coating that is necessary for this experiment.They can be found at a standard hardware or home improvement store.
Copper coins, if needed, can also be found at a standard hardware or home improvement store.
It doesn’t matter what color your alligator clip leads are as long as they have clips on both ends.
Use firm and fresh potatoes. The liquid in the potatoes is necessary for this experiment, so dried out potatoes will not work.Remove the battery from the clock before you begin.
 Using firm pressure, insert the nail into the potato until it almost reaches the other side. If you accidentally push it all the way through, don’t worry! Simply pull the nail back so it is no longer sticking out.








Some potato juice may leak out while doing this, but it will not affect the experiment.
To make cleanup easier at the end, cover your work surface with newspaper or a plastic bag.
 Repeat the previous step with the copper coin, ensuring that it does not touch the galvanized nail.








At this point, each potato should have one galvanized nail and one copper coin inserted about an inch apart from each other.
The exact distance between the nails is not important, you just want them to be close together without touching.
 Attach one clip to the galvanized nail in the first potato and the other clip to the copper coin in the second potato. This will complete the circuit for your battery.









Finishing this step, the two potatoes should be attached to each other and the clock.
Check to make sure that all of your clips are securely attached.
 Look at the battery box and identify the (+) sign on one of the sides. Clip one end of the wire to this positive side. Take the other end and clip it to the copper coin in the first potato.








Make sure the clip is securely attached to the nail and the battery box.
This makes the first connection in the circuit for the battery.
 The other side of the battery box will have a (-) sign on it. Clip a new lead onto this negative end. Clip the other side of the lead onto the galvanized nail in the second potato.








Again, make sure to clip the leads on securely.
At this point, each potato should be connected to the clock, but not to each other. One wire should be attached to the copper coin on one potato and a second wire should be attached to the galvanized nail on the second potato.
 At this point, the second hand on the clock should be moving. It’s powered completely by the potato battery! If the clock isn’t working, check to make sure you have the correct leads attached to the battery box. The copper coin needs to be on the positive terminal and the galvanized nail needs to be on the negative terminal.


If it still isn’t working, try reversing the leads.
Make sure you are also using fresh potatoes.
When you’re finished, remove the leads connecting the potatoes and reinstall the battery into the clock.

