 It's important to recognize when heart failure is progressing and experienced an exacerbation. However, to do this, the first step is to improve your knowledge of the symptoms of heart failure itself. This way you will be able to notice if those symptoms or worsening or if you start experiencing new symptoms., Listen to your breathing to see if it is more labored or faint than usual. Shortness of breath (called "dyspnea") is one of the most common symptoms of heart failure. When the left ventricle of your heart is not able to pump the blood forward, blood "backs up" in the pulmonary veins (the vessels that return blood from the lungs to the heart after oxygenation). The lungs then become congested, and collect fluid that prevents them from working normally and causes shortness of breath.Initially, breathlessness occurs only after exertion. It is one of the first symptoms in most patients of heart failure. Compare yourself with other people your age, or compare your current activity level with your level three to six months back to recognize if you have modified your lifestyle due to shortness of breath at exertion.
The congestion in your lungs may also cause a dry cough or wheezing.
 Some cases of heart failure are not accompanied by symptoms of congestion, but by low cardiac output, which can present itself as excessive fatigue and physical weakness.Low cardiac output means that the heart cannot pump enough blood to meet the needs of all your body tissues. As a response, your body diverts blood away from organs that are less vital, particularly muscles in the limbs, and sends it to organs that are more vital, like the heart and brain.This results in weakness, fatigue and a constant tired feeling, which makes it hard to do everyday activities, such as shopping, climbing stairs, carrying groceries, walking, or playing sports like golf.
 Edema, the accumulation of excess fluid in body tissues, is often a symptom of heart failure. Edema occurs because your heart is not able to pump your blood forward, resulting in blood backing up in the systemic veins (the veins that carry blood from our whole body to the right side of the heart). Blood then leaks out into the tissues and causes swelling, which can experienced as:Swelling in the feet, ankles and legs. Initially, you may find that your shoes feel tight.
Swelling of the abdomen. You may feel that your pants have become tight.
Generalized body swelling.
Weight gain.
 You may experience a rapid heartbeat (tachycardia) or an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) as symptoms of heart failure. It's important to note that both of these can also be complications of heart failure that can lead to cardiomyopathy, heart attacks, and strokes. , Get medical attention if you notice these symptoms. If you notice any of the above symptoms, you should consult your physician for testing and diagnosis.
 Exacerbation usually occurs when a change in your body places increased demand on your already weakened heart, which can't compensate to meet the demand by beating harder or faster. Triggers for exacerbation that ask your heart to do extra work that it can't do include:Failing to take heart medications correctly.
Developing a respiratory infection, like pneumonia.
Consuming too much salt.
Drinking too many fluids.
Consuming alcohol.
Other medical conditions, such as uncontrolled hypertension, anemia, poor kidney function, and other heart conditions like arrhythmia.
 While shortness of breath or labored breathing while or after exerting yourself is a common symptom of heart failure, shortness of breath in other, more restful situations is indicative of heart failure exacerbation. You may notice that your breathing becomes more labored even when doing simple tasks like getting dressed in the morning or moving between rooms. You may also experience shortness of breath even when resting. It's important to alert your doctor to these changes.Keep an eye on shortness of breath while you are lying down or sleeping. Shortness of breath while you are lying down or sleeping is perhaps the strongest indicator of heart failure, and a sign that you need immediate medical attention.
You may notice yourself suddenly waking from sleep with shortness of breath, potentially accompanied by feelings of smothering or drowning. These feelings are so strong that they may prompt you to sit upright, or seek fresh air from an open window, and to sleep propped up on pillows. Waking up short of breath usually occurs at a fixed time, usually one to two hours after falling asleep, and symptoms typically last for 15–30 minutes once you are upright.
 More severe and persistent coughing and wheezing that doesn't originate from a respiratory illness or cold can indicate the exacerbation of heart failure. You may also produce whistling sounds while breathing, which is called wheezing. This wheezing occurs because fluid accumulating in the lungs causes the airways to narrow.A cough that produces white or pinkish-colored phlegm is also a common feature of heart failure, especially if you also have shortness of breath. You may notice that your cough is more severe when lying down at night., This swelling may cause pain or discomfort. You may also notice the veins in your neck start to bulge. You may begin to notice that you can't even get your shoes on anymore and may also start to notice visible swelling of the feet, ankles, and legs.You may also experience swelling in the abdomen due to fluid buildup to the point that you begin experience stomach symptoms, including nausea, loss of appetite, or constipation.
 Weight gain is a noteworthy symptom, especially if you are already under observation for heart failure. If there's a increase of more than two pounds over the course of a day or something like three pounds in three days, this is a sign of worsening heart failure (even though it may not seem like much).


Keep track of your weight, weighing yourself daily (at the same time and without clothing on, preferably) and writing the result down in a log. This will make it easier for you to identify weight gain, which in turn can motivate you to consult your doctor about making lifestyle changes to avoid a full exacerbation.
 During heart failure, the blood supply is diverted from the stomach and intestines to the heart and brain. This can lead to problems with the digestion of food, manifesting as lack of appetite, early satiety, and nausea.You may also feel discomfort and pain in the upper right part of your abdomen, due to congestion of the liver.
 The conscious awareness of heartbeat is called palpitations and may be a symptom of heart failure. Usually, palpitations during heart failure are due to an increased heart rate, which feels like your heart is racing or throbbing. This is because when your heart begins to lose its pumping function, it compensates by beating faster.A increase in heart rate or irregular heartbeat is cause for concern and may also be accompanied by feelings of dizziness.
 Notice if you feel like your activity levels are dropping off more than normal or if you get more tired and fatigued doing activities that didn't previously tire you out. Increased fatigue isn't a symptom that on its own necessarily requires the attention of your doctor, but if accompanies some of the other signs mentioned above, then you should see your physician.Pay attention to the details—in particular what it is that is tiring you (walking, climbing stairs, etc.) and when (e.g., time of day).
 Heart failure can also cause some neurological symptoms, due to disturbances in the blood levels of some substances, especially sodium. These neurological symptoms include confusion, loss of short-term memory, and disorientation.Usually, a relative or a friend notices these behavioral and neurological symptoms first, as you will most likely be too confused to be aware of them.
 If you notice any of the above symptoms, you should call the Emergency Services and seek immediate medical attention.


Addressing heart failure exacerbation early can mean the difference between life and death. If you do not act quickly, you can suffer long-term damage to your brain and body, or death.
Make sure you contact your doctor as well, even if you end up being treated in the emergency room.

