 Everyone these days has a busy schedule and work is generally less than accommodating. Take a look at your own schedule and ask around what time works best for most people. If a few people can't make it, that may be inevitable.


Once you make your plans, try to notify everyone as soon as possible. That way, they'll have more notice and either be able to rearrange things or ink you down on their calendars for that time.
 Now that you're not relying on a ride or the supervisory "okay," the world is your oyster. Take your party to a restaurant or bar or any entertainment establishment to take the impending mess off your shoulders.


If you do decide to not do it at home, consider your guests. Your place of choice has be within everyone's budget and belief system. Some people may not be keen on gambling at the casino or spending a day at the spa. Be considerate of everyone, even though it is your day.
 That is, if you've opted for the home route. Some people can be human garbage disposals, so it's better to be safe than sorry. Grab food and drinks that will sate any appetite to ensure party success.


Have different kinds of alcohol -- not everyone likes to drink beer or shoot tequila. But if people are driving (which they probably are), try to keep this to a minimum or designate a driver. Keep the teas, juices, and sodas cold, too.
Have foods for different dietary constraints. Nowadays, someone in every group is either allergic to gluten, dairy, or vegetarian. If you're not sure of your friends' dietary constraints, inquire.
There is nothing shameful about ordering pizza.
 Adults are pretty good at coming up with things to do, but you may want to have a few back ups. Have a party playlist set up on your iPod. Grab a few movies to play in the background. The party will go where the guests take it, but it's a good idea to get it started.


You may want an activity prepared while guests slowly trickle in. Hook up your Wii, grab a deck of cards, or have do-it-yourself drinks as an appetizer. Margarita slushie, anyone?

