 If you are trying to hit it off with new people, make yourself more approachable. Go out more to where others who share your interests hang. Smile at people when you meet their eyes, and try to strike up a conversation. Act interested in people and you will come off as more friendly.Another way to ensure that you are approachable is your body language. Don't cross your arms and lean against the wall at the back of an event. Relax your arms at your side, smile, and walk around to meet others.
Continue to be approachable after the first meeting. If you meet someone new, send them a friendly email or text the following day and suggest another outing or an event you might attend together.
 Don’t limit yourself to just people who share your interests. Try to go outside of your comfort zone now and then and meet someone who does not exactly fit your idea of what you want in a friend. This will give you the opportunity to meet someone who you might really click with despite your differences.

For example, your older neighbor may have some amazing stories and recipes to share with you.
Or if you are quiet and reserved, you might meet someone who is a bit more outgoing. Being around this person may even cause you to let loose once in a while.
 Not many people want to be friends with someone who only thinks of themselves. Show the friend that you are interested in them and their life by asking questions and showing up. They’ll likely appreciate the time and effort you’ve put into the friendship when you do this.


For example, you can ask them their opinions about different topics, allow them to decide where you are going to hang out, and ask them about previous life experiences. You can learn a lot about your friend this way, and they will likely appreciate the interest., Friendships last when the people involved actually spend time with one another. You’ve likely noticed that friendships end when the people in them drift apart. Staying in contact can make your relationship strong.


For instance, you can remind yourself to call or text the person daily or every other day to stay current with what is going on in their life. You can also commit to having lunch together once a week or engaging in some other activity together on a regular basis. , It’s possible to have friendships with people who don’t have the same values you do. The key to this, however, is respecting each other, no matter what. Sure, you can have a difference of opinion about something, but never go below the belt when this happens. Staying respectful can keep your friendship intact.


If you’re afraid you’re about to have a fight or disagreement over a certain topic and don’t think it will end well, speak up. Say, “I value your friendship and I’m worried that if we continue this conversation, we may hurt each other’s feelings, and I don’t want that to happen.”Make sure to listen carefully to the person and validate any concerns that they have. Don’t judge them for what they share or for who they are.
 Friendships that last usually do so because the people involved feel safe. They don’t think they will be judged or criticized by their friend when they show weakness or make a mistake. Stand behind your friend and offer encouragement and support when they need it.


For instance, avoid telling your friend how stupid they were because they let something bad happen or don’t judge them for choices they made in the past. No one is perfect, including you. Remember this when your friend is in their time of need.