 Everyone loves a romantic ending and some people are inclined to place pressure on others to achieve this. As such, don't see these comments as insults. Just think of it as you two having so much in common, it's why you guys are best friends and it's probably why other people think you would also make great romantic buddies too.;
, Explain that you're not about to ruin a really good friendship for a romantic entanglement. Tell them you're just not interested. Then drop the subject.


Tell the truth. Say you aren't dating, and there are no plans for that in the near future. Don't go into excessive details, just say the bare facts.
Turn attention away from you. If you've tried everything else and this rumor just won't die out, try to focus the public's attention on something else. A new couple was started in your grade/department? Your sports team had a huge victory or loss? Draw attention to that.
 Turn the whole thing back on them as if you're treating it as a joke and let them wonder but confirm nothing. For instance, you could say something like, "of course we look good together, best buds always do!", or something along those lines.


Keep a sense of humor! If you are really upset about the rumors, everyone will think they are true. If you laugh them off, (without also making fun of your friend) then people will see the rumor is silly and won't believe it anymore.
 Don't let loose a secret reason why the two of you can't date in order to turn away the uncomfortable focus. For example, if your guy friend is gay or likes someone else, it is not your place to say that. It might turn away the uncomfortable situation, but the broken friendship will hurt you a lot more.
 If your "dating" has turned into a widespread rumor, talk about your battle plan with your friend. It will make you closer in a sticky time when you may be tempted to separate for the sake of avoiding uncomfortable situations.
 If people refuse to leave you alone, despite telling them that you don't like your friend romantically, then just smile and move on. They keep talking about you because you are both obviously amazing people who stand out from the crowd!

