 Give yourself at least two months from the time you begin researching custom engagement rings to the day you want to propose. It will take you at least a month to decide on a design and place the order with a jeweler. Once you place the order, it will take another six weeks for the ring to arrive., Before you begin designing an engagement ring for yourself or your fiancé-to-be, figure out how much money you have to work with. Your budget will determine how much you can spend on the gemstone, setting, and design.Try looking for a jeweler or designer that will let you pay in installments.
 A custom engagement ring will generally cost more than a pre-set ring. A custom ring requires more labor and time to create, and this will be reflected in the price tag. If you are on a tight budget, you might want to consider a pre-set ring instead., Before you design a ring for your love, take some time to find out what they desire in a ring. You can take them window-shopping for engagement rings, try several rings on, or browse ring designs on the Internet.Ask a trusted friend or family member for help if you want to keep the proposal under wraps.
Take note of whether your fiancé prefers simple or more ornate designs, what type of metal they prefer, and whether they are drawn to a particular cut, style, or type of gemstone.
 Look at what kind of jewelry your (soon-to-be) fiancé wears. What color of metal is the jewelry – silver, rose, or gold? Choose a setting that reflects your love’s preferences.If your fiancé-to-be wears a lot of silver jewelry, choose a metal like white gold, platinum, or sterling silver.
If your fiancé-to-be loves gold jewelry, choose yellow gold or rose gold.
 You can create a custom engagement ring with a variety of gemstones, ranging from multi-carat diamonds to tiny opals. Choose a gemstone that is a cut and style that is reflective of your soon-to-be fiancé’s style., It is important that you work with a designer or jeweler that has a longstanding positive reputation. Talk to friends, family, and colleagues for suggestions. You can also read online reviews of many designers and jewelers, and see examples of their custom work.If you are unsure of a jeweler or designer’s reputation, ask to speak to former customers and to see examples of their work.
 Many jewelers have websites with online support to help you design the perfect ring. Most will ask you for your preferences and budget, and then suggest several combinations of gemstones and settings. You can then keep or delete elements of the ring, adjusting your preferences until you design the perfect ring.


Using an online ring advisor means you can design the ring without the added cost of a designer.
 In many cases, it is easiest to purchase an engagement ring and wedding band from the same jeweler or designer. When you are working with the designer, make sure you discuss the wedding band. You may find it’s a good idea to design the engagement ring with the wedding band in mind., Before placing an order with a jeweler or designer, ask them to send you a proof of the ring design. This can be a drawing or a mold of the ring design, and will help you make sure that the ring to be made is the ring you envision. If the proof does not match your expectations, ask the jeweler or designer to adjust it accordingly., Tell the jeweler or designer that you want a written agreement that includes the grade of metal, the type and purity of the gemstone, and the details of the setting. The agreement should also include the date of delivery and the price of the ring., If the jeweler or designer is providing the gemstone for a custom engagement ring, make sure you ask them for a quality grading report. You can also have the stone independently appraised before the ring is made., Before your order a custom engagement ring, talk to the designer or jeweler about the return policy. Many jewelers and designers do not accept returns on custom jewelry, while others may do so for a hefty fee. Get the return policy in writing before you place your order.

