 These are the seasons during which moles are most active and dig close to the surface. They tend to burrow deeper underground in the winter, making them harder to catch in the colder months. Moles give birth late in the spring, so trapping them before the beginning of summer will help to control the mole population. Plan to set your mole traps during spring or fall for best results.;
, You probably already know what to look for: lumpy, bare spots in your yard that look like tiny dirt volcanoes. You might see one or two, or perhaps your hard is riddled with molehills. No matter how many hills you see in your yard, you probably don't have more than one or two moles about. They are loners who prefer to dig by themselves; they don't travel in packs or live in communities., During the afternoon, crush the molehills with your foot. If the hill is active, it will reappear the next morning. A main runway will be straight, and will connect mounds to each other. Main runways usually run along constructed borders, such as walkways or fences.
 You'll need to buy a trap designed specifically for moles. There are two types of traps to choose from: a harpoon trap and a scissors trap. In either case, the mole will run inside and immediately be killed.


Set a harpoon trap by making a well over an active tunnel. Push your hand down gently over the tunnel so that the tunnel collapses by 50%. Align the spikes of the trap over the tunnel. Press the trap into the ground. The trigger pan of the trap should rest just on top of the depression in the tunnel. Set the trap by following the instructions that come with the trap, then leave it.
Set a scissors trap by first probing near molehills for deep tunnels with a long screwdriver or steel rod. You will hit a tunnel when your probe slides quickly down an inch or two. Dig a hole the same size as the trap where the probe indicated the presence of a tunnel. Insert a packed lump of soil into the tunnel, set the trap according to instructions, and lower the trap into the hole. Ensure that both pairs of jaws are inside of the tunnel, one pair on each side of the lump of soil. Release the safety catch and fill in the hole.
 Once you've set your trap, you'll need to check it every day to see if you have caught a mole. If you do not find a mole in 4 to 5 days, you might have set the trap in a tunnel that is no longer in use. You'll need to move the trap to a different location.


Continue checking the trap and moving it if necessary until you've caught a mole.
If you're having trouble finding a tunnel that's in use, make sure you're setting your traps near freshly raised molehills.
 Once the animal is trapped, follow the instructions for mole removal that come with your trap. Be sure to wear plastic gloves to remove the mole.
 Use a shovel to place the mole inside a plastic bag. Close the bag tightly and put the bag into an outside garbage container. Follow local laws for disposal of dead animals.
 Moles from other yards will move into your yard's tunnels once you've trapped your yard's mole. You'll need the set the trap again and check it every few days, disposing of trapped moles as you find them. Eventually the tunnels will get old and new moles will stop moving in.