 Begin the invocation by calming yourself. Breathe in deeply several times through your nose and out through your mouth. The time it takes you to breathe out should be greater than the time it takes you to breathe in.


Announce your intention to perform an invocation. Say slowly and deliberately, “I am preparing myself to welcome the positive, golden energy of the…” and then speak the name of your power animal.
Invite your power animal to come to you. Say, “I know you are powerful. I wish to borrow your strength and power.” Then, describe the powers you expect to receive from the animal. The specific powers will be determined by what your power animal is.
Become one with the power animal. Say, “I can feel your energy fill me with light.”
Give thanks to the power animal. Say, “I thank you for sharing your ancient wisdom with me, noble beast.”

, For instance, if your power animal is the monkey, do not engage in behavior that could result in deforestation or the destruction of monkey populations.


Since your power animal can change, you should do your part to ensure animals are treated well all over the world. Adopt a vegan or vegetarian diet and volunteer with nonprofits that fight for animal rights.
You can also show respect to your power animal by wearing a shirt or pendant with an image of your power animal. Let the image of the power animal keep you conscious of and open to its guidance.
 A power animal might send warnings or foreknowledge of a significant event. If you feel drawn to a certain location or compelled to pursue a particular course of action, it could be due to the influence of your power animal. Disobeying or contradicting the guidance your power animal provides could result in a communication disruption between you and your power animal.
 You don’t need to become a biologist, but you should visit your local library and check out a few books about your power animal. Questions you should be able to answer include:


What does it like to eat?
What are its mating habits
Do the male and female of the species look the same?
Does it have any special calls or make a unique sound?

