 Invite your relatives and family to help you. Have it be a family affair, or try inviting friends and neighbors, if you think they'd want to help.


Have your invitees call in or email their RSVP to you, to avoid relying on the mail in the postal service's busy time of year.;
, Buy or chop down the tree and place it up for display, so that all that needs to be completed for your helpers to do is to decorate it.
 Keep things light and airy and dedicated to the topic at hand - decorating your Christmas tree.
 Talk amongst the group of family and relatives. Collaborate on what needs to get done around the house to spruce things up for the holiday season, but try to switch gears shortly thereafter to get the real party started.
 Show people the tree, along with the boxes or ornaments, tinsel, Christmas lights and whatever stuff the tree will need that have been put to the side. Keep them nearby as that's part of the plan.
 One person can work the lights in the back of the tree, while the other can help with those lights when they reach into the front.


Start with stranding the lights from bottom to top (unless your outlet is near the top of the wall and out of the way of the tree).
 Have a few people work on adding ornaments to the tree. With ornaments, always work from top to bottom, never bottom to top, and definitely don't stagger from random places on the tree. Decorate the back of the tree with ornaments as well as the front. Skip a random branch or two to avoid making the tree off-balance.


You can try setting up a "production line" or "factory line" for passing on decorations when adding ornaments to the tree, but keep in mind that too many people and things could get confusing, and you can easily end up with uneven branches, or worse yet, ornaments on every branch of the tree or broken ornaments.
As people finish their side of the tree, they can settle back and snack on some chips, cookies or cake and collaborate.
 But don't just sit back and relax, get in there and help out.
, Jazzy the tree up with decorative items.
 Let those dedicated to decorating the tree take a final look around the tree, to ensure that no single branch is out of place and the tree looks spiffy. Take some photos of your hard work, and be sure to get a shot of everyone who helped, posing with the end result. If you have the technical know-how, why not film the whole thing with a camera on a tripod facing the tree. The completed film can then be 'time lapsed' to create your own short film.

