 Chief coroners usually have to have previous experience in death investigation (or specialized certification that requires the same). Deputy coroners, on the other hand, may only need to meet a handful of far less stringent prerequisites. Apply for an entry-level position first.Exact prerequisites may differ between states, counties, and municipalities, but at a minimum you will need a high school diploma or GED. Other requirements may include:Valid driver’s license
Physical exam
Drug/alcohol test
Criminal background check
College degree;
, Be aware that, as a deputy coroner, you will be expected to interact with other agencies and contractors, families of the diseased, witnesses, and officers of the court.Anticipate that your interviewer will be assessing your ability to do these tasks based on how you present yourself in the interview. Put your best foot forward by doing the following:Take care of your physical appearance. Groom yourself well. Dress professionally–in this case, as you would for a court appearance.
Listen carefully. Prove your ability to collect and remember important information by paying close attention to what your interviewer says.
Watch your body language. Make sure you sit and stand up straight. Maintain direct eye contact. Shake hands firmly but not aggressively.
Use the right terminology. Speak in professional terms. Avoid slang that may offend people or display insensitivity to the nature of the job.
 Receive hands-on training that may last a year or more. Expect to work under intense supervision during this period. Duties that you will perform may include but are not limited to:Identifying victims.
Informing family of victim’s death.
Researching victim’s medical history.
Investigating scenes.
Interviewing witnesses.
Coordinating with other offices and/or contractors.
Testifying in court.
 At some point during or after your probationary period, you will probably need to pass the National Police Officer Selection Test (POST). This is a general exam given to professionals working in law enforcement. You will also likely need to apply for certification as a death investigator through organizations like the American Board of Medicolegal Death Investigators (ABMDI). Afterward, you will have to take and pass the Registry Examination. However, requirements vary by state, county, and/or municipalities.POST exams test your skills in such areas as math, grammar, writing, and reading skills.To apply for the Registry Examination, you must provide the ABMDI with professional references, as well as notarized proof that you have worked a minimum of 640 hours as a death investigator for a coroner or medical examiner.
All 640 hours must be completed within one jurisdiction. If you move in the meantime, you must complete a total of 640 hours with your new employer.Registry Examinations test your ability to investigate deaths, communicate with families and other agencies, and handle evidence, plus your knowledge of science, ethics, and law.