 The 1st–5th generation iPod nanos are rectangular and all of them have a menu "wheel". The size varies depending on the generation.


Toggle the Hold switch. Toggle the Hold switch on and then off again. You should only have to do this once.
Hold down the Menu and Select buttons at the same time. Hold the buttons for about 6-8 seconds. The Apple logo should appear if the reset was successful.
You may need to repeat this process in order to successfully reset the nano.;
, The 6th generation iPod nano is square and has a screen that covers the entire front. There is no menu wheel on the 6th generation nano.


Press and hold the Sleep button and the Volume Down button. Hold both buttons for at least eight seconds. Continue holding until the Apple logo appears on the on the screen.
You may need to repeat this process in order to successfully reset. If it doesn't work, read on.
Connect the iPod to a computer or a power outlet. If a normal reset doesn't work, you may need to plug it into the wall or a computer that's turned on. Hold down the Sleep and Volume Down button again while the iPod is plugged in.
Let the nano charge. If the screen remains dark after trying to reset, the battery may be dead. You'll need to plug it into the wall for at least 10 minutes before trying to reset it again., The 7th generation nano returns to the rectangular design, but does not have a wheel. Instead, it has a Home button at the bottom similar to an iPhone or iPad.


Press and hold the Sleep and Home buttons. Hold the buttons until your screen goes dark. This may take a few moments. The Apple logo will appear, and then your Home screen should come up.
 If performing a reset on your nano doesn't get it unfrozen, you may need to try a restore. Restoring your iPod will erase all of the data on it and return it to its factory settings. Restoring your iPod is not reversible, so make sure that you can't unfreeze it by resetting it.


Check to make sure you have the latest version by clicking on the iTunes menu, and selecting "Check for updates..." If you do not have iTunes installed, you will nee to download it from Apple and install it before continuing.
You will need an active internet connection in order to restore your nano. This is because newer versions of your iPod's software may need to be downloaded from Apple.
 Use the USB or FireWire cable that came with the iPod. Your iPod should appear in the left panel listed under the Devices heading.


If your sidebar is not showing, click View and select "Show Sidebar".
Click on your iPod to open the Summary tab of the main iTunes window.
If your device is not recognized and the display shows a sad face, try putting the iPod into Disk Mode before restoring. If you cannot enter Disk Mode, then there is a hardware issue.
 This will erase everything on your iPod and restore it to factory conditions. Accept the warning prompts and your restore will begin.


Mac users will be asked for the administrator password.
If using Windows, you may see one or more restore options prompting iTunes to automatically download the latest iPod Software.
 iTunes will display a progress bar while it is working. When the first stage is done, iTunes will show one of the following messages with instructions specific to the iPod model you are restoring:


Disconnect iPod and connect it to iPod Power Adapter (for older nano models).
Leave iPod connected to computer to complete restore (applies to newer nano models).
 During the second stage of the restore process, the iPod will display a progress bar on the screen. It is VERY important that the iPod remain connected to the computer or iPod power adapter during this stage.because the backlight usually turns off on an iPod during the restore process, it may be difficult to see the progress bar.
 Once the restore process is complete, iTunes will open the Setup Assistant. You will be asked to name the iPod and select your sync options. At this point, the iPod has been fully restored. Sync it to your computer to reload your music.

