 You can find plans online for either a full freestyle rampor a basic FMX ramp.Alternatively, if you’re mechanically skilled and already have a lot of knowledge about ramp sizing and proportions, you can make your own drawings. It is, however, important to get your measurements and a visual down on paper before you get started.


You should have some experience with woodworking before attempting to build a ramp on your own.
Do not use tools such as saws or nail guns without permission, ability, and, if necessary, supervision., Use 2x6" lumber for your support structure. Measure and cut four 10 foot beams for the base supports.Then, measure and cut four sets of vertical support beams. Each beam will need to be angled at the top end. This angle will form the incline of your ramp.


It’s easiest, quickest, and most accurate to use a miter saw to make the crosscut for the angle at the top of the vertical supports. If you don’t have a miter, you’ll just have to carefully measure and mark your boards to make sure they’re cut as precisely as possible.For a basic FMX ramp, cut the tallest vertical supports so one side is 40" in height and the other is 36". Each individual beam should thus have one side that’s longer than the other. The result will be a 56 degree slant, or angle, at their tops.
For the second tallest pair of vertical supports, cut them so one side is 22 1/2" and the other is 19 3/4". Each should have a slant at their tops of about 65 degrees.
Cut the third pair of vertical supports so one side is 10 1/2" and the other is 8 1/2".
Cut the fourth pair of vertical supports so one side is 2 3/4" and the other is 1 1/2".
 Lay two 10 foot 2x6" beams down parallel on their 6" faces. These will be the support structure’s “feet.” Using 3" nails throughout, nail another 2x6" beam along each support foot’s side, so they’re perpendicular, or form an “L” shape. The second pair of 10 foot beams will form a lip that’ll hold in place the rest of the vertical support beams., The first pair of 2x6" vertical supports are the ones that measure 36" and 40" at their tops. Position one flush against the lip formed by the 10 foot beams, all the way to the end of one side, and nail it into place. Nail the other tallest support post into place on the other support foot.Make sure these and all other support posts mirror each other. The slants at their tops should face the same way, so they form the incline of the ramp., Measure 30" in from the ends of the first pair of support posts and mark the spot with a pencil. This is where you’ll position the second pair. Position them, and nail them into place on both sets of 10 foot bottom beams.
 For the third pair of vertical supports, measure 60" in from end of the first set of vertical posts. Mark the measurement, position the posts, and nail them into place. For the fourth set, measure 120" from the ends of the first set, mark, position, and nail them.
 At this point, you should have two sets of 10-foot bottom supports with four vertical posts nailed into each. You will link them together by nailing down middle supports at each vertical post. Measure and cut four 3 foot, 2x6" beams. Line up the bottom 10-foot long supports, keeping them parallel, and space them three feet apart. Start on each end to make sure the supports are square, and position the middle support beams where you’ve nailed each pair of vertical posts.Carefully position first to get a feel for their fit. You might even use masking tape to hold them in place.
Make sure you’ve got everything flush and square, then start nailing the middle supports into place.
Take special care on this step: it’s essential to make sure the two halves are square and lined up with each other or your ramp will turn out unstable.
 Now that you’ve built the basic support structure, you have to start on the ramp itself. The vertical supports with the angled tops that you’ve built will hold beams across them. In turn, these horizontal beams will support the ramp surface.Cut three 3-foot, 2x6" beams. These three beams will be for the first, third, and fourth pairs of vertical posts.
Use a 3-foot, 2x4" beam to top the second-tallest pair of vertical supports. A 2x4" here, rather than a 2x6", will give the plywood sheets that will form the surface of the ramp more give., Cut 1/2" plywood into 3-foot by 6-foot sheets. To attach them to the support structure, it’s important to use 2 1/2" to 3" screws instead of nails. Nails will not hold the plywood surface in place properly.Drive them as close to the edge of the sheet as possible for maximum stability. Once you’ve installed one layer of plywood, add a second to cover it.Make sure to overlap the edges of your plywood: don’t let their ends match up, or the result will be a groove that’ll ruin your ramp. You’ll have to cut the second layer of plywood sheets at a different length in order to keep your sheets from matching up.Use a steel saw to clean the ramp up and cut off any plywood overhanging at the high end of the ramp., Once you’ve added double layers of plywood sheets for the ramp surface and removed any unsupported, overhanging edges, add 2x6" cross supports to the tallest set of vertical posts. Measure the diagonal distance between the four corners, and cut beams to match that length.