 An .ico file is a Windows icon file. Your Windows computer comes with Windows Paint, which will do the job. More advanced software like Photoshop and Gimp also allow you to draw icons.


If Photoshop is your drawing software of choice, you’ll need a safe, free plugin called ICO (Windows Icon Format) by Telegraphics. The plugin is available directly from the developer at http://www.telegraphics.com.au/sw/. Scroll down to ICO (Windows Icon Format), select your operating system, and choose a location to save the installer. For help installing Photoshop plugins, see How to Install Plugins in Adobe Photoshop.
You may have different drawing software than any of the above. Search the web to see if it can save .ico files. If so, you can still follow the steps, as most drawing applications are somewhat similar when it comes to these basic functions.
You can use a Mac to create Windows icons, but you’ll need to use Photoshop, Gimp, or another piece of software that works on MacOS (not Paint).;
, To open Paint, open the Start menu and select the search box. Type the word “Paint” and once the program appears in the search results, click the link. This method will work with Gimp and Photoshop as well.
 Your .ico file should be a perfect square, and It’s a good idea to start with at least a 256 x 256 pixel canvas so you can see what you’re doing. You can go larger, as long as both numbers are the same.


In Paint, click “Resize,” then select the radio button next to the word “Pixels.” Type 256 into both the Horizontal and Vertical boxes, then select “OK.”
In Photoshop, open the File menu and select “New.” Type 256 in both the Width and Height boxes and click “OK.” Select “Pixels” (not inches). You’ll see an option to set a background color—you can choose one if you wish, or select “Transparent” if you don’t want your icon to have a solid color background.In Gimp, open the File menu and select “New.” Type 256 in both the Width and Height boxes (make sure Pixels is selected). Click “Advanced Options” to see options for a background fill. If you want to set a background color, click “Fill With” and either select a color or chose “Transparency” to have no background behind your design. Click OK. , To keep your drawing symmetrical, set your image program to show a grid in the background. This grid will not show up on your icon.


Paint: Click the “View” tab and put a check next to “Gridlines.” Photoshop: Open the View menu and select “Show,” then “Grid.”Gimp: Open the View menu and select “Show Grid.”

, Choose a tool like the pen, pencil or paintbrush (in any drawing software) to begin. Each software option has a color palette with plenty of colors to choose from. You can even add text to your new icon in any of the software options by selecting the text tool from the toolbar.


Design experts recommend making icons simple, vibrant and easy to read. Remember that your icon will be much smaller when it’s on your desktop, so try not to add too many tiny words or details. It’s tough to draw a dynamic image with a mouse. For intensive drawing on a computer, you may want to try using a drawing tablet.
 First, save a copy of your icon at its current size so you can work on it again in the future. Open the file menu, click “Save as,” and choose a location for your file. Make sure you save it as a .bmp file. Now, to reduce the size on each of the three software options:


Paint: On the Home tab, click “Resize” and click the radio button next to Pixels. Set the icon size to 32 x 32 by typing 32 into both the Height and Width boxes. Click “OK.”
Photoshop and Gimp: Open the Image menu and click “Image Size” (or “Scale Image” in Gimp). Make sure “Pixels”(“px” in The Gimp) is selected in both the Height and Width dropdowns and type 32 into both boxes. Click “OK.”

, Now that you’ve finished drawing, you’re ready to save. Make sure to save to a location you’ll remember.


Paint: Open the File menu and click “Save As.” Before typing a file name, click the dropdown menu next to “Save as Type” and choose “256-color bitmap.” Next, select a folder where you’d like to save your new icon. Now, type in the name of your icon next to “file name,” giving it the file extension .ico. For example, you could call it mozillaalternate.ico.
Photoshop: Open the File menu and choose “Save as.” Select “Windows Icon File (.ico)” from the list of save options. If you don’t see it listed, make sure you installed the Telegraphics plugin. Gimp: Open the File menu and select “Save As.” Select the “Microsoft Windows Icon (.ico)” file type. Now navigate to the location where you’d like to save your icon, and then type a name for it in the “file name” box. For example, you could call it mozillaalternate.ico.

