 The road from high school graduate to licensed psychiatrist is a long one, and it starts with a bachelor's degree. Many people who are interested in psychiatry choose to major in psychology, chemistry, biology, or engineering in order to start learning about the way the mind works. The important thing is to obtain a degree from a 4-year university that will prepare you to apply to medical school.


You must have 1 year of inorganic chemistry, 1 year of organic chemistry, 1 year of biology, 1 year of mathematics including calculus, and 1 year of physics in order to apply for medical school.
Grades must be outstanding in order to secure admission. For every one person admitted to medical school, 7 will be rejected. Some universities offer pre-med programs that are designed to fulfill all of the prerequisites for applying to medical school.
Going to the best school you can get into is a good idea when your end goal is becoming a psychiatrist. Medical schools are very competitive, so make sure you attend a top school and get the best grades you can get.
While you're in college, get experience in the psychiatric field by taking an internship at a hospital or doing volunteer work. Make sure psychiatry is definitely for you before you spend the time and money it takes to become licensed.;
, Psychiatrists must go through the same medical training program that all doctors go through. In addition to learning about the mind, you'll be learning about how the body works and how to treat all types of illnesses. Medical school will give you the fundamental knowledge you need to be a responsible and excellent doctor. You will have to pass internal medicine, surgery, neurology, obstetrics, emergency medicine, family practice, and pediatrics.


Do well on the MCAT and apply to the best school you can get into. You'll have a greater range of career choices if you go to a great medical school.
During the first four years of medical school you take classes, do lab work, and learn about medical ethics. You may not have the opportunity to do hands-on psychiatry work at this stage, but earning your medical degree is a requirement in the path to becoming a psychiatrist, so stick with it.

