 You can freeze unbaked quiche filling separately from the crust or you can freeze the entire unbaked quiche together, but if you want to maintain a crisper, flakier crust, it is strongly recommended that you freeze the filling separately.


You may also want to consider making the filling before the crust if you intend to keep it for long-term storage. The filling can last for several months in the freezer, but the quality of the crust will deteriorate after a few days.;
, Prepare the quiche filling as directed in the recipe's instructions. Pour the filling into a large plastic freezer bag and seal the bag, getting out as much excess air as possible beforehand.


Only use a freezer-safe bag or container. Do not use a glass container, and do not use a thin plastic bag that is too flimsy to hold up in the freezer.
Label the bag or container with the current date and the contents of the bag. This will make it easier to remember how long the filling has been in the freezer.
 As a general rule, it is better to prepare the crust shortly before baking it rather than making it ahead of time and trying to freeze it, but if you do decide to make the crust ahead of time, you should roll it out into its intended pie dish and place both the dish and crust into a large plastic freezer bag.


Label the bag with the current date. Doing so will make it easier to keep track of how long the crust has been in the freezer.
 Place both the crust and the filling in the freezer, keeping them at a temperature of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) until you intend to assemble and bake the dish.


An unbaked quiche filling can be frozen for up to one to three months, but the unbaked crust should not be frozen for much longer than 24 or 48 hours.
 Place the bag of filling and the crust in the refrigerator. Let them thaw in there slowly, until the filling warms up enough to turn back into a liquid.


The filling will need to thaw for a longer period of time than the pie crust. The crust only needs to be thawed for about 15 minutes. The filling will need to defrost in the refrigerator for one or two hours. Plan ahead of time, and make sure that the filling has ample time to thaw back into a liquid state before you need to bake it.
 Pour the filling into the crust and bake the quiche as directed in the recipe's instructions. Since both parts should be thawed by this point, the cooking time should not be affected.


Note, however, that if the quiche filling still contains ice crystals, you may need to bake it for an additional five minutes or so since the filling will need to warm up in addition to baking.

