 Buying and maintaining a rental property can be a lucrative option for those looking to save some money for retirement. However, it can be very time intensive and require significant financial investment. In addition, there is no guarantee that your property will maintain or increase its value. Poor tenants and changing real estate markets can dramatically affect your property’s value., Unless you have significant financial reserves, you will need to get a “buy to let” mortgage in order to pay for a property. Your bank will calculate the potential income of a property versus the potential expenses for it and determine a range of mortgage rates that will work for you.This is intended to help you avoid purchasing a property that you will not be able to afford.


If this is your first property, the bank may also want that you to meet a specific income requirement for the mortgage.
 If you are fine with living close to your tenants, you might consider buying a large house where you live in one part and rent out the other. You can use the income from the tenant’s rent to pay the mortgage and put some of it away for retirement. However, you will have to rent to someone who you feel comfortable living with and will take care of the property.Consider renting out a floor of the home such as the basement or the second floor.
 Once the bank approves your mortgage, you can begin looking for properties in your price range. Ideally, you will want a property located in a strong rental market. Look for properties in locations where there is a high demand for rental homes. There should also be an established increase in property values over the previous few years.Look for a deal but avoid buying a house that needs a lot of maintenance. Unless you are willing to fix up the home yourself, this can be very expensive and time-consuming.
 Once you have found the property, you will need to find tenants. Ideally, you will want people who have a steady income and a history of being good renters. You will need to screen applicants, looking at things like their credit scores and criminal history. Ask for things like references from previous landlords or a proof of employment like a pay stub.
You can attract tenants by placing ads in your local newspaper or by advertising it on websites like Craigslist.
 In order to ensure that your investment appreciates, you will need to maintain your property. Be proactive and take care of any problems before they become bigger issues. In addition, look for ways in which you can improve the property and increase its value. Replacing old appliances and fixtures can add value to your property.For example, if the ceiling leaks, have it fixed before it causes water damage inside your home.
Make sure that you buy proper insurance for your property to protect your investment.
If you have the resources, you may want to hire a property manager to perform maintenance and generally look after the property.
 Once you are ready to retire, you can sell the property and use the profit to fund your retirement. If the property has appreciated, you should have a significant profit coming your way. Conversely, if you are still capable and willing to manage the property, you can continue to rent it out and use the profits to supplement your retirement.