 Many schools host a “Meet the Teacher” event at the start of a new school year to let parents and students introduce themselves to teachers. Attending this event sets the tone for positive interaction with your child’s teacher. It also shows your concern for your child’s educational experience.These events can be busy and aren’t the best environment for extended dialogue. Briefly introduce yourself and have your child do the same. Schedule a separate meeting for discussing other concerns.;
, When your child’s teacher invites you to the school for a face-to-face meeting, leave your child at home unless necessary. Being able to discuss sensitive matters without your child defensively butting in can help you enjoy a more productive exchange., When you attend meetings with your child's teacher, think about any concerns you have in advance. Write down a list of probable questions to help you get the most out of the conversation. You may also jot down any concerns you have about your child's progress that you don't want to forget about discussing.Having another adult there with you may also be helpful as they may think of questions you didn't. It may also help to take notes during the meeting so you can review what you learned afterwards.
 If there’s any reason that you are concerned about your child’s progress or need to update the teacher on personal issues occurring at home, schedule a meeting. You don’t have to wait until the monthly or quarterly scheduled times to sit down with your child’s teacher.


Teachers are often thrilled to catch you up on what’s happening in the classroom. Staying in touch actually strengthens your relationship with the teacher. Just make an appointment first.Reasons you might schedule a meeting include discussing progress after implementing new skills, sharing details about personal issues (e.g. divorce or death in the family), expressing concern about setbacks, or resolving bullying incidents.
 Parents can demonstrate involvement in two ways: by being an active supporter of your child at home and by taking part in school activities. Try to get both parents involved, if at all possible. Studies reveal that having both parents involved results in better educational outcomes. Children with engaged parents also stay motivated about learning throughout life.Get involved by chaperoning field trips, volunteering for school events, working as a teacher’s aide, helping with homework or special projects, or joining the Parent Teacher Association (PTA).
The level of involvement needed often depends on the unique needs of the child in question.

