 She may hang her head low, slouch, take up as little space as possible, and avoid eye contact. This posture is associated with submission and anxiety.This body language reinforces and sends the message that you are nervous, submissive, and lack confidence. Changing your posture and body language will alter the impression you make on others, their behavior towards you, and eventually your own perception of yourself.


If you're not comfortable trying some of these techniques in public, practice them in a mirror or film yourself until you feel a bit more comfortable. You could also practice with a good friend and get some feedback.;
, Stand and walk with your shoulders pulled back and level. Keep your chin level, with your face pointed straight ahead. Walk like you own the world, even if you don't feel like you do. Doing this will make yourself look poised because many people slouch.


Pretend you are hanging from a string attached to the top of your head.Try keeping your head from moving around anxiously by choosing a fixed point to look at. Focus on the point, rather than moving your head.
 Anxious people often shift their weight from side to side, fidget, or tap their feet. Try standing with your feet at hip's width apart. Balance your weight across both legs.Balancing, or planting, your feet will keep your from feeling like you need to be on the move.


Keep your legs balanced even when you're sitting. You'll appear anxious if your legs are twisted around or tapping.
 Fight the urge to lean forward in your chair or tuck your arms under your armpits. Instead, be expansive and fill out the space around you. This is called power posing. Studies have shown that people who power-posed before interviews felt and came across as more confident.Here are a few simple power poses to try:


When sitting down, lean back in your chair. Use the armrests if they're available.
Stand with your legs shoulder-width apart and place your hands on your hips.
Lean, don't slouch, against walls. This will unconsciously make it appear as though you own the wall or room., If you need to get someone's attention, touch the person's shoulder. You'll need to consider the situation and interaction to gauge how appropriate physical contact is. For example, if you can get a person’s attention by simply calling her name, physical contact may come off as a little too forward. But if you are in a loud, crowded venue trying to get someone’s attention, a light touch on the shoulder can draw her attention to you.


Remember the touch should be light. Too much pressure could come across as being too dominant as opposed to calm and confident.
 While standing or sitting, keep your hands mostly still. Confident positions usually leave the front of your face and body open, instead of closing them off from others. Here are a few suggestions:Clasp your palms together behind your back or behind your head.
Stick your hands in your pockets, but show your thumbs.
Steeple your fingers together and rest your elbows on a table. This is a very assertive position, best used for negotiations, interviews, and meetings.
 Emphasizing every word with a hand gesture can come across as anxious or energetic, depending on your culture. Go with the occasional, controlled gesture instead. Keep your arms at waist level and make most of your gestures within that space. This will make you look more credible.Use an open, relaxed palm in social contexts. A rigid palm or fist is very aggressive or dominant, typically used by politicians.
Keep your elbows at your side. Gesture with your hands slightly to one side, to avoid blocking your body.

