 Remember to NEVER copy off anyone's videos. It may be related, but you should twist a couple things.;
, It gives you a perfect idea of what to plan

, A storyboard is easy to make, just open a word processing program. Microsoft Word wouldn't really work, because it freezes too much, but if you're comfortable with it, it's fine. Just remember to save. What you need for story boards will also be put in materials file too. Plan out what kind of movie its going to be. Is it going to be freaky and scary? Or Funny and weird? Will it make sense? Is it a true story? Plan the characters. Is it just you and your family? Is it some random friends or neighbors? Is it just some classmates coming over? Is there a murderer? Plan out which house you're going to use. Try using a large house that costs a lot of money. There's a simple money cheat I love doing. Motherlode. (Without the period) just press Ctrl and shift, and c at the same time and type it in. Place your characters in a cheap-o- house when you made them, use the cheat, save, and move them out. You can use the cheat as many times as you want, so its perfectly fine to be rich! Don't forget to also use half the money share for items you're gonna buy in the house. Color the walls, floors, and other things around the house. Just decorate! Make sure it looks like what your story's about otherwise it will be like this: o. O People are gonna think that O__O Instead of XD! Make sure it makes sense! Unless it's a weird...Movie...Don't forget to write what's going to happen too!

, Build relationships. If you want a girl to fall in love with a boy in your movie. Talk and chat, crack jokes and once they become friends do a friendly hug. Then go to other options like romantic hug and kisses, even a crush is REALLY good to begin with. If you want a sim to hate another one, just get into fights, argue, brag and annoy! Do stuff people hate! Then you can get cooler options like fight, gross out, slap and shove! Its really amazing what you can do in the Sims 2! You can download cool things in Mod the Sims 2 and the official Sims 2 Site, like custom hair and clothes..Even pets and homes!

, Fraps will record EVERYTHING on your screen. Including the options, and the mini bars at the bottom. Always use the Sims 2 camera recorder which can be used by clicking Tab or finding it on the lower left corner of your screen. Make sure you zoom into the characters or it will be really crappy quality. If your recording everything, then explain to the viewers, it was really crappy and you couldn't do a thing about it, or people will lose interest and watch something else.
 Use the camera for about 1 minute or 30 seconds, whenever it closes when you don't want it to, whatever the Sims are doing, click PAUSE! Then click play and record again. Remember to access the video folder: Go to My Documents-EA Games-Sims 2 Double Deluxe-Movies

, Windows Movie Maker is really good and simple for Machima like this. You can edit, take out parts and put really cool effects. Its installed in your computer in the first place, just like for everyone else! Access it by: Start-All programs-Acsessories-Windows Movie Maker. To become the master of Windows Movie Maker, its best to play and explore around first, unless you already know how.
 Music can also be put. It doesn't matter if you're recording sound in the Sims 2 and you don't know, just mute it when your editing it, and put music and text, or just your voice.
 Then upload it to Youtube or other broadcasting sites. Remember to explain in the description and write everything the characters are saying just in case they can't hear/see it.

