 The form can be obtained online, by mail, or picked up in person from a Florida school district office. Pay the application fee by credit card, personal or cashier's check or money order.Email or call Florida's Department of Education to request a paper copy of the CG-10 application form if you have neither a U.S. Social Security number nor a U.S. state/territory mailing address.Once you fill out the application, you must also pay the processing fee for each subject you choose to teach. Send a personal check, cashier's check or money order for payment.
Initial certificates as well as additional subjects are each $75., Wait for the Department to determine your eligibility and issue your Official Statement of Status of Eligibility. The statement should show you are eligible for a Professional Certificate in your chosen subject.This statement will let you know if any other information is needed by the Department to receive your credentials.
Any additional requirements outlined in the Statement must be completed before your temporary certification expires.
 The tests you need to take will be on your Official Statement of Status of Eligibility.


You need a valid U.S. Social Security number for the Bureau of Educator Certification to accept your test scores. Without this, the Bureau of Education will not be able to attach your scores to the rest of your application. The Social Security number should be the same on your educator certification file.
If you do not have a valid U.S. Social Security Number, contact the Bureau of Educator Certification to find out what identifying documents may be acceptable to accept your scores.
 A public school can mean a charter school sponsored by its own school district. A nonpublic school can include Virtual Schools that are Internet-based, statewide public schools.Discuss any immigration or visa matters you have with prospective employers. Your employer must send the appropriate documentation for your immigration status to the Bureau of Educator Certification.
The school you teach at should offer its teachers a state-approved program to demonstrate professional competence in education, which is used to get a Professional Certificate in Florida.
Have your fingerprints processed. If you are already teaching at a school, your employer can help with this. Pay the processing fee.The employment and fingerprint processing should be done before your eligibility statement's 3-year expiration date or else you must reapply and be re-evaluated for another Official Statement.

