 Sinus and post-traumatic headaches are often characterized by inflammation, which occurs when a part of the body becomes reddened, swollen, and painful due to infection or injury. Certain foods can slow down the body’s healing process, increase inflammation and trigger headaches. Some inflammatory foods may also cause digestive problems such as bloating, stomach acid reflux, and constipation. Try to lessen or avoid the following foods:


Refined carbohydrates such as white bread, pastries, and donuts.
Fried foods
Sugar-sweetened beverages such as soda or energy drinks.
Red meat such as veal, ham or steak and processed meats such as hot dogs.
Margarine, shortening and lard., While some foods can cause inflammation, certain foods can also help reduce inflammation that may potentially lead to headaches. A Mediterranean diet mostly consists of foods that help reduce inflammation, such as:


Fruits such as strawberries, cherries, and oranges.
Nuts like almonds and walnuts.
Green leafy vegetables such as spinach or kale which are high in antioxidants.
Fatty fish like salmon, mackerel, tuna and sardines.
Whole grains such as brown rice, quinoa, millet, oatmeal and flax seed.
Olive or canola oil, Aim to drink at least eight ounces of water every two hours. Dehydration can often lead to headaches, dizziness, muscle cramps, low blood pressure, changes in body temperature, and seizures. 2 liters of water is the daily recommendation for the average adult. If you drink caffeinated beverages, take 1 liter of water for every cup of caffeine. Non-caffeinated, glucose-free sports drinks with electrolytes can help alleviate dehydration as well., Studies have shown magnesium to be very effective in alleviating head pain. Besides its anti-stress properties, magnesium can also help reduce anxiety, chronic fatigue, chest pain, and maintain healthy blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar levels.


Natural food sources of magnesium are salmon, mackerel, halibut, tuna, dark chocolate, dark leafy greens, nuts, seeds, brown rice, lentils, soybeans, black beans, chickpeas, avocado, and bananas.Calcium can inhibit the absorption of magnesium supplements, so it is better to use more readily absorbed forms such as magnesium gluconate or a magnesium amino acid chelate. 100mg of magnesium supplements is recommended to be taken 2–3 times daily. Adults should get at least 280–350 mg of magnesium daily.
 Vitamin C can be taken as a dietary supplement with a recommended dose of 500 mg split into two or three times daily. Since smoking depletes vitamin C, smokers may need an additional 35 mg per day. You can also add vitamin C-rich foods to your daily diet. Good natural sources of vitamin C are:


Sweet red or green peppers
Citrus fruit such as oranges, pomelo, grapefruit, limes or non-concentrated citrus juices.
Spinach, broccoli and brussel sprouts
Strawberries and raspberries
Tomatoes
Mango, papaya and cantaloupe, European elder is an immunity-boosting herb also known for its anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties. It can also help reduce sinus headaches. Elderberry extract can be found as a syrup, lozenge or dietary capsule supplement at most nutrition or drug stores.You can also steep 3-5 grams of dried elder flower in a cup of boiling water for 10–15 minutes to drink as an herbal tea, up to three times per day. Some precautions to remember are:


Do not use unripe or uncooked elderberries as they may be poisonous.Elderberry should not be given to children without consulting with a pediatrician.
Speak to your doctor before taking elderberry, as it may have some side effects for pregnant women, people with autoimmune disease, and people taking diabetic medication, laxatives, chemotherapy drugs, or immunosuppressants.