 That means, one or more person is catching the rest of the people who are running on lines.;
, Find a huge area of land that is used for recreational purposes. It would be better if it has lines or circles all over it e.g. a basketball court. Make sure there isn't anyone there and it is a surface where you can draw things on it with chalks or a rock. The bigger the space, the better.


When using a public place, always ask for permission first!

, It’s a straightforward game that anyone can understand. You can ask your family members or friends. Remember that the more people you invite, the larger area you have to hire.
 You will need a rock or a chalk to do this.
 It should be around the size of a normal basketball court depending on how many people are playing (i.e. 30 people = 2 or 3 basketball courts).
 The lines can be anywhere as long as a person can walk around. Always remember to leave some space around it.


Add in some strange shapes too. This can be circles, hexagons, cylinders etc. Add in some tricky bits too to make the game more fun.
Ensure all of the lines you drew are touching other lines so there won’t be a dead-end. You can though if you want to but don’t add in too many.
 That will be the place where the ghost will start. You don’t have to draw it as the ghost can start anywhere but it’s best too so you don’t have to choose the position where the ghost stays.
 Pick one if you have a very less amount of players i.e. 10 players= 1 ghost. If you have more, it’s better to choose two. Remember you can always restart and play the game over and over again.
 This will mean that the rest of the players are Pac Man who have to run away from the ghosts.
 They will obviously stay away from the ghost.
 All of the player ‘’’must’’’ stay on the line when running. No cutting corners! Whoever fails to follow the rules, they immediately are out which will be explained in the next step.
 Their job is to block the rest of the Pac Man from getting to the other side of the line. That means: e.g. there is a person out and is sitting on a line, a Pac Man sees the person out but can’t go on the other side of the line.


If they do however, that is cheating which means that they are out.
Also, there is only one person in a row of a line. That means, there can’t be two people standing next to each other running on a line. If that happens, they’re out.
 This makes the game more fun and quick. This rules ‘’’only’’’ applies to the ghost.
 Play again if desired.

