 Your Hanukkah table setup can be as fancy and formal or playful and casual as you want. Have fun trying out different ideas and keep your guests in mind while putting everything together. Use this chance to let your personal sensibilities shine through while remaining faithful to the air of humility surrounding the holiday.


A quieter, subdued presentation may be preferable if you're hosting older or more traditional guests.
You could also turn your Hanukkah celebration into a true party. Hang dazzling decorations, play games and hand out fun gifts or party favors.
Put together a special Hanukkah playlist to have going in the background, complete with holiday favorites like "The Dreidel Song," "Mi Y'Malel" and "Light One Candle."

, Just as red and green have become associated with Christmas, blue and white are the colors historically used to designate Hanukkah and the Jewish people in general. You can introduce blue and white into your holiday decor by making the colors part of the table cloth or runner, china and ornamental table toppers. The colors complement one another elegantly and look beautiful in a variety of displays.A tremendous amount of items can be found in blue and white, giving you a wide range of options for decorating.If you’re shopping around for a fresh look, try decorating with metallic blues and silvers instead of plain colors.
 Hanukkah is primarily about reverence and paying tribute to the victories of faith, but that doesn’t mean your home’s decor has to be a bore. Handpick silverware, linens, glasses and other dining accessories in sleek, attractive designs that catch your eye. Set out a lavish runner as the focal point of the table, or fashion handmade name cards to go at each guest's seat. The possibilities are nearly endless!Include extra color and flair in the form of under plates or place mats.
Scatter metal or plastic coins over the tabletop or string them together into garlands to craft a grown-up version of gelt.
If you'd rather not bother with lots of dishes and cleanup, just pick up some plastic tableware and keep things casual.
 Accent the table with candles and decorative lights of all sorts. Try turning down the overhead lights and letting the candles do most of the work. For a more modern take, you can update classic conventions by finding candle holders in blue and white tones or shapes that play off the eight-armed, staggered structure of the menorah. Get as extravagant as you please—after all, it’s called the “Festival of Lights” for a reason!Place dozens of small tea lights around the room to create a warm, surrounding glow.
String up blue, white and gold paper lanterns for a contemporary twist on Hanukkah lighting.
 Whether it’s the flag of Israel or a jovial runner bearing a “Happy Hanukkah!” message, a vibrant banner or more traditional sukkah (paper-chain) may be just what you need to complete the look of your dining area. You could also drape blue and silver garlands around the room to stay in keeping with other holiday traditions. Arrange these accents directly over the table or pin them up them in the background and enjoy the occasion in style.Most party supply stores sell Hanukkah decorations which can help you lend some flair to your home.
Make sukkah with young kids as a Hanukkah art project., These days, many of us have friends and loved ones who we cherish that come from diverse religious and cultural backgrounds. Reserve a spot for these people at your table and invite them to take part in the food, laughter, joy and togetherness of your Hanukkah celebration. The essence of the holidays is to extend love and kindness to those who are dear to us, regardless of whether or not they share our faith.Non-Jewish friends and relations are often more than welcome to join in celebrating the holiday.
Many people convert or marry into the Jewish religion, meaning that there can be a mixture of religious traditions within a single family.

