 Call ahead to your boss, supervisor, and/or coworker to let them know you are sick. Tell them what you are sick with, the flu or whatever other illness it may be. Also let them know you are intending to come to work, but will take precautions to limit spreading the disease.Letting your boss and coworkers know you are sick can also help them take measures to protect themselves.
This is also a good time to ask if you can take the day off. Try saying something like, “I don’t want to get my coworkers sick and I don’t think that I will be at my best today. Is it okay if I stay home to rest and recover from this illness?”

, If you must go to work, then it is important to cover your mouth when you cough. Turning away to avoid coughing on another worker or covering it up with your hands is a good idea. Have tissues nearby or on your person to cover up your cough. If you can get antibacterial tissues do so. Dispose of any used tissues immediately and take care they don’t come in contact with other surfaces.If you’re in close quarters try to aim your cough at empty space or a wall. The same goes for sneezing.
 Your hands are one of the easiest ways you can contaminate surfaces or other workers. You’ll need to wash your hands more frequently, and thoroughly while sick at work with the flu or similar illnesses. Go to your workplace’s bathroom or wash station and run your hands under warm water and soap for 20 seconds each time.If soap is not available then have soap-less (usually alcohol based) hand sanitizer with you at all times and use it often. Use it especially before and after making hand to hand contact with another person.
 Having a spray can of disinfectant can help protect coworkers from contamination via surfaces. Spray handles, desk areas, seats, and if safe to do so, electronic peripherals (like a keyboard or mouse) that you might share with other coworkers. Spray down restroom surfaces in the workplace you touch too.There are any number of disinfectant sprays you can get in a store. Have one at your work station, desk, and bathroom so you can spray any surfaces you touch.
 This includes tools, computers, and even food. In cases where you store food at work you might want to put a note that you are sick so others know not to make contact with your food containers or mix up items you need to help your recovery.If your boss is wary of you spraying electronics with disinfectant then you might ask if the ones you touch can be isolated. This way only you are touching potentially contaminated surfaces. This applies to any other tools you may use on the job. If you are coughing and sneezing then you might ask to be allowed to work in a separate area of the office or workplace so you aren’t in close proximity to other employees.
 Ask your boss if you can take breaks at different times or locations so you don’t expose coworkers to your germs. If you can limit the time your coworkers and you are in the same place while you are contagious then you will reduce their exposure to your illness.Avoiding contact with others is the best way to prevent your infecting them with the flu or other illness. If you must go to work then in addition to disinfecting items and quarantining them you can alter your schedule if workflow permits so your coworkers aren’t physically close to you while you are ill. This can also allow more time to disinfect break room surfaces by you or any cleaning staff. Take advantage of separate break times to recover more of the energy you might be losing due to the illness.

