 The IRS allows you to deduct up to $5,000 or your actual startup costs (whichever is less), and $5,000 in organizational costs in the first year, whichever amount is less. However, if your costs exceed $50,000, your deduction will be reduced by the amount you go over. If your start-up expenses exceed $55,000, you won’t be able to claim the $5,000 deduction for the first year. For example, if start-up or organizational costs are $51,000, your deduction is reduced to $4,000. If start-up or organizational costs are $55,000 or more, the $5,000 deduction is completely phased out for the first year. If your startup or organizational costs are $3,000, that is the amount you can deduct since it is less than $5,000.Whatever portion of your startup costs that you can't deduct during the first year can be deducted over the next 180 months of operation, starting with the month after you started your business. Organizational costs appear on the income statement as an expense if deducted, or on the balance sheet as an asset that will be amortized (expensed or deducted from income)over a period of years.;
, Startup costs that can be deducted fall into one of two categories: money spent investigating opening a business and money spent to get the business started before it actually opens. Here are some typical costs involved in starting a new business:Deductible startup costs associated with investigating a business opportunity include market surveys, visiting prospective business facilities, product analysis and labor surveys, whether you perform them yourself or pay a consultant to do so for you.
Deductible startup costs associated with getting the business ready to open include advertising, wages paid to employees in training and their instructors, and travel costs incurred to find suppliers and distributors of raw materials and customers to buy your finished products. Small equipment purchases (less than $1,000) also fall under the heading of deductible startup costs.
Large equipment purchases (over $1,000) are not deductible as startup costs as they need to be depreciated over time once put to use in the running of your business. However, large equipment purchases qualify under other tax provisions — Section 179 — that allows deduction up to $25,000.
Costs such as taxes, loan interest and expenses for research and experimentation are not deductible as startup costs, although they may be deductible as ordinary business costs.
 If you set up your business as either a partnership or a corporation, you can deduct or amortize (deduct the expense over a number of years) certain costs incurred while setting up the business. These costs must be incurred before the end of the first tax year, and chargeable to a capital account. They can be amortized over the amount of time the partnership or corporation exists, if it is dissolved after a fixed amount of time.Deductible organizational costs for a corporation include incorporation fees and related legal expenses, the cost of meetings to organize the corporation and salaries paid to temporary directors. They exclude costs for issuing stock or other securities and any costs related to transferring assets to the corporation.
Deductible organizational costs for a partnership include legal fees for preparing the partnership agreement and fees for accounting services related to establishing the partnership. They exclude costs for bringing in or removing partners after the partnership is formed, setting down the contractual obligations of each partner in the partnership or brokerage and registration fees.

