 Get to know the person you'll be kissing to make him or her more approachable. Admit that you feel awkward about the kissing scene; chance are the other person feels the same. Sharing a laugh about it or agreeing how to approach the task can reduce the pressure.;
, If you are currently in a relationship, tell your partner that you'll be kissing someone onstage. Explain that this is just a mechanical task with no romantic implications. If your partner objects, you may need to put some time in addressing jealousy.
 The script offers clues, but in the end this is up to the director. It should be clear whether you are acting out a romantic kiss, a lustful embrace, a quick welcome home kiss, or some other approach. Depending on the stage or camera setup, you may not even be required to make lip contact with the other actor.


If you have a choice, closed mouth kisses are generally preferable in a school play. Adult performers may use an open mouth to look more realistic, but tongue is going overboard.
 Kiss each other when practicing the scene. Kiss during every rehearsal. If you keep shying away or pulling an unpleasant face, set aside some time to kiss repeatedly until you are completely detached from the physical act. When the show comes around you want this to be an acting challenge like any other, not a weird, distracting moment. Once it's down to a choreographed motion, you can perform it by rote.


Make sure the other actor is on the same page. Don't start a surprise liplock if the other person was planning to fake it in rehearsal.
 If you're having trouble making the kiss look believable, imagine that you're kissing someone you want to kiss. It may help to identify attractive attributes of the other actor, or characteristics he or she shares with someone else you've kissed.


If you're acting out a passionate kiss, you can close your eyes right before it happens. This looks romantic, but may also help you imagine the scene.
 Many actors prefer to use this technique for all acting tasks, and a kissing scene is no different. Set yourself the challenge of communicating the character's emotions, thoughts, and motives to the audience.
 That nervous energy you feel is not necessarily a bad thing. Present this to the audience as passionate tension, and you can really sell the scene. Wide eyes, tense posture, a fixed gaze — your anxiety makes that so easy it's practically cheating.
 In the end, kissing someone on stage is no different than acting out a fight, a friendly conversation, or any other interaction. Your goal is to perform a role for the audience. It shouldn't have any effect on how you interact with the other actor outside of the performance.


"Don't take it seriously" does not mean "joke about it." As a rule of thumb, if you wouldn't make a similar joke about any other scene in the play, don't say it.

