 Before forming a dance routine, spend some time learning a few basic moves. The dance move "the strike" is a fun dance move that can help with any routine.


To start, stand with your feet hip length apart, toes straight ahead, and arms extended forward in front of your chest with your hands forming fists. Have your right arm held on top of your left.Hop on your right foot while bending and turning your left heel on the floor. Bend both arms 90 degrees and turn your right hand to the ceiling, palm facing forward. At the same time, turn your left arm away from your body, palm facing down.Hop again and get your feet in the original position. Extend your arms back in front of your chest again, returning them to their original position. Repeat the process of bending and turning again, this time leading with your left foot.;
, Happy feet is a simple move that will help you get into the rhythm of a dance routine. This can be a fun, foundational move for any dance routine.


Stand with your feet together and your arms bent to the chest level. Grasp your left wrist with your right hand.Step your right foot to the side, a little further away from your body than your hip. Lean into it while you let go of your wrist. Pull your elbows behind your body, keeping them level with your shoulder. Bend them at a 90 degree angle.Return your feet to the original position. Step your left foot out. While doing so, raise your arms above your head until they're back in the original position. Continue engaging in the original move, alternating sides each time., The hopscotch is a fun, active dance move. Learning it can help you form your own dance routine.]


Stand with your feet together. Bend both arms in towards your body. Cross your right foot in front of your left foot while pulling your arms to the right.Then, cross your right foot behind yourself, placing it behind your left foot. Bring your arms to the left. Bring your feet together and, using three hops, hop in a small circle. Make a full 360 degree turn. Repeat the process using your left foot instead., The slap can be a fun, energetic dance move to add to a routine. Spend some time practicing this move when forming your own dance routine.


Stand with your legs about two feet apart and bend your right knee up to hip height. As you do this, hop up on your left foot. Using your left hand, brush the top of your right knee. It's as if you're trying to brush some debris off your pants.Return to the original position. Repeat the process with your left knee., The two-step is a very basic dance move that can help you get into the rhythm of the music. Practicing the two-step can help you form a dance routine.


This move is very simple. Moving with the speed and tempo of the music, move your right foot to the right. Then, have your left foot step to meet it. Repeat with your left foot.If you want to add a little something to the move, try reaching your heel of your foot out the front as you step while leaning back slightly., People are often confused as to how to move their arms when dancing. There are a variety of basic dance move options regarding moving your arms.


You can move one up arm and one up down, moving with the tempo of the movement. You can snapping your fingers as you move your arms like this.You can also try what is called a shoulder roll. This is simply rolling one shoulder at a time, moving with the beat of the music., There are a very large amount of dance moves and styles. If you're interested in forming a dance routine, explore. Take a dance class or two. Watch people at a club or look up music videos online. Have fun and be creative. Your dance routine should be an expression of your personal taste and style.

