 In order to be considered for the role, your institution may require a teacher to formally nominate you. This may require them to fill out a nomination form or write a recommendation letter on your behalf. Teachers often nominate students that possess the following qualities and skills:


Detail oriented
Caring
Respectful
Reliable
Strong leader
Effective communicator
Polished public speaker
Involved in school and student life;
, Your institution may allow you to nominate yourself for the position of Head Boy or Head Girl. In order for your nomination to be considered, you may also be required to secure a letter of endorsement from a teacher. When you are seeking a letter of recommendation, always ask your teacher well in advance of the application deadline.


Send your teacher a thank you note., In addition to receiving an endorsement from a teacher, your school might require you to write a formal letter of application. Often, schools provide students with detailed instructions on how to format the letter. They may also supply you with required (or strongly suggested) points of discussion. These may include explaining why you are a suitable candidate and detailing your plans to improve the school.Highlight your extracurricular activities, commitment to improving the school, leadership skills, and ability to manage a several responsibilities at once.
 After the selection committee has reviewed all of the applicants, they will often narrow down the candidate pool. If you are chosen to move forward in the process, you will be placed on a shortlist. The committee will notify you directly and provide you with details on the next stage.
 The Head Boy and Head Girl are expected to speak at a variety of events. As a shortlisted candidate, you may be asked to showcase your public speaking ability to the selection committee and or the student body. The committee should provide you with a prompt or theme for the speech, as well as a time limit for the presentation.


After writing your speech, practice giving the talk in front of a mirror, family member, or friend.
Many students create a powerpoint presentation to accompany their speeches., Following your presentation, the selection committee and or a small number of students may interview you. Be prepared to:


Clarify details or elaborate upon ideas you presented in your speech
Speak to your ability as a candidate
Provide examples of your commitment to the school, leadership abilities, and work ethic
If you are friends with a student that went through the interview process last year, you may wish to ask them what you can expect during the interview., After interviewing all of the candidates, the selection committee will deliberate. At your institution, the entire decision may be based on the opinions of the selection committee. Upon reaching their final decision, they will announce who they have selected as Head Boy and Head Girl., At your institution, the final decision may not rest in the hands of the selection committee. Instead, your school may hold a formal election in which students and faculty members are each granted one vote. Once the votes are tallied, the winners of the election will be announced.The election process is modeled after British election practices.
 At the end of the process, you may not be selected or elected Head Boy or Head Girl. The students that are not selected are often asked to serve the school in other ways. You may have the opportunity to sit on the school committee and support the Head Boy and Head Girl in their duties.