 Add 4 pounds (1.8 kg) of small red or Yukon gold potatoes to a large pot. Fill the pot with enough cold water to cover the potatoes by at least 2-inches (5-cm).Fingerling potatoes also work well for the recipe.;
, After you’ve covered the potatoes with water, add a generous amount of Kosher salt to the pot to season the water. Heat the pot on high to bring it to a boil, which should take approximately 5 to 10 minutes.If you’re trying to limit your sodium intake, you can omit the salt.
 Once the potatoes come to a boil, allow them to cook for another 10 minutes so they become completely tender. You can test their doneness by piercing them with a sharp knife or cake tester.Be careful not to boil the potatoes too long. If they’re too soft when you smash them, they’ll probably fall apart.
 When the potatoes are finished boiling, pour them into a colander in the sink to drain the water. Allow them to cool and dry for 5 to 10 minutes., Once the potatoes have cooled, set them out on a cookie sheet. Use a heavy pan or clean hand to crush each potato individually so it’s approximately ½-inch thick (5-cm). Repeat the process with all of the potatoes.Be sure to keep the potatoes as intact as possible when you crush them.
 Add ½ cup (118 ½ ml) of olive oil to a large, nonstick skillet. Turn the burner to medium, and allow it to heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 5 minutes.You can substitute vegetable oil or even duck fat for the olive oil.
 Once the olive oil is hot, place as many potatoes as will fit in a single layer in the skillet. Allow them to fry for approximately 6 minutes, or until the bottoms are golden brown.It helps to use a spatula to transfer the potatoes to the pan so they don’t fall apart as you’re moving them.
 When the bottom of the potatoes are finished cooking, use a spatula to carefully flip them over. Allow them to cook until the other side is golden brown and crisp too, which should take another 5 minutes.If the oil seems to have cooked off, you can add a little more to the skillet before flipping the potatoes.
 Once the potatoes are cooked on both sides, use the spatula to lift them out of the skillet. Set them on a paper towel-lined plate to drain slightly., After you’ve removed the first batch of potatoes from the skillet, add a second group of potatoes. Repeat the entire process, adding olive oil to the pan when necessary.If you find that most of the potatoes are cool by the time that you finish the frying, place them on cookie sheet and warm in an oven that’s been preheated to 400 degrees Fahrenheit ( 204 degrees Celsius) for 6 minutes or until they’re heated through.
 When the potatoes have finished draining on the paper-towel lined plate, transfer them to a large bowl. Add 1 cup (100 g) of grated parmesan cheese. You can also add a ¼ cup (5 g) of minced chives, parsley, or tarragon if you like. Carefully toss the potatoes until they’re all coated with the cheese and herbs.You can substitute asiago or romano cheese.
 After you’ve tossed the potatoes with the cheese and herbs, add salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. If you salted the water that you used to boil the potatoes, you may not need to add much salt because the cheese also provides some salty flavor., When the potatoes are properly seasoned, use a spatula to lift them out of the bowl and onto a platter. Serve the potatoes as a side with your favorite meat dish, such as steak.