 Ask your bank or credit union if they allow you to view their repo list. Look at this list to view and bid on the vehicles the lender has repossessed and is looking to sell, which may include RVs.Note that the benefit of using this option is that you can finance the RV through the bank directly, and often with low or 0% interest rates. On the other hand, the downside is that lenders typically don’t spend the money to clean or fix up repossessed vehicles before selling.
If you’re interested in a repo RV sold directly from a lender, ask how the vehicle was repossessed. An RV turned in voluntarily is typically in much better shape than one that had to be seized from an uncooperative owner.;
, Check out auctions held by resellers of repossessed RVs, which is the most common and popular way to buy them. Check out resellers’ websites and local ads for to view and bid on their options or find out the location of an in-person auction.


Note that the advantage of buying from a reseller at auction is that they fix up the vehicles well, and are more interested in moving a high volume of inventory than marking up the starting price. Just beware of those that charge a “viewing cost” or any other unnecessary upfront charges.Take note that it can be difficult to find quality RVs in a very large inventory of vehicles in all different conditions. Stay away from any that don’t have a title with them or the reseller claims the title is “in transit,” as it can be nearly impossible for you to claim ownership without one., Try a used RV dealer to check out the repossessed RVs they’ve purchased at auction and fixed up. Note that this method doesn’t offer as much savings on RVs as others do, but buying from a dealer eliminates the bidding process and may give you more options for financing and warranties.Consider the advantages of buying repo RVs from a dealer. Dealers purchase these RVs at auction and will then do a good job of cleaning them up, replacing some items, and even doing minor repairs, so the RVs are in better shape when sold.
Know that the downside is that dealers will hike up the price on the repo RVs that they’ve fixed up. Unless you can spot a problem and are a savvy negotiator, you’ll end up paying about the same price as any other used RV.