 Medical school is a huge commitment of time, money, and effort. Be sure to pick the one that best suits your career goals.


Consider your chance of acceptance. You can use online tools that allow you to enter your MCAT score and GPA into a database that will then compare your scores with the average from each medical school in the country and give you a sense of how competitive you are. This may be an example of building a list of schools you might want to consider.
Find the balance between being realistic and aiming high. Top 10 medical schools receive thousands of applicants and send out almost as many rejections. Pick a range of schools to apply to--one or two "reach" schools (ones you may not get into) as well as schools whose average MCAT scores and GPAs are in line with your own plus a "safety" school (one you feel certain you'd be accepted to). Many American students apply to medical schools in Caribbean countries as part of their "safety" school strategy.
Talk to alumni. If you really want to know about a school from a student's point of view, talk to a student who has been there. Seek out people who attended the schools you are interested in and ask them about the coursework and faculty as well as about social life.
Consider cost. Medical school is expensive, so you have to look at cost when you are deciding where to apply. If you are interested in a school that you cannot quite afford, find out about scholarship opportunities. If cost is a major consideration, focus your search on state schools, as they are generally less expensive than private schools.
Most students have to take out loans to finance their med school education. It takes a number of years to establish yourself as a physician and to be able to pay back your loans. Try not to overburden yourself financially if possible. You do not want your debt to cause extreme stress or to find that it will later limit your career options.
Think about location. Medical school is grueling and it will not leave you much time for family and friends, but you should still ask yourself how far away you want to be from your support system. Think, too, about what kind of setting you like (small town or big city), whom else you might know at school, and how easy it is for you to make friends.
 Chances are, you will be able to create just one application via AMCAS or AACOMAS that will be accepted by all of the schools you are interested in. Keep in mind that not every school in the United States uses AMCAS, osteopathic medical schools use a similar service known as AACOMAS, so if you're applying to a school with a different application process, find out what's required. Information about all sections of the application mentioned above. In particular, keep these "must-dos" in mind:


Make sure there is an MCAT score on your application
Provide complete information about your coursework via transcripts from all post-secondary educational institutions.
Notify AMCAS of all the letters of evaluation you are expecting to have and what schools they should be sent to.
 There are a number of costs associated with getting into medical school. Keep these in mind upfront so that you can set aside the money you'll need to complete this process.


The most significant fees are those related to your medical school application itself. For the 2016 AMCAS application, the processing fee is $160 (includes one school) and $37 for each additional school. Most medical schools require a secondary application, the cost of which usually ranges from $0 to $150, but can be greater. Some schools will waive the secondary application cost if you qualify for the fee assistance program. There may be a small fee from your college registrar for your transcripts and occasionally schools charge a a fee for the transmittal of letters of recommendation.Include travel costs. If you visit different medical schools as part of your decision-making process, you will have to put out money for gas, airfare, lodging, and food.
 It will take several hours to complete your application. You can choose to do it all in one sitting or break it up into small chunks, perhaps completing a couple of sections at a time.


The basic information of the application is straightforward. Have all the information you may need to complete the first three sections that focus on basic, identifying information.
Invest time in your essay. Your essay is essentially your opportunity to speak directly to the admissions officers who will be reviewing your application. What is most important is that you discuss what attracted you to the field of medicine and how you plan to use your degree to help others.

Avoid taking a philosophical or overly creative approach to your essay and avoid talking about information that has already been covered somewhere else in your application or overfill it with details in the hopes of impressing. This is meant to be your personal statement, so focus on the "personal" aspect and give readers some insight into who you are and your career goals.
 Ask professors with whom you've developed a relationship or community or group leaders or employers with whom you've worked to write a letter that speaks to how well suited you are for a career in medicine and positively predicts your success as a doctor.
 The deadline for medical school application submissions differs from school to school with some asking for information a year ahead of the expected admissions date. That means you should be working on your application at least 18 months in advance of your desired enrollment date. If you are interested in Early Decision, the dates could be even sooner, so get to work on your application materials junior year.
 Turnaround time for acceptance notification can range from a few days to several weeks. While it's definitely nerve-wracking to be waiting for news, try to stay focus on your studies and avoid making any alternate plans until you've gotten all of your responses.


Do not allow your grades to drop during this time. Medical schools look for upward trends in GPAs so crashing and burning your senior year will only hurt your future chances.
If you don't get accepted to the school you wanted, there are things you can do to make yourself a desirable candidate in the future or other career paths you could follow.

Retake the MCATs. You can take them three times in a calendar year), working for a year or two before reapplying or attending graduate school.
Take time off. The average age a student entering medical school is now 24, with a considerable number of students applying later. Not only do medical schools appreciate mature applicants who learned from their mistakes, but if you take time off you will have more time to prepare a more competitive application.Consider osteopathic schools. Look into pursing a D.O. instead of an M.D. This field is less crowded but still has high standards. According to the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine, in 2010 the average entering osteopathic student had a 3.47 GPA.