 You can find this in the Utilities folder in your Applications folder. You can go directly to the folder by clicking the "Go" menu and selecting "Utilities".The Activity Monitor displays all of the processes currently running on your Mac.
 This will sort the processes based on their current CPU usage.
 Usually there will be only one that is nearly maxed out at 99-100%, though you may have a couple of different programs taking up 50% each.


A lot of media editing programs will take 100% of your CPU while they are running, especially if you are encoding, recording, or rendering. This is normal behavior, as these programs are designed to take full advantage of your processor.
 This will allow you to look it up later to determine how to keep the high usage from happening.
 You will be asked to confirm that you want to force the process to quit.


Force-quitting a program will cause any unsaved work in the program to be lost. Force quitting a system process may cause your computer to not work until it is rebooted.
If you are having difficulty ending the process, click here for more advanced methods.
 Perform an internet search on the process name that you force-quit. This will help you figure out what the process is used for, as well as what steps to take to keep it from running at 100%. There are typically a few different ways that you might combat high CPU usage from a certain program:


Uninstall - If the program isn't a necessary one, uninstalling it may be the easiest way to keep it from bogging down your system.
Reinstall or update - Sometimes a bug in the program is causing it to take up all of your CPU. Reinstalling the program or applying an update from the developer may fix the problems you are experiencing.
Remove the program from your startup sequence - If the program is causing your computer to boot slowly, but you need it installed, you can prevent it from starting when your computer does.
Run virus and malware scans - If your research shows that the program is malicious, you may need to remove it using an antivirus or antimalware program. Viruses aren't very common for Macs, but they do exist. Adware is a much more common problem, and these programs can put a big strain on your processor. One of the best anti-adware tools is AdWare Medic, which you can get for free from adwaremedic.com.
 Your Mac will generate previews of all the files on your desktop, and if you have a lot of video files they can quickly overload your processor and cause Finder to take 100% of your CPU. Move the files out of your desktop and into a folder, and you will only experience the slowdown when you open the folder., If you are constantly running into 100% CPU usage, and none of your programs are to blame, you may need to consider upgrading your hardware. Your options are more limited on a Mac than on a PC, but upgrading the RAM may help improve performance.



Click here for instructions on upgrading your RAM. Adding RAM can take some of the stress off of your processor.

