 Tell them that you can make a quarter change color by rubbing it hard enough on your elbow. This isn't the actual trick, but they don't have to know that. This distracts them from your actual trick so they're not as suspicious of what you're about to do.


Or you could just tell them you're going to make a quarter disappear. That's fine, too, but they may be ready to look out for any sleight of hand.
 Put your other elbow on the table and your head resting on the same hand. Instead of changing colors, the quarter is going to mysteriously "disappear." The elbow on the table is the one you're going to rub the quarter into.









Yes, your hand does have to rest on your chin. It should be clenched into a fist and not palm open for the purposes of the latter part of this trick.
 After a couple rubs, accidentally drop it on the table in front of you. Whoops, silly you. At this point, you may want to distract them by saying something about how you should practice more, or how quarters are naturally slippery – something that diverts their attention away from your hands.
 However, you cannot be seen doing this. You can do it one of two ways:









Pretend to hand it back to the rubbing hand and resume rubbing. Just do a fake switch very, very quickly.
Scoop the quarter up with your dominant hand, but let it drop into your non-dominant hand underneath the table. This is more about timing and less about hiding, like the above method.
 This time your rubbing hand has nothing in it. Rub for a few seconds, telling your audience that something strange is happening. The quarter isn't changing colors...the quarter is...disappearing. You can then reveal your hand to be empty.


If people want to check the other hand for the quarter, you can drop it down your collar before showing them that that hand is also empty.
 The trick can end at the last step, or you can magically make the quarter reappear. You can do this any number of ways, from scratching your head with your non-dominant hand, acting as if it appears from underneath your hair, "taking it" from someone else's clothes, or simply "coughing" it up. Whatever you fancy.









If you want to be clever about it, wait a while until people have forgotten about the trick. Then mysteriously the quarter reappears. Oh, so that's where it went. Huh. You had no idea. Funny, that.

