 Resource packs can change the graphics, sounds, music, animations and more. They can be found on a variety of popular Minecraft sites, and are made by fans for fans. Resource packs should always be free.When you download a resource pack, it will come in ZIP format. Do not extract the ZIP file.
Ensure that you have the correct version of the resource pack. the version should match the version of Minecraft you are playing.
Resource packs can only be installed on the PC version of Minecraft.
There are many sites that host resource pack files, including ResourcePack.net, MinecraftTexturePacks.com, PlanetMinecraft.com, and many more.;
,,,,, Click and drag the downloaded resource pack ZIP file into the resourcepacks folder. Ensure that you are actually copying or moving the resource pack, and not just creating a shortcut to it.


Do not unzip the resource pack.
 Once you've copied the resource pack to the correct folder, you can start using it in Minecraft. First, you'll have to load it so that Minecraft uses it when you're playing. To do so, start Minecraft and log in with your account. Open the "Options..." menu and then select "Resource Packs".


Your newly-installed resource pack(s) should be listed in the left column. The active resource packs are listed in the right column. Select the pack you want to enable and click the right arrow to move it from the left column to the right column.
The order of the packs on the right column indicates which packs will be loaded first. The top pack will be loaded first, and then any missing elements will be loaded from the pack below it, and so on. Move the packs you want to use primarily to the top by selecting them and clicking the up arrow.
 Once you've set the resource packs, you can start the game like you normally would. The resource packs will replace any textures or sounds that it was designed to, changing your Minecraft experience.


If you don't want to use a certain resource pack anymore, return to the Resource Pack menu in the Options menu and remove the pack from the right column.

