 Chemical exfoliators include acids like Glycolic Acid, Alpha Hydroxy Acid, and things like and the enzymes found in Papaya and pineapple. These products do not require a lot of effort. You simply have to apply them and they will remove dead skin on their own.One plus to chemical treatments is that they're less labor intensive. More natural exfoliating agents need to be scrubbed into the skin.
If you have sensitive skin, your skin may react poorly to chemicals. Watch for an allergic reaction if you choose to use a chemical exfoliant.;
, When it comes to evening skin tone, many people prefer scrubs. You can target specific areas on your body that are discolored or uneven.With a scrub, you have a tool you use to scrub an exfoliant into your body. You can use a pumice stone, an exfoliating brush, scrubbing gloves, a loofah, or any items with a somewhat rough surface.
Usually, you need a grainy substance to exfoliate. Exfoliating gels are sold at most beauty stores and drug stores. These scrubs have a harsh texture. When worked into the skin, they can help remove dead skin cells.
 You usually need a brush or sponge to exfoliate. Select your tools prior to beginning to exfoliate for smoother skin.When it comes to brushes, you can buy an electronic or manual exfoliating brush. A mechanical cleansing brush runs on batteries and moves in a way that dislodges skin dead cells and removes dirt and oil. This can be more expensive, however, and you can exfoliate manually with a regular brush as long as you scrub hard enough.
If you prefer, try a sponge cloth or buffing cloth. You rub cloths on your skin to dislodge skin cells and loosen dirt. If you have rougher skin, a buffing cloth may be a better choice.
 Many people are adverse to store bought exfoliating chemicals. They often contain micro beads, which have been shown to produce a lot of pollution. If you're looking for something more natural, consider making an exfoliating agent out of household items.Essentially, all you need is a grainy household product to rub into your skin. Salt, sugar, oatmeal, and baking soda are all used in homemade exfoliators. Baking soda may be your best option for discolored skin, as some people believe it has the power to whiten skin and remove blemishes.
When working with baking soda, you would simply mix water with baking soda until you have a thick paste. This would then be applied to your skin.
If baking soda does not work for you, experiment by making a paste with salt, sugar, oatmeal, or another grainy household product.
 This will assure optimal results. People who claim to have seen smoother, more even skin with exfoliation claim to exfoliate at least once a day. The process does not take long, and you can work it into your regular morning routine.Keep in mind, however, not everyone's skin takes well to daily exfoliating. If you develop a rash or skin irritation in response to exfoliating every day, try cutting back to a few times a week.
 The best time to exfoliate is when your skin is still damp from the shower. This will make it easier to dislodge dead skin cells.Take your chosen exfoliating agent and the scrub brush you're using. Work the exfoliating agent all over your body. Use long, hard strokes to really focus on dislodging any dead skin cells and scrubbing out discoloration.
You should target your shoulders, back, legs, feet, and chest.
Scrub until your exfoliating agent has more or less dissolved. You should not have to wash any of the agent off yourself at the end of the exfoliating process.
 Your face is where you have a lot of discolorations and blemishes. You should also apply your chosen agent to your face. If you're using a brush on your body, you will probably want to transfer to a smaller tool for your face. You can use a rough cloth, for example.Remove any makeup you're wearing. Use your regular facial cleanser to wash and cleanse your face prior to the exfoliating process.
Apply your exfoliating agent to the tool you're using. Scrub the exfoliating agent, using circular motions, across your entire face.
When you're done, rinse your face off with lukewarm water.
 While you should exfoliate your whole body, pay particularly close attention to troublesome areas. You may want to exfoliate dry or discolored skin slightly more often, or use more force when exfoliating these areas., This is especially true if you're using chemical cleansers, as these can be harsh on the skin over time. Dermatologists advise against overusing chemical products. This can remove healthy skin, leaving your skin sensitive and overexposed.If you plan on exfoliating daily, go for household cleansers over chemical ones.
 It's best to consult a dermatologist before beginning an exfoliation regimen. A qualified dermatologist will be able to tell you if exfoliation is right for you, and recommend the best method. If your skin is dry or uneven, talk to a dermatologist about your issues before attempting to exfoliate., This can cause skin problems, like acne, for some. Take steps to cut the junk food out of your diet if you want smoother, more even-toned skin.Do not buy junk food to have at home. This will only tempt you to eat it.
If there is junk food at your place of work, bring in healthy snacks, like fruit and nuts. Fill up on these foods so you'll resist the temptation of going for junk food.
If you're really having a craving, try indulging yourself once a week. You can have a set day when you're allowed to have a candy bar or a bag of chips.
 Sun can definitely cause skin discoloration, and too much sun can have health risks. Always wear sunscreen when going out, even on overcast days.At minimum, your sunscreens should be SPF 15. However, a sunscreen of SPF 30 will offer optimal protection.
Make sure any sunscreen you use has UVA or UVB protection.
 Water is good for your overall health, and may lead to better looking skin. Make a point of drinking water throughout the day to get even toned skin.Take a water bottle with you at all times. Keep one by your desk at work, and carry it in a bag when you're running errands.
When you see a water fountain, always stop and take a sip.
Drink water with meals instead of juices, sodas, and other drinks.

