 Being fully dedicated to stopping self-harming is the only way you will succeed. You must understand why you want to stop, so try to decide the real reasons for seeking self-help. Reasons may include:


I don’t want my friends and family to get hurt when they find out.
I don’t want my family to have to pay for a large hospital bill for my recovery.
I don’t want to be lectured by others about my feelings.
I'm worried what others will think about me.;
, You have the potential and the right to be happy and live a full and healthy life. Imagine what your life would be like if you did not self-harm. Think about your children asking about the scars on your arms and how you might explain them. Or think about potential jobs that might be in jeopardy if they recognize your negative behaviors.Think about all the possibilities in your life that may be hindered by your self-harming behaviors.
Once you see what life could be, your motivation to stop self-harming behaviors will be strengthened even more.
 Observe your environment and decide what role it is playing in your negative actions. Keep a private diary of daily actions and movements to get a better idea of trends of your environment that lead to self-harm.Ask yourself these questions:


Do I harm myself at a certain time of day?
Do I harm myself when I am in a specific place (bedroom, bathroom, significant other’s house)?
Do I get the urge to harm myself after interacting with certain people?
Do I engage in a ritual leading up to my self-harming?

, Triggers are things that urge you to self-harm. They may include people, situations such as going to a stressful class or family event, negative thoughts, alcohol or drug influences, etc. Keep a diary of what happens before and after you engage in self-harming to give you a better idea of what triggers your behaviors.Urges are the internal feelings and experiences leading up to a self-harming event. Urges may include:


Racing heart or sweatiness
A feeling of ‘cloudiness’ in your mind
Disconnection from yourself and others
Having the specific thoughts of “I want to harm myself”

