 If you're entertaining high-energy kids, they are likely to favor more intense activities like sports. If you don't have a big yard, take a field trip to a local playground or park.


Keep the kids busy, active, and well-socialized by signing them up for an organized sports team.
When stuck indoors, you can get energy out with dancing to fun music.
If you're entertaining a group of kids, you can suggest a game of tag or hide-and-go-seek. You can join in on a game of tag, but don't play hide-and-go-seek unless other responsible adults are present. You shouldn't let kids out of your sight, and if it's your turn to be "it" you would have to. Instead, you can be the game's "referee" to make sure everyone plays fair.
Take kids on hiking trips and nature trails. Spending the weekend camping (even if it's just in your own backyard) is also a great option.
Cool down during the summer at your local public pool.
All kids, regardless of energy level, should get some exercise and time outdoors to stay healthy. Children and adolescents should generally get at least an hour of physical activity each day., A classic part of childhood, board games help entertain kids while teaching them valuable life-skills like taking turns.


Simple card games like Go Fish are easy to teach to even very young children.
You or the kids may want to set "house rules" on certain games that may not be in the rule book. While this may be fun for most children, it may be frustrating for others.
Make sure the games are age-appropriate. A 10-year-old is likely to get bored with Candyland, while Risk would probably frustrate a kindergartener.
If you can't afford to buy board games, your local library may have some available to check out. If you borrow board games, make sure the kids treat them well and avoid losing pieces., While video games often have a bad reputation among parents, they are a great way to entertain kids when played in moderation.


Join in on multiplayer games.
Keep the kids active on rainy days with video games that have a physical component.
Make sure to pay attention to game ratings and content warnings. Video games are just like movies; they're not all kid-friendly. It's generally best to stick to E-rated games, especially ones specifically made for children.
Studies have shown that playing up to an hour of video games per day is beneficial to children. However, there can be some negative effects when daily game time climbs to over three hours.