 But don't turn it just yet - if you do, nothing will happen! There are several more steps you need to take before you can safely start the car.






;
, In a manual transmission car there are three pedals - the clutch, the brake and the accelerator/gas. It is essential that you have a firm grasp of which pedal is which before you begin driving.









The pedal on the far left is the clutch. It allows you to disengage the engine from the wheels while you are changing gears. It should be operated using your left foot.
The middle pedal is the brake and the pedal on the far right is the accelerator. Both of these pedals are operated using the right foot.
Remember that the order of these pedals does not change regardless of whether you are in a left hand drive or right hand drive vehicle.
 Before you can start the car, you will need to ensure that the car is in neutral. The car is in neutral when:










The gear shift is in the neutral position. You can tell it's in the neutral position if it feels loose to the touch and you can move it easily from side to side. If the gear shift is not in neutral, you can fix this by pressing down fully on the clutch and moving the shift into the central (neutral) position.

The clutch is fully depressed. If you prefer, you can also put the car in neutral by pressing down fully on the clutch with your left foot.
 Once the car is in neutral, you are ready to turn the key in the ignition and start the car. Just remember:









If you put the car into neutral by moving the gear shift into the neutral position, you can turn the key in the ignition without having to depress the clutch pedal.
However, if you put the car into neutral by simply pressing down on the clutch (while the shift is still in gear), you will need to hold the clutch down as you turn the key. Otherwise the car could lunge forward.
 Once the car is running, you will need to put the car into gear before you can start moving. (Unless your car is already in gear, in which case you can just skip to step 3). To put your car in gear, press down fully on the clutch.
 Keeping your foot pressed down on the clutch, move the gear shift into first gear. This is usually done by moving the gear shift to the left and then up - the number 1 should be clearly marked on the top left corner of the stick.
 Very slowly, begin inching your foot off the clutch pedal. Keep lifting your foot until the engine speed (or RPM) begins to drop and the car begins to move slowly forward. This is known as the "biting point".
 Once you find the biting point, it's time to start pressing down on the accelerator, slowly and gently.









As your right foot begins to press down on the accelerator, your left foot should continue to release the clutch, in a simultaneous motion.
If you complete this action correctly, the car will start to move forward and you will be driving in first gear.
 Be careful - if you release the clutch too quickly, the car will stall (stop running) and you will have to start the process again.









On the other hand, if you press down too hard on the accelerator before the clutch is fully released you may wear out the clutch, causing damage to your vehicle.
Don't worry though - you are bound to stall at least a couple of times when you're learning to drive a manual transmission car. Finding the perfect balance between releasing the clutch and depressing the accelerator takes practice.
 When your engine begins to race and sounds like it's under pressure (usually around 2500 to 3000 RPM - though this varies depending on the car), you will need to move up into second gear. To do this:









Take your right foot off the accelerator (if necessary) and use your left foot to fully depress the clutch.
Grab the gear shift and move it straight downwards into second gear - which should be clearly marked by the number 2 on the stick.
 You will need to follow a slightly different procedure for starting your manual transmission car if you are parked on a hill. This is necessary to prevent the car from rolling backwards.
 To perform a hill start using the brake pedal, begin with your left foot depressing the clutch and your right foot depressing the brake. Put the car into gear, release the hand brake, then lift your foot off the clutch until you find the biting point. Now release the brake (keeping the clutch at the biting point will prevent the car from rolling backwards) and press down on the accelerator, using slightly more gas than usual. Continue as normal.
 To perform a hill start using the hand brake, put your foot on the clutch and put the car into gear. Slowly release the clutch until you find the biting point, then release the hand brake. Once you have released the hand brake, put your foot on the accelerator and proceed as normal.








