 If you are one of the parties in the case, you'll be working with your own attorney regarding your testimony as a witness. If you are a third-party witness, you'll meet with the attorney who intends to call you to discuss your role as a potential witness.If you are a party to the divorce, you generally will be expected to testify – particularly if the divorce is fault-based, as in an adultery case. However, keep in mind whether you testify is ultimately your decision.
If you are a third-party witness, on the other hand, you don't have much choice. However, the attorney will go over what you know and decide whether your testimony will duplicate another witness's testimony.
Tell the attorney if you believe there is another witness who would be better able to speak to the issues the attorney wants you to address.
As a witness in an adultery case, you can expect to be called to testify at trial. You also may be deposed by the attorney for the other spouse.
Depositions typically are conducted in a law office, but you still will be under oath. The other spouse's attorney will ask you questions. If you are a party to the divorce, your spouse's attorney most certainly will want to depose you.;
, In preparation for either a deposition or a divorce hearing, you'll be expected to understand the issues in the case and the matters about which you're testifying.You may have the opportunity to read through court documents, but this may not be very helpful unless you have prior experience with a similar case.
As you read through any documents, mark things you don't understand and ask the attorney questions. Make sure you take notes so you can refer to them later.
If you are the divorcing spouse, you may find the issues in your case easier to understand than a third-party witness.
As a third-party witness, your focus should be on understanding the issues about which you'll be called to testify – don't worry about other aspects of the case that don't concern you.
 If you have any documents or other physical evidence, give it to the attorney. For that evidence to be admitted in court, the attorney must disclose it to the other side in advance.For example, you may have text messages or emails from the spouse who is accused of adultery.
These communications can help prove that the spouse was having an affair – but they must be preserved properly and disclosed to the other side.
Keep in mind that unlike trials you may have seen on television or in the movies, in real life there typically is no such thing as a "surprise" witness or piece of evidence. Both parties know what the other side will say and have ample time to prepare.
 If you've never participated in a court case, observing the trial of another case can help you better understand the procedures and your role as a witness. Becoming familiar with those procedures can decrease your anxiety.Trials are open to the public. Go to the courthouse and check the court's docket to see what cases are being heard that day. Try to sit in on another divorce.
Once you've identified the correct courtroom, you can take a seat in the courtroom gallery and observe the proceedings.
Try to arrive before the start of the court day or during a break so you don't interrupt a hearing in progress.
If you are going to be deposed before the trial, it's unlikely you'll have the opportunity to sit in on someone else's deposition.
However, the attorney may have a video of another deposition that you can watch. This will give you a better understanding of how the deposition will proceed and what you can expect.
 As you prepare for the upcoming deposition or court hearing, you may be tempted to talk about your testimony with friends or family members. However, these discussions can come back to hurt you.This is especially true if you are one of the divorcing spouses, but it also applies if you are a third-party witness.
If someone asks you about the case, you can give a vague response without discussing your testimony directly. Or you can simply say "I can't really talk about that right now."
You especially should avoid mentioning anything about the case on social media. You can assume these comments will be seen by the other side, and could haunt you later on.
 At least once before the deposition or court hearing, the attorney will meet with you to practice answering questions and discuss the legal procedures that will be in effect. Depending on who you are and the type of testimony you're giving, you may have more than one practice session.For example, if you are one of the divorcing spouses, you probably will meet with your attorney several times to go over your testimony.
If you are a third-party witness, on the other hand, you may only meet with the attorney once. In that situation, make the meeting count by asking questions yourself and doing everything you can to understand what will be expected of you.
Keep in mind that attorneys typically avoid asking a question in court if they don't already know what your answer will be. This is part of the purpose of a deposition – to get an understanding of what your testimony will be so they can plan for trial accordingly.
 If you're preparing to testify at the court hearing, the attorney who plans to call you will know exactly what questions they plan to ask you. If you're being deposed, on the other hand, the attorney may not know exactly what questions will be asked, but they can give you a good idea.When you're going over questions, the attorney likely will explain why certain questions are being asked and generally how you should answer them.
However, don't expect the attorney to "coach" you or dictate what your answer to any given question should be.
Keep in mind that, whether at a deposition or in court, you will be under oath. You are expected to answer questions honestly, even if the honest answer doesn't really help the case.
The attorney who calls you typically isn't going to ask you questions that could potentially hurt their client's case. If you are the client, you and your attorney will discuss those weaknesses and figure out how to handle them.
 When you testify in court, the other attorney has the opportunity to cross-examine you after you've provided your initial testimony. These questions typically will be designed to cast doubt on statements you've made in your original testimony, or to attempt to discredit you as a witness.Unlike during direct examination, during cross examination you can expect questions that make you uncomfortable or even angry. The attorney will give you tips on how to handle these types of questions.
Often an attorney who is cross examining you will ask you questions that are intended to trip you up and get you to say something damaging. This may involve the way the attorney asks the questions, or the attorney's style of delivery.
For example, an attorney may ask rapid-fire leading questions on cross-examination to confuse or upset you. You can expect similar methods of attack during a deposition.
When you're rehearsing your testimony, the attorney will tell you ways to deal with these various methods of questioning.
 While you're rehearsing your testimony, write down tips the attorney gives you on how to answer questions. Avoid writing down specific answers to questions, however, as you don't want to over-prepare or script your testimony.If there's anything in particular that you have problems with, talk to the attorney about it before the deposition or hearing.
After you've rehearsed your testimony, it can help to take the notes you've written and type them up in an organized outline.
This can help you by giving you something neat and orderly to go over before the deposition or hearing. It also may expose problems or concerns that you want to address with the attorney.
 Even if you feel well-prepared and have a good idea of what to expect, a court hearing is a stressful occasion. During the trial, you need to be alert at all times to avoid making mistakes, so a good night's sleep is essential.Being well-rested can help decrease your anxiety and improve your brain function so you can remain calm and answer questions clearly.
Particularly if you are one of the divorcing spouses, you may find that you're too anxious to go to sleep the night before a trial or deposition. Plan ahead so that you can go to bed earlier than you normally would, and do relaxing things to prepare yourself for sleep.
If you have been prescribed sleeping or anxiety medication by a doctor, you may want to take this the night before. However, make sure it won't leave you groggy the next morning.
The night before a court hearing or deposition typically is not the best time to try out a new medication for the first time, since you have no way of knowing how it will affect you.
 A courtroom is a conservative place, but that doesn't mean you need to wear a business suit to be a witness. However, you do need to wear clean, neat clothing that covers your body appropriately.Generally, clothing that you would wear to a job interview or a religious service is appropriate. It's typically best to wear darker, conservative colors such as gray or navy blue.
Certain types of clothing – such as flip flops, shorts, and T-shirts with advertising slogans or graphic designs – are universally considered inappropriate in the courtroom setting.
The same "dress code" applies if you are going to a deposition. Even though it will be held in a law office, you should dress as you would if you were going to court.
If you have any doubts about the clothing you've selected, ask the attorney about it first. They'll have a good understanding of what you should and shouldn't wear.
 If you are one of the divorcing spouses, the last thing you want to do is be late to your own divorce hearing. However, even third-party witnesses should make every effort to be at the courthouse before the hearing starts.Typically you'll want to get to the courthouse at least a half hour before the time listed on your hearing notice or subpoena. This gives you time to get through courthouse security and find the right courtroom.
The best way to ensure that you get to the courthouse on time and go to the right courtroom is to meet the attorney somewhere that morning and go to the courthouse together.
If you're going to a deposition, the attorney typically will meet you in their office first so you can travel to the other law office together.
 You're allowed to take your notes to the courthouse, and you should so that you can review them before you're called to the stand. However, keep in mind that when you take the stand you cannot take any notes or other documents with you.Pay attention to the proceedings while the trial is going on, and be conscious of the fact that the judge or jury may be watching you – especially if you are one of the divorcing spouses.
Try not to fidget in your seat or look bored during the hearing. If you find your attention drifting, looking at your notes can help you bring your mind back and focus again.
If you're going to a deposition, you typically don't want to take any notes with you. If you do, or if you refer to any notes, the attorney taking the deposition typically will ask for a copy of them.
 When testifying in court, both attorneys as well as the judge may ask you questions once you take the stand. Remain calm and respectful to anyone asking you a question, and answer politely and honestly.Think back to what the attorney has told you about answering questions. Answer only the question asked, and don't elaborate or attempt to explain your answer.
If the attorney questioning you wants an explanation, they will ask for one. When you do explain, say as little as possible. If you launch into a long, rambling story you can get off track or say something you didn't intend to say.
If you don't understand a question, ask for clarification before you jump into an answer. You don't want to answer a question that wasn't actually asked.
You also want to avoid guessing. If you don't know the answer to a question, the only correct answer is "I don't know."
When your questioning is complete, the judge will tell you to take a seat. Even if you're a third-party witness, you typically cannot leave the courtroom until the hearing is over or the judge calls a recess.

