 “Cheating” isn’t always black and white. Depending on how many times he’s cheated on you, how long he’s been unfaithful, how invested he is in his affair(s) and how many women he’s been with, you may be able to salvage your relationship.

If he’s exclusive to one mistress and he sees her frequently, and buys her things, and does romantic things with her, this means he’s in love with her and your relationship is over.






If he’s slipped up several times, but always with different women who he cares nothing about and hasn’t kept in touch with, he may be fixable, because this means you still give him something other women don’t, if you’re the only one he’s with repeatedly. But you will have to make a change if you want him to change his ways, or it won’t work, and he’ll fall back into old habits.






If he only cheated once, and it was out of character, and he sincerely, utterly regrets it, he deserves a second chance.
 Where will you draw the line? When you find out how seriously he’s been cheating, at what point will you be through with him? How willing are you to forgive him and move on?

, Obviously, his actions are inexcusable, but they may be the result of something deeper, and you may be part of it. Ask yourself if you’ve been driving him away. Maybe you’ve been snapping at him, putting too much pressure on the relationship, getting serious too quickly, or not getting serious enough. It could be any number of things, but you may not be satisfying all his needs, and if you want to work things out, there may be aspects of yourself you have to change.
 If you approach him angrily, he will immediately be on the defensive, and he won’t be rational or honest with you.


Be as understanding as possible. Let him be heard. Listening to him may relieve some of the tension that led him to betray you in the first place.



How many times?
How many women?
How frequently?
How long has it been going on?
Has he cheated in past relationships?
How serious is he about these women/this woman?

, Does he want to stay with you? Or was cheating his easy way out of this relationship? Is he in love with someone else?

, Should you stay or should you go?


If in your heart, you can't fully forgive him, and you don't think you'll be happy if you stay with him, it isn't worth your misery to try to work through it, no matter how much you wish you could.
If you believe in him and trust him to stay faithful from hereon, you should give him a second chance.

