 This may come as a surprise, but no food is bad. Yes, there are foods that nurture your body with essential vitamins and minerals. On the contrary, there are foods that provide only empty calories. These tend to be foods high in carbohydrates, fat, and sugar. Still, labeling these foods as bad puts young people at risk of constantly denying themselves tasty foods that they enjoy with the high likelihood of overeating them later.


All carbohydrates are not bad as many fad diets like to declare.Carbohydrates are a necessary macronutrient in the body. In fact, complex carbohydrates such as fruits, vegetables, and whole grains offer an abundance of energy and fiber without the surplus calories. Simple carbohydrates like white bread, rice, and potatoes are processed in the body faster and leave you with sugar cravings shortly after. These foods should be enjoyed only in moderation.
When you deny yourself something, you are draining yourself of willpower. Willpower is a limited resource, and, over time, it will become difficult to stay away from whatever you have labeled as off-limits. The trick to stopping endless cravings while still keeping your eating plan relatively healthy is to allow yourself a small portion of foods you have labeled as off-limits. This prevents the necessity to overeat these foods later.A less common type of anorexia is the binge-eating/purging type. These sufferers may place extreme restriction on their eating habits, only having very small portions of food at a time. After bouts of denial, they may give in to a small portion of cake, a regular-sized meal or a complete binge. Afterwards, they punish themselves by working out vigorously or by purging (vomiting) what they have eaten. The most common form of this disorder is characterized by extreme restricting without bingeing or purging., Only 10 to 15% of eating disorder sufferers are male.These disorders are overwhelmingly within the female population. Dieting is also a big trend with females. Dieting can be dangerous, impact mental health, and ultimately lead to an eating disorder like anorexia. So, steer clear of diets.


The bad news: diets often fail. Removing certain food groups and eating below nutritional guidelines can lead to numerous health problems. Statistics show that 95% of all dieters will regain lost weight within 1 to 5 years.As described above, two primary reasons why diets fail are because individuals often restrict their calories too low to maintain over a long period of time, or they deny themselves foods they really like. When they began eating normally again, they gain all the weight back.
Individuals who are constantly, or yo-yo, dieting are at risk of diminished muscle mass, bone deficiencies, heart disease, and negatively affecting the metabolism.
 Wondering how you will maintain a healthy weight without dieting? Visit a professional who can help you develop a lifestyle-based eating plan that focuses on health not weight.A dietitian will determine the dietary needs you require based on your medical history and any allergies you may have. In general, Americans should eat a diet rich in fruits and vegetables, lean protein sources like poultry, fish, eggs, beans and nuts, fat-free or low-fat dairy, and whole grains.Your dietitian might also suggest that you get with your primary care physician to determine a regular exercise plan. Along with a balanced diet, exercise can help you control weight, prevent disease, improve your mood, and live a longer life.]

, Long-standing beliefs about food often promote unhealthy eating patterns. Think back to when you were younger and try to remember the rules you followed about eating. For example, maybe you were rewarded with sweets and currently view these types of foods as ways to make yourself feel better. Some of these rules may have taken root and begun to affect your current way of viewing food.Talk to a therapist about any disordered patterns of eating behavior from your childhood that may have influenced your current habits.

