 When administering first aid to a baby younger than a year, it is important that you support the head and neck at all times. To get the baby in a safe, professionally-recommended position for administering first aid, do the following:


Slide one arm under the baby's back so that your hand is cradling their head and their back is resting against your forearm.

Place your other arm firmly along the baby's front, so there is sandwiched between your forearms. Use your top hand to securely grasp the baby's jaw between your thumb and fingers, without covering their airways.Gently flip the baby onto their front, so they are now resting on the opposite forearm. Keep their head supported by the jaw.Rest your arm against your thigh for added support and ensure that the baby's head is lower than the rest of her body. You are now in the correct position to perform back blows., Back blows create pressure and vibration in the baby's airway, which is often enough to dislodge any stuck objects.To perform a back blow on a baby less than twelve months old:


Use the heel of your hand to firmly hit the baby on the back, between the shoulder blades. Ensure that you are adequately supporting the head as you do this.Repeat this movement up to five times. If this does not dislodge the object, move on to performing chest thrusts., Before you can perform a chest thrust, you will need to turn the baby over. To do this:


Place your free arm (which you were previously using to perform the back blows) along the baby's back and cradle the back of her head in your hand.
Gently turn them over, keeping your other hand and arm firmly pressed against their front.Lower the arm supporting the baby's back, so that it's resting against your thigh. Again, ensure that the baby's head is lower than the rest of her body., Chest thrusts force the air out of the baby's lungs, which may be enough to dislodge the object.To perform a chest thrust on a baby less that a year old:


Place two or three fingertips in the center of the baby's chest, just below their nipples.Push inwards and upwards, applying enough pressure to compress the baby's chest about 1 1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm). Allow the baby's chest to return to its normal position before repeating up to five times.When compressing the baby's chest, ensure that the movements are firm and controlled, rather than jerky. Your fingers should be in contact with the baby's chest at all times., Alternate between giving the baby five back blows and five chest compressions until the object becomes dislodged, the baby starts crying or coughing, or the emergency services arrive., If the baby becomes unresponsive and emergency services have still not arrived, you will need to perform modified CPR on the baby. Be aware that modified CPR is different from normal CPR, as it is tailored to be performed on small babies.