 Excess bathing may strip away some of the skin’s oily layer and cause it to lose moisture. Limit your daily baths or showers to 5 to 10 minutes and avoid washing your face and the skin under your nose more than twice a day., Hot water can wash away natural oils from the skin. Opt to shower or wash your face in lukewarm water., Avoid using harsh soaps that can dry your skin even more. Instead, choose moisturizing, soap-free cleansers designed for your face, such as Cetaphil and Aquanil, and moisturizing shower gels (such as Dove and Olay).Optionally, you can add oils to the bath water if you prefer to take baths.
 This helps seal the spaces between your skin cells and lock in your skin natural moisture. Apply the moisturizer within a few minutes after washing your face or taking a bath, while your skin is still moist.If the skin under your nose is extremely dry, you can apply oil (such as baby oil) immediately after washing your skin. Oil may prevent the evaporation of water from the surface of your skin better than moisturizers. If your skin stays “oily,” you may consider using oil only at bedtime., If you apply cosmetics over the skin under your nose (such as makeup or shaving cream), opt for products that have added moisturizers in them.


Avoid using products that contain alcohol, retinoids, or alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA).Also, opt for products that are fragrance-free and/or meant for sensitive skin.
If you cannot find a good product or are unsure what to choose, consult your doctor and ask whether you should be using prescription ointments.
Remember to apply sunscreen of at least 30SPF, or choose a facial product that includes sunscreen, whenever you go outside.
 Shaving can irritate the skin under your nose. Shave after a warm shower, or apply a warm, damp cloth to your face for a few minutes to soften the hair and open your pores. You can also try the following to help avoid shaving irritation:Never "dry shave." This can seriously irritate the skin. Always use a lubricating shave cream or gel. If you have sensitive skin, look for hypoallergenic shave gels.
Use a sharp razor. Dull razors will mean you have to move them over the same patch of skin several times, increasing the likelihood of irritation.
Shave in the same direction your hair grows. For your face, this is usually downwards. Shaving "against the grain" can irritate your skin and cause ingrown hairs.
 This can irritate the dry skin and even cause bleeding if the cracks in your skin have become deep enough. If your skin itches, try applying ice over it for a few minutes. This may help reduce swelling and itching.If your skin is bleeding, press a clean towel over the skin to stop the bleeding. You may want to apply antibiotic ointment to reduce the risk of secondary bacterial infection. If the bleeding doesn’t stop or the skin continues to “open” several times a day, consult a doctor., Paper towels may be too harsh and can irritate the skin more. Only use facial tissues or tissues with added moisturizers.
 The winter months tend to be dryer and may cause your skin to lose more moisture. Use a humidifier during the night and set it to around 60%. This should help replenish the moisture in the top layer of the skin.If you live in a desert climate, you may want to use a humidifier throughout the year.

