 If you notice any subtle changes in hearing, assess whether this could be a warning sign of a perforated eardrum. Figure out whether or not you're at risk for a perforated eardrum.


If you've had any ear infections recently, particularly a middle ear infection, you are at an increased risk for a perforated eardrum. Pressure from the fluid buildup associated with ear infections in this region can press against an eardrum, causing a rupture.If you've recently been exposed to unusually loud sound, like a loud concert or a loud explosion, you're at increased risk. A particularly big sound wave can cause damage to the eardrum, resulting in a tear or hole.If you recently cottons swabs or hairpins to remove something from your ear, this can cause a rupture.Severe head injuries can also caused perforated eardrums, as can any increase in pressure, such as deep sea diving.;
, Oftentimes, you will not notice draining from the ear initially. It could still be occurring deep in the ear canal. There are other symptoms you should watch for that may point to a perforated eardrum and, in turn, a draining ear.


As your eardrum is ruptured, you may experience dizziness that is especially noticeable when moving. This may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting if the vertigo is severe.You may experience mild hearing loss or a ringing in your ear., The drainage that comes from your ear during a perforated eardrum may be clear. It also may contain pus or blood. You may not notice it as it might remain in the back of your ear. Therefore, watch your pillow for any discharge. Examine the outside of your ear, like the lobe, for any flakes. You should not stick anything, such as a q-tip, into your ear to check for damage. You're at an increased risk for infection and outside objects may carry bacteria., If you notice your ear is draining, see a doctor. A perforated eardrum usually heals on it own. However, your doctor will likely want to examine your ear to check for signs of infection. He or she may prescribe antibiotics to treat an existing infection or to decrease your risk of infection., Most of the time, a perforated eardrum will heal on its own. However, if symptoms do not improve with time talk to your doctor about other treatment options.


An ear, nose, and throat specialist may recommend you get an eardrum patch. This is a patch placed over your ear that releases certain chemicals to promote healing. An ENT will need to put the patch on in the office. You may need to undergo the procedure more than once until it's successful.An ENT may recommend surgery if a patch is unsuccessful. Usually, a tiny graft of your own skin will be used to close the eardrum. Usually, the surgery is simple enough that you can go home the same day it's conducted., When you get home, there are ways you should care for your ear. Follow certain procedures to promote healing.


Keep your ear dry. Put in a waterproof ear plug when showering or bathing.
Avoid cleaning your ears. You should not use q-tips or other items to clean your ears until healing is complete.
Do not blow your nose. The pressure of blowing your nose can cause damage to your eardrum., Earache, fever, loss of hearing, and nasal congestion are all causes of ear infections. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical care as soon as possible. Promptly dealing with ear infections can prevent the development of a perforated eardrum., The changes in air pressure that come with air travel can damage the eardrum. You need to protect your ears when flying to prevent a perforated eardrum.


You can buy pressure-equalizing ear plugs at a local drug store. You can use these during touch down and lift off to prevent eardrum damage when flying.You can also do things like chew gum and yawn in order to pop your ears when flying., You should never place foreign objects out of your ears. Only use q-tips or hair pins to remove wax on the side of the hole in your inner ear. Hardened wax stuck deep in the ear can be removed with ear irrigation kits you can purchase at a drugstore or can be removed by a medical professional., Excessive noise can harm your ears. It cannot just cause draining, but long-term hearing loss and damage. Wear ear plugs if you work in an environment where you're exposed to excess noise.