 If you are curious or confused about an aspect of Judaism, you can ask your friend about it. Make sure to state your questions in a respectful way. Let them know that are you are not criticizing their religion but that you are genuinely curious about their beliefs. Some questions you might ask:


"How do you celebrate Hanukkah?"
"Do you know Hebrew?"
"Are you allowed to marry someone that's not Jewish?"

, If religion does come up, remain civil. Instead of talking about what you think Judaism means, state instead what Islam means to you. This will make it seem as though you are not attacking your friend's religion; rather, you are simply stating your own beliefs.


For example, instead of saying that Jewish people are immodest, you can say instead, “In my religion, we believe that modesty is important.” You might find that your Jewish friend actually has the same belief.
 If your friend is celebrating a Jewish holiday, you might want to send them good wishes. Although you may not believe in their traditions, you can express your goodwill towards them.


If it is Hanukah, you might say “Happy Hanukah” or “Hanukkah Sameach!”At a bat or bar mitzvah, you might tell them “congratulations” or “mazel tov.”
If your friend tells you it is Passover, you can say “Happy Passover!”, Your friend might have assumptions about your religion or your practices. If they say something that offends you, correct the assumption gently. Remind your friend that it is not ok for them to make assumptions about your religion.


For example, if your Jewish friend makes a comment about Muslims and violence, you can say, “People of all faiths do bad things. You shouldn’t judge a whole religion based on a few people.”If your friend persists, you should sit them down and talk to them. Let them know that you enjoy their friendship but that their comments on your religion are unacceptable. You can say, “I know everyone is entitled to their opinions, but if you don’t respect my religion, I feel as though you don’t respect me. I think we should avoid this topic in the future.”

, Fighting with your friend can be upsetting and you will probably want to resolve these conflicts as soon as possible. If a conflict arises with your friend, try to stay calm, practice active listening, empathize with your friend, and look for a solution to the problem.


For example, if your friend gets upset because of something you said, then you might start by taking a few deep breaths to calm yourself down.Then, ask your friend to tell you more about what is the matter and listen closely to what your friend has to say. Remove all distractions, such as by putting away your phone, and look at your friend while they are talking. If anything your friend says is unclear, then ask your friend to clarify what they mean.
Try to imagine how your friend might be feeling. How might you feel in the same situation? What might help you to feel better?
After you have listened to your friend and considered their feelings, try to look for a solution. This might be as simple as apologizing and promising not to repeat the behavior. For example, you might say, “I’m sorry. I can see how upsetting that must have been for you. I will do my best to avoid upsetting you like this again.”

