 In order to begin the process, you must first fill out the name change petition. It will ask for the following information:


Your name, address, city, state, and zip code
Your date and place of birth
If you are married, your spouse's name and their date and place of birth
Your reasons for changing the name
Whether you've ever legally changed your name before
Your new name
The date
Your signature, The forms and fees can be filed and paid in person or mailed to the court, depending on what is most convenient for you.


Your name change petition should be filed to a Family and Probate Court in the county where you live. You can visit mass.gov to find a listing of Family and Probate Courts based on county to find the correct court.Local courts differ on the types of payments (cash, credit, debit, etc.) that they accept. It's best to call your court during operating hours to find out about accepted payment methods.Fees include a $150 filing fee, a $15 surcharge, a $15 fee for citation (notification) if required, and $100 filing fee if you're motioning to change your name during a divorce.If you cannot afford fees, you need to qualify under the federal poverty income guidelines and file an Affidavit of Indigency, which will explains your financial situation to the court so they can decide whether or not you can pay your own fees., The court may want you to notify the public that your petition has been filed. This is to make sure there is no confusion during the transitional phase.The citation for publication will be sent to you by the court, and you must arrange to have the citation published in a local newspaper. There will be an additional $15 fee for this.If you have good cause, such as personal safety concerns, you can file a motion to waive the publication and an affidavit (a sworn statement) stating why you do not wish to have this information published. You may have to go before the judge personally to explain your reasoning., You will appear in person on the date set by the court to go over your petition.The judge will read your petition out loud and ask any questions he or she feels are relevant.
If your petition is approved, the court will send you a certificate under the seal of the court establishing the new name.
If your petition is not approved, the court will conduct a trial in which the petition will either be dismissed or the court will enter a decree permitting the requested name change., There are a variety of reasons a judge may deny your petition. Be aware of these reasons before beginning the process of changing your name so you don't inadvertently cause your petition to be denied.


A name change petition would be denied if you were changing your name to avoid judgments, legal actions, debts, or obligations.A person cannot change their name to defraud another person.A criminal record can affect your chances of legally changing your name. While some courts will still grant a petition if you have a lengthy legal record, but if the crime took place in recent history or if you are currently incarcerated the petition will likely be denied.Most states prohibit a name change that uses vulgarity, racial slurs, or or anything designed to incite violence.Name changes are frequently denied if they cause undue confusion, such as using symbols or numbers.