 Take every opportunity you can to smile. Unless the situation is downright tragic, people are always looking for positive and welcoming reinforcement. Smiling is the world’s most powerful and universal gesture for doing so. By smiling, you send out a positive and happy image to those around you.Smiling has actually been found to increase your own happiness and mood as well as the moods of others. This can go a long way in making people like you, as no one wants to be around someone considered to be moping, negative or brooding. Spreading some happiness by smiling can go a long way in making people like you.;
, Wash your face, bathe on a regular basis, get those tangles out of your hair and don’t forget to brush your teeth. These are all things you can do to make sure your body is clean. People like approachable people, and the easiest way to come off as approachable is by being clean. Get a regular routine going and you’ll begin to see results when it comes to people liking you.


Cleanliness can help take care of one of the most important senses regularly affecting nearby people: smell. The sense of smell is closely related to memory and emotion. Certain smells – mostly used by the perfume industry – bring about feelings of desire, power, vitality and relaxation. Others, such as the smell of smoke, fire or rotten food, are universally viewed as bad due to their warning of danger. Make sure your smell matches the vibe you’d like to give other people., Use clothing to make a strong first impression to people. Wear your hair, top, bottom and shoes in an interesting way to make yourself memorable. Utilizing fashion will allow you to be both a novelty and a conformity to what they already know, creating both inspiration and familiarity. In other words, people can appreciate when you take something they know and use it in an interesting way.Research has shown most people make a decision about another person within the first seven seconds. The rest of the time during the meeting or conversation is usually spent justifying the initial reaction. Don’t let your lack of fashion sense become a reason for them not to like you – make it a reason for them to like you.Always dress for the occasion. Sure, a suit and tie or a fancy dress will always look good for evening occasions or at the workplace, but they may not always fit the situation at hand. If you’re working out at a gym or going out in a casual setting, dress how you normally would and add a personal touch. There’s always a way to make each outfit your own., Ask questions to get people to talk about themselves. No matter whom you are talking to, people are always an expert on one subject: themselves. People are naturally egocentric, meaning they love to talk to themselves. Find out about interests, hobbies and passions and you’re sure to get subconscious brownie points. Since you’re engaging on something they love, they’ll leave the conversation thinking you’re simply the coolest.Talking about one’s self actually activates the same pleasure centers of the brain as food and money. Give that opportunity to people you meet and they’ll be sure to come back for more., Actively listen to what people are saying during a conversation. Chances are, you can mentally note subjects that have come up in conversation and use them as other topic points. Also, if the person sees you genuinely care about what they have to say, they will be more likely to come to you for more conversation, thus increasing your likeability.


Use verbal confirmation during conversation to show you are listening. Verbal confirmation is a big portion of actively listening and is easy to perform. For example, if someone is telling you about a new type of pasta they’ve tried, repeat that in the form of a question to keep the ball rolling. Be sure to name specifics if they come up., Always meet the gaze of the person you’re talking to. Not only do your eyes show that you’re listening, but that you’re paying attention to every ounce of their persona, be it their facial expressions, hair, gestures and more. Eyes can create a bond and feeling of intimacy almost immediately.


Visible eyes during a conversation have been found to create a sense of cooperation among participants. In other words, eye contact promotes a sense of social bonding between people. If people feel like being around you helps both you and themselves, they’re more likely to return to you for conversation., People love the sound of their own name. Use names as often as you can – without overdoing it of course – to earn friendship points with people. Naming people is a sign of respect and importance and sure to make a lasting impression. Not only will reusing the name help you remember it, but also pat the ego of the person whose name is being said. Don’t overdo it. Only drop the name when beginning a new statement in the conversation in addition to the initial greeting and final goodbye. The last thing you want to do when getting people to like you is scare them off!
Remember names. Studies have shown that remembering someone's name activates their brain, allowing them to pay attention more. It also shows them significant amounts of respect in addition to making them feel good. Face association - a full examination and mental notes about a face - as well as consistent repetition go a long way in making sure you remember names., A quick way to make people like you is to have fun and interesting stories to share with them. Sharing stories not only provides an opportunity for humor, but also shares various aspects of your personality. It’s been a tried and tested part of social bonding for as long as language has been around – use it to your advantage!Have a couple of stories you feel can apply to every situation on hand at all times. The more you tell these stories, the better you’ll be at telling them further along down the road. You’re going to want to entertain your newfound friends at some point, so be ready with an engaging and humorous story.
Make sure your stories are appropriate. If you always stick to one type of story or tell something not appropriate for the setting you're in, you may give the wrong impression. The last thing you want to do is tell a story to make people around you feel uncomfortable, threatened or persecuted. You also wouldn't tell people you're trying to impress a story involving something you've done illegally (no matter how fun or exciting it was). Tone down any and all subject matter to ensure you make a good impression.
 When you’re talking to someone, smiling and nodding can go a long way, but be sure to also use subtle forms of body language. Turn toward people when they’re talking to you. Mirror their stance if standing and turn your body partially toward them no matter what the situation calls for. This lets them know you’re fully engaged with what they’re saying.Standing toe-to-toe with someone or facing him or her fully can often come off as more intimidating than engaging. Save this for further along down the road after you’ve gotten to know them. This can help give off the right impression. The last thing you want to do is come off as threatening.
Avoid crossing your arms, fidgeting with your hands, or crossing your legs too tightly when talking with people. This can often send signals that you’re anxious or dwelling on something else when talking. Make sure people know you’re comfortable, open and listening to what they have to say. This can go a long way in a long friendship.
 Bring up previous conversation topics or aspects of a conversation. If someone mentions their family a day prior or earlier on in the day, bring it up again after you’ve had time to fully assess what you can bring to the conversation. This will not only show that you’ve been listening, but that you care about what the other person has to say.


When recalling conversation, the topics do not have to be big and life changing. In fact, studies have shown that recalling the smaller details often have a bigger impact on the people you talk to. Did they mention they were eating out over the weekend on Friday? Ask them where they went and what they got on Monday. These will provide more fruitful conversation topics later on down the road., Eventually open up about deeper interests, passions and issues happening in your life. However, do not do so immediately. Likeable people know when to share their personal problems and confessions. To do so too soon can often result in being labeled a complainer. Let the other person guide you. The end result is an intimate bond and more personal friendship., Don’t be afraid to ask others for their opinions, feelings and advice on any subject. Asking someone for their opinion on a particular issue, be it a popular radio hit or a jealous ex-girlfriend, opens up the conversation while also garnering interest.Asking for advice also helps your newfound friend warm up to you. You’re leveling the playing field and asking for them to cope. Even if people do not like you, asking them for a favor and subsequently returning it can put their actions against their initial beliefs, resulting in what’s called cognitive dissonance. Their actions (being nice) go against their brain activity (not liking you) and correct it. This was a method used by Benjamin Franklin in confronting bitter rivals., Don’t be afraid to give compliments. Praise their looks, performance or intellect regularly. People crave appreciation almost constantly. Doing so can provide positive reinforcement and genuinely make the other person feel good. Making others feel good is key to being well liked.Make sure your praise is also warranted and authentic. Empty flattery is often seen through. The last thing you want to do during your quest to be liked and loved is come off as a liar. Most people do not appreciate being sucked up to and their needs pandered to, as it’s often not genuine.
 Make others feel like they matter. Congratulate their accomplishments. Ask what’s going on in their life. Let them know you think they have a lot to offer. We tend to like people who like us, as we reinforce each other’s egos. The key is to not provide empty flattery.Tip: External validation has even been cited as an addiction because of how good it feels. Be sure not to become the go-to person for validation unless you know exactly what you’re getting into. Be sure to ration it out as sparingly as compliments and praise.

