 There are three main types of travel insurance. Some “comprehensive” annual travel insurance will contain all three. However, each covers different events, so you should be aware of what you are shopping for:


Trip cancellation: protects you if you need to cancel before you leave. You can be reimbursed for your pre-paid, non-refundable expenses.Trip interruption: protects you if you need to end your trip and go back home early.Travel delay: covers your expenses for meals and lodging when your departure or return is delayed.;
, Many companies offer annual travel insurance. You can find them online by searching for “annual travel insurance carriers.” Some of the larger carriers of travel insurance include the following:Allianz
HTH Worldwide
IMG
Roam Right
Seven Corners
Travel Guard
Travelex

, You can usually get a quote online or by calling the insurer. You will be asked for personal information, such as the following:your age
number of trips planned for the year
country where you reside
country where you are a citizen
number of travelers covered

, Some websites, such as Squaremouth, will obtain quotes from many different insurers.This makes comparing policies easy.


The aggregator will show the annual premium for the policy.
There is also a link for policy details, which you should read.
You can also read reviews at the Squaremouth website.
 Your trip might be cancelled for a variety of reasons. However, your insurance won’t kick in unless your trip is interrupted for a “covered” reason. You should compare policies based on the events they cover.


Generally, a trip cancellation policy will reimburse you for cancellations caused by injury, illness, terrorism, airline bankruptcy, loss of passport, and other reasons.Also check whether the insurer offers a “cancel for any reason” rider. This will cost more money, but it allows you to cancel your trip for any reason (including changing your mind about traveling)., Insurers also vary in how much they will reimburse you. Some might provide a maximum of $1,000 per trip.If your trip cost more than this, you won’t be compensated for the remainder.


The reimbursement rate differs considerably depending on the insurer, so read the policy closely.
Generally, the more an insurer reimburses, the higher your premium will be, so there is a trade-off.
 Some policies will include baggage delay coverage. This policy will provide you with an amount of money to buy personal items until your baggage arrives. Generally, you get $100-500.The policy might also include baggage loss insurance, which will reimburse you for lost, stolen, or damaged bags.
 Most policies should include comprehensive medical coverage, which covers emergency medical and dental, as well as emergency medical transportation.This is great if you get injured somewhere outside your home country and need to be treated or evacuated.


Alternately, other insurers might offer medical coverage as an add-on, which will increase the cost of the policy.
 Annual travel insurance often includes other benefits. Look at each policy and see if it contains the following:Flight accident insurance. This works as a term life benefit to your heirs if you die in a flight accident.
Return of minor children coverage. Should you be injured in a foreign country, your children will be returned home with a chaperone.
Bedside visit benefit. This benefit will pay for the transportation costs of one person to visit you if you are hospitalized a certain number of days.
 Compare the costs of each annual travel insurance policy, but also keep an eye on reimbursement rates and the comprehensiveness of the coverage. Choose a policy that provides you the protection that you need.


For example, you might be willing to pay a little bit more for a policy that provides greater reimbursement for cancellation and delays.
Alternately, you might make a choice strictly on price if there’s only one plan you can afford.
 Don’t leave home without a copy of your policy. You’ll need to call your insurer as soon as you think your trip might be interrupted, delayed, or cancelled. The insurance carrier should have a 24-hour emergency assistance line.To make things easy, you can create a digital scan of your policy and store it on your laptop or smart phone. Leave the paper copy at home.
 You’ll need to fully support any claim you make. For example, if you cancelled your flight because of illness, you’ll need a doctor to fill out a form or sign a letter explaining your illness.If your passport is stolen, you should have a copy of the police report.
When your baggage is stolen or lost, you’ll need to file a form with your airline first. Hold onto your copy of the form so that you can show your insurer.
 Your insurer will probably send you a claim form to fill out.Provide all requested information and double check for accuracy. Remember to make a copy of the form for your records before mailing it back.


There might also be a claim form you can download from the insurance carrier’s website. Check there.
If you download a form, you should still call your insurer and explain the problem you are having.
 Travel insurers strive to provide the best service possible. However, if they fall short of your expectations, you should lodge appropriate complaints. Consider the following methods of complaining:


If your insurance carrier denies a claim, ask how you can appeal their decision.
You might also take to social media to complain. You can leave reviews on Yelp and other websites. Remember to stick to the facts and don’t exaggerate.
You can also file a complaint with your state’s Department of Insurance. You can find your state’s department by visiting the National Association of Insurance Commissioners website and clicking on your state: https://eapps.naic.org/cis/fileComplaintMap.do.

