 Don’t wait for your boyfriend to change or to treat you better. If you live with your boyfriend and he is abusive or violent, it’s important that you end the relationship immediately and get away from him as soon as possible.The abuse is not your fault and you should never blame yourself for being abused—but you do need to be proactive and take the first steps to move your boyfriend out.
 It’s important that you do this in a safe space (preferably out of your shared apartment/house) and with a friend or family member with you. You should be clear and direct; explain that you need your boyfriend to move out as soon as possible, and that you do not want to have any contact with him after he moves out.
 If your boyfriend is not willing to move out, or becomes angry, violent, or unstable, you should immediately call the police—primarily for your own safety. Obtain a restraining order; if you own the apartment or house that you share, this will keep him from returning and will also let you keep your own living space. Further steps include:


Change your locks. If your boyfriend has a key, this will prevent him from intruding into your living space.
Call the National Domestic Abuse Helpline (1-800-799-SAFE ) or visit their website.This center can provide you with advice and support.
 If your abusive boyfriend owns that house or apartment that you share with him, or is otherwise unwilling to move out, you may need to move out yourself.Your own safety should be your first priority; it’s not worth sacrificing your mental and physical safety just to continue living with your boyfriend. If you need to, temporarily stay with your family or friends while you or your boyfriend (separately) look for new places to live.
 It can be difficult to end a relationship, especially one that has been founded on mistreatment. However, just as in any non-abusive relationship, you decision to move your boyfriend out needs to be final and permanent. Even if he threatens or begs to move back in with you, do not let him. Instead, continue to live on your own, and look to your family and friends for personal support.

