 To get the most you can out of your counseling, it is important to make sure that you are comfortable with your counselor. If you are not comfortable with your counselor, you are less likely to be honest with him or her and you may not get the most out of your counseling.


Even if your counselor comes highly recommended, he or she may not be right for you. If you do not feel a connection with your counselor, your treatment might not work.;
, Since you are using counseling for help with life changes, make sure that the counselor you see has experience dealing in this area. Most mental health professionals have specializations or areas of focus, so look for one who specializes in life changes, stress management, and/or coping techniques.


If you aren't sure about how to find a counselor with these qualifications, ask your general physician for a referral.
You can also look into other ways to find a counselor. Try calling your insurance company to see if it is covered under your insurance or talk to your family or friends for recommendations., When you go to counseling, make sure that you are seeing a qualified mental health professional. The qualifications will be different depending on where you live, but make sure you only see a counselor who is licensed to practice in your state.If you are unsure what qualifies counselors in your state, look into counselor licensing in your area.
 In addition to the different types of counseling approaches, your counseling can also take different forms. The type of counseling you might need may depend on the type of life change you are dealing with as well as personal preference. These different forms of counseling include:


Individual, where you talk with your counselor one on one to work through emotions, feelings, self-destructive actions, and other issues
Family, where you and the members of your family can be treated at the same time, especially if all of you are affected by the life change
Group, where you can work on your issues along with a group of your peers with similar issues, No matter the kind of transition you experience in your life, is it helpful to examine how you feel about the change. Work with your counselor to determine what feelings you have connected to the change. Whether it is positive or negative transition, try to work with your counselor to analyze how the change has shifted your outlook on your own life and the emotions you have surrounding the change.


Working through your feelings will take time. As you discuss your feelings with your counselor, you may experience conflicting emotions about the changes you are going through.For example, if you are moving across the country because your spouse got a promotion, you can be both happy and sad about the situation. You will likely be happy for your spouse because of the new opportunity, but you may also be sad to leave the places and people you are used to.
 Before you can cope with life transitions, be honest with what feelings you have about the life change. Be honest with your counselor to get to the heart of your emotions about your life change. If you lie to yourself or your counselor about any feelings you are having about the life changes, it might be difficult to move past these issues.For example, you might feel sad about having to move to a new city, even if you are moving for a positive reason, such as to take a new job or to be closer to your significant other. Regardless of the circumstances, if sadness is what you really feel, then share this with your counselor.
 Once you have figured out exactly what you are feeling, you can work on learning to accept the emotions you have throughout the day. Work with your counselor to figure out how to accept these emotions. Anything you feel about your life transitions is valid. If you try to quell your emotions or put them out of your head, you may have more problems later.


Work with your counselor to determine what emotions you are working through and then accept them as valid.
Squashing down your emotions may make them rear back up later. Try to face them head on as the changes happen to make sure you are fully able to move on past the new changes in your life.
Your counselor can help you determine how your emotions affect your actions and how you can learn to accept them and move on.For example, if you break up with your longtime partner, you may be sad, angry, depressed, and anxious. These are all valid feelings after a breakup and it is important to work through them with your therapist to help you accept your life as a single person.
 When you are working through life transitions with a counselor, try to meet your counselor halfway. You may not get anything out of counseling if you don't believe that counseling will work. Try to be honest and forthcoming with your therapist about your fears, emotions, and actions.


Being open and present with your counselor will help your counselor help you. Your counselor or therapist may not be able to help you deal with your problems if your therapist does not know where you are in your coping process., All life changes, both positive and negative, can cause personal stress. When you talk to your counselor or therapist, you can discuss how to reduce the stress caused by your life changes. This can be a combination of breathing techniques, mental exercises, lifestyle changes, and coping techniques that will help reduce your stress levels.

For example, if you get a promotion at work that gives you a lot of responsibility, you can feel a mixture of stress and excitement. Follow your counselor's suggestions on how to lower your stress and manage your new job.
 Your counselor will likely suggest you limit any additional life changes. Since you are already going through a change, try to limit any additional life changes that you have control over.

Work with your counselor on ways to limit other life changes or deal with these in addition to the major ones. This will help you reduce additional strain and stress on your life by only dealing with one life change at a time.

For example, if you are changing jobs, it might not be a good idea to move to a new apartment and buy a new car at the same time.
 Change is essential to life and moving forward in life. It helps you grow as a person and experience new things.Work with your counselor to change your way of thinking about the transition. Instead of thinking about change as a bad thing, try to think about it as a positive move forward in your life. Even if it is steeped in sadness, such as a death of a family member or a huge breakup, there are benefits that will become noticeable as you work through your feelings. Work with your counselor to identify these benefits.For example, see a death of a parent or loved one as a way for you to become stronger or more independent. Over time, you might start to see a breakup as a time for a new beginning.
 A good way to change your feelings about life transition is to learn everything that you can about the change and use this knowledge outside of your counseling sessions. Work with your counselor to fully examine your life change and figure out what every aspect means for you, even the angles you cannot see. This will help you feel more in control of the situation, even if the life change was out of your control to begin with.


This is especially helpful with life changes that you are scared of or stressed out about. The more you know about the life change and its possible ramifications, the more equipped you will be to face the change.For example, if you are facing a move to another state, research the city you are moving to, the new company you will start working for when you get there, and other things that will change when you move.
 Do what you can to take control of your life outside of your counseling sessions. There are many life changes that you do not have control over, such as death, personal illness, work promotions or demotions, or breakups. Talk to your counselor about how you can take control of each situation and change. Your counselor can help you get a handle on the parts you can control to help you deal with the change.For example, if you are diagnosed with an illness, do what you can to research the illness, talk with your doctor about all your treatment options, and talk with your therapist to figure out how to manage your life with the illness. This may help you feel more empowered about the change.
 Counseling is most effective when a person fully commits to counseling. This means showing up for your scheduled sessions and being as honest as you can be with yourself and your counselor. Also, you may have "homework" to do in between sessions. Commit to completing these as well, and you'll reap even more benefits from counseling.


Talk with your counselor about your fears about treatment. Your counselor has likely seen it before and will know how to help you accept treatment options.