 Dissolve the salt and brown sugar in 2 cups of boiling water. Allow to cool and then refrigerate overnight.






;
, Mix the brine solution, cold water, and any other brine ingredients you want to use, in a large container. You can add spices and seasonings according to your own preferences and availability. You can even substitute some of the water with cold tea, fruit or vegetable juices, stock, cider, wine or light beer. Changing the brine liquid is part of the fun of experimenting!








, Check that the wings and legs are not squashed against the body; rather, they should be free to soak in the brine.
 Rinse thoroughly.
 Sink the bird into the liquid, adding more water if necessary to completely submerge it. If the turkey keeps floating up, find a way to weigh it down, such as a tray with something heavy placed on top of it.
 Take two clean, fresh roasting bags or kitchen trash bags just off the roll or out of the box:









Put one inside the other to make a double bag.
Put the turkey (without innards) inside the double bag and pour in the brine.
Squeeze the double bag until all the air is expelled.
Tie off the top so it won't leak.
Now, no matter which way you lay the turkey down, it will be covered with brine. It will fit anywhere and you won't have to worry about turning it halfway through the process in the middle of the night. Just be careful when lifting it to pick it up from the bottom.
 Refrigerate the bird in its brine, or put into a cool place (no more than 40°F/4.4ºC) and leave it for at least ten hours.









Ideally, the turkey should be kept refrigerated during the brining. If that isn't possible, keep the container (like a cooler box) somewhere cool, such as in a basement.
Ice packs or reusable gel packs may be used to maintain the temperature, but do not put ice directly into the brine as this will dilute the solution. The turkey and brine solution must be kept below 40°F/4°C at all times.
 About halfway through the brining process, turn the bird over to ensure even brining throughout.
 Rinse inside and out under cold water, and dry thoroughly using kitchen towel. Allow to come up to room temperature for an hour before you plan to roast. This helps to ensure proper and safe heat penetration.








