 Coldness will help reduce the blood vessels under your eyes that may be contributing to puffiness and dark circles. Soak a washcloth in ice cold water or use the back of a frozen spoon. Lie down and hold the cold item to your closed eyes for about 15 minutes. Try this 3-4 times per day to reduce the dark circles., Cucumbers have a number of healing properties, including a restorative and healing effect on skin.To use cucumbers on your eyes, refrigerate a large cucumber until it is very cold, and then cut it into 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) slices. Lie down with your head back and place one slice of cucumber over each of your eyes. Let the cucumber sit there for 10-15 minutes, and then remove.


Alternately, juice a cucumber. Put the juice on a cotton ball and press that onto your eyes., Crush some mint leaves into a paste. Add juice from half of a lemon to the paste. Apply this mixture to the area under your eyes. Leave for 15 minutes, then rinse off with cold water. Repeat this application twice daily., Green tea is rich in antioxidants and can make up for antioxidant deficiencies in the body that contribute to dark circles. Pour hot water over two tea bags and let them steep for 5 minutes. Remove the tea bags and place them in the freezer. Remove when the tea bags are very cold. Lie down and press the tea bags onto your eyes. Hold them there for about 15 minutes. Rinse your eyes with cold water and pat dry., A neti pot is a device that resembles a small teapot. It is used to help flush salt water through your sinuses. Add warm distilled water to the neti pot and add kosher salt or sea salt (avoid iodized salt). Use ½ to 1 teaspoon of salt per 16 ounces of water. Tilt your head to the side and pour the water into one nostril. Let the water drain out the other nostril.Follow the usage instructions on the neti pot’s packaging.
 There are a number of remedies and recipes that use natural ingredients. Search online for natural remedies to treat dark circles. Some of these ingredients include:


Chamomile
Almond oil
Arnica
Rose water
Avocado

