 Oftentimes, you can partially see the filter from the inside of the spa system. It is most often located inside of a canister, cradle, or lid. If you do not see such a compartment, check your owner's manual to locate the filter., As the parts of spa systems work together to achieve filtration, you should not run the spa without a filter cartridge present., Move slowly and gently to prevent damage. As you rotate, examine the filter for bottom threads that may also need to be unscrewed. If this loosens the filter, pull it up and out of the compartment., While many styles of cartridge filters are easily removed with a counterclockwise turn, not all are removed so simply. If a gentle twist does not loosen your filter, allow your owner's manual to walk you through the removal process., If you see rips, tears, or feel as though the center core element is loose, do not move forward with cleaning the filter. Be sure to replace damaged filters to avoid damaging other spa elements, such as jet lines, that may become prone to debris build-up., Look for a cleaning wand that attaches to your garden hose and comes equipped with soft comb-like teeth. Hold the nozzle at a 45 degree angle and use the comb to gently open and rinse debris from the pleats of the spa filter., Enzymes prevent biofilm—the sticky, tar-like film of bacteria that sometimes grows in pools and spas—by breaking up oils and other contaminants that create conditions for bacteria to grow.Adding a weekly dose of cleaner directly to the water thus keeps your filter clean by preventing a scummy ring of oils from building around the filter core., Gently part the pleats of the filter and examine for dirt build-up or large debris. Remove and throw away any large pieces of debris.
 Typically, five gallons is the amount of water necessary to fully immerse a spa filter. Do not worry about water temperature—hot water cleans more rapidly, but cold water will clean the filter just as well., Follow the instructions on your brand of spa filter cleanser to determine how much should be added per gallon of water.Do not use anything other than filter cleanser to clean your filter. Some people choose to use bleach or detergent to clean filters, but these harsh chemicals may actually damage filters or trigger issues with water chemistry., Before you treat the spa filter with cleanser, be sure to protect your spa by turning it off and visually inspecting your filter for damage. Spray with your hose-head cleaning wand to remove any lingering debris., If you used hot water, soak for roughly an hour. If you filled your bucket with cold water, allow the filter to soak overnight.Remember to keep your pool off while your filter is soaking.
 After it has soaked, be sure to thoroughly rinse it to remove chemicals or remaining debris. Remember to hold the cleaning wand at a 45 degree angle to prevent dirt from being driven into the core., Follow the sanitation instructions outlined in your spa's owner manual by adding cleansing chemicals directly into the water. Improper cleaning and water chemistry may lead to the growth of algae and bacteria that can make you sick. Excess residue may damage the components of your spa system and shorten the life of your filter., Taking your time to carefully clean a cartridge will ensure that you remove as much debris as possible, which will in turn lengthen the life of your filter. Plus, providing a thorough cleaning this time will make the next round of cleaning even easier., If you are putting back a recently cleaned filter, it should be white and free of debris. If it is tinted black or coated in a slimy residue, do not put in back in your spa system.A new filter should be installed every one to three years, so you will likely encounter an unusable filter at some point. It is a good idea to keep an extra filter in storage for when replacement becomes necessary.
 Simply reverse the removal process to replace a filter. For most filters, sliding it back into its compartment will require twisting it to the right., Once the filter has been installed, allow the spa to run for one full cycle before you use it. This will deplete any debris that may have collected while your spa system was not actively filtering the water.

