 For instance, maybe she likes hanging out with her friends, playing video games, and watching romantic comedy films. Every girl is different, so pay attention to her, so you avoid giving her nothing but generic 'girl' presents.;
, Be careful in choosing what you get her, though. Little tubes of lip gloss would be fine, but lipstick would make her look silly. If you're not sure about colors, stick to lotions and moisturizers, or get a sampler.
 The benefits of reading have been proven time and time again. Even if she's not a big reader, there are many books aimed at her age group that she may enjoy. Again, take her interests into account choosing here. If she hates romance, don't get her The Princess Diaries or Twilight. Classics such as Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and The Wizard of Oz are good choices, too.


Check with your local library. Librarians can offer great recommendations on what kids of all ages are reading, and they may be able to suggest something wonderful that's a little off the beaten track.
 This is where you need to know her tastes. If you don't know if she'd like a certain singer or not, don't get her a CD by them.
 Post-it notes, fun patterned or coloured pens, a small calendar or day planner, or a key chain for her house key are all good options.
 Everyone eats. Many companies release special Christmas-themed sweets and snacks at Christmas time. An orange and some nuts are traditional, but if you know they won't get eaten, try something that will.
 Plastic bangles, long necklaces, and cute earrings are all options. You can even get her pieces in her favorite colour, if you like. Of course, this depends on whether the girl wears jewelry, and what her taste in jewelry is.
 Gift cards are fun, and allow the receiver to buy whatever she wants. They can be for stores or for things like the local movie theater, or a fast food restaurant.


The downside is they're impersonal, they say "I don't know you well enough to think of a gift for you." The receiver also has to wait to get her gift, and, of course, it would take a lot of gift cards to fill a stocking.
 If the girl is artistic or likes to do crafts, include some small items such as brushes, pencils (colored or otherwise), a pocket-sized sketch pad, or a miniature artist's mannequin. Be sure to match the items to the crafts she does. Your craft or hobby store can offer suggestions if you're not familiar with the supplies for a craft.


Consider transportation, too. A preteen may have to wait or beg Mom to get herself to a store, especially if it's not very close to home.
