 Different skin types require different care. A dermatologist can tell you your skin type and about any other skin conditions you might have. This can help you avoid foods, medications, supplements, and skincare products that could make your skin worse. In general, the types of skin are:


Normal skin, which has little or no sensitivity, extremely small pores and a bright complexion. It is not too dry or oily.
Combination skin, which can be dry or normal in some areas and oily in others. The oily areas usually include the nose, forehead, and chin. It can cause overly dilated pores, blackheads, and an oily sheen on certain parts of the skin.
Oily skin, which has enlarged pores and is prone to blackheads, pimples, and other blemishes. People with oily skin can have either a dull or shiny complexion.
Dry skin, which is characterized by less elasticity, red patches, more visible wrinkles and lines, nearly invisible pores, and a dull sheen. Certain factors such as hormonal changes, dry weather, extended hot showers, medications, ultraviolet radiation, and ingredients in skin products can make dry skin worse. This causes scaly, irritated, inflamed, or peeling skin.;
, If you plan on using your own homemade cream, it is important to know what kind of ingredients will work for your skin type and what could make it worse. In general, it is important to wash your skin at least twice a day to keep it clean. This will help avoid issues caused by bacteria, fungi, and free radicals.


People with dry skin should use cream with moisturizing agents such as aloe, cocoa butter, olive oil, or honey. These also help repair cracked skin and reduce scars. Hyaluronic acid is a naturally occurring substance in the body that heals damaged skin while locking in moisture, which can be found in some commercial skincare products. Some studies suggest that hyaluronic acid can also prevent the appearance of aging and reduce the appearance of scars and blemishes.
If you have oily skin, opt for low-comedogenic oils, which are oils that clog your pores less. Salicylic acid is a natural cleanser derived from willow bark that neutralizes bacteria and soaks up excess oil on the skin’s surface, which helps prevent acne breakouts. Essential oils with citric acid, such as lemon oil, help control oily skin while promoting skin repair. Tea tree oil is also helpful for oily skin.
Refreshing ingredients such as cucumber, aloe vera, or rose water alleviate inflammation and discomfort frequently experienced by people with sensitive or combination skin because of their cooling effect. Lactic acid, found in milk or yogurt, helps fight free radicals and harmful bacteria, remove dead skin cells, and gently moisturizes the skin., To make a skin cream for oily skin, put 1/4 cup almond oil, 2 tbsp coconut oil, 2 tbsp beeswax, 1/2 teaspoon vitamin E oil, and 1 tbsp shea butter in a glass jar. In a sauce pan, bring 3 to 4 inches of water to a simmer. Place the jar in the simmering water until the ingredients in the jar have melted completely. Then, combine the ingredients well in the jar. Move the cream into a smaller jar where you are going to keep the cream.


Leave the cream at room temperature until the cream cools and hardens. Once it cools enough, place the lid on the jar.
Keep the cream in a cool, dry place. The mixture can last for up to three months.
These ingredients are good for psoriasis, eczema, and scarring on the skin. They also have anti-aging qualities as well., Heat 2 tbsp of almond oil, 2 tbsp jojoba oil, and 1 tbsp beeswax in a double boiler until all the oils are melted and combined, which is about two to five minutes. Pour the mixture in a large mixing bowl and let it cool to room temperature, which is about an hour or two. While this cools, mix 1/3 cup aloe vera gel and five to seven drops of an essential oil of your choice.


Once the mixture cools, take a hand mixture and start mixing the oils. Gradually add the aloe vera and essential oil combination while mixing. Keep adding until you get a thick consistency, about 10 minutes. You may not need to use all the aloe vera. Stop once you get the thickness you like. Move the cream to a jar., Heat 5 tbsp jojoba oil, 2 tbsp hemp seed oil, and 1 1/2 tsp beeswax in a double boiler until melted and combined. Next, remove from heat and let it cool to room temperature, when it should start to solidify. Then, using a hand mixer, whip the oils and add 1 tsp aloe vera gel and a few drops of lemon essential oil or tea tree oil. Keep whipping until it gets thick enough. Then move it to small jar.


The jojoba oil and hemp seed oil have low comedogenic ratings, which means they are great for oily skin and won't clog your pores. The aloe vera help sooth the skin without adding oil and the lemon or tea tree oil will help remove excess oils from your skin.