 This way when you do learn the languages alphabet you will already know some pretty basic words. For example: Hello, Goodbye, How are you?, I am good, What is your name?, My name is____, and so on.
 It will make it significantly easier for you and you will be able to read and pronounce words, which will help you memorize them with greater ease. Plus, it is better for you to be sounding the words out rather than looking at the romanization for the words.
 Mastering basic vocabulary is probably one of the most important things you can do when learning a new language. Even if you can't understand whole sentences, the ability to pick out keywords can help you to understand the general meaning of a speech or text.


Focus on 100 most common words. Picking out the most common 100 words in a given language is a clever way to start. From there, you can work your way up to the most common 1000 words. It is estimated that learning the 1000 most common words in a language will allow you to understand 70% of any text.
Focus on the vocabulary that is most relevant to you -- learn business vocabulary if you're learning a language for business, don't waste time learning the words for different species of fish (which you might want to do if you're traveling to go scuba diving!)
You should also learn words and vocabulary that pertain specifically to you, so you're able to talk about your life and your background to people you meet.
 Start off by learning to count to ten, because it is usually the easiest thing to memorize at first. Each day learn a new set of ten numbers, keep going each day until you are satisfied with how high you can count. If you are up for a challenge, memorize all the numbers up to one hundred in one day.
 The reason why most people can't remember most of the language they spent years learning in school is that school curricula tend to focus a huge amount of time on learning grammar and very little time on speech. This is pretty much backwards -- if you want to learn a language quickly, you should learn how to converse first. The specifics of grammar will come later.


Of course, there's no denying that grammar is important -- you need to learn how to conjugate basic everyday verbs and have some idea of the correct word order in a sentence.
The point is that you shouldn't spend hours and hours learning verb tables by heart, or worrying about the specific circumstances in which a certain preposition can be used. You'll learn these things as you go along!

, Pronunciation is another place where you should focus your energies. There's no point in memorizing hundreds of words and phrases if you pronounce them so oddly that they can't be understood. Therefore, it's important that when you learn a word, you learn the pronunciation simultaneously.


Pronunciation can be difficult to learn from a book -- so this is where chatting with native speakers (or using interactive software programs and applications) comes in handy. You need to actually say the word out loud in order to learn how to pronounce it correctly.
If you're practicing with an actual person, make sure that they're not too timid to correct you when you pronounce a word incorrectly, otherwise you may never fully get the hang of it. Remember -- pronunciation can be the difference between speaking a language well and speaking a language fluently.
 When you're learning a new language you can't be afraid to make mistakes, otherwise you won't get very far.


You're bound to get yourself in a few embarrassing situations, but what's the big deal? The native speakers might have a good chuckle, but they'll still appreciate the effort you're making and be willing to help you out.
You are not aiming for perfection here, you are aiming for progress. Making mistakes (and learning from them) will help you to progress.

