 Because stir frying happens so quickly, it’s a good idea to have all of your food ready to go before you start cooking. Chop and slice all of the aromatics, protein, and vegetables before heating the wok. Place them in bowls right beside the stove top, so you can reach them easily when it's time to toss them into the wok.Try to cut all of the food into the same size pieces, so they'll cook at roughly the same time. Aim for bite-size pieces.
 Before you start adding ingredients to the wok, you’ll need to heat it for several minutes on high. You’ll know that it’s sufficiently heated when you drop a bead of water into the wok and it evaporates immediately. Next, drizzle approximately 1 to 2 tablespoons of your oil of choice down the side of the wok; it may smoke slightly, but be sure to swirl the wok so the entire surface is coated with the oil.While some faint smoke is normal when you add the oil, an excessive amount indicates that you’ve overheated the wok. Let it cool off before continuing.
For stir frying, use an oil that has a high smoke point so it can withstand the high temperatures without burning. Some oils to consider are peanut, safflower, sesame, and light refined olive., You can’t toss all your stir fry ingredients into the wok at once because some take longer to cook than others and you want to layer the flavors. Start with the most intensely flavored ingredients, usually known as the aromatics, so they’ll infuse the oil. When they’re lightly browned, push them toward the edge of the wok, and cook your protein of choice in a single layer. Stir fry the protein until it’s not quite fully cooked, and then remove it and the aromatics to a bowl. Cook the vegetables next, starting with those that have the longest cooking times first and moving on to soft, leafy veggies that don’t need as much time.Garlic, ginger, onions, and chili peppers all make delicious aromatics for a stir fry dish.
For protein, you can use chicken, beef, seafood, or tofu, depending on your preferences.
When you’re adding the vegetables, start with hard, dense options, such as carrots, cauliflower, and broccoli. Add medium weight veggies next, including mushrooms, peppers, asparagus, zucchini, and celery. Finish off with soft vegetables, such as tomatoes, leafy greens, and sprouts.
 When you’re stir frying in a wok, using the right technique is key. To keep the food burning, you need to continue to move the ingredients throughout the process. Use a thin spatula to constantly roll the food over onto itself, placing it between the wok and the food to toss ingredients for even cooking.It’s best to use a metal spatula when stir frying because wooden ones are usually too thick to really fit under the food.
 Once the vegetables are tender, add the protein and aromatics back to the wok. To ensure that you get all of the intense flavors out of the wok, deglaze it with a liquid of your choice. Drizzle the liquid down the sides slowly, and then use the spatula to toss all of the ingredients together so they’re all warmed through.For deglazing, broth, stock, wine, soy sauce, or coconut milk all work well.

