 Although their introductory credits differed from other shows, this show had a special segment before they called out the contestants. Although each season had it's own introductory statement, the same statement was used throughout each episode in the season. At first it asked questions like "What show lets you run wild through a Supermarket? (To which the audience yelled Supermarket Sweep) or "What show lets you grab everything you can get your hands on?(again, the audience yells Supermarket Sweep) and several other statement questions. However, following this, the announcer to the show asked for players from three teams of two in the audience (later in the series' run when this show went onto the PAX-TV channel, they filmed the three sets of 2 contestants running around the corner opposite the audience area from the supermarket) "Who's got the (product name)?" To which point, they told them "OK, you're on!" And following these, the announcer called "And here's our host, David Ruprecht".;
, There were several parts to this game, with each part containing several pricing games that were related to pricing products you'd find on the average supermarket shelf and which related to time you'd obtain to run the Big Sweep at the end of the game, the winner of that game going onto the Bonus sweep all to earn your $5,000 prize

, The game began with each team being awarded a free minute and thirty second time that they could use in the Big Sweep at the end of the game.

The show began with what Supermarket Sweep called the "Mini sweep" which was introduced a year into the show's run on Lifetime after the company realized that the players weren't being given enough Big Sweep time and could pick up some money in the end as a result. The host gave a clue to a product using a rhyming phrase/sentence. These were very easy, and sometimes you could even tell which item they were trying to find by listening to the intonation of the words that were boldly mentioned. The player who guessed the right answer, could pick up either a free $50 (if they brought back this product within 30 seconds) or $100 (if brought back within 20 seconds).
They asked the players to split up. One player of each team stayed onset and the other was asked to leave. Leading up to the Round Robin round, only one player was allowed out on the floor to play the remainder of the pricing game. However, halfway through (up until the first advertisement) these players switched and ended up playing more pricing games - all in an attempt to pick up time for the Big Sweep.
Throughout this series' run, they played several pricing games. For most pricing games they had, what the teams won from guessing correctly would be time to add to the Sweep time. Sometimes even, teams would get 10 seconds of sweep time for only 1 correct answer out of 3 (if given a pricing game where they had to select 1 of 3 prices along a row of products) (Such as pick the product with the lowest price: 1) Axe deodorant 2) Planters Peanuts or 3) Box of Kleenex tissues (price would be based on Pacific coast prices)). (this type of game was common before the first advertisement break, but could sometimes happen following the first podium pricing game (if the game happened during the PAX-TV run of the series. If all three contestants chose to answer the same way to a multiple choice question and were all correct, all three would pick up an extra thirty seconds of Sweep time.

A large variety of games was played and due to the length and differences between these games, you can find this information .
Towards the end of this series' run, some of these pricing games were done at a podium at a head-to-head challenge between two teams and the winner of that first round played the third team. The winner of that round ended up claiming Sweep time. The second players to come out (after the first advertisement break) would generally have this opportunity to help their team pick up Sweep time. However, these podium games weren't always a part of the show from the beginning of the series' time.
 Round Robin has been an integral part of the Supermarket Sweep series. Playing with both team members, Round Robin featured several scrambled lettered words or phrases to products that you had to decipher. Each correct guess would earn the team 10 additional seconds of Sweep time. As was said by the host, Round Robin "was the last chance for these players to earn Sweep time" in the pricing games segment of the show. There were six questions in Round Robin in each game per episode. Although some scrambled words were easier than others, there were some really easy ones to answer to (which sometimes consisted of 4 or 5 letters or that contained only one word of a short number of letters). At first, there were three clues that were read rather slowly. If no one got the scrambled lettered words the first time through, during the second time it would be read faster and if still no one answered it or had gotten it incorrect, the question was eliminated from play and no one would get time for that question. After that, the host reminded the teams of their total run times for their use in the Sweep and asked the teams to pick the players who will be the "runners" in the Sweep., This was an integral part of many fans' minds. The host reads through the teams' times and says "Everything in these aisles is up for grabs. Fill as many carts as you can." (These two sentences never changed very much, throughout this series' history.) The host announced the daily specials (which could have included bonus balloons (inflatable balloons that looked like supermarket products that rested on the floor), coffee (grind a pound of coffee beans and seal the bag and you win money, though the button had to be held down to be operated), candy (fill a bag of candy with a dollar's worth of loose candy (plus or minus 2 cents) and win yourself some bonus cash), shopping list announcements (this could have included a magazine rack , jelly belly machine, international bread center, fruit fantasy, breakfast break, cake display or a Frozen Yogurt Machine)/Manager's Special (aka Red Tag Special)/Stack Job/Super Sandwich, Mystery Product (pieces of the product name were found on television monitors found sporadically through the supermarket), Sweep Swipe, Giant Box of Laundry Detergent.The host then mentioned "The team who picks up the most money in merchandise and bonus prizes, wins the game and the right to go for 5,000 dollars."

(On the ABC viewing of the show, this also included Cracker Jackpot/Jolly Time is Money, Balloon Pop, Instant Coupon Machines and Double/Triple Coupons)..
Stepping off to an "on your mark" phrase, the runners would race through the aisles collecting as much stuff in their carts as they could fit. They were limited to a quantity of 5 items for each item. If they knocked over or did something to a product they weren't intended to pick up they either had to place it back onto the shelf or pick it up and put it in their cart.Their partners were not to be in the aisles with the runner - the partner was to be waiting behind the checkout counter waiting for their partner to return with a full cart so they could begin loading their items onto the supermarket register belt.Generally it was just team 1 that set off first followed by Teams 2 and followed by team 3. However, on occasion there were times when team 1 and 2 set off together leaving team 3 to race in later. Rarely did it ever happen that all three teams race into the market together.
Almost always, teams raced towards the aisles containing the high-expensive items such as diapers and baby formula, beef and poultry, garden hoses and even over-the-counter pharmaceutical items. However, the meats and pharmacy aisles were other common places teams would race to. However, this differed by each teams' plans they talked about off-stage.

Each shopping cart was labelled with the team number in an ovular shaped cardboard. Carts were the standard size shopping cart that might have been a little deeper than average, but not as much as to hinder the effects or put team's "plans" for conquer in jeopardy.


Teams were penalized money from their grand total for wrong-doings such as knocking into or over a camera man or stage crew person or not picking up products that they dropped on the supermarket floor.Runners must stop "shopping" when the clock reached 0:00 and the bell rang, even if they haven't gotten their limit of five of the item (what they had in their carts was final; not even the stuff that was in their hand being dropped into their cart when the bell rang could even count).
During the first season when this program was on Lifetime, the show didn't round the dollar amounts of cash and prizes that the team won. However, this was later changed and they did round it to the nearest dollar.Also during the first season, there would be a costumed character running down the aisles. If a runner came near them, they would have to turn around and go in another direction.After the last advertisement, the host would reveal the mystery product (most often because the runners didn't retrieve this product in the show or because they didn't want to say it three times if all three teams grabbed this product) along with the totals of each team's cart. The team would receive one minute on the clock and a set of three clues. Once given the first clue, the team would race into the market one last time to try and retrieve the clues in order. This would lead the team to the second clue and after three clues, they would grab the money and win the grand bonus prize of $5,000.
 Generally, one clue would be a rhyming pattern and would be very easy to guess (sometimes you could even hear the key words in the sentence/phrase used from the host's mouth) however, others weren't quite as easy. If players didn't reach the money after the minute was up, each item found was worth $200 added onto the Big Sweep total of take-home money for that shopping day, while if the team retrieved the 5,000, the $5,000 was theirs but they had to forego the $200 for each item price.If the team found clue number 3 and the money before completing the other clues (this rarely happened), they had to forfeit the money entirely and lost the game.Rarely did team 3 ever make it to the Bonus Sweep, but they did make it occasionally.
The sentence phrase would fill in on the screen when the team mentions that they knew the exact product that might contain the item or pass right by it.
Each item that had a clue had an insignia of the show's famous supermarket cart icon on it. This never changed during the entire series' when Lifetime and PAX-TV had it's contract of it.
 The host would sign off towards the end of the show with "If you're at a checkout counter and hear the beep, think of all the fun you'd be having on (the contestants would help with filling this in) "Supermarket Sweep"". If items were unfound in the end credits, the host and the team contestants would try to find the unsolved clue's location to try to find the next clue (more often than not, this was the last clue leading them to the big money, although sometimes teams would be stuck partway through the list of clues)., Although the pricing games round(s) contestants wore their everyday shirts, during the Big Sweep and Bonus Sweep rounds contestants would wear special colored t-shirts (or colored sweatshirts if the market was that cool for the contestant). Generally, during the PAX-TV era, team 1 wore a red shirt, team 2 wore a blue shirt and team 3 wore a yellow shirt. However, during the first few years of Lifetime, team 1 and team 3's colors switched. Each team had shirts denoting their team number on the front (written in yellow near the top right of the shirt) and on the back had the show's logo and bigger number of the team number on the shirt.
 Although the show had some special occurrences that happened every once and awhile, they were rather rare and only happened once or twice per season. Sometimes it would be a week-long series devoted solely to past winners from the past year, or even when the show recorded their 1,000th show they had one. They also had other special event episodes that were titled "Cruise weeks" where instead of solely winning the money they also won an all-expenses paid cruise to an unknown place (unknown to the viewer, but was known beforehand to the contestants). In one instance, they won a pair of cars (Geo Tracker) during what they called "Twin Car Giveaways", but these specials didn't happen all that often., Supermarket Sweep aired over several years on several channels. Although when it first came out on December 20, 1965 and was shown till July 14, 1967 it aired on ABC, when it re-debuted on Lifetime network (Lifetime later became more "woman oriented programming") between February 5, 1990 and May 26, 1995 things changed (including the episodes being longer and in color) and later when the contract got moved yet again to what would then be PAX-TV (now "ION Television") things didn't change much and it ran for a few more seasons, finishing up the series (for now) and running there from April 3, 2000 to May 23, 2003.However, these programs are no longer playing in syndication in the United States, but many fans are illegally posting real, full episodes on YouTube if you search by using the search term "Supermarket Sweep" and the year the episode came out (while some users place the contestants names in the title of the video instead of the year and place the year in the video description). As a regular series, this show presented 1,111 shows..


Each episode ran for one half hour block. However, this block changed many times over the course of it's history between 3pm EST and ending at 5:30pm EST (dependent on when the station scheduled the time to happen) and only aired one episode per day, each weekday (especially on the PAX-TV run).
 Although David Ruprecht was the host during both the Lifetime and PAX-TV runs of the show, a person by the name of Bill Malone was the host of the ABC run of the show. Supermarket Sweep was the only TV game show David Ruprecht hosted, though he did perform on many other TV shows and movies (including some "made for TV movies")., On top of doing several voiceovers during the beginning of each of the seasons of the introduction to the show, the voiceover man's names during the Lifetime and PAX-TV season's included Johnny Gilbert and Randy West. Both men have nearly similar voices when heard speaking into the microphone. During earlier episodes, these voices were a combination of two voices including Wally King and Richard Hayes.And besides this, about the only one of these that did other voiceovers was Randy West if you read his bio.

