 A ferret with adrenal disease will have hair loss that typically affects the torso and rear legs. As the disease continues, a ferret may go completely bald. In addition to hair loss, symptoms of adrenal disease include:Muscle atrophy (loss of muscle tone). This muscle loss can occur over the abdomen
Difficult urination in male ferrets
Swollen vulva in female ferrets
Enlarged abdomen
Weakness and tiredness

, Adrenal disease is not caused by a poor diet. Even still, a healthy diet ensures a ferret receives all the nutrients its body needs. Since ferrets are carnivores, your ferret's diet should contain meat-based protein, such as chicken or turkey.A healthy ferret diet should also contain fat. Commercially available packaged foods are available that would meet all of your ferret’s nutritional needs.Your vet can recommend which ferret food to purchase.
Freeze-dried or frozen commercial foods come in small chunks and would be easy to feed your ferret.Since ferrets have short digestive tracts, feed your ferret small meals every few hours. Ferrets like drinking water when they eat, so make sure your ferret’s water bottle is full at meal time.Ferrets cannot digest carbohydrates., A healthy living environment is important to a ferret’s overall health. In ideal ferret living environment is well ventilated, large enough for it to play in, well-stocked with toys, and contains a safe sleeping area (e.g., ferret sleeping box). In addition, a healthy ferret environment:Is free of dangerous objects, such as electric wires
Is situated away from drafts, such as air vents
Has a shallow water bath, if the ferret enjoys playing in water
Has an easily-accessible toilet area (e.g., litter box) that is separate from other areas of the cage

, Regular veterinary checkups can help keep your ferret healthy. The checkups can also serve as early disease detection. Take your ferret to your vet once a year for a physical exam and vaccinations (rabies and distemper). During the appointment, your vet will also take a fecal sample to test for intestinal parasites. If your ferret is over 3 years old, your vet will run other tests, including blood work, x-rays, and a urinalysis.