 In many areas, there are more than one sort of auctioneer’s license. For instance, your jurisdiction might offer auctioneer’s licenses, auction clerk licenses, and auction house licenses. Before you can become a real estate auctioneer, you’ll need to correctly identify the exact sort of license necessary to become a real estate auctioneer.The best way to identify the right license for you is to check your local auctioneers licensing board site or to contact your local auctioneers licensing board office.
Failure to identify the right sort of license could lead you to obtain a license that will not allow you to become a real estate auctioneer.;
, This is the best way to discover the requirements for obtaining the auctioneer’s license you need. If you cannot find the list of criteria online, contact the local auctioneers authority directly and ask for a list of criteria necessary to obtain the license., In most jurisdictions, you’ll need to receive some specialty training at an auctioneering academy or college in order to become an auctioneer. If possible, take classes at an education institute that specializes or offers courses in becoming a real estate auctioneer.The number of credit hours and the specific content of the educational requirements will vary from place to place.
In the course of receiving your educational requirements, you will learn how to call bids, start an auction business, and market your services.
 Before you can get your license, you’ll likely need to take a written exam in order to test your knowledge of auctioneering process and practice. Contact the government body that administers auctioneers exams in your locality to schedule the exam.After you’ve scheduled the exam, ask the administering authority (typically the board of auctioneers) how you can best study for the exam. Many jurisdictions offer study guides online in order to help exam-takers review for the exam.Review as much exam study material as possible in the days and weeks leading up to the test.
Along with the exam, you will often have to submit an exam fee. This fee typically ranges from $75 to $150.
 After passing the exam, you’ll be able to apply for your auctioneer’s license. The application will typically require transcripts from your educational institution, a statement of endorsement from the auctioneer under whom you apprenticed, and identification information like your name, phone number, and so on.You can typically obtain the auctioneer’s license application from your local board of auctioneers. Contact them directly if you cannot locate it online.
 Along with your application, you’ll likely need to include some form of identification.Acceptable forms of identification vary from place to place, but you can typically use a passport-sized photo, a birth certificate, another government-issued ID or permit, a public utility bill, a bank account statement, or a passport.You will need to provide your proof of identity to the auctioneers licensing authority which issues auctioneer licenses.
 The processing fee is typically sent into your local board of auctioneers along with your exam. You will likely need to write a check or money order. The fee is highly variable and depends on where you obtain your auctioneer’s license, but you should expect to pay from $100 to $150., You might need to take continuing education courses in order to maintain your auctioneer’s license. The specific classes you must take and the amount of time you must devote to continuing education courses depend on the requirements put forth by your local auctioneers licensing board.You’ll probably need to take about six to 10 hours of continuing education per year.
In some cases, you might be able to achieve an exemption from continuing education requirements based on the length of time you’ve held an auctioneer’s license or your age.
 Not all real estate licenses will enable you to become a real estate auctioneer. For instance, in some localities, you will be able to work as a real estate auctioneer if you have a real estate broker’s license but will not be able to work as a real estate auctioneer if you have a real estate salesperson’s license. To determine which license you need (if any), contact your local auctioneers licensing board., The process by which you can identify how to obtain your real estate license varies from place to place. Generally, however, the information should be available online through your local government’s real estate authority. If you cannot find a list of the criteria you need to meet in order to obtain a real estate license online, contact your local real estate licensing authority directly. Ask the real estate licensing authority for a list of the criteria necessary to obtain a real estate license.
While the requirements vary from place to place, standard requirements include being 18 or older, meeting the educational standards, having a clean criminal record, and having relevant work experience., The specific degrees that qualify as acceptable in your locality depend on your local real estate licensing laws. You will often need to take at least 90 hours or more of classroom lectures, and in some jurisdictions you will need a two or four-year degree in a relevant field.Relevant fields vary depending on your locality. You might need a degree in finance, marketing, real estate, or business administration.
Courses that contribute to the educational requirements often cover a broad array of relevant subjects, including business, finance, real estate appraisal, real estate law, management, and accounting.
To identify the degree or degrees that qualify you as an acceptable candidate for licensure, contact your local real estate licensing authority.
 After gaining a relevant education and obtaining practical experience in the real estate field, you will need to pass the real estate licensing exam. The exam will test your knowledge about real estate sales and business practices. The exact content of the test will vary depending on your locality.Find out more about what sorts of questions you might see on the exam by contacting your local real estate licensing board.
Many real estate licensing boards provide sample tests or study materials online. Take advantage of these materials if they exist.
Use your performance on sample tests and your knowledge of the material in study guides to identify areas of real estate sales about which you need to learn more. Focus on these areas in your study sessions.
 After passing the real estate licensing exam, you can finally submit your application for the license itself. The application to apply for a real estate license should be available online through your regional real estate licensing authority website.Along with the application, you may need to submit supporting documentation demonstrating your educational attainment, work experience, and identification. For instance, you might need to submit a passport, a letter of recommendation or support from a licensed real estate broker, your academic transcripts, several months of bank statements, and/or a government-issued photo ID.
 These fees typically total about $150. This should cover the license fee, the background check fee, and an application processing fee. Contact the real estate licensing authority in your area for information regarding the cost of the licensing fee and the methods of payment they accept.If you submit the application in person, you can probably pay the fee in person. If you mail the real estate licensing application in, you will probably have to include payment along with your application.
 One of the best ways to gain knowledge about the industry is by joining a local or national real estate auctioneers organization. Alternately (or additionally), you could join an organization of real estate brokers or an organization for auctioneers.To join such an organization, look over their membership criteria online. Each organization has different criteria, so check these requirements carefully.
If you think you qualify for membership, send the organization an email expressing your interest in joining or sign up online.
 Negotiating skills are very important for real estate auctioneers. To develop negotiating skills, learn to find out what your buyers want. If nobody is willing to pay for a property at your opening price point, don’t be afraid to drop the opening price to get the bidding started.Even when bids start low, bids will often climb quickly to your original desired price.
Use a reasonable bidding increment. If you start at a property being auctioned for $100,000, for instance, you could increase by $5,000 per bid, but do not increase bids by $50,000 or more.
 Entice auction-goers by emphasizing the good elements of the property. When auctioning real estate, your buyers will likely be looking for property that is not too expensive and is in good shape.If the property is a house, emphasize the beauty of the neighborhood and its proximity to schools.
If the property is an industrial site, emphasize its room for expansion and any installed machinery that might be sold along with the property.
Use short pauses between each bid to keep the bidding process moving. For instance, if the property is at $100,000, say “$100,000! Do I hear $105,000?” in an excited and energetic voice. This excitement can be infectious and make auction-goers more eager to bid.
 Once you’ve met the educational requirements necessary for your auctioneer’s license, you will need to put your training to practical use by working under an experienced auctioneer. Find an auctioneer willing to train you by contacting your local auctioneers licensing board or your national auctioneers association. You may also be able to contact a licensed auctioneer directly if you wish to train under a particular individual.If possible, mentor under an auctioneer who specializes in real estate auctions.
You will likely need a mentor in the real estate business, too. Contact local or national organizations of real estate professionals and ask if they can help connecting you to a mentor.
 Once you’ve found a mentor in the real estate and/or auction industry, you can begin your internship or apprenticeship under their tutelage. The amount of time you need to apprentice under another auctioneer varies from place to place. You might need to be an apprentice for up to two years or more.As an auctioneer’s apprentice, you will have hands-on experience selling items or properties at auction.
Working as an intern at a real estate agency, you will be able to review and negotiate real estate loans, participate in property tours, and research potential investment opportunities.These positions may or may not be paid. Look for one that offers pay.
 After completing your internships and obtaining your licenses, you’re ready to start your career as a real estate auctioneer. Ask your network -- your mentors, teachers, and colleagues -- about opportunities in the real estate auctioneers business. Additionally, check classifieds and job boards online. Look at the job listings posted on the sites of some real estate auction houses in your area and identify jobs that match your skill set.If you can’t find a real estate auctioneer business willing to take you on, think about starting your own real estate auction business.

