 Labor certification must be filed with the Department of Labor (DOL) by an employer and must comply with the regulations under the PERM process. The purpose of labor certification is to prove that the employer has tested the labor market to ensure that there is no qualified, willing, and able US worker who can fill the job opening. If there is such a US citizen, then the employer cannot sponsor the employee for that particular job.


To test the labor market, the employer must recruit for the position by running various advertisements and monitoring whether there are any qualified applicants for the position. Once this is done for the time periods laid out by DOL, the employer may file the application.

All advertising and legal fees for this step must be paid by the employer, not the employee.;
, This is one of the most important parts of the process because these will be used to test the labor market. The requirements should specify what degree of education is required (Bachelor’s, Master’s, none, etc.) and how many years of experience are required.
 To adequately test the job market and ensure that your case will be approved, the applicant must be qualified for the job requirements put forward by the employer.
 The prevailing wage is the minimum wage that the employer must pay the employee once he or she receives the green card. The prevailing wage is determined by the specific job requirements, duties of the position, as well as location of the position. To determine the prevailing wage, the employer can file Form 9141 online or visit the Online Wage Library., To file the labor certification online, the employer must create an account at plc.doleta.gov. To create an account, the employer must choose a username and password, fill in the company information, and designate a contact person. If your immigration attorney will be filing the application, the employer must create a sub-account for the attorney with his or her information.


Creating an account can be done while waiting for the prevailing wage determination and before any advertisements are run. Allow extra time for this to be set up because DOL may have to verify that the employer name and information matches the federal Employer Identification Number.
 There are three mandatory forms of recruitment that an employer must run for each case:


Internal posting notice — The employer must post a notice of the job opening in a conspicuous location in the workplace. It should contain the job description, requirements, and information regarding how to apply for the job. This must be posted for at least ten business days when the employer is open for business.
Two Sunday newspaper advertisements — The employer must post an advertisement in two Sunday editions of a newspaper of general circulation in the geographic area of employment.The advertisements must generally inform applicants of the job opportunity, the basic requirements, and how to apply. It need not include a full description of the job, nor the salary. If it does include the salary, that salary must meet or be greater than the prevailing wage.
Advertisement with the state workforce agency — This should contain the job description, job requirements, and information regarding how to apply for the job. It might also need to include other information that is required by the specific state workforce agency. This must be posted for 30 calendar days.
 If the job is a professional job — defined by DOL Appendix A, found at this website — or requires at least a Bachelor’s degree, the employer must run three additional advertisements out of a possible ten methods. A list of the ten additional advertisement methods are given in the regulations at 20 CFR 656.17(e)(1)(i)(4)(ii) and can be found here.
 The regulations state that recruitment must be completed in 180 days. Additionally, the labor certification application cannot be filed less than 30 days after the last advertisement. This means that you must file the labor certification application within 180 days from the first advertisement, and more than 30 days after the last advertisement.
 For all resumes received, the employer (and not the immigration attorney) must consider whether the applicant meets the requirements as advertised in the recruitment methods above. If an applicant is not shown to be qualified by the experience and education shown on the resume, no action is needed. If an applicant appears qualified, the employer must attempt to contact the applicant to determine if there is an objective reason why the applicant is not qualified for the position. All reasons for such disqualification must be documented. When finished, complete form ETA 9089 and submit the application through the employer’s account with DOL.
 Soon after the ETA 9089 is filed, DOL will email the employer a four question survey to verify that the employer still intends to sponsor the employee for a labor certification. If DOL does not receive the response within one week, it will not accept the labor certification application.
 After the labor certification is approved, the employer must file Form I-140 with the US Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). This application will prove to immigration that the labor certification has been approved by DOL, that the employee has a definite offer of employment at the sponsoring employer, and that the employer has the financial ability to pay the proffered salary.
 The employer must sign the original ETA 9089 that is certified by the DOL and include it with the I-140 application packet.
 Criteria for ability to pay can also be satisfied by one of the following:

Net income — if net income is greater than the proffered wage
Net current assets — if employer net current assets are greater than the proffered wage
Employment of the foreign national — if the employer is already paying the foreign national the proffered salary



, The letter must be printed on the employer’s official letterhead and signed by someone qualified to make hiring decisions for the company. The letter should state that the employer intends to hire the foreign national once he or she receives a green card, and should include the job position, salary, and job duties drafted earlier.
 You may be able to file Form I-140 online.Include a check for the filing fee of $580 as well as any supporting documents.
 Whether a green card is available is determined by 1) the date the labor certification was filed (known as the “Priority Date”); 2) the occupation’s “Preference Category”; and 3) the foreign national’s country of nationality. If the priority date is current for the foreign national’s preference category and country of nationality (marked by a “c”), or the priority date is after the date listed on the visa bulletin, the foreign national may apply for a green card.


A job that requires a Master’s degree or a Bachelor’s degree plus five years of experience will place the foreign national in the EB-2 preference category.
All other jobs with lesser requirements will place the foreign national in the EB-3 preference category.
The DOS visa bulletin is found here and is updated each month.
 Additionally, submit these documents or pass these requirement for continued eligibility:


Apply for a work authorization and advance parole document. Having Form I-485 pending allows the foreign national to file Form I-765 and Form I-131, respectively.
Obtain a medical exam by a civil surgeon approved by USCIS. A list of civil surgeons can be found here.
Include a check for the government filing fee of $1,070
Include a copy of your passport, visa, I-94 card, and any USCIS approval notices. Also include a copy of your birth certificate.
You may apply for a green card for your spouse and children under age 21. To do so, file a form each for your spouse and children under age 21 with their supporting documents. Include a copy of your marriage certificate.
 You will be allowed to enter the US with that visa and then will be mailed your green card a few weeks later.


Send original documents to the National Visa Center. A list of required documents will be mailed to the applicant with instructions.
File Form DS-260 online. This form and its instructions can be accessed here.

