 If you have trouble talking to girls (or just the girls you are interested in romantically), you should think about what’s preventing you from saying the right thing. Do you find girls intimidating? Are you worried you’ll say the wrong thing? Understanding what you're nervous about will help you counter it.;
, Don’t put any girl on a pedestal. It's nice to think highly of someone you like, but no one is perfect. Girls have their faults and flaws too, and they probably worry about many of the same things you do.
 Take cues from your body so that you can recognize when you're too worked up to have a conversation. Do your breathing and heartbeat get faster? Do your face and body feel flushed and sweaty? If you need extra time to calm down before you talk to girls, walk around a bit and control your breathing by inhaling deeply and exhaling slowly. Don't think too much about it ahead of time.
 Come up with a phrase that you can repeat when you feel like you’re losing control of your emotions or body. For example, if you get nervous every time you want to talk to a girl, take a time out.


Go somewhere quiet and tell yourself, “She’s just a person. Just a person. I’m a person. Just a person. I’m a person.” When you’ve calmed down, you should attempt to talk to her again.
 Think about what the girl means to you, and what you want to tell her. What is your goal? Do you want to date her? If you are dating her, do you want to remind her of how much you appreciate her?

, Once you’ve got some sweet words in mind, get in front of a mirror and say them out loud. Knowing exactly how you're going to phrase your sentence can be hugely helpful.


Even if you have a general idea of what you want to say in mind, actually putting it into words will be beneficial.
Try not to feel silly when you do this because it’s important to notice how you carry yourself. Hold your head up (not too high), stand up straight, and look her in the eyes when you talk. Almost any girl is happy to talk to a confident person, and you want to show her that you believe in yourself.
 When you go to talk to girls, pay a little extra attention to your appearance. You will feel more confident, and, by putting in the effort, you are showing a girl that you care.


Brushing your teeth, shaving, taking a shower, and wearing the clothes you feel good in are all great ideas. The more confident you are, the better.
 Now that you’ve relaxed a bit, you’re on your way to saying those sweet things. Keep the conversation flowing by asking her questions about herself, making jokes, laughing, and showing interest in her answers. Try to show that you're interesting and confident without trying too hard.
 Remember that you’re supposed to be as relaxed as possible, so if things don’t go according to plan, try not to panic. Search for other topics that she might be interested in talking about. Don't act desperate. If you need to, try to end the conversation on a high note and try again another day.


You may not get a chance to say all of the things you’d like to say, and that’s fine. Focus on keeping the conversation going and pay more attention to what she says than what you want to say.
If you listen more, you’ll find out more about her and her interests, and it will be easier to compliment her later.
 Compliments are nice, but you shouldn’t make her uncomfortable. Focus on complimenting her actions and decisions rather than her physical features.


Do say: “That is a really nice outfit. You have great taste.”
Don’t say: “I like those jeans because they’re tight and show off your legs.”

, If she likes to play ultimate frisbee, start talking about that.


Even if you aren't interested in her hobbies, show a girl that you’re interested in things that are important to her.
 Say something like, “You throw really well. You’ve got to teach me about frisbee sometime.” This way you’ve complimented her, and you’re opening up a chance to have a longer conversation. She’ll think your sweet and she’ll have an easy path to continue talking to you.


Don’t say: “I don’t really like frisbee, but it’s cool that you’re into it.”

, This will show her that you have spent time getting to know her and you appreciate her. For example, if she makes a joke, say something like “You are hilarious! I can’t get enough of your humor!”

, If you want to be bold and say something romantic, don’t be cheesy. You can say something like, “Listen, I know this may sound strange, but I just think you are a really beautiful person, and you make me happy. I wanted to tell you that.”


You can also say something simpler, like, “You are a very (intelligent, pretty, lovely, witty, genuine, kind) girl, and I’m lucky to know you.” Don’t say: “You mean the world to me." "I’d do anything for you." "I’d climb the highest mountain for your love." "I get lost in your eyes." "You are my soul mate." "We were meant to be together.” You’re just going to freak her out. Girls like romance, but not when it’s too soon and over the top.
 If you really care about the girl, this will be easy. The best way to say sweet things to a girl you’re dating is to show that you care about what’s going on in her life. Say sweet things about her work, or her school, or how she interacts with her family if that’s important to her. You’ll know.
 If she played poorly in a game, or failed a test, or whatever it may be, you can be there for her.


Try to make her laugh, help give her perspective, or show that you care. Tell her that you love her no matter what, and that you like her just as much when things are going well as when things are going poorly. Ask what you can do to help.
Say something like, "I'm sorry the game went poorly, but I can tell you that I think this relationship is going really well"

, Come up to her while she’s doing her homework and give her a big hug. Tell her something nice, like that she smells good, or that she looks really cute doing her work. It’s really nice when you aren’t expecting it to hear something like that.
 “I love you” is a strange phrase. It means so much when you say it, but one “I love you” doesn’t last for ever. People need constant affirmation and reassurance. If you offer this to your girlfriend without her asking, she will really appreciate it. Just tell her how happy you feel every morning to wake up next to her.


Send her a text telling her how much you appreciate having her around. It doesn’t have to be sappy. You can just call out to her while she’s making herself some breakfast and say “Hey! I like you.”

, This could be parts of her body or her personality. Maybe she feels like she isn’t very athletic, or that she’s bad at talking to people, or that her ears are too big. Whatever it is, you’ll probably know. Without being incredibly obvious about it, try to mention how much you like these things.


Tell her you love how she’s reserved around people instead of trying to be the center of attention. Trace her ears when you’re sitting together on the couch and mention how much you like them. Don’t lie, just find what she doesn’t like about herself and love it.

