 Making eye contact will make you seem confident and attractive and will clearly send the message that you're interested.


Before starting a conversation, try catching his eye, holding eye contact for three seconds, before smiling and looking away. If he's interested he'll smile back and might even approach.
During a conversation, make eye contact as much as possible - but remember not to stare!

, Remember to flash those pearly whites - guys simply cannot resist a girl with a great smile. Smiling makes you seem fun and approachable instead of closed and uptight.
 The underlying key to all flirtation is confidence. Guys appreciate a girl who is comfortable in her own skin, a girl who's happy and self-assured.


Speak clearly and confidently. This doesn't mean talking over people or interrupting them constantly, but try to speak a little louder than you normally would. Avoid qualifying sentences with too many "like"s and "you know"s.
Stand up tall and keep your shoulders back and your head up. You'll immediately look and feel more confident.
 Dressing well can give you a great deal of confidence and a much-needed ego boost. When you know you're looking good, you will feel much more confident about approaching a guy and starting a conversation with him.


Make sure you've washed your hair, spritzed yourself with perfume and cleverly applied your make-up to accentuate your best features. He may or may not notice - but you certainly will!
If you're constantly worrying about your appearance, you won't be able to relax and enjoy the conversation.
 Engaging in some light flirting definitely helps to capture a boy's attention. Flirting is all about body language. Run your hands through your hair, lightly touch your neck with your hand or keep a hint of a smile playing on your lips. Gently brush against his arm when you're talking to him. He'll soon get the message.
 Try not to dominate the conversation. Ask plenty of questions and listen carefully to his responses. Listening demonstrates that you are interested in him and in what he has to say.
 Questions that can be answered with a simple "yes" or "no" are not a recipe for engaging conversation. Try to pose more open-ended questions which require longer, more thoughtful answers.
 Sometimes, no matter what you do or say, a guy just won't be interested. His loss. It's important to be able to read the signs so you know when a guy's not interested. That way you can save your breath and move on to someone more worthy.


If a guy is avoiding eye contact with you, it's not a good sign. Sure, he might just be a little shy, but if he continues to avoid your gaze for much longer that ten minutes, he's probably not interested.
If a guy is giving you one word answers, he's probably either bored out of his mind or trying to get rid of you. Either change the subject or try talking to someone else.
If he walks away from you it's a pretty sure sign he's not interested. Forget him.
On the other hand, if a guy is smiling at you, answering your questions enthusiastically and seems interested in what you're saying, this is a very good sign. You should probably ask him out!

, You've heard this little nugget of advice many times before, but that doesn't make it any less true. If you want this initial conversation to lead somewhere more serious, this guy needs to like you for you. Don't pretend to be someone you're not. Let your winning personality speak for itself.

