 If you only learn one Spanish word for money, make sure it's this one. "Dinero" is a very general term for the concept of money that is recognized in virtually all Spanish-speaking cultures.


"Dinero" is pronounced "dee-NEH-doe." Note that the r makes a sound that's very near to the English d sound in "ladder." Do this by flicking the tip of your tongue towards the roof of your mouth as you pronounce the r.To be clear, the last syllable should not sound like the English word "row.";
, This sounds like the English word "money," but it's only used for metal coins. Don't use it for paper money.


Use the plural form ("monedas") for "coins."
"Moneda" is pronounced "moe-NEH-thah." Note that the d at the end of the word is very delicate. It should sound similar to the English soft th sound (as in "the")., This is a little confusing because "moneda" by itself means "coin," not "money." However, in this case, the meaning of the phrase is for paper bills — not metal coins.


This phrase is pronounced "pah-PEHL moe-NEH-thah." "Pah" has a short a sound (as in "raw"), while "pehl" uses a sound that's a little like a cross between e (as in "red") and a (as in "pay"). If you can't get it, just say "pale." "Moneda" is exactly the same as above.
 You'd use this similarly to how you'd use "cash" in English. In other words, use it to describe when you're using physical money and not a debit card or check.


This is pronounced "eh-FEHK-tee-voe." The first two syllables use the a/e sound from "papel" above.
If you want to talk about someone paying for something in cash, use the phrase "pagar en efectivo." For example "She pays in cash" is "Ella paga en efectivo.", This is a handy word to know when you're trying to exchange your money for the local currency.


"Dólar" is pronounced "DOE-ladr." The r at the end of the word has a pronunciation that's a little tricky for English speakers. It's a little like a very short, delicate d sound followed by an English r. To get an example, try pronouncing "ladder" by using a quick flick of the tongue for the "dd."
If you want to clarify which country's dollars you're using, use the word for people from that country after "dólar." For example, "U.S. dollar" is "dólar estadounidense."

, Spanish-speaking countries have a wide range of different currencies. Knowing the local currency in the country you're visiting will make many conversations a lot easier. Below is a partial list — for a complete one, click here.Spain: El euro (ay-OO-doe)
Mexico, Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, and more: El peso (PAY-so)
Costa Rica and El Salvador: El colón (co-LOAN)
Puerto Rico: El dólar estadounidense (DOE-ladr eh-stah-doe-oo-nee-DEN-say)

