 The spiderman stretch is done on the floor and really targets your hip flexors. Get in pushup position, then step your left leg forward, placing it just outside your left hand. Push your hips forward until you feel a stretch.Hold the stretch for a few seconds, then step back and repeat on the right side. Do five repetitions on each side. You can hold the stretch for a minute or more and do fewer repetitions.
 Lie on your side on the floor, supporting your head with your bottom hand. Bend your top leg and use your top hand to grab your foot or ankle. Pull your foot towards your body until you feel a stretch.Hold the stretch for 15 to 30 seconds, then release your foot. Roll over and repeat the stretch on the other side.
 Pigeon pose is one of the main poses yoga practitioners point to if you want to stretch your hip flexors. To get into this pose, start on the floor on all fours. Roll back onto your toes and lift your hips to the ceiling so that you're in the downward facing dog position.Step or hop one foot forward into a lunge, then bend your knee and bring your foot across so that your shin is roughly parallel to your torso. Lower your hips toward the ground until you feel a stretch in the upper thigh of the leg extended behind you.
You can stay upright, or fold over your front leg. Hold the stretch for 5 to 10 deep breath cycles, then lift your hips toward the ceiling and walk your foot back into downward facing dog. Repeat the pose on the other side.
 After pigeon pose, lower your hips down to the floor and roll over your toes, extending your legs behind you. Keep your torso upright, arms extended straight.Roll your shoulders back, tucking your shoulder blades down your spine. This will open up your chest. Hold the pose for 5 to 10 deep breaths, then you can lower your torso or push your hips back upward into downward facing dog.
 From upward facing dog, it's fairly easy to move into bow pose and really give your hip flexors a stretch. Simply bend your legs at the knees and reach behind you to grasp the tops of your feet.Engage your core and balance on your hip points. Hold the stretch for 5 to 10 deep breaths, then slowly lower your body to the floor.
If your core isn't very strong or your hip flexors are tight, you can do a half bow. Just bend one leg at a time to get the stretch, leaving the other arm and leg on the floor for stability. If you do a half bow, make sure you do both sides.

