 Wellies have a round toe and are flat, and generally wide. You may find your wellies fit better with thick socks, or even two pairs of socks. Wellies generally last a while so for children, it's common to buy them a little bigger than strictly required. Ensure comfort by wearing the most suitable, appropriate socks. They are also often not lined so socks can really make a difference to fit and comfort. There are even socks 'designed' to be worn with wellies which you may like to try. Look online or at your local department store or other suitable retailer.;
, There are few formal occasions when wellies are suitable. Obviously, since the fashion police don't really exist, you won't get into any serious trouble for wearing your gumboots to a job interview or donning your wellies for a funeral, but, you might not feel comfortable or appropriately attired in wellies in a formal setting. There are plenty of occasions, even social ones, where wellies are ideal. Here are a few times and places you can wear your wellies:


The park on a rainy day

The beach in cool weather

A winter picnic

A Shooting Party
Playing in the snow
A Guy Fawkes Night Fire Work Party (To watch the fireworks)
Gardening
Music Festivals

Rowing for leisure (messing about on the river)
Farm visits
Country Fayres in winter

, Either:


Wear your welly boots under the pants, trouser or jean leg - this will keep your legs and feet dry but your garments may get wet if you wade or walk in a deep puddle.
Wear your trousers, pants or jeans tucked inside your boots - wrap the loose fabric of your trouser leg around your calf and pull your boots on over it. You're free to walk in water that reaches just below the top of your welly now and you and your garments will stay dry.
Wear your trousers, pants or jeans tucked inside your socks, inside your boots. If you want to keep your trousers leg from bunching up inside your boot, pull your sock over the trouser leg and your boot over both. This is a warm and cosy way to wear wellies.
 Wellies are pretty casual attire. If you want to wear a skirt or some shorts with wellies on a hot day that still requires wellies, go for it. Wear anything you like and feel comfortable in. Denim fabric can look good with traditional black or green wellies.
 Wellies were mostly black back in the day. Green is now very popular with the Hunter brand being the epitome of green wellies. The Queen of England wears Hunter Wellies. Red shiny boots are popular with children, and Paddington bear, and cheap rubber boots are now available with everything from liquorice all sorts to flowers and animal patterns printed on them. Fashion wellies can be bought for women and children especially, although they are less common for guys. Put together your outfit including your wellies, or just wear what you like and add the wellies in the most comfortable and practical way. Some suggested outfits include:


Classic Green Hunter Wellies with tan or brown corduroy trousers, a white, open collar shirt and a tweed jacket.
Black wellies, faded blue jeans and a thick, cream or white knitted jersey or jumper
Black fashion wellies with navy denim jeans and a lumberjack style shirt
Shiny red wellies and a yellow sowester coat and hat, classic!
Printed wellies, white leggings and a bright, block colour tee
A floral summer dress with a full skirt and any wellies (often seen at festivals)

,


The jury is out about Wellington boots for horse back riding - if you are told not to, don't. If you think it's unsafe, don't.
Driving a car - wellies are not ideal for driving. Do not wear them if you have a choice or you feel your control of the vehicle is compromised.
Motorcycle Riding - do so at your own risk.
Quad bike riding - do so at your own risk.
When operating chain saws etc - steel toe capped wellies are available.
Hiking - proper walking boots are designed for hiking, wellies aren't!


