 No matter what you do to feel refreshed, nothing does as good a job of this as water. Every cell in your body needs water to function. When you give your body more fluids, you give it more energy. And if you withhold water from your body, it can’t work properly. Water is the key to feeling refreshed.Drink at least eight eight-ounce glasses of water per day, or half a gallon.To remind yourself to drink throughout the day, get a large reusable water bottle to carry around with you.
A tall glass of ice cold water is one of the most refreshing things you do on when you’re outside on a hot day.
Change up the flavor of your water to make it even more refreshing by adding lemon juice or letting fruit soak in the water to flavor it naturally.
 In order to stay refreshed and energized in daily life, it is important for your heart to be functioning properly. Do things like control your portion size and choose foods carefully in order to boost your heart health.Eat fruits and vegetables, placing them into fun recipes if you don’t normally enjoy them.
Choose whole grains whenever you have the opportunity.
Limit saturated and trans fats whenever possible.
 Some foods prevent diseases, from heart disease to diabetes to obesity. You can eat these foods to help your body have more energy, which in turn helps you feel refreshed. A superfood like spinach is a good choice because superfoods are chock-full of nutrients with little carbs or fats.Consider working things like alfalfa sprouts, apples, avocado, and beets into your diet.
Alfalfa sprouts are yummy on turkey sandwiches, apples are good all by themselves, avocados are delicious in a guacamole dip, and beets are tasty sliced into a salad or pickled.
 Although sugar is fun to eat because it tastes good, it also causes blood sugar spikes that result in loss of energy. A better bet for feeling refreshed is to consume foods that provide sustained energy, like lean proteins and whole grains and fresh fruit.


For example, when you make a choice between cake and melon at a party, go for the melon to truly feel refreshed.
 Even though staying away from sugar is better for your health and will provided sustained energy (leading to longer periods of refreshing), it can also be refreshing to eat something that you enjoy, even if it isn’t necessarily healthy. Save treats for leisure times, when you don’t need to use a lot of energy.
 Trying something new is always refreshing, even if it’s just a new dish. This is because new things fight boredom and force you to grow. The next time you’re at the grocery store, pick up an item you’ve never seen before, or sample something different off the menu the next time you’re out to eat.Trying new things also expands your capacity to enjoy more, as well as requiring you to be courageous. Realizing you have overcome a restriction in yourself can give you renewed strength, which is precisely what feeling refreshed means.