 This project is perfect for using up a bit of leftover acrylic in a bright color. Also choose a suitable hook.
 Chain about two and a half to three inches' worth of stitches (7-7.5cm) for whatever yarn and hook you are using, perhaps 20-25 stitches. The length is more important than the number of stitches. The objective is to end up with a tube about an inch in diameter, or maybe a little bit more.
 Do avoid twisting the chain.
 That is, if the loop was about 1 inch (2.5cm) around, you should make it about 1 inch (2.5cm) tall. You're aiming for a rough proportion here, not any specific number of rows. It's all right to join rows, so that this part is a spiral.
 However, do not crochet a turning chain. Each consecutive row will therefore decrease. If you know how to do a single crochet decrease, you can decrease even more. Tie off the colorful yarn, but leave the tails for now. Here again, the exact proportions are not critical.
 Pinch the face together as you go to see how it will look., They'll take a little bit of extra time, but they have a bit more style and a better shape than anything you'll buy in the store. Leave the tails attached on the side of the eyeball and neatly tie off and trim the tails extending from the back.
 Use a large tapestry needle. You will want the face open at this stage so that you can reach inside to stitch the eyes to the inside of the fabric and tie a knot, but you can pinch it closed with your fingers to see where the eyes should go.


The eyes go very close to the top of the face. They are basically symmetrical, but this is a goofy looking alien, so it's all right if they're a little lopsided.
Tie the loose ends tightly. You can even tie them to one another. Then trim them close so they don't show through the mouth.
 Make sure all the tails inside are covered up, and tie in and trim any remaining loose ends of the tail.
 You may wish to cut one or two pieces first to get the length right. Four feet (1.2m) is a good length to start with., On the end opposite the face, which is to say the bottom end, put a hook through any loop from the starting chain. Fold one of the cut lengths of yarn in half and grab the middle with your hook. Pull it through.
 This creates a Larks Head knot, as shown in the first four photos under Steps in this article. You should now have two long tails with loose ends.
 Leave your hook in this loop.
 Make them fairly tight stitches; you want them to curl and you won't be crocheting into them. You may even want to use a hook that is a size or two smaller than the one you used for the rest of the body.
, This is one tentacle. Chain a tentacle from the second loose end. Continue adding tentacles all the way around the base of the body. You can also chain the bottom tail from making the initial tube, rather than tying it in. It will camouflage with the rest.


It helps to make the tentacles all about the same length. You can eyeball it or count the chain stitches in a tentacle you like and do about that many stitches in the other tentacles.
The tentacles should be longer than the rest of the body is tall, by two to three times.
Don't do too few tentacles

, Done.

