 Humans walk on a daily basis to move naturally from one place to the other. There are different styles of walking depending on the speed and intensity of the exercise:



Stroll: this is the walking style used for window-shopping or relaxed activities, which burns around 238 calories per hour. Picture it as level 4 on a scale of 10.

Brisk walk: this is the walking style you adopt when you are rushing somewhere; it makes you catch your breath every once in a while if you're talking to someone. You can burn up to 340 calories per hour. Think of it as level 5/6 out of 10.

Power walk: this is a step before running, and makes speaking much harder as you need to breathe regularly. This can burn up to 564 calories per hour. The level of intensity is 7/8 out of 10.;
, You should make a decision based on how much weight you want to lose, how fast and how trained you are. If you haven't exercised in a while, it's best for you to start with a more laid back plan, and then combine it with the more intense ones. These are:



Tempo day (40 minutes, 220 calories per session): Stroll for five minutes. Power-walk for 30 minutes. Stroll for five minutes.

Long-interval day (46 minutes, 355 calories): Stroll for five minutes. Power-walk intensely for five minutes and brisk-walk for one minute, repeating the routine 6 times. Stroll for five minutes.

Short-interval day (55 minutes, 405 calories): Stroll for five minutes. Power-walk intensely for two minutes and brisk-walk for one minute, repeating the routine 15 times. Stroll for five minutes., The intervals don't have to be consecutive; if you get tired faster, break up a long interval of power-walking with brisk-walking or strolling intervals.


The walking sessions shouldn't be on consecutive days, but you should not be inactive for longer than two days. For example, you can exercise on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays rather than cramming the three sessions into the weekend., There's no point in pushing your body beyond its limits at first. Aim for lower intensity but longer distances: you can burn plenty of calories just by walking a mile in 13 minutes, or less than that if you can.You can push yourself to walk a little further each day. If you're getting tired before covering the whole distance you had planned for the day, keep going at a slower pace but make sure you get to the end.
 Your goal should be walking at around 75 percent of your maximum intensity, which amounts to around 4 miles an hour for a moderately healthy adult, though this may be different depending on your age, weight and level of fitness.


When you feel confident and less tired, or feel you've reached the maximum distance you could cover in one slow-paced session, start raising the bar by introducing short intervals at faster speeds, and phase out strolling little by little (except for warming up and cooling down).
Avoid going below 3 miles per hour: this is not enough for a cardio session and will have a much lower impact on your calorie burning., This will help you maintain a correct posture while you walk. Focus on a point far ahead of you and keep your abdominal muscles tight so that your belly button gets closer to the spine.Focusing on your posture is important to improve your walking style and allow you to aim for higher intensity after a few sessions.
 You can download one for a very low price or for free on your phone. This will keep track of your daily walking and give you accurate information about your speed and heart rate, in some cases., You can keep a walking log or journal with tables where you write down the minutes walked and types of plan for each week, and your weight on the next box.Tracking the effects of walking on your body will help you figure out what you can do to maximize weight loss and keep you motivated as you go.
 Walking on non-flat roads can maximize calorie burn by almost 20 percent. The steeper the road is, the better it will get. Make sure you tackle hills and inclines only after you've exercised for awhile. As a beginner, remember that the objective is not to strain your body but to build up stamina one step at a time.Listen to your body to understand how steep an incline it's able to take. There's no point in walking up the Rockies if you get exhausted after five minutes. Choose a gentle slope, as long as you can walk on it without tiring yourself out.
 Uneven surfaces will make your body work harder and increase the intensity of your walking session. This can burn 430 calories in just one hour., This is what you would normally do while running: bend you elbows and make a fist with your hands, and coordinate the movement of your arms with your legs. You will burn 10 percent more just by doing that.This will also help you move forward as you power-walk: your body will probably phase into this posture naturally to keep the pace and balance.
 Vary the length of your stride to mix things up. Try taking longer strides for a minute then go back to your normal gait. It is better for the body to speed the pace of the steps than to increase the stride length over an extended period of time.


Lengthening your stride for an extended period or taking steps that are too wide could lead to injury.
 This can also maximize weight loss: because your ultimate goal is burning calories, decreasing your weekly intake by having lighter food will make your job much easier. Don't starve yourself: you need energy for your walking sessions, and this comes from calories in the first place. Rather than cutting down on quantity, focus on the quality of what you eat.Your diet should include:Complex carbohydrates for energy (pasta, whole grains, potatoes, etc.)
Unsaturated fat for longer endurance (nuts, olive oil, salmon, tuna, etc.)
Protein for stronger muscles (meat, legumes, etc.): around 0.7g of proteins per pound of body weight
Fruits and vegetables for vitamins and minerals essential for healthy body functions (bananas, kale, carrots, peppers, berries, etc.)
Calcium for stronger bones (low-fat dairy, kale, sardines, etc.)

, If where you work or study is way too far for you to reach on foot, you can park your car further away from your final destination (half a mile to a mile) and walk there.


If you use public transit, get off at the stop before the one where you should go to increase your walking activity.
 E-shopping has become routine for most of us. Walking to the grocery store, however, is much better for your body. Take it as a time to decompress, do some thinking, listen to music or catch up on your calls.
 If you live in an apartment block, avoid using the elevator unless you live at the 50th-floor penthouse. If you do, you can still take the elevator to the 42nd floor and let your feet do the rest., You can either walk your children to a specific destination or introduce walking explorations as a fun activity. This will also give you time to catch up.


Invited your kid's friends to join you. This may make walks more appealing for your child., You will have to do it anyway if you don't have a garden, so why not use this as an opportunity for exercise (for you and your dog)? Make your walks longer and speed up your pace: your dog certainly won't mind spending more time outdoors.


If you don't have a dog, join a friend who does while they take theirs for a walk., Listening to music while walking can help in many ways. It is motivational, it helps keep a certain pace, a playlist can plan fast songs for interval training, slower songs for cool down and warm up. However, caution needs to be used when listening to music while walking. It is even more important to be vigilant about traffic safety. Use just one earphone, or keep the volume low, while walking so you can hear approaching vehicles.

You can also download audiobooks or podcasts to listen to while you walk.

