 Clear a flat work area. Lay a cover over your work area, like newspaper, a cardboard box, or a drop cloth, to prevent paint or glue from spreading onto it. Most of the materials you’ll need, including the box, can be found at your local craft store.


Be sure the box you purchase is unfinished wood. A finished wooden box might require you to use a special paint or to remove the paint from the wood.
Check your paint before buying it. Your paint should clearly indicate on its label whether or not it’s suitable for use on wood.;
, Take a clean, dry cloth and wipe down your box to remove dust or dirtiness from it. Open your mordant and prepare it according to its directions. Dip a paintbrush into the mordant and wipe excess on the inner lip of the can. Coat the box evenly with mordant. Allow it to dry.You may need to mix your mordant or paint before applying it to the box. Always follow the usage instructions on your mordant or paint for best results.
The time it takes for your mordant or paint to dry will depend on the brand/kind you’ve used. Check the label instructions to know how long you should allow your box to dry.
If you plan on using actual paint on your box in place of mordant, use a primer before painting to ensure a smooth and even finish., Hold your Sintepon or cotton padding up to your box. Cut the padding so its width is slightly less than that of the box. Roll the length of fabric so it forms a tube. Do this for two pieces of fabric. Dot hot glue on the ends of each roll so they hold their shape.


The two rolls will be inserted in the box horizontally and the wedding rings wedged into the space between the two. Each roll should be thick enough to firmly hold each ring in place., Cut four lengths of cloth that are equal in width to your rolls. Two lengths should be of satin and two of lace. Cover the rolls in a single layer of satin, then use a dab of hot glue to hold it in place. Do the same with your lace.Give your hot glue a few seconds to cool before adding a new layer of fabric. Although hot glue cools quickly, moving on before it has cooled could result in burns.
Place a piece of cardboard or a scrap piece of paper beneath your glue gun while using it. Frequently, glue dribbles out the end. Cardboard or scrap paper will catch this., Put both of your fabric covered rolls into the box. Traditionally, rolls are oriented left-to-right. Both should fit snugly in the box. The boxes are now complete. You’re ready to exchange rings and say “I do.”