 Talking to an adult, even a trusted adult, about personal or difficult topics can be scary. To help with this, figure out what you want to say beforehand. Write down or mentally prepare what you want to say to the adult. This can help you be less nervous and get out the words you want to say.Figure out if you want to tell the adult everything or part of your situation or problem.
Come up with a few examples you would like to share.
Come up with a way to start the conversation since sometimes starting can be the hardest part.
Decide how to explain how you are feeling.
 If you are still nervous about talking to the adult, practice. Recite what you say mentally while imagining that you are in front of the adult. Stand in front of the mirror and say what you want to say. Practice your speech while in the shower or in your room. Getting comfortable saying the words can help you feel better about talking to someone.Refer to any notes you’ve written down about what you want to say. This can help you remember important points you want to make.
Visualize yourself talking to the adult. This can help you not feel as nervous when you are with the person.
 After you have decided you are ready to talk, you should choose a good time for both you and the adult. Make sure that you think about the adult’s schedule. You don’t want to pick a time when they are busy, have to go to work, or will be distracted.For example, you may want to talk to someone in the evening after work, sit down with your teacher after school, or visit someone on the weekend to talk.
Make sure the adult isn’t doing another activity, like cooking, checking their email, or cleaning.
 You may want to start the conversation by making small talk or mentioning safe topics. This gives you and the adult time to settle into the conversation. Jumping to your serious topic may be jarring for both of you. You can even mention something related to the topic you want to discuss.For example, you may say, “We learned about eating disorders today in school” or “I saw a TV show about teens trying to decide whether or not they want to have sex.”

, You can prepare the adult by announcing that you want to talk to them. You can tell them you need advice or that you have something important to tell you.Try saying, “I want to talk to you about something very important” or “I need your help with a problem.”

