 You may need to ask the bride's or groom's parents or a member of the wedding party. Some couples include this information in the wedding invitation, but it is generally considered impolite to do so. If the couple has a wedding website, they may include the registry information on the site.


Typically, a couple will register at more than 1 store. Some couples may choose to register at physical retailers or at online stores. Usually, 1 store is more expensive while the other is more moderately priced. If the couple registers at a third location, it may be something more unusual, such as a charity or honeymoon savings registry.;
,


Some retailers have kiosks that allow you to type in the name of the bride or groom to find the wedding wish list and print it out from the kiosk.
You may need to inquire at a customer service counter about the wedding registry.
,, For example, you may want to spend no more than $50 on a gift.


Look for items on the list that match your budget. Also look on the wedding registry to make sure no one else has purchased those items. Usually, the wish list will note how many of an item the couple wants and how many they've received from other guests so far.



If you are having difficulty finding the gift on the shelves, ask a store employee to help you. The store may be out of the item, and you may need to order it.
 The website should direct you to the information page for that item, where you can place it in your cart.



When you buy items at a physical store, be sure to present the printed registry to the cashier so that he or she can scan it and your purchase will be noted on the registry. This can prevent duplicate gifts.
If you're ordering the item online, it should automatically note that it is from the registry. Be sure to click on the item through the registry and not search for it separately.
Some registries allow you to reserve an item so that no one else will purchase it, even if you are buying it from another location or plan to come back and order it later.
