 Combine 4 cups (1 L) of water with 1 3/4 cup (440 ml) of white sugar in a saucepan. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until the sugar is fully dissolved.Alternatively, you could replace up to 2/5 cup (100 ml) of the sugar with equal parts corn syrup or mild honey.
Note that this is the best method to use if you want to preserve more of the natural texture of the watermelon.
 Transfer the syrup into a refrigerator for 30 to 60 minutes, or until it becomes cool to the touch.


Hot syrup can actually cook the fruit, so at the very least, the syrup should already be at room temperature if not cooler before you add it to the watermelon.
 While the syrup chills, wash and dry the watermelon. Cut the melon into pieces that can be stored more readily, then cut away the rind and remove any seeds you see.


Wash your hands with hot soap and water first to prevent any bacteria on your hands from contaminating the fruit.
 If necessary, use a clean vegetable brush to scrub away any dirt.


Pat dry with clean paper towels.
Cut the watermelon in lengthwise halves, then into quarters. From there, you can choose to cut the fruit into wedges, slices, cubes, or balls. Cubes and balls are the easiest to freeze.
If you did not do so as you were cutting the watermelon into pieces, cut off the rind and fish out any seeds with your fingers.
 Pour 1/2 cup (125 ml) syrup into a freezer-safe plastic container. Add the watermelon pieces, then add as much syrup as needed to keep the watermelon completely covered.


The container you use must be resistant to both moisture and vapor, and the material must be thick enough to protect the watermelon against other odors or flavors. Glass is not recommended since it is prone to breaking in extreme cold.
 Place a small piece of wax paper on top of the watermelon to help keep the pieces secure underneath the surface of the syrup.


Make sure that there is at least 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace at the top of the container when all is said and done. This headspace gives the contents of the container room to expand as they freeze, thereby preventing the container from cracking or opening under pressure.
Label the container with the current date before freezing it.
 Keep the watermelon stored in a freezer at 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) for up to 8 to 12 months.


When you are ready to use the watermelon, let it thaw in the refrigerator before adding to dishes or otherwise consuming it. Thawed watermelon should be used within four days.

