 Children may express their feelings indirectly, through their play or artwork. They might try to hide their feelings, particularly if they’re older children or teens. Your child might become more irritable, or suddenly seem younger than her age.Accept whatever feelings your child might have about the death. Let your child know that it’s fine for her to feel happy, sad, confused, scared, or angry.
No matter what she feels, you should reassure her that she is safe and cared for.
If your child’s feelings cause you to be upset, she’ll be more likely to hide her feelings from you.
 It can help your child in the grieving process to remember the good times with the dead. Try making a photo album or storybook including pictures and memories of the dead in happier times.Remember that grieving isn’t about forgetting, but about processing the loss of a special friend or animal.
Looking at pictures, remembering stories or writing them down is one way of keeping the connection with the dead person or pet alive as your child gets used to the fact of their absence.
 If you have religious beliefs, share them with your child in a way that your child can understand. For example, if you want to tell your child that her grandmother is “in heaven,” be prepared to say more about that.If your religious tradition has special observances, services, or rituals surrounding death, you should include your child in these preparations.
Ask a leader in your religious community for help in explaining your faith tradition’s ideas regarding death.
 If you read regularly to your child, you might consider reading books that talk directly about death. This is a safe way for you and your child to share this information together, through the familiar routine of reading.Books that have been written to help explain death and loss to children include:



When Dinosaurs Die: A Guide to Understanding Death by Laurie Krasny Brown and Marc Brown

I Miss You: A First Look at Death by Pat Thomas

So Much to Think About: When Someone You Care About has Died by Fred Rogers

