 When you have an ear infection, it is best to visit your doctor to get an accurate diagnosis and to find out the best course of treatment. If you are experiencing intense pain, losing your hearing ability, or experiencing any other unusual symptoms, you should seek professional help.Your doctor can clean your ear canal thoroughly with a suction device and provide medications to treat your ear infection.
Your doctor may also recommend over-the-counter medications for pain or prescribe a medication if the pain is severe., Clotrimazole 1% solution is the most popular antifungal medicine that doctors prescribe for the treatment of fungal ear infections. It kills both Candida and Aspergillus. This drug works by inhibiting the enzyme used to convert ergosterol. Ergosterol is needed by the fungus to maintain the integrity of its membrane. With clotrimazole, the fungal growth is inhibited by depleting levels of ergosterol.Keep clotrimazole’s side-effects in mind. These may be ear irritation, burning, or discomfort.However, side effects are not as common with the topical forms of clotrimazole as with the oral form.
To use clotrimazole, wash your hands with running water and mild soap. Clean the ear with warm water until any visible secretions are gone. Softly pat the ear dry with a clean cloth. Do not vigorously wipe the remaining liquid off. Doing so can exacerbate the condition.Lie down or tilt your head sideways to expose the ear canal. Straighten your ear canal by pulling your earlobe downward, then backward. Apply two to three drops of clotrimazole into your ear. Keep your ear tilted for two to three minutes to allow the solution to reach the infected area. And then tip your head, pouring out the medicine into a napkin.Replace the cap to the bottle and store the medication out of sight and reach of children. Store it in a dry and cool place. Avoid direct sunlight or heat.If clotrimazole does not get rid of your ear infection, then your doctor may decide to try a different antifungal agent, such as miconazole., If you have a more severe fungal ear infection, fluconazole may be prescribed by your doctor. It works just like clotrimazole. The most common side effects are a headache, nausea, dizziness, change in taste, loose stools, abdominal pain, skin rash, and elevation of liver enzymes.Fluconazole is taken in tablet form. Doctors normally prescribe one dose of 200mg for one day and then 100mg daily for three to five days., Antibiotics are only effective in the treatment of bacterial infections, so they will not combat fungal infections.


Antibiotics can even worsen fungal infections since they can potentially kill good bacteria residing in the ear or other parts of the body — the bacteria that is fighting your fungal infection., You will need to see your physician again in a week or so to see if the treatment is working. If the treatment is not working, then your doctor may try a different option.


Also, make sure to call your physician if your symptoms get worse or do not improve.

