 Painting designs straight onto the wall without any stencils can be difficult, but it can also be a lot of fun. The result is unique, and each brushstroke is filled with beauty. This is a great technique for organic designs, such as curling vines and twisting branches. Here's a list of what you will need:


Paintbrushes
Acrylic paint
Paint palette
Chalk, pencils, or watercolor pencils
Cup of water
Painter's tape (optional)
Paper towels

, Use a light color for the outlines if your wall is dark. Use a dark color for your outlines if your wall is light. Start with the largest shapes first, then move onto the smaller ones. For example, if you are painting a cherry blossom branch, sketch out the branch first, then add the flowers. You don't need to add the details just yet, since your paint will likely cover those up. You will be painting your design on in layers.


Consider using watercolor pencils that match your paint color. This will make them less visible once the paint dries. For example, if you are outlining a brown branch, use a brown watercolor pencil. If you are outlining some green leaves, use a green watercolor pencil.
 Pour some paint right out onto your paint palette. You will be starting from the largest shapes first. Avoid pouring out too much paint at one time. Acrylic paint dries fast. If you pour out too much paint at one time, the paint may dry out before you use it all. You can always pour out some more paint if you run low.
 If you apply the paint too thickly, you will get visible brush strokes. Consider using a small, pointy brush for organic, twisting designs. If you are painting lots of straight lines, consider using a small, flat brush. This will give your more control over your line work.


If you want, you can tape the paper towel onto the wall next to your work; just make sure that it is folded thick enough so that the paint does not bleed through.
 Be mindful of the direction you are painting in. If you are right-handed, start from the left side of your design. If you are left-handed, start from the right side of your design.


You will probably need to reload your paintbrush a few times. Always remember to tap off the excess paint onto the paper towel.
 Use a large brush for the larger areas, and a smaller brush for the smaller areas. If you accidentally go outside your outline, wipe it off using a damp Q-tip. If you can't wipe the mistake off, keep painting. You can "erase" the mistake after it dries by covering it up with your background/wall color.
 Use the same technique as you did for the larger shapes. Depending on how small your shapes are, you might not even have to switch to a larger brush; you might be able to paint the entire shape with the brush you used for outlining.
 For example, if you want to add some texture to the bark or some white centers to the flowers, wait until the paint has dried. Paint on the details using a small, pointy brush.
 You can "erase" any mistakes by covering them with your background color (the color of your wall). You can also fill in any missed spots with some extra paint. Use a small brush for this.

