 Children are sensitive when it comes to dealing with criticism. A good youth basketball coach can introduce ways of improving a skill without detracting from the fun of the sport. Do not feel like you have to point out every mistake a player makes; focus on areas where you see room for improvement, and always put a positive spin on it.
 Positive reinforcement is a great motivator, especially if you’re coaching kids with limited basketball experience. Be sure to select drills that will allow players to see their development themselves. A free-throw shooting drill in which kids take five shots each is a perfect example of this kind of exercise. A player might only make one basket at first but, in time, he or she will start to become more proficient and will be encouraged by the progress since it is easy to track.
 When deciding between two plays or systems, always select the one that involves more movement. Simple motion offenses—featuring sequences that involve plenty of off-the-ball movement—are ideal for young players since they require constant action from everyone. Give your players a workout. It will increase their stamina and help them figure out how to get open for easy shots.
 You may be inclined to spend more time on a particular player’s struggles, but it is important to ensure that all of your players are given some attention. If you want to work with a player on a particular skill, have the others engage in a fun game that you can track while you do your individual work. Avoid situations that could be construed as favoritism. Balance is critical to keeping a group of young players satisfied.
 Certain offensive and defensive setups require a great deal of hard work. Fast breaks on the offensive end and presses on the defensive end are two good examples of strategies that should be left to older groups. The more laid back the atmosphere, the more likely the players you coach will want to remain part of the team and improve.
 Some young athletes can play on the same playing fields as the adults do. Young basketball players should not. Forcing a four-foot child to shoot on an adult-sized hoop is only going to discourage him or her. Track down equipment sized proportionally to your players, and you will have a much easier time teaching them proper form and technique.
 Select fun drills and games to play. Bring a high level of energy to every practice or play session. Dole out high fives as often as you can. If it isn’t fun, you aren’t doing it right.

