 In the 2005 movie adaption, Mike Teavee is an obsessive gamer who plays video games non-stop. To be like him and for a plus, make sure you play some video games, too. Mike's video game style is violent, but if you are not one for violence, tone your gaming style to more action/adventure. Also, know your old games such as pac-man and Zelda. When playing, pretend that your attention is only on the game and nothing else. Occasionally, yell comments such as "die!" to your opponents whilst playing. Be serious.;
, Mike Teavee -- Mike T.V? Get it? I think so. Watch television! If you're looking to be like Mike, you have to watch TV. Watch actions/adventure films, or maybe some thriller.
 In the 2005 movie adaptation, Mike is shown to be extremely intelligent. Pay attention in school, especially in subjects such as Math and Science, which is the subjects that Mike would excel in. When explaining something that someone doesn't understand, roll your eyes as if it was the easiest thing to understand and make your explanation complicated. For example, say something like: "all you had to do..." and add: "...even an idiot could figure it out."

, Know your computers! Make sure you know all the codes and complicated details about the machines and latest gadgets. Show off this particular skill.
 Wear black skull t-shirts with red long sleeves underneath. Wear sneakers. Mike usually wears dark colours; try navy/dark blue, dark greens, greys, blacks, reds and purples.
 If you're a boy, spike your hair slightly. If you're a girl, wear your hair in a loose braid over your shoulder, or maybe a low ponytail. Mike isn't really one for fashion, so don't worry about it!

, When needed, raise a single eyebrow in certain situations. Use this when expressing a curious feeling, a concerned feeling, or maybe even a creeped out feeling. Fold your arms simultaneously (for an example, check the image in this article's introduction).
 Don't care about what other's think about you. Express your feelings, even if you have to lose your temper at times to make a point.
 Even if you don't, act the part. Don't act dumb. Mike knows exactly what he's doing. When explaining something, throw some facts if comparing (for example: "...that'd be the equivalent to like five atomic bombs!")

, Don't let anyone stand in your way. Know what you want and when you want it.
 This is best done in private. Find something to take your anger out on and really put your heart and soul into doing so.
 Know lots of things. Impress others with this.
 Be on time to class though, and always follow rules. If it violates what you believe in, stand up for it!

, Don't act like a nerd. Be really intelligent and smart, but remember, don't forget to look hot, hot, hot! This prevents you from being classified as the geek or nerd. Don't be afraid to spill your brains out, but make sure you also look super cool when doing it. If you are required to wear school uniform pop your collar up and leave it like that, roll your sleeves up and walk with style.
, Keep your cool and don't look trashy.

