 When you create a plastic canvas, you don’t want any loose threads hanging from your masterpiece. To accomplish this, and secure your row of stitches in the process, you need to stitch over the tail.


Thread your needle with approximately three feet of yarn or floss.
Insert the needle through the backside of the canvas until you are left with a two inch tail of yarn or floss.
Hold the tail against the back of your canvas so that it runs along your stitch line.
Execute your stitches over the tail until it is completely covered., When you complete a row or rows of stitches, you do not want to mar your creation with a bulky knot or a hanging tail. To create a clean, finish on the back of the canvas:


Flip the canvas so that its back faces up.
Insert your needle and yarn through several completed stitches.
Pull the yarn or floss tight.
Trim the yarn or floss as close to the canvas as possible., There are two basic stitches you may use to finish the edges of your plastic canvas: the lark’s head knot and the overcast stitch. The lark’s head knot is used to create a fringe edge. On patterns this stitch appears as “larks head.”


Insert the needle through the top of the canvas at an edge hole.
Pull the thread or yarn to the left side. Pull the needle up through the back of the canvas at the same hole.
Create a loop in the thread or yarn. The loop will hang from the backside of the canvas.
Insert the tails through the loop and pull tight.
Repeat., If you prefer a clean edge, use an overcast stitch instead of a lark’s head knot. On patterns, this stitch appears as “overcast.”


Pull the needle up through the back of the canvas at an edge hole.
Wrap the thread or floss tightly against the edge of the canvas.
Pull the needle up through the back of the canvas at the neighboring edge hole.
Wrap the thread or floss tightly against the edge of the canvas.
Repeat.
Produce one stitch per hole along the edge and inner corner of the canvas. Create 2 to 3 stitches per hole located on the outside corners., If you need to create a larger canvas, you can stitch together two or more pieces with a whipstitch. In patterns, this stitch appears as “whipstitch.”


Stack your canvas on top of each other so that the edges are flush.
Pull the needle up through the two canvases at the top edge hole.
Wrap the thread or floss tightly against the edges of the canvas.
Insert the needle into the next hole and pull it through.
Wrap the thread or floss tightly against the edge of the canvas.
Repeat until you reach the bottom of the canvas.