 A full stomach can keep you awake, especially if you’re also stressing about an exam. Avoid heavy, greasy, rich, or spicy food before you sleep, as these foods are harder for your body to digest and can make it more difficult to fall asleep. You could also wake up in the middle of the night with heartburn, which would put a damper on your rest plans.Eating a light snack before bed is fine. In fact, if you’re feeling hungry you should have a snack, as it could be hard for you to fall asleep with an empty stomach.;
, Other students may subsist on coca cola and chips during exam season, but you should know better. Eating the right foods can help you get a good night sleep.

Salad. Lettuce contains lactucarium, which has calming and sedative properties. And it’s healthy!Almonds and walnuts. They contain the amino acid tryptophan, which increases production of the sleep-regulating hormones serotonin and melatonin, helping you to sleep. For a really good sleep, try adding them to your salad.Bananas. Bananas are high in potassium and magnesium, which help to relax muscles and promote sleep.Whole-grain cereal. If you like to snack on cereal at night, well, you’re on to something. Whole grain cereal (or better yet, oatmeal) contains B6 (also found in fish like tuna and salmon), which helps produce melatonin. Combined with milk – another sleep aid – it is a great way to promote sleep.Complex carbs. A bowl of brown rice or some whole-grain crackers can help you sleep. Just avoid simple carbs such as refined breads or pastas, sugary cereals, or fries., Eating right can help you sleep, but you won’t want to eat right before getting in bed, as a full stomach can make sleep difficult. You can, however, have a sleep-inducing drink as part of your pre-bed ritual.

Skim milk – Milk contains tryptophan and calcium, which triggers additional tryptophan production. Skim milk is better, as the fat in whole milk can stress the digestive system and make it harder to sleep.Chamomile tea – This tea contains glycine, an amino acid that acts as a mild sedative. Consider sweetening your tea with honey, which contains tryptophan that will also help you sleep.Passion fruit tea – This contains Harman alkaloids which help calm your nervous system and which have been shown to improve sleep., Caffeine remains in your system for 6-14 hours, depending on your metabolism.Nicotine can take 1-10 days for your body to process.Smoking or drinking coffee might make you feel more alert, but it will also make it harder to sleep when you’re done studying.Stay away from caffeine for at least eight hours before you want to go to sleep. If you must have caffeine during this time, go for very low-caffeine beverages such as green tea, decaf coffee (yep, even decaf has a little caffeine!), or low-caffeine sodas such as root beer or orange soda. , If you regularly suffer from insomnia, then you may already be using sleeping pills. If you do not, then the night before an exam is not the best time to try them. Antihistamines are the active ingredient in most over-the-counter sleep pills, and they may leave you feeling drowsy long after you wake up, which is less than ideal when trying to take a test.