 Even if you don't have any board games or multiplayer video games, there are plenty of options:


If you have a deck of cards, play donkey cards, gin rummy, poker, go fish, Egyptian rat screw, or other games.
Short, silly games that don't require any tools include "rock paper scissors lizard spock,""sausage," Charades or chopsticks.
 Use pillows and blankets to build a blanket fort over chairs, couches or beds. Invite a friend over to help you or to play inside it.
 Try on your whole wardrobe and find new mix-and-match combinations or old favorites. If you're bored by your current clothing collection, visit a thrift store or organize a clothing swap with friends.


Kids may enjoy playing dress up.
 Look around for art supplies, scraps of fabric, or any small objects you can improvise with to make an art project. This can be a fun way to pass the time, and you might end up with a new decoration.


You can create an animated image using a marble, paper, and some other basic supplies.
If you have pipe cleaners and a couple other art supplies, you can make a silly alien.
 Learning something new engages your brain and builds new neural connections, which can lead to new opportunities and entertainment. It also gives you something to study or do during downtime. For example, if you want to learn guitar, you can spend your time listening to new guitarists to study their technique.
 Most people listen to music passively, hearing it in the background while doing other things. This is easy with songs you already know and love, but it can be boring if the only thing you are doing is listening to music. Eliminate boredom by finding new music, which makes listening to music more of an activity and less of an ambiance.


Searching for new music on Pandora, Spotify, Songza, or other music apps is a great way to get new songs similar to the ones you love.
Try out podcasts, which are free radio programs you can download off iTunes. They cover comedy, news, music, entertainment, and more.
 If you are often bored looking for something to do at home, take some time to pick out some arts and crafts supplies. You don't need to devote yourself to perfecting a new hobby, although you certainly can. Just try out a few different crafts, such as pottery or bead jewelry, until you find one that passes the time enjoyably.


If you are more interested in house improvement or "do it yourself" repairs, pick up a new skill such as carpentry or roof repair.
 You can make a bored jar so you will never bored again. Just get a paper or some popsicle sticks and a jar. Grab a marker and write suggestions that are fun or things that you like to do. Then after you are finished, put them in the jar. When you get bored, just take one out of the jar, do the activity, and you won't be bored anymore.

