 Cutting cable is one thing, but ditching the Internet can be impossible, especially if you need to complete assignments at home for work or school. Shop around for deals and discounts, like bundling services.See if your cell phone provider offers Internet services in your area and if you can bundle phone and Internet.
Avoid being tempted to bundle unnecessary services. Suppose a base Internet plan costs about $30 a month, but you can upgrade to Internet plus basic cable for $50 a month. Think about how that $20 could spent elsewhere before going for the bundle upgrade.
If you can't afford Internet or want to cut services to save money, try looking for free wi-fi spots in your area. Hang out at your local library or consider checking out a nearby coffee shop. Keep track of how much you spend on coffee, however, because that could easily add up to the cost of a monthly Internet bill.
 Save money on furnishing by shopping at estate sales, yard sales, consignment shops, and on Craigslist. Let your friends and family know that you’re on the hunt for gently used furniture and other household goods.Make sure to ask around your social circle for free stuff before spending any money. Chances are, someone will be looking to unload excess furniture and household goods.
Stocking and furnishing a new home is full of unanticipated costs, from lamps, dishware, and cookware to spices and cleaning supplies. Save where you can by going with used items and hand-me-downs. If anyone asks what you want for a housewarming gift, ask for household necessities.
 Buy grains, canned foods, pastas, and other non-perishable items in bulk to cut your food budget in the long run. Cooking one large meal and freezing portions will cut down on the amount of time your stove is in use and help you cut your electricity or gas bills.Use coupons and stock up on items on sale, as long as they won’t spoil or go to waste.
Take a thorough inventory before you go shopping, make a list, and avoid impulse purchases at the grocery store.
 If you don’t have your own dryer, consider how quickly spending $1.50 on each load of clothes at the laundromat adds up. Being frugal with appliance use might seem tedious, but your savings will add up over the course of the year.Hang your clothes to dry, avoid leaving your refrigerator open longer than necessary, avoid leaving the television on, and do your best to keep your heating and cooling costs to a minimum.
 If you elect to take a loan from someone close to you, you should take some precautions to protect both parties. Make a payment plan and, if your lender wants you to pay interest, agree to a rate. Put the date and amount of the loan, payment plan, and interest rate in writing and have both parties sign.You should treat a loan as a business interaction, not as something personal. Try to separate the loan from your personal relationship with your lender.
If the loan is sizable, like in the range of several thousand dollars, having the terms of the loan in writing will help you demonstrate that it's in fact a loan and not a gift. If you're audited or garnished come tax time, you'd have to prove that the money you received wasn't a gift, which would incur tax liability.

