 Make sure the graphics driver is up-to-date as the issue may have been resolved in a later update. The BIOS may be facing difficulties communicating with Windows that are causing the system to not be able to resume from sleeping or hibernating. Check the website of the manufacturer of your computer, motherboard and video card for any updates.


It is also possible the current update for the BIOS or graphics drivers are facing problems and may require you to rollback to a previous update or prevent an update from happening. Check with your computer or device manufacturer’s website for any significant updates and how to return to a previous driver or BIOS update.
Windows 7 will allow you to rollback your device drivers in case you need to return to a previous version, navigate to the “Control Panel” from the Start Menu. Search for or open the “Device Manager” which opens a new window that lists the different drivers associated with each device. In this new window, locate and expand the "Display adapters" from the list, right click your video card device to bring up a menu, click on “Properties.” In the new window click on the “Driver” tab then click on the “Roll Back Driver” button.
 This ensures that any updates installed on your computer are operating correctly. If the issue persists, continue through the instructions on how to activate a diagnostic mode for Windows 7.


If you continue to not see a picture after putting the computer into sleep or hibernation mode, you can hold the power button down for a few seconds, turn off the power supply for your desktop, or remove the battery on your laptop to turn off the computer.
 This will allow you to start Windows into a diagnostic mode that is useful for identifying significant errors on your computer. During the Windows 7 startup sequence, press a function key, either F8 or F10. Use your computer’s user’s guide to identify the function key to press to access the Windows Accessibility Menu. Select safe mode from this menu using the arrow keys and pressing ↵ Enter.
 After you access the desktop of your computer in safe mode, activate the hibernation mode or sleep mode.


Laptops can be set in hibernation mode by closing the lid if this setting is activated.
For desktops or laptops you can use the Start Menu and choose to "Hibernate" or "Sleep". Let the computer sit for two or three minutes.
 If the computer’s desktop resumes normally and the graphics driver was updated, the issue may be due to your computer lacking RAM resources or there may have been a corruption during the installation of the Windows 7 operating system.