 Many people confuse animal welfare with animal rights. While there may be some overlap in their causes and campaigns, the underlying philosophies of each are significantly different. Animal welfare poses humans as the protectors of animals and argues for their ethical treatment. Animal rights are based on the principle that all species are equal and deserving of the same rights.For example, animal welfare advocates might argue for the humane treatment of farm animals or pets, but animal rights activists believe that it’s wrong for humans to breed, keep, or eat animals at all.;
, Since animals are found practically everywhere on Earth and touch so many elements of our daily lives, animal rights include myriad causes. Understand the breadth of issues by recognizing the main global contexts in which animals are exploited or harmed.Some of the major areas of concern for animal rights activists include wildlife protection, domestication of animals, lab animals, and animals used in food, clothing, and other industries.
Take time to understand the dimensions of each area of concern by doing an online search for related articles, videos, and websites.
 The best way to get a solid introduction to animal rights is to get a book written by an animal rights expert, researcher, or scholar. Purchase a book or check one out from a library that provides a general overview of the theoretical concerns and practical issues involved in the animal rights movement.


Some authoritative introductions to animal rights include Peter Singer’s Animal Liberation, Paul Waldau’s Animal Rights: What Everyone Needs to Know, Clifford Sherry’s Animal Rights: A Reference Handbook, Julian Franklin’s Animal Rights and Moral Philosophy, and Paola Cavalieri and Catherine Woodllard’s The Animal Question., Getting periodicals related to animal rights is a great way to keep up to date on the current events and debates related to the cause. It also helps support the research and education initiatives of the animal rights groups who publish them.


If you’re looking for a print publication, try magazines and journals put out by related organizations, such as Animal Times (PETA), The UFAW Journal, The Animals’ Voice, or Friends of Animals.
Many animal rights and welfare groups, like PETA, ASPCA, the International Society for Animal Rights, Animal Welfare Approved, and many more, also issue weekly or monthly email updates. If you’d rather read online, subscribe to related organizations’ e-newsletters by signing up on their websites with your email address.
 Sometimes the best way to learn about animal rights is to hear from the experts in person. That way, you can ask questions and meet other people (in the attendees) who are interested in the subject.


If there are no lectures or seminars near you, try searching the internet for videos and documentaries related to animal rights instead. Be sure that you check the credentials of the authors and producers to make sure they are animal rights experts, researchers, and/or scholars.
Consider enrolling in a course or MOOC to get a substantial foundation.
Attending conferences can be pricey and time-consuming, but there’s no better way to get access to a huge variety of animal rights experts and activists in so short a period of time. Besides hearing panels and talks by vetted presenters, you’ll also have the opportunity to meet and have conversations with a bunch of like-minded, active people who could be potential collaborators in the future.