 You will need to tune each string course separately.


Hold the bouzouki as you would while playing it. Begin by tuning the course sitting at the bottom of the instrument, while you hold it in this manner, which are the highest pitched strings.
After finishing your adjustments to the bottom course, move to the course above it. Keep moving up, one course at a time, until you reach and tune the top course, which are the lowest pitched strings .;
, Play the correct source note on a pitch pipe, piano, or other stringed instrument. Listen to the way the note sounds.


The bottom course should be tuned to the appropriate note above Middle C.For both trichordo and tetrachordo bouzoukis, this would be the D just above Middle C (d' or D4).


The remaining courses should be adjusted accordingly to the bottom course.

For instance, on the tetrachordo bouzoukis, the lowest-pitched course has one string tuned to the Middle C (c' or C4) and one string tuned to the C an octave below it (c).
 Pluck one string of the course you are presently tuning, keeping the string open as you do. Listen to the way the note sounds in relation to the source note.


Keeping the string open means that the strings is free and not pressed down at any fret along the course of the instrument. After being plucked, the string should vibrate without interference.
 Turn the corresponding tuning peg to tune the string. Test the string after each adjustment until it matches the source note, such as played on your pitch pipe.


If the tone sounds flat or lower, tighten the strings by turning the tuning peg clockwise.
when the tone sounds sharp or higher, loosen the strings by twisting the tuning peg counterclockwise.
You may need to play the correct note several times on your pitch pipe or tuning instrument. Keep the sound in your mind for as long as possible and replay it each time you feel uncertain of how much further to adjust the course.
 Each string in one course should be in harmony with each other.

Adjust the other string in the course to sound either the same as, or an octave of, the string you just tuned to the source note. Strum them together to hear any differences and adjust if needed.
 After tuning all three or four courses, strum through the open strings again to check each.


For best results, double-check each course one at a time. Pluck one string, while you tune it to that note on your pitch pipe, then harmonize the other string to that string.
After tuning each string, and each course, strum all three or four courses together and listen to the sound. Everything should flow and mingle naturally.
Once you've double-checked your work, your instrument has been properly tuned.

