 Thankfully for anyone about to undertake a DIY project, searching for products doesn't mean trawling a trolley up and down endless shopping aisles anymore. Everything you need is now only an internet connection and a few clicks away. Simply typing what you need into your preferred search engine will provide you with a long list of links to your desired product. Often you’ll be able to find a wide range of varying prices for the same product online.;
, This is where comparison sites come in handy to save time. If you have a specific supplier in mind but don’t have time to search across the web, use a comparison sight to get various product prices displayed all on the same page. It’s important to remember however that certain websites may not be signed up to comparison sites, so it’s worth carrying out your own searches as well.
 Ask yourself if the supplies you want are the ones that actually need? Many building merchants offer unbranded or lesser-known brand substitutes at a cheaper price, and these often work as well as the expensive branded products.
 Traditionally, if you ever wanted to receive a discount or get trade prices you’d have to buy in bulk – even in the age of the Internet, this is still very much in evidence. So if you’re planning an extensive project, even if you’re not in the trade per se, you can still find many building products and supplies at reasonable prices. Or indeed you can find a service provider that will do this on your behalf.
 Some building supply websites present the opportunity for users to sign up and become a member, which then grants them exclusive discounts and access to previously unavailable promotions. This is a great and often inexpensive way to save money, and also keep up-to-date with the latest offers.
 As old fashioned as it may sound, sometimes it’s one of the best methods. Most online suppliers may not be able to offer you products at exactly trade price, but many should be happy to come to some kind of agreement if you’re buying plenty of supplies and regularly visiting their site. Send them an email and see what they can do for you.

