 Make 4 chain stitches. Next, make a slip stitch into the first chain to form a circle.

Use a size I/9 or 5.5mm crochet hook and medium worsted weight yarn.;
, Start off with 2 chain stitches. Next, do 3 double crochet stitches in each space. Close your round with a slip stitch. You will end up with 12 stitches total.Mark the end of your round with a stitch marker. If you don't have one, you can use a safety pin or even a piece of yarn in a contrasting color.
 Start off with 2 chain stitches. Do 2 double crochet stitches in the first stitch. Follow up with 1 double crochet. Repeat the last 3 stitches (2 double crochets in 1 stitch, followed by 1 double crochet) until you reach the end of the round., You should have a total of 18 stitches. Do not turn your project. You might want to move your stitch marker to the end of your round, however., Start with 2 chain stitches. Then, do 2 double crochets in the same stitch. Follow up with 2 double crochets over the next 2 stitches. Repeat the last 4 stitches (2 double crochets in 1 stitch, 2 double crochets over the next 2 stitches) until you reach the end of the round. Close the round off with a slip stitch. You'll end up with 24 stitches.Remember to move your stitch marker, if you are using one.
 Start each row with 2 chain stitches and 2 double crochets in the first stitch. Do x-number of stitches, then repeat (2 double crochets in one stitch, followed by x-number of double crochets) until you reach the end of the row. Close each round off with a slip stitch. How many stitches you do for "x" depends on what round you are on. The number "x" increases with each round. For example:Round 5: 2 double crochet in 1 stitch, 3 double crochets over the next 3 stitches. 30 stitches total.
Round 6: 2 double crochet in 1 stitch, 4 double crochets over the next 4 stitches. 36 stitches total.
Round 7: 2 double crochet in 1 stitch, 5 double crochets over the next 5 stitches. 42 stitches total.
Round 8: 2 double crochet in 1 stitch, 6 double crochets over the next 6 stitches. 48 stitches total.
If you have a very large head, you can add more rounds with similar increases.
If you have a smaller head, you can do fewer rounds.
 Start off with 2 chain stitches. Next, do a double crochet in each space until you finish the round. Use a slip stitch to close the round., Start each round with 2 chain stitches, then do 1 double crochet in each space all around. You aren't adding any increases to these rounds, so your hat will start to form a tube shape., Start of with 1 chain stitch, then do a single crochet in each space. Do this for 2 rows, then finish off with a slip stitch., Your beanie is now done and ready to wear! If you'd like, you can turn the bottom up by a few inches/centimeters) to create a brim, or even add a pompom to the top!