 In this section, you'll learn a few alternative ways to mince garlic if you don't have a knife handy. For each of these, you'll want to prep the garlic cloves as normal before you start mincing. In other words:


Separate the correct number of cloves from the bulb.
Discard leftover bulb skin.
Peel the garlic by squeezing each clove out of the skin or crushing it with a knife and peeling the skin off.
 One easy way to mince garlic is with the tines of a fork. This requires a little arm strength but works surprisingly well. To do this:








Lay the garlic flat on a cutting board and grab a sturdy metal fork.
Press the bottoms of the tines of the fork into the garlic. Press down hard to push the garlic through the gaps in the tines.
Turn the fork and repeat in the other direction. Continue repeating for a final mince.
Wipe the scraps off of the fork and pick the stem nub out of the minced garlic. It's now ready to use.
 Another handy tool you can use to prepare garlic is called a garlic press. This device does what its name suggests: presses garlic into a crushed-up paste. To use a garlic press:








Place the clove inside the inner metal part of the press.
Squeeze the handles. The garlic will be forced through the holes on the other side of the press.
Scrape the scraps out and combine with the garlic material that was forced through the press. The garlic is now ready to use.
Another device that works similarly is the mortar and pestle.
 A microplane is a small device that looks (and works) like an extra-fine cheese grater. Microplaning a clove of garlic slices it into razor-thin slices fairly quickly.









To use a microplane, just rub the garlic against the blades over a bowl. The thin, wet slices will fall through the microplane into the bowl.
When the garlic gets too small to microplane without hurting your fingers, just chop it up or crush it and combine with the rest.
 It's worth noting that almost any food processor device should be able to mince garlic as well. Pulsing the blades just a few times should be enough to achieve a good mince. Since garlic cloves are so small, it can be a pain to assemble a food processor just to mince one, but this is a good choice if you need to mince many for a larger recipe.

