 Before you let the person off the hook, be sure that they can understand the impact of their mistake. This approach may be slightly uncomfortable, but it helps assure that the person recognizes the consequences of their actions, making it less likely that they’ll do the same thing in the future.For instance, you might say, “I was really angry when you dropped your workload on my desk, especially since I knew you were only blowing off work to be with your boyfriend. I had to work three hours past shift to get everything finished.”

, If you have assessed the apology for sincerity and expounded on how the person’s behavior affected you, then you can move on to verbally accepting the apology. Offer a brief and gracious reply.You might say something along the lines of “I know you didn’t mean to hurt me. I accept your apology” or “I understand why you may have made that decision. I’m ready to move on from it now.”

, It takes a lot of courage to admit wrongdoing and ask someone for forgiveness. Give your coworker some credit for sticking their neck out by showing your appreciation. This doesn’t translate to being a kiss-up—they were in the wrong, after all—but it helps level the playing field and shows that you’re taking the high road.You might thank them by saying, “I really appreciate you coming to talk to me about this. Thanks.”

, Another aspect of responding graciously is keeping the issue between the two of you. If you go blabbing to the rest of your coworkers about the person’s apology, your own acceptance of it seems to go out the window. Demonstrate that you are trying to maintain professionalism and starting off on a good foot by keeping your lips sealed about the matter.
 If you felt the person's apology was insincere, or if you simply cannot forgive them for their behavior, be straightforward about it. It will only make you look bad if you pretend to accept their apology but continue to lord it over them later. Let them know that, while you appreciate their apology, you cannot accept it.


You might say, "Jordan, it says a lot that you came to me to apologize. But, I can't accept your apology" or "I appreciate your apology, but I'm afraid I can't accept it."
You don't really owe the person an explanation. Simply walk away.