 Check out the new local coffee shop or your favorite restaurant to catching up. You could spend a few minutes together in between classes together or end up talking for hours on end. Quality time doesn’t have to be a large amount of time as long as you both are enjoying hanging out together., Even if neither of you are single or if you both are, having girl time and dressing up can be a fun and different activity. Go all out with your primping, makeup, outfit and accessories. You can celebrate a birthday or big work accomplishment, or dress up for no other reason than to have fun.Choose a swanky restaurant or event like a gala or fundraiser to attend so that you make the most of dressing up.
Decide beforehand how you’re going to pay. If you choose an expensive venue

, Road trip together to go to an outdoor concert festival for a weekend or pop into a bar in town to see a local band play while you get drinks.

Going crazy at concerts is more fun with a friend. Make a glittery sign to hold, sing at the top of your lungs, and dance like there’s just you, the band, and your best friend.
 Road trips mean you get to spend one-on-one time with your best friend and pick out a killer music playlist for the drive. Or if you’re in a long-distance friendship, you can plan to meet up halfway in a city you’ve both never been to.Vacations can be difficult to coordinate with school or jobs. To maximize your limited free time, plan shorter day trips or excursions than an entire week or month.
On a road trip, budget time for stopping along your trip to take pictures or try the “World’s Best Pie” at the diner next to the gas station where you stop on the way.
If you lack the time or money to take a short weekend road-trip, plan long-term instead. Plan a future excursion and fantasize over your dream vacation to Europe together while you wait for it to come.
 Venturing out into unknown territory can be daunting. Take your best friend along to a yoga class and you might find out you’re really good, or you can laugh together later at how inflexible you are.Many community spaces offer painting or dance classes that are usually free or inexpensive.Check out local art museums for classes or a nearby community college for language and trade courses.
 Convince your best friend to go skydiving with you so that you can check it off your bucket list. Or go bungee jumping, whitewater rafting, or rent ATVs for a rush of adrenaline.

If skydiving is too risky for you, try hang-gliding or a helicopter ride. These options are a tad less frightening but still impressive and challenging.
Other milder options could be renting kayaks, going to an amusement park with roller-coasters, or trying out jet skis and dirt bikes.

