 Narcissistic Personality Disorder (NPD) is typically found in males, beginning in adolescence or early adulthood.Experts have not pinpointed causes but speculation includes certain types of parenting:


Extremely critical parenting: Parenting that is extremely critical can lead to a growing need for the child to seek adoration. Gushing parenting: On the other end of the spectrum, parenting that is gushing can give a child an unhealthy sense of entitlement or perfection.It appears most likely that parenting that combines extreme elements of both coldness and admiration often produces a narcissist., A narcissistic personality may first appear to have a strong sense of self-esteem, confidence, and ability.In time, this will be revealed to be steeped in self-belief that they can do no wrong and that they have greater value than those around them., The narcissist will feel that the world revolves around them, and they will do what is takes to keep it that way., This might include monopolizing conversations., When a narcissist doesn’t receive the special treatment to which they feel entitled,they might become angry or verbally abusive., Persons with Narcissistic Personality Disorder will be seen by most as arrogant, boastful, and self-centered.They tend to look down on their inferiors(basically, everyone else), and may tear others down in order to build themselves up. They will manipulate others to get what they want.
 Perhaps the most challenging issue in dealing with someone who has NPD is that they have no real ability to empathize with othersand no desire to learn.


Distinguish NPD from autism by considering compassion for others. Autistic people may struggle to understand how others feel, but they truly care, may spontaneously offer help, and will be upset by seeing others' distress (sometimes so much that they need to withdraw).People with NPD have little interest in others' feelings.
 They will not try to meet the needs of others. In fact, they may react in anger to any request for such, as it may be perceived as a criticism. It once was thought that the exaggerated sense of self-worth in a narcissistic personality was in compensation for an actual lack of self-esteem. Experts now believe that narcissists are self-delusional in that they actually believe in their own grandiosity.They feel entitled to adoration from others, despite any evidence of achievement.Therefore, narcissists may overreact, possibly even becoming aggressive, when they feel attacked by even the slightest of criticisms., The narcissist will have exaggerated beliefs of self-importance, superiority, achievement, and ability; manipulative behaviors as well as expectations of obedience, admiration, and entitlement; and preoccupation with “fantasies about success, power, brilliance, beauty or the perfect mate.”The narcissist will demand that the highest quality possible (“the best”) be expended or produced on their behalf., It is difficult to work or live with someone with Narcissistic Personality Disorder. Persons with NPD tend to have problems in their personal relationships as well as at work and/or school.Some may note a real or perceived flaw in their perfection that leads to depression or moodiness. Suicidal thoughts complicate matters further.
 When life does not run smoothly, a narcissist may have issues with drugs or alcohol.Examine how much the person is drinking alcohol or if he is abusing drugs.

