 Longer, thicker scarves are easier to pull off, and far more comfortable, during the fall and winter months. This makes a rectangle scarf in fleece, wool, or cashmere a perfect choice for your fall outfit.


Wear warm toned scarves such as red, orange, brown, and beige in the fall.
Try pairing a long, plaid rectangle scarf with fringe with a monochromatic dress or outfit, and then belt it with a skinny belt.;
, Not only do you not want to get too hot, but you don't want to look bogged down by heavy clothing when it’s hot outside. Square linen, cotton, silk, rayon, or even bamboo scarves are good summer choices.


Pick bright colored scarves to make a loud, playful spring or summer statement. Hot pink, green, yellow, and any bright color are perfect for that time of year.
Try wearing a colorful square scarf as a long tie or a choker to spice up your business casual clothing.
 Infinity scarves can be tossed on in a hurry and left exactly as they are. This gives them a more casual appeal. Put on a colorful or fully printed infinity scarf with jeans, t-shirt, and cardigan or blazer for casual meetings with friends, going to class, or when going shopping.


Oranges, reds, pinks, and yellows give an air of youthful creativity, energy, and warmth perfect for the lighthearted outing.
 An elegant scarf in a solid, subtle or neutral color will add a touch of formality to your outfit.


Although not sheer, pashmina scarves are both luxurious and large, and can be used as a wrap for a formal affair.
 Use a scarf with gemstones, glitter, shimmer, or sequins when you want to add a touch of glamour to your overall look.
 Choose a rectangle or square polyester or silk scarf in subtle colors and designs for everyday wear at school or the office.


Blues and greens are colors that indicate strength, power, dependability, and approachability, so they are a perfect fit for the workplace. If you’re hoping to give off assertive vibes, go red!

, Every well-stocked scarf collection should include four solid-colored scarves: black, white, gray, and beige. With the basics covered, you should be able to find a scarf to match any outfit you own., Scarves will reflect their color onto your face, so it is important to make sure they are the colors that are most flattering with your skin tone. The wrong color can make you look washed out or create dark circles under your eyes, while the right color can give you a youthful glow.


If you are cool-toned with dark hair, and have no red in your roots, you should search for scarves that are jewel toned, such as bright red, royal blue, and emerald green. You will also look great in a black and white scarf.
If you have light brown or blonde hair with no red in your roots, your most flattering scarves will be pastel in color.
If you are warm-toned with brown or auburn hair, and you have red in your roots, you will look best in earth tones, such as olive greens, browns, creams, and autumn reds.
If your hair is blonde, strawberry blonde, or orange, and your eyebrows are blonde, you should stick with scarves that have the same auburns, pinks and yellows that your skin tone has.
If you are neutral toned, you have more freedom to experiment with colors, as you could look good in just about anything.