 Before accepting a position at a nonprofit company, you should check to see whether the company is financially viable. Each year, a nonprofit company with gross annual receipts of $25,000 or more, must file a Form 990 with the IRS, which discloses a number of financial facts about the company, including, but not limited to the names and compensation of its officers and trustees, its highest paid employees and contractors, and an itemization of its expenditures. To get a copy of a nonprofit company’s Form 990:


You can search online for a nonprofit’s Form 990 at: https://projects.propublica.org/nonprofits/

Contact the nonprofit company and ask if they can mail you a copy.
Request it from the IRS. Scanned images of all Form 990 filings for a specific tax year are available directly from the IRS on a CD or DVD for a small fee. You can request a specific 990 by filing an IRS Form 4506. Form 4506 is available on the IRS website at: http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f4506a.pdf.
Request it from a third party. Many of the consumer advocate groups and online charity indexes discussed above include copies of nonprofits’ Form 990 and other IRS filings along with the background and financial information provided on their databases.
 Non-profit organizations that receive $500,000 or more in federal awards or grants must perform a Single Audit and complete Census Bureau form SF-SAC for every year that they meet the dollar threshold. The Audit determines how the nonprofit spent federal awards, or grants, during the filing year and form SF-SAC reports this information to the Census Bureau., Informational interviews are informal conversations with people in a professional field that interests you. Taking part in informational interviews will give you a first-hand view of what it is like to work in a particular field and you will get tips from people about what it takes to succeed in interviews and jobs. These interactions will also give you the opportunity to expand your professional network and keep in touch with influential people. To conduct an informational interview:


Research career fields. Find job titles that interest you based on your educational and experiential background.
Identify people to interview. Once you know what jobs you want, find people that already have those jobs. You can ask your friends and family if they know anyone with a specific job title; you can call organizations directly; or you can read relevant news articles to learn about people in your field.
Prepare for the interview. You need to develop a short introduction so you can tell the person who you are and why you are calling. Plan a number of open-ended questions you can ask in order to solicit information about the job the person holds, how they got it, and how someone like you can get a similar job.
Call the other person. When you are ready, call the person and mention how you got their information. Ask if they have a few minutes to talk and introduce yourself. Ask if you can meet with them in person to ask them a few questions about their job. Be sure you emphasize the fact you are looking for information and not a job.
Conduct the interview. When the day comes, go to your informational interview. Dress as if you were going to a job interview and arrive early. Introduce yourself and start asking your questions. Go with the flow and take notes if you need to. Always ask if they have any other contacts you could talk to about these types of jobs as well.
Follow-up. When your interview is over, follow-up within a day or two. Send them a thank you note and let them know you appreciate their time. Keep in touch with the person and let them know how you are using their advice., Before you accept a position at a nonprofit company, you should read how previous and current employees speak of the organization as a place to work. There are online websites that collect information from previous employees and allow individuals to search this information for free. To locate a websites that reviews employers, conduct an internet search for “online company reviews from employees.” Once you locate a website, search for the nonprofit’s name and carefully read the reviews.
 If you are interviewed for a position at a nonprofit company, you should ask about the rate of employee turnover. Nonprofit companies have a very high rate of employee burnout.If the company has a high employee turnover rate you should consider the following:


Measure the potential experience you could get at the company against the burdensome workload and likelihood of burnout. If you understand that most employees only work for the company for a few years, ask yourself whether you can get enough transferrable experience in that time to make the position worthwhile.
Determine whether you feel passionate about the work being done at the company. One of the ways to prevent burnout is to involve yourself in work that you feel passionate about and for which you can see demonstrated results. This may make the work and the company a worthwhile choice for you.

