 One staple of the male surfer look is the floral shirt. This goes for a classic Hawaiian button up, but can also be a t-shirt with a bold floral pattern. Start with this shirt and build from there.The print doesn’t have to be on your shirt. Try opting for some printed slip-on sneakers.
 Jeans and the beach don’t match. Instead of jeans, try wearing some khaki chinos. Go for a lighter shade and consider experimenting with different beach colors like green and blue.


For an added surfer look, roll the bottom of each leg a little over the ankle, as if you need to keep the edges dry while you’re walking along the beach., If you are on the beach, or even just styling on a hot day, a token element of the surfer style is board shorts. These are banded at the top with a string to tie them together. They come in those bold surfer prints. They rest low on the hips and end above the knee.Shop some of the most popular surf brands like Quiksilver, Hurley, RVCA and O’Niell for the trendiest shorts., Male surfers often have longer and shaggier hair. Consider growing yours out long enough to tousle. You can also add hair product like Surfer Hair Power Putty to give your hairstyle the shaggy surfer look. Apply a dime-sized amount to damp hair, scrunch it up and let it air dry.If you have long hair, try a sea salt spray.
Curly hair is great for a surfer look. Consider enhancing the curls with a mousse for a slightly wet look.
 Some men don’t wear a lot of jewelry, but surfers do. Finish off your look with some bracelets and a necklace. Opt for woven fiber and maybe add some seashells, or a shark tooth necklace., Choose a colored suit, but it should not be too bright. Try green or blue, or tan if the color is uncomfortable for you. The bright color should come from the printed floral shirt you pair with the suit.You can also throw some color and a casual beach vibe into your look by pairing some printed slip on shoes with your suit.
For added floral fun put a tropical flower in your lapel or a printed pocket square in your jacket pocket.

