 Dissolve 1 tsp (5 g) of salt in 8 fl oz (240 mL) of warm water.Gargle salt water four times a day. Don’t drink the salt water as it will dehydrate you faster.


Don’t just swish the salt water around in your mouth. Be sure to gargle it. Get it in the back of your mouth and let the salt do its job.
Salt sucks all the moisture out of your throats inflamed tissue. Harmful bacteria need this moisture to survive. So salt will both reduce the inflammation in the back of your throat.You can gargle Listerine too. The antiseptics in the Listerine meant to attack plaque and harmful bacteria in your mouth will also help fight infections in your throat. It will sting at first, but will quickly get better., Mix some honey and cayenne pepper together. Use a Q-tip to rub the concoction on the back of your throat. Cayenne pepper is a natural anti-inflammatory, which will reduce the swelling of your throat. The honey helps the cayenne pepper stick to the back of your throat.
 You can find hydrogen peroxide at any grocery store or pharmacy. It is a mild anti-septic that will kill off most bacteria that may be irritating your throat. Take a capful of hydrogen peroxide and mix it with a tablespoon of water and a dash of lemon juice for flavor. Put it in your mouth and swish it around, making sure that it hits the back of your throat. Spit it out after a minute., Most vapor rubs are intended to help decongest your nose. The mint in the rub can also help soothe sore throats. Pick up vapor rubs at any grocery store or pharmacy.
 This seems strange at first. For centuries, people have used marshmallows to soothe sore throats. The gelatin in the marshmallow coats the back of your throat, protecting it from other irritants., Wrap a warm compress, like a warm heating pad, a hot water bottle, or a warm, damp cloth, around the outside of your throat. We often soothe sore throats from within, but forget that we can help reduce pain and irritation from the outside too.
 Humidifiers increase the moisture content in the air. If your throat is dry and scratchy, a humidifier can make you more comfortable. Use one in your bedroom at night to help you sleep. You can also take longer hot showers. The moist air in the shower will act just like a humidifier.

