 Frustration usually happens when you feel that you are not able to get what you want out of a situation. At work, that might mean not getting the lead on a project or not getting timely emails back from your coworker. Remind yourself that there is a solution to every problem. Staying passive in the situation will only cause you more stress and frustration down the road, so take steps to identify a solution for your issues.

Focus only on what you can control. For example, you cannot change someone, but you can change how you react to them.
Make a list of your frustrations and brainstorm ways to work around them.
Without complaining about your personal issues or gossiping, ask a seasoned coworker or mentor for advice on how they would approach the issues you're having. Be careful not to talk inappropriately about other people at your workplace.
 In addition to mindful breathing, talking to someone is a great way to calm down. Face-to-face interaction with someone else that is relaxed is especially helpful, particularly when it is someone you trust.You can also incorporate some morale-boosting games and incentives to help you and your coworkers be more relaxed at work and feel better about yourselves and the situation. This could also help you build a better bond with your coworkers.


Meanwhile, good communication with your professional peers is vital. If you and another co-worker are consistently frustrated with one another, set up a time to speak with them. Having access to a support system with your colleagues will help you learn better ways to cope with your underlying issues at work. Say something like, "Hey, Sarah, let's sit down sometime soon and chat to make sure we're on the same page about our upcoming project."
Be careful of venting. Talking about the frustrations and problems to someone else in the office can relieve negative feelings. It can be useful. However, venting to a co-worker may blow up if your boss overhears you or someone hears you complaining. Also, simply venting is not helpful if it is not followed up by action to actually address the problem.
 Whatever the cause of your distress, it can be helpful to remind yourself that the world isn’t ending. Thinking to yourself, “This is only temporary,” can be a surprisingly effective way to calm down. Even better, state this phrase or something like it to yourself out loud.Your thoughts as well as your words affect both the way you feel, as well as how you behave. Reassuring yourself can not only calm you down, it can help you get in a better mindset to proceed with your day.
Other simple reassuring statements that might work include, “I’m okay,” and “This is going to work out.”

, Forcing yourself to address the specific reason you are upset can help you calm down. The best way to try to figure out exactly what’s bothering you is trying to write it down.Not only is the act of writing itself calming, getting your thoughts and feelings out on paper can help clarify an issue you're having.
Writing down your thoughts can even help you determine the best way to address the source or your frustration or anxiety and move forward.
 You may be able to laugh at yourself by stepping back and reassessing stressful or frustrating experiences. To increase your ability to do so, come up with a way to head-off potential frustrations by contextualizing them humorously.One particular option: make a Bingo card that includes all of the things about work that frustrate you from time to time. Next time any of those things happen, you may wind up chuckling while you mark your Bingo card instead of getting worked up.
 Set priorities and better manage your time so that you don't feel the pressure to scramble in order to get your work done. Procrastination can add a lot of stress in the workplace, but keeping yourself on-track to complete your projects on time can remove that stressor. Managing your time well will also help you feel more productive, which will give you a sense of satisfaction with your work.

Put your tasks in order based on priority.
Break up large tasks to make them more manageable.
Get tasks out of the way early if doing so can help relieve some of your stress.
 Though this one may be a bit challenging, it’s worth noting that it can actually work. Focus on controlling your emotions and acting as though you are not upset. Your mindset will sometimes shift to match the way you’re acting., If you consistently struggle with stress, frustration, or anger, it’s worth speaking with a mental health professional. There’s absolutely nothing wrong with seeking assistance handling your emotions, and you’re likely to wind up more calm, more content, and even more productive at work.Call your doctor for a recommendation about mental health professionals in your area.
Alternatively, look online for forums or in-person support groups about work place frustrations. There are likely other people experiencing the same sort of struggles, and you may be able to support one another and exchange advice.

