 While oven cleaner can be effective in getting rid of scorch marks, it should be used as a last resort because it is extremely caustic and may discolor the pan. You should never use it on a pan with a non-stick or other protective coating, though, because it will strip off the coating and ruin the pan.Because oven cleaner has the potential to damage cookware, you should only use it if you’ve tried other methods of cleaning your scorched pan and they’ve failed. If you’re planning to toss the pan anyway, it’s a worth a try to use the oven cleaner.
 Oven cleaner contains caustic chemicals that give off very strong fumes, so it’s important to take safety precautions before you use it. Cover your hands with a pair of rubber gloves to keep your skin safe from the chemicals. You should also make sure that your kitchen is well-ventilated before spraying the oven cleaner, so open a window or two if possible.If you’re especially sensitive to fumes, you may want to wear a dust mask over your nose and mouth when you’re using the oven cleaner.
Be sure to read all of the safety warnings on the oven cleaner’s packaging so you’re aware of any other safety precautions that you should take.
 Once you’re prepared to work with the oven cleaner, spray it over the scorched areas of the pan. Because the cleaner is so caustic, you don’t want to use any more than is necessary so cover the bottom of the pan with a light layer. You can use a brush to ensure that it’s spread over the entire pan.While spray oven cleaners formulas are usually the most common, you can also find cream and foam formulas that may work better when you’re cleaning a scorched pan.
 In order for the oven cleaner to fully penetrate the scorched areas and loosen the film and debris, you need to let it sit on the pan for at least a half hour. Because of the fumes, it’s best to place the pan outside while the cleaner on it. Cover the pan with a lid, and set it on a table or ledge outside your home.If you don’t have any area outside that you can set the pan, open a window and set it on the window ledge.
 After the cleaner has sat on the pan for approximately a half hour, use a scrub brush or sponge to scour the pan. The scorched film and debris should lift right off. Once you’ve cleaned the pan completely, make sure to rinse it extremely well to ensure that there’s no residue from the oven cleaner left on the surface.If you’re concerned about oven cleaner residue being left behind on the pan, wipe it down with a dry towel after you’ve rinsed it initially to see if anything comes off on the towel. You should definitely rinse it again if you notice any film, though you may want to rinse it again even if the pan is clean to be safe.

