 When starting a new diet or eating pattern, it can be helpful to journal your current eating and lifestyle habits so you're aware of what changes you need to make. Note what foods and beverages you consume, plus the timing of your meals.


Purchase a journal or download a journaling app on your smartphone. Track as many days as you can. Ideally, track weekdays as well as weekend days. Many people eat slightly different on weekends compared to a more structured work day.Go beyond just jotting down the foods you eat. Make notes about how often you eat out and any patterns you see arising. For example, on a day you work late, are you more likely to stop at a fast food restaurant instead of making dinner at home?
Also note where you think you can improve or make better choices. For example, are you choosing the healthiest options possible for your meals or snacks? Do you eat a lot of frozen, processed foods or are you eating mostly home cooked meals?;
, Overeating and indulging in larger portion sizes (even of healthy foods) can lead to excess calorie intake and weight gain.Track the portion sizes of your meals and snacks to get an idea if you should decrease or maintain your serving sizes.


Decreasing portion sizes can be a simple way to cut a few calories from your day and aid in moderate weight loss.Compare your portion sizes throughout the day to the recommended standards. For example, one serving of fruit is 1/2 cup or one small whole fruit, one serving of vegetables is one cup, one serving of grains is 1 oz or 1/2 of a cup, one serving of lean protein is 3 oz and one serving of low-fat dairy is one cup (milk and yogurt) or 2 oz of cheese.A lot of grocery stores have pre-portioned tupperware to help you control your portions with less effort.
Consider investing in measuring cups or a food scale to help you accurately record your portion sizes.
Portion sizes might be an another item that you can add to your food journal.
 Monitoring your total calories each day can also give you another perspective of your diet. Knowing how many calories you generally eat on an average day can give you clues to what you can cut out of your diet to help induce weight loss.


Safe weight loss, or losing one to two pounds per week, requires you to cut out about 500 calories daily.Cutting out more than 500 calories daily or eating less than 1200 calories daily is not safe or healthy and may not result in weight loss long-term.While cutting and burning additional calories may seem like a good idea to lose weight faster, it can have very negative long-term health effects and can actually lead to long-term weight gain.
Although weight loss and healthy eating go beyond calories, it's important to be calorie aware — knowing whether or not you're eating enough calories for your body and lifestyle.
Burning additional calories through exercise is helpful but make sure that if you are exercising, you don't eat too little.
Recognize the limitations of calorie counting. Not all calories are created equal, and calorie estimates on the label can be off.Carefully counting calories also increases the stress hormone cortisol, which may lead to cravings and weight gain., About 75% of the time people overeat, it's in response to emotions.It's important to be aware of what emotions trigger you to eat and how they specifically affect your eating or lifestyle behaviors.


Take notes about your food/mood connection. For example, you may notice on days you feel more stressed, you're more likely to reach for a salty, high fat snack. Try rating your mood on a scale from 1-10 each time you start a journal entry.
Also consider the times of day or night when you have the hardest time avoiding junk food or mindless snacking. Is it late at night while you sit and watch TV? Do you crave the need for something when you are driving? Knowing what your weak points are will help you plan for ways to alter your eating habits.
 There are some commercial diets that are appropriate for safe and healthy weight loss. These might be beneficial as many programs offer a very detailed plan, recipes and support.


Choose a diet plan that does not focus on eliminating large groups of foods or entire food groups.
Look for programs that focus on monitoring portion sizes, eating a balanced diet and incorporating regular physical activity.
Examples of programs that offer safe weight loss include: a diet based on a Mediterranean style of eating; the DASH diet (great for high blood pressure); a higher protein, moderate carbohydrate diet; or a diet that focuses on balanced meals and portion sizes.
 Speaking to a doctor or registered dietitian prior to starting any new diet regimen is a smart idea. They may be able to provide you with additional guidance or recommend alternatives that might be more appropriate for your health.


Speak with your primary care doctor. She may refer you to a local dietitian for additional help.
A registered dietitian is a nutrition expert that may give you a more effective diet for weight loss. They may be able to come up with a meal plan tailored to your lifestyle that will help induce weight loss. It's also nice to visit your dietitian regularly to have some accountability through the weight loss process.
Visit the EatRight website and click on the orange "Find an Expert" button on the top right to search for a dietitian in your area.

