 A cylinder is a three-dimensional shape that has two identical flat ends that are circular in shape, and a single curved side that connects them.A can is a good example of a cylinder, so is a AA or AAA battery.
 To calculate the volume of a cylinder, you must know its height and the radius of the circular base (the distance from the center of the circle to its edge) at the top and bottom. The formula is V = πr2h, where V is the Volume, r is the radius of the circular base, h is the height, and π is the constant pi.


In some geometry problems the answer will be given in terms of pi, but in most cases it is sufficient to round pi to 3.14. Check with your instructor to find out what she would prefer.
The formula for finding the volume of a cylinder is actually very similar to that for a rectangular solid: you are simply multiplying the height of the shape by the surface area of its base. In a rectangular solid, that surface area is l * w, for the cylinder it is πr2, the area of a circle with radius r.
 If it is given in the diagram, simply use that number. If the diameter is given instead of the radius, you simply need to divide the value by 2 to get the radius (d = 2r).
 Be aware that getting precise measurement of a circular solid can be a bit tricky. One option is to measure the base of the cylinder across the top with a ruler or tape measure. Do your best to measure the width of the cylinder at its widest part, and divide that measurement by 2 to find the radius.

Another option is to measure the circumference of the cylinder (the distance around it) using a tape measure or a length of string that you can mark and then measure with a ruler. Then plug the measurement into the formula: C (circumference) = 2πr. Divide the circumference by 2π (6.28) and that will give you the radius.
For example, if the circumference you measured was 8 inches, the radius would be 1.27in.
If you need a really precise measurement, you might use both methods to make sure that your measurements are similar. If they are not, double check them. The circumference method will usually yield more accurate results.
 Plug the radius of the base into the formula πr2. Then multiply the radius by itself one time, and then multiply the product by π. For example:


If the radius of the circle is equal to 4 inches, the area of the base will be A = π42.
42 = 4 * 4, or 16. 16 * π (3.14) = 50.24 in2

If the diameter of the base is given instead of the radius, remember that d = 2r. You simply need to divide the diameter in half to find the radius.
 This is simply the distance between the two circular bases, or the distance from the surface the cylinder is resting on to its top. Find the label in your diagram that indicates the height of the cylinder, or measure the height with a ruler or tape measure.
 Or you can save a step and simply plug the values for the cylinder's dimensions into the formula V = πr2h. For our example cylinder with radius 4 inches and height 10 inches:


V = π4210
π42 = 50.24
50.24 * 10 = 502.4
V = 502.4

, Our example cylinder was measured in inches, so the volume must be expressed in cubic inches: V = 502.4in3. If our cylinder had been measured in centimeters, the volume would be expressed in cubic centimeters (cm3).

