 Men tend to interpret friendly and talkative women as flirty.Find excuses to chat with them when they are not busy. Some things you can try:


Talk about hobbies, interests, and plans outside of work. "Any big plans for the weekend? I've been dying to see this new movie myself."
Praise their recent accomplishments or awards: "I heard you just received an award! Any plans to celebrate?"
Ask them about current projects by saying, "Hey, how is that current project going? Are you hanging in there?";
, If your coworker makes a joke or says something even slightly funny, laugh. Laughing is a gentle way of flirting. It should not feel forced, nor should it seem as though you are laughing at your coworker.
 Appreciate the work that they do around the office, and praise them for their strengths. You want to make sure that you are appreciating their skills, abilities, and personality instead of their looks. Some good, flirty compliments include:


"Great job on that last presentation. You'll have to give me some tips."
"Thanks for helping with that last project. You make my life so much easier around here."
"You have such good ideas. How do you come up with them?"
Be extremely careful with workplace compliments. If it seems as though the recipient is awkward or uncomfortable, stop immediately.
 Asking people to help you can increase their self-esteem and confidence, which encourages them to flirt back with you.It also shows that you appreciate their strengths in a work-friendly manner. It can even encourage them to spend more time with you. Some ways you try this include:


"Hey, you're good with technology, right? Can you help me with my computer?"
"Do you mind listening to me practice my presentation? I'd love to get your feedback on this."
"Can you help me lock up tomorrow night?"

, Find excuses to drop by their desk. Perhaps you have a question about your project. Perhaps their desk is close to the coffee maker. As you pass by, make eye contact and ask them about their day.


Walk by their desk, and try to catch their eye. If they look up at you, smile and ask, "how's your day been?" or "Are you hanging in there?"
You can also ask, "how is the work going? Do you want to take a coffee break?" This gives them the opportunity to start a conversation if they are interested.
Do not interrupt your coworker if they look as though they are busy with something else. Instead of being flirty, you might only annoy them.
 You may be feeling bolder, or you want to make the next step in your relationship. Instead of asking them to drinks or dinner, which can be too formal, try asking them if they would like to grab something to eat over your lunch break. Coffee is also a great way to bond with your coworker.


A good way to ask is to just say, "Hey, we should catch up over lunch. Do you want to grab a bite to eat somewhere?"

, Your first priority at work is to do your job. Be warned that flirting at work can get you in trouble if someone complains. If your coworker seems uncomfortable or asks you to stop, do not continue flirting with them. Give them space by only talking to them about work-related matters for a few weeks.


Before you make any moves whatsoever, review your workplace sexual harassment rules, as well as rules about relationships in the workplace. You can also talk to someone in the HR department if you have any further questions.
Make workplace friendly jokes that have no sexual innuendo.
Never flirt with your boss. They are in a position of power, and any flirting can cause professional difficulties for both of you. It is best to flirt with coworkers on your pay grade.
Do not flirt with a coworker who is married or in a relationship. Even if a married coworker enjoys your flirting, you are putting both of you in a difficult situation.

