 Bacteria are known to produce common compounds associated with foot odor.Scrub your feet in the shower and dry them afterwards. You can also apply an antibacterial foot spray or foot powder to reduce scent producing bacteria.


Don't forget the areas in between your toes! These areas are more likely to hold moisture and heat and, as a result, have a higher chance of containing bacteria.
Applying hand sanitizers to your feet is another option to help kill bacteria.
 A small amount (1 oz) of bleach per gallon of water is thought to help kill bacteria on your feet after a 5 to 10 minute soak. Some other common home remedies include:


Vinegar water. For every quart of water add 1/2 cup vinegar. Soak for 15 minutes and rinse with water afterwards.
Salt water. Add half a cup of salt for every quart of water, and soak your feet for 15 minutes. Don't rinse with water and just dry your feet after the soak.
Aluminum acetate soak. Combine 1 packet Domeboro powder or 2 tablespoons of Burow's solution with a pint of water and soak your feet for 10 to 20 minutes. Rinse with water afterwards.
 Cotton and wool socks drastically reduce the moisture absorbed by your shoes. Additionally, they are significantly easier than shoes to clean and change after each use. Washing socks between each wear is important, as it keeps smelly bacteria from growing.


When you wash your socks, turn them inside out to ensure that all of the dead skin gets washed out.
If you must re-wear a pair of socks prior to washing, put some baking soda in them overnight to reduce moisture and bacteria that cause bad odors.
 The extra time sitting on the shelf will allow your shoes to dry out and stop bacteria from growing. You can aid this process by removing the insoles, or drying your shoes with a specialized shoe dryer.
 Athletic style shoes that are meant to handle water and moisture are usually fine to wash in the washing machine. If you get your shoes particularly sweaty or wet from athletic activity or outdoor adventures, washing your shoes is definitely a good option.


Don't wash nice shoes, like dress shoes or loafers, as they are likely to degrade and fall apart.
 Cooler feet means less sweat, which translates to less smell. Not only will the increased air flow reduce moisture around your feet, but it will also lower the temperature, leading to less favorable breeding grounds for bacteria.
 Many deodorants are available for both your feet and shoes. Some common examples work by trapping odor-causing molecules and absorbing moisture from the feet, socks, and shoes.


Baby powder is also commonly used as a foot and shoe deodorant and moisture remover.
Don't let your feet dry and crack. While getting rid of foot odor is important, you may need to occasionally apply moisturizing lotion to prevent your skin from cracking.
 If you use underarm antiperspirant or deodorant, grab a spare stick and apply to your feet before you go to sleep. Similar to applying on your underarms, this should reduce the moisture produced by your feet and help cover up some of the odor.


Make sure your feet are dry before applying deodorant or antiperspirant.
 Astringents are compounds which absorb moisture from the cells. Some good examples are mineral salts like potassium alum, witch hazel, or talcum powder. These compounds can be slightly irritating, but are well-known household remedies for body odor and sweat.
 There are plenty of tools, like pumice stones and foot files, that can be used to regularly remove dead skin. Though there is not a scientific consensus, it is generally believed that some common odor-causing bacteria feed on dead skin.

