 If you haven't updated Snapchat in a while, you'll want to grab the latest version so that you have access to the Chat 2.0 features, which includes free voice calling. This feature was introduced in version 9.27.0.0, released March 2016. You can update your Snapchat app from your device's app store.


Voice calls are not available in all areas.;
, You can make a voice call directly from the chat screen. You can only make calls to other Snapchat users.


Open your recent chats by swiping from left to right, or by tapping the box in the lower-right corner.
Swipe a chat from left to right to open it, or tap the "New Chat" button in the upper-right corner and select the person you want to call.
 You may be warned that calls will use Wi-Fi or mobile data. The call will be placed and the recipient will receive a notification that they are being called. If they have notifications enabled for Snapchat, they'll be notified no matter what they're doing. If they don't have notifications enabled, they'll only see the incoming call if they're using Snapchat at the time.


If you get a "Busy 😫" message, the recipient is unable to answer a call at this time.
 The recipient will have the option to either just listen, or join the conversation completely. If they choose to listen, they'll be able to hear you but you won't be able to hear them.


If you're receiving a call, you can tap "Listen" to just listen to their audio, "Join" to make it a two-way conversation, or "Ignore" to ignore the call.
 Snapchat will automatically switch to speaker phone when you hold the phone away from your face. Bring it up to your face to return to regular call mode.
 The other person will have the option to just watch or join completely.
 This doesn't actually cut the connection. You'll still be able to hear the other person until they hang up or you exit the chat. Exiting the chat will happen if you switch to any other screen in Snapchat or switch to a different app.
 If the other person isn't available, or if you just want to send an audio note, you can leave a brief audio message in the chat by pressing and holding the Phone button. After recording the note, it will be sent to the chat conversation and the other person will be able to listen to it when they open the chat.