 You will need at least six months to gather all of the appropriate documentation. Resist the temptation to just hop on a plane to Italy with your fiancé. It is unlikely you will be able to have a legally binding ceremony if you don't have the proper documentation.;
, Most civil and religious ceremonies have restrictions on location. Catholic ceremonies must be conducted in a church and civil ceremonies must often be conducted in a town hall.


While a town hall might sound like a boring, clinical setting, many of them are located in beautiful castles, villas or palaces. The Palazzo Municipale in Ferraro or the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence with its striking Sala Rossa are notable spots. If you have your heart set on an outdoor ceremony, check with the local mayor or deputy to see if they will perform the ceremony in your desired park or outdoor destination., While the general laws of marriage apply in the same ways all over Italy, certain towns may have fewer requirements than others. Once you decide on a location, contact the registry of the local town hall for their specific requirements.A list of all of the town halls in Italy is available at Ancitel.it , If you do not have a valid passport, then you will need to apply for a new one or renew your existing one. You will need to allow at least six weeks to receive your new passport, so complete your application right away., Both you and your partner will need to have your original birth certificates in hand to get married in Italy. If you do not have the original copies, then obtain them as soon as possible., If applicable, you will need to prove that any prior marriages have been legally dissolved. This might require you to obtain a divorce decree, an annulment decree, or the death certificate of your late spouse if you have been widowed.You will need the original copies of these documents as well.Some citizens may also need to swear a Nulla Osta to be allowed to marry.For example, citizens of Australia must swear a Nulla Osta at the Australian Embassy in Rome or at the Australian Consulate in Milan. The Nulla Osta is a sworn statement that you are legally allowed to marry someone., The Atto Nottario is a declaration where you affirm that you have no obstacle (such as a pending divorce) to getting married in Italy. You might find it easier to get this done at an Italian Embassy in your home country before you leave for your wedding rather than at your country’s Consulate General office or the Embassy in Italy. There are some things to keep in mind as you complete the Atto Nottario, such as:The declaration must be sworn by two witnesses. The witnesses must be at least 18 years old, they must know both you and your spouse, and they cannot be family members or future in-laws. Think of asking friends, fellow church members, or co-workers to serve as your witnesses., If you decide to get an Atto Nottario in Italy, you must do so at the closest Notary Office to the location of your wedding. You must also have two witnesses (non-family members both over 18 years old). If either you, your spouse, or even one of your two witnesses does not speak Italian, then you must also hire an interpreter to be present at the notarization.You will also need to provide evidence of your legal presence in Italy, such as a plane ticket, a visa or a permit to stay.
You must also procure two revenue stamps (costing 16 euros each) and one additional stamp costing 10,62 euros. These lower cost stamps will require four to ten days to process and then pick up for your notarization. If you need the stamps issued on-the-spot, then you will need to buy the same two stamps costing 16 euros each and a third stamp costing 30,86 euros.
Make your appointment for the Atto Nottario well in advance. If you only have a limited amount of time in Italy, then you need to make sure you have this appointment lined up before going.
 You will do this in the Marriage Office belonging to the town hall where you intend to get married in Italy. You will need all of the above documentation in order to do this.


For Italian citizens and residents of Italy, civil banns are posted for at least two weeks after they submit their Declaration to Marry. They cannot have a civil ceremony before these postings have occurred.
But for international visitors to Italy, the banns requirement might be waived or shortened to a length ranging from one day to one week. Contact the local town hall where you plan to get married to find out if they waiver the banns requirement for international visitors., If you are interested in a civil ceremony, then this will be performed by the mayor of the town or one of his deputies in Italy. Contact the town hall in the city where you plan to get married to make these arrangements., You must have two witnesses with you who are over 18 years old. They can be of any nationality and they must have valid, unexpired photo identification (like a passport or driver's license).A member of your wedding party or a family member can serve as a witness.
 Unless all members of your wedding party speak Italian, you will need to hire an interpreter. You cannot have one of your witnesses play the part of an interpreter as well. You must hire someone who is not part of the wedding party to interpret for those who do not speak Italian., If you have a civil ceremony, then you will need to have the ceremony in the town hall and pay a rental fee for it. This fee can range in price from 500 euros to 9,200 euros., A religious ceremony in Italy is only considered legally binding if it is in the Catholic Church. The priest who performs your ceremony will register your paperwork with the local town hall.If you have a religious ceremony at a different house of worship, then you will need to have an additional civil ceremony.
Keep in mind that the Vatican is a separate state from Italy, so the same rules and regulations may not apply to a religious ceremony conducted there.The Catholic Church will not perform your wedding if either you or your spouse has been previously divorced in the Catholic Church. If you were previously married and divorced, but not in the Catholic church (i.e. your previous marriage was performed by a justice of the peace or in another faith), then you can get married in the Catholic church after filing a Lack of Form and paying a $50 fee to process it.If you wish to get married by the Catholic Church in Italy, you must produce certificates of your baptism, first communion and confirmation. These must be stamped by your local Bishop's office prior to coming to Italy.
 To get married in a Catholic church in Italy, you will need to provide a letter of Declaration from your local priest stating that you and your future spouse are active members of your church. This letter must be written on the letterhead of your parish to be considered valid.Your priest can also provide proof that you have completed any pre-cana classes with your spouse.
The Bishop of your parish must provide a NHIL OBSTAT letter. This letter affirms that you have no impediment to getting married in the Catholic church in Italy. It should also include the name of the church in Italy and the date you intend to get married.
 The Bishop of your parish must also approve the Prenuptial Inquiry Form. This is a questionnaire issued by your archdiocese's office (not your local priest) and it asks a range of questions concerning your personal data and religious history. This form must also be written on parish letterhead and it must be signed and stamped by the Bishop's office., The Declaration from your priest and the NHIL OBSTAT and Prenuptial Inquiry Form from your Bishop must be sent in their original form for approval by the Italian Curia in order for you to have a Catholic wedding in Italy. However, most of these documents expire after three months. Send these no earlier than three months before your wedding but no later than one month before the date.Talk to the priest in Italy about the best address to send these documents to. You should send them with a tracking number provided by FedEx or a similar service.Most Italian churches will translate these documents for you into Italian. However, you should check with your priest in Italy to make sure they provide this service.
If you are Catholic but your future spouse is not, you can still get married in the church, but your Bishop will need to include a stamped and signed "Permission of Mixed Religion" form along with other documentation., Keep in mind that because the cost of attending a destination wedding is high, many of your friends and family will not be able to afford to come to your wedding. Therefore, you may want to plan on having a small, more intimate affair.


Try to give your guests plenty of notice (10-12 months) so they can look for good deals on airfare or plan to set aside extra expenses for a trip to Europe.
If you have friends or relatives that you want to be in your bridal party, make sure you tell them you are having a wedding in Italy prior to asking them to be in your wedding. That way, they won't agree to be your bridesmaid or groomsmen, but then back out due to financial or time constraints., If you are planning a wedding in a popular tourist destination in Italy during the high travel season (summer), then you should try to book a block of hotel rooms at least 10-12 months before your wedding. This will ensure you get enough space to meet your guests' needs while also allowing you to get the best rates.If you are having a smaller party of guests, consider renting an entire villa or cabin that you can all stay in together. You can often find great deals on AirBnB, VRBO or HomeAway.
 Italy can be very hot in July and August. It might not be the best climate for a heavy satin ball gown or a stuffy topcoat and tails. Inform your guests that they should also prepare for the heat if you are hosting your wedding during this time., A planner will be a helpful asset, especially if you won't be able to travel to Italy prior to your wedding in order to plan it. The planner will know the best vendors in the area and she will also be able to easily communicate with them in Italian.The wedding planner will be able to recommend vendors for food, music, lighting, florists, linens, etc. All of these are key elements to making your guests comfortable. Her or she will be your eyes on the ground when you can't be there.
If you are not using a wedding planner, make sure you do lots of research on-line about your vendors before hiring them. Check their web sites for portfolios of their work and read reviews of them on-line.
 Airfare will be a major expense for yourself and your guests if you are traveling overseas. Once you have a date set for your ceremony, you should start looking for tickets. Use price comparison sites like Kayak and try looking for sales on Tuesdays or Sundays -- studies have shown these are the best dates to find deals.If you see an excellent deal on airfare, be sure to notify your guests of this. Consider making an email group or text group so you can quickly tell them about good deals.
 Once you all actually arrive for the joyous event, make welcome bags for your guests. You can include items like a timeline of the wedding events (rehearsal dinner, ceremony, reception, post-wedding brunch) maps, pamphlets of local sightseeing attractions, and menus from nearby restaurants or cafes, and pieces of your favorite Italian chocolate or candy.You can also include more practical things like sunscreen (a necessity in Italy), sunglasses, a sheet with common Italian sayings or phrases, bugspray, etc., While you will have lots of responsibilities to juggle during the days leading up to the wedding, make sure you spend quality time with your guests. They have taken a long and expensive trip to celebrate with you.Try planning a couple of group outings, such as a wine tasting at a nearby vineyard or a picnic at a local lake. This will give you the chance to interact with your guests even if you are very busy on the actual wedding day.

