 FHA loans are insured by the Federal Housing Admission. They are a popular option for people will poor credit scores as the qualifications tend to be more relaxed.Your credit score must be 580 or higher to qualify for a down of 3.5%. If your score is between 500 and 579, your down payment will be 10%.If your credit score is below 500, you are probably ineligible. However, if you have non-traditional credit history or insufficient credit you may still qualify for a loan.;
, If you are a US veteran, you might qualify for a loan through the Department of Veteran's Affairs.


VA loans are generally provided by private lenders, but a portion of the loan is provided by the VA. This means the lender will offer you more favorable terms.To qualify, you need to provide evidence that you served in the military, such as a DD-214 reflecting nothing less than an honorable discharge. The amount of your loan, and your eligibility, depends on the length of your service and your service commitment.Note that you may be eligible also if you serve(d) a minimum of six years in the Reserves and/or National Guards.
VA loans do not have precise minimum credit score standards., This program provides incentive for people to settle in less developed parts of the country, so if you live in a rural area it might be a good option for you.The house you are purchasing must be in an eligible rival or suburban area (generally under 20,000 residents), as defined by the USDA. A listing of eligible areas if found on the USDA website.While there is no precise credit score minimum, there are certain income requirements depending on the number of people in your household and where your home is located.If you're not in a rural area and want a similar loan program, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development has a state-by-state list of programs on the website, and you can scan this list to find specific assistance programs in your area., Government programs can help you find a home despite a lower credit score, but there are certain drawbacks you should be aware of before enlisting.


Loans can carry additional fees. Read all the paperwork carefully and, if you don't understand anything, consult a legal professional. FHA, for example, require an upfront mortgage insurance premium of 1.74% of the loan value, and also a higher annual premium based on a variety of factors. USDA loans have 2% premium and a variety of added fees.Such loans are also better applied for if your bad credit is due to a one-time issue, such as job loss or medical bills. If you have perpetual problems with money and payment, it's easy to get in over your head. You might want to reconsider home ownership for a few years.