 One of the most preventable ways to avoid being nervous at school is by staying up to date with your homework. Depending on whether you're going to elementary school, high school or university, you may get a lot or a little bit of homework to wade through each night. It's important to get this work done as soon as possible. If you leave it off, you'll pay for it in stress the next day. It's recommended you finish your homework as soon as you get home. That way, you can relax for the rest of the night without having to worry about anything.


Make a habit of regularly studying the course material on your own time. Pop quizzes are a big source of stress for some people. If you have confidence in your understanding of the material, you'll have no reason to fear tests or quizzes.
Procrastination is a primary cause of nervousness and anxiety.The longer you procrastinate something, the more daunting a task it ends up seeming like.;
, If you find your class goes too fast for you to comfortably keep up, it's a handy trick to look into the class subject the night or morning before you head to school. Most post-secondary courses will have a syllabus you can check from week to week. You can always ask your teacher what the next days' subjects will be in advance. By Google searching the subject or reading up on it via Wikipedia, you'll be a step ahead of the rest and better able to relax.
 For a lot of people, school stress occurs well before they get to the school itself. Rushing out the door in the morning is enough to get anyone's blood boiling. Pack your backpack the night before and leave it by the door. That way, you'll be able to take it a bit easier in the morning. That way, when you get to school, you'll feel refreshed instead of stressed out from the way the day started.


Alternatively, waking up ten minutes early can make all the difference for your morning.
 Sleep deprivation is closely linked to irritability and depression. If you feel you're being stretched too thin, it's possible that you're not getting enough sleep to properly rejuvenate your body. Try to go to bed at a time that will give you time to sleep the full amount you need and still have time left over to get ready in the morning.


Kids and teenagers generally need 9 hours of sleep per day, while adults suffice with 8., Even if your school day goes by amazingly, you're not likely to feel very good if you're on an empty stomach. Breakfast is a necessary part of giving your body energy for the day. You should aim for a healthy, well-rounded meal. Sugary cereals will risk a sugar crash later on in the day.


Oatmeal, eggs and whole grain cereal are good bets for breakfast.
 If you find yourself rushed in the morning, it's going to stress you out before you even get to school. Although no one likes being at school longer than they need to be, leaving 5-10 minutes earlier than you regularly would will give you time to relax before cracking open the textbooks.


Take a look at your transport options. Getting a ride or driving is obviously best. Instead of taking the bus or walking, consider organizing some sort of carpool.
 However, having too much of it can cause bad anxiety and irritability. The amount you should limit yourself to depends on your age and size. Teens should stick with 1-2 cups of coffee in the morning, while pre-teens should do without it completely., If you're already at school, being late for classes is usually totally preventable. Whether between classes or during lunch break, try to keep yourself aware of the time. Having to rush to classes or come in late will bring a lot of unnecessary stress into the equation. If you're new to the school, you should try to figure out approximately how long it takes to get you from one place to another.


If for whatever reason you are late, you should make a point of apologizing to the teacher and asking him for anything you might have missed. This will help minimize the fallout from the lateness.
 School can be made a thousand times more enjoyable if you have a group of friends to spend the time with. Even if you don't have friends at your school, striking up a conversation with a classmate sitting next to you can be great. The vast majority of people in your classes would probably love the chance to have a conversation with someone new.


Of course, this can be easier said than done for someone if they're typically shy. Because nervousness and stress can be a root cause of social anxiety, you may find it's a good idea to eliminate other stressors so that you feel more confident with others.
Remember-- a smile and pleasant eye contact can say just as much as a "Hello".
 The lunch break is probably the only time during the school day where you have a lot of freedom to do what you want. You should take the opportunity to do something productive and worthwhile. If you're nervous it may seem like a good idea to hide yourself away. Unfortunately, unless you really feel like you need the rest, the idle time will probably just intensify your feelings of anxiety. Whether it's attending a school club or going for a run around the track, you want to keep yourself in action.


Don't stray too far from your school, and follow the teacher's rules if you're in elementary school. Lunch hour may feel like a long time, but it disappears fast if you're travelling.
 This is an easy trap to fall into if you're naturally shy. Luckily however, there should be lots of things going on at your school that you could join to fit in. If there's a soccer tryout and you like sports, you could stand to make a lot of lifelong friends by joining.
 Teachers aren't just there to give out information. They're there as an authority figure away from home, to help to shape you into the adult you'll become. Many schools have on-call counsellors, which can be a great deal of help if you're going through some emotional issues.


It will probably feel weird opening up about your feelings to an adult. Fortunately, there's nothing they haven't heard before, and will have your best interests and well-being at heart.
 A lot of anxiety is tied to the perception of time.It's common knowledge that the mind perceives time more slowly if you're constantly aware of it. Even if the school day is dragging on, you should do what you can to make the most of your experience there. Even if you're in detention, there are always things you can do to enrich your experience.


If you want, you can use time-checking as a little reward to keep you productive throughout the day. For instance, if you're in the middle of working on a big essay, you should tell yourself you'll check the clock after every page.
 Although this isn't done overnight, it's a slow process of choosing the positive in every thing and situation. For instance, if you're worried that you don't know anyone at the school you're going to, try to interpret it as a chance to make a bunch of new friends instead. It's difficult, but it is possible.
 Challenging these nasty thoughts and reminding yourself that they only have as much power as you give them can make all the difference in a struggle with depression or nervousness.


Learn to distinguish irrational thoughts from real concerns. Real concerns are anything that has a real solution. Irrational fears should be ignored. Even though they might try to get you to cave, it's in your power to turn a deaf ear to your darker side. A real concern may be an upcoming exam for a course you're struggling with, to which the solution would be to study for it. On the other hand, an irrational fear would be something along the lines of "Everyone hates me. I will never make friends." Even if you sincerely believe a statement like this, there is no way you could ever know the way so many people feel. It is not a problem with clear evidence or a specific solution, and so it should be dismissed as irrational.
 Go see your doctor and list out the symptoms and severity of your anxiety. From there, he should be able to offer a medication that's specialized to your needs.


Medications affect different people differently. Just because one doesn't work doesn't mean another won't succeed. You may need to try out a few medications before you find one that really fits.
SSRIs and other anti-depressants are taken daily and will help your brain produce serotonin and dopamine over time.
Anti-anxiety medication like Ativan is fast-acting, and generally used to combat a growing anxiety attack.
 Sometimes taking a minute or two to yourself outside can make all the difference. If you find somewhere quiet to recollect yourself, you'll be able to compose yourself without having to worry about people looking at you.


Remember to ask your teacher for permission to leave if you're currently in a class.
 Even though other people may seem to be having an easier time adjusting to the school environment, it doesn't mean that other people aren't feeling the same things you are. Understanding that what you're going through is totally okay is an important step in getting through it. Don't let yourself think that you're the odd one out in this situation. Going to school offers plenty of opportunities. All you have to do is go out and grab them.

