 If anyone is at all is uncomfortable with the fight, the choreography, or on-set safety, they need a way to instantly end it. Since "stop!" is something that people often shout during fights, you want a unique word that will cause everyone to immediately end the fight.


Safety is paramount when staging fake fights-- while there should be no actual contact, there is a real chance of injury if someone misses a cue or maneuver., This is incredibly important for everyone's safety. You may know that a knife is a prop, but that doesn't mean the rest of the cast, crew, or passerby will know that. Any scene with a fake weapon should be broadcast to everyone around.


If in a public place, consider sticking someone on the street to intercept and warn passerby.
If the police show up, do not try to convince them the weapon is fake immediately. Drop the weapon, put your hands up, and explain once you are asked.
 For example, Kim is on the left of the screen and Ron is on the right, and Kim needs to punch Ron with her left hand. Kim could throw a hook around Ron's jaw, but to dodge him she'd have to pass by his nose, leaving a ton of empty air in front of him. To fix this, Kim could throw a straight punch, coming across his face and past Ron's ear, meaning the camera sees no empty space between the punch and Ron's face.


Alternatively, put the camera behind Kim's shoulder. This way she can throw the hook in front of Ron's nose without anyone noticing she never actually hit him., Place tape on the ground that lets the actors know where they need to land each motion in order to be in the shot. This takes away the guesswork for each move and helps keep everyone safe -- you can be assured, for example, that the puncher stays six inches away from the one getting hit.


Make sure these marks don't let the actors get blinded by lights or, even worse, put them in a place to slip on fake blood or something else on set.
If you need to shoot down low and can see the floor, use the marks for rehearsal and only remove them once you're ready to shoot., Don't try and capture everything at once -- it will be impossible. Instead, cover each fighter individually. If you have multiple cameras, you can often do this at once. However, one camera works too. Returning to Kim and Ron, get every one of Kim's punches 2-3 times, using slightly different angles. Then get Ron's reaction 2-3 times as well.


This allows the editor to cut from Kim's punch to Ron's stumble backwards, helping hide the fact that Kim never actually hits Ron at all., A handheld camera will naturally shake, and you can quickly pivot it when needed. This allows you to "hide" the fake punches so that no one can tell that they didn't actually hit, and the shakiness lends the scene a frantic, high-energy feel. That said, do not intentionally shake the camera -- it will be far too wild to see anything. Just let your natural movement add a little bit of wobble to the shot., Great fight choreographers like Bruce Lee can get away with wide camera angles because they have the timing and athleticism to make every motion convincing. Most fight scenes, however, stay up close for any actual "contact" because it minimizes the distance you need to cheat with fake punches. Furthermore, tight angles make viewers feel like they are right in the middle of the action.


Good chances to go wide are choreographed bits where no one actually gets hit -- such as sections where both fighters dodge several blows in a row.
 If you're throwing a character, you'll want some pillows to land on. But you don't want these pillows in the shot. Once your fight is choreographed, come up with novel camera angles to hide the essential equipment.


If a character slams into a wall, shoot from behind them so that the actor's body hides the safety pad.
For the throw, a common choice is to shoot up at the person, so they fall towards the camera and land out of frame below it.