 The placement of the hooks depends on the orientation of your rug. Determine which edge of the rug will be the top.
 The hooks should be made with strong fabrics, such as heavy cotton, linen, or cotton twill rug binding. Cut the fabric into rectangles. The width should be about 2/3 wider than the width of your rod.To find the length of the hooks, wrap the fabric around the rod. Press the fabric snugly around the rod with your finger. There should be an inch or two between the top of the hook and where the fabric fits snugly against the rod.
Fold the pieces of fabric vertically into thirds.
 This is the hook for the rod, so the rod should be able to slide in easily. At this stage, the hook will be loose around the rod.


Now that the rod is in the hooks, press the fabric snug around the rod. Mark this line on the hook with a pen or marker.
 These locations will be where the hooks are sewn into the rug. Make sure to place them close enough together that the rug is adequately supported on the wall.


Use straight pins to hold the hooks into place on the rug until you sew it into the rug.
 Make sure to only sew into the back of the rug, so that the stitch doesn't show on the front of the rug.


The hook should be towards the top of the rug, while the sewn edge should be towards the interior of the rug. When the rug hangs, the hook should not be folded over itself., One by one, slide the rod into the newly sewn hooks. The rod should easily fit into the pockets, though they may be snug.
 Most rods come with mounting hardware that can be attached to the wall with a couple of screws. Determine where you want the rug to be hung in the room before you place the hooks.


Measure the length of the rod on the back of your rug. You want the rod to be mounted at each end.
Mark the placement of one of the rug mounts. Use a tape measure to measure the length of the rug you found earlier. Mark that location on the wall. Before drilling the mounts into the wall, use a level to make sure the two hooks are even.
If your mount attaches to the wall using screws, use a drill to attach the mounts.
 The rod should easily fit on the rod hooks.


If you would like to secure the bottom of the rug, follow the same steps to sew hooks into the bottom of the rug and attach the rod mounts to the wall.

