 One of the main reasons potato dishes can be unhealthy or high in calories is the use of high calorie dairy products. Limit these to help make your potato dishes healthier.


Butter definitely pairs well with potatoes. But monitor how much you use as one tablespoon racks up 100 calories.Go for a drizzle of olive oil instead for some heart healthy fats.
Also beware of using too much cheese. 1/4 cup of shredded cheddar can end up to be an extra 110 calories.Try limiting how much cheese you use or consider sprinkling on some nutritional yeast for a low calorie, yet cheesy tasting alternative.
Sour cream is also another source of a lot of calories. Just two tablespoons is about 50 calories.Go for yogurt over the sour cream so you have the added benefit of extra protein.
 Many tasty potato dishes contain a lot of salt. Anything from french fries to potato chips or crispy potato skins can end up being quite high in sodium as well as calories or fat.If you're making your own homemade french fries or potato chips, be mindful of how much salt you add. Salt sticks well to the outside of "just-cooked" foods. Sprinkle on 1 teaspoon of salt for 4 servings of chips or fries.
You may also want to consider using some salt-free seasonings mixes or blends. They can add a lot of flavor without any of the sodium.
Another good seasoning option is a mix of smoked paprika or a dusting of cayenne pepper for a little smoky spice.
 Although many of your favorite potato dishes may have a salty, savory flavor, there are plenty of potato dishes that have a sweet flavor.


Holiday potato dishes especially, can be high in in sugar and calories (instead of the typical salt). Whether it's marshmallows or brown sugar, be wary of these sweet side dishes.
Calories in sweet potato casserole with marshmallows and brown sugar can get to over 400 calories per serving.Keep sweet toppings to a minimum. Use just a few marshmallows or a dusting of brown sugar instead of larger amounts to help minimize these sweet toppings.

