 First, choose if you want a specific toy breed or just want to go with a mix of breeds. Think about how much time you have to play with your dog, and the kind of space you have available.Affenpinschers, Cavalier King Charles Spaniels, and Yorkshire Terriers make great lap dogs and are among the most popular toy breeds. Chihuahuas and Maltese are affectionate and playful, but also make great alarm systems because of their fearlessness and yipping.
Some toy breeds, like Italian Greyhounds and Miniature Pinschers, have high activity levels. You’ll need to take them on lots of walks and find spaces for them to sprint, especially if you live in an apartment or don’t have a yard.;
, Toy breeds and other small dogs aren't the best choice if you have a toddler or small child. Even though their intentions might be playful, younger children can be too rough for a fragile toy breed.Also consider the amount of free time you have. Most toy breeds are affectionate lap dogs that love to be with their owners and don't do well during long periods of isolation. Think about whether you'll have time to train and socialize a puppy, or if an older dog that might have health issues would require medical care out of your budget.
 While most toy dogs are happy and healthy, a variety of health problems are common in these breeds. Monitor your dog or potential dog for signs of shoulder, knee, and hip problems, like limping, hesitance, or obvious pain when walking or jumping.Toy breeds are prone to gum diseases, so you'll need to brush their teeth at least three times a week.
Your dog's vet can also monitor your dog for signs of common heart and liver problems.
 A breed rescue group is one of the best places to adopt a dog of a specific breed. For example, you can search online for “Yorkshire Terrier breed rescue groups near” wherever you live.


If you live in the United States, you can also check the American Kennel Club website for a substantial list of breed rescue groups organized by breed., Check out your local shelters and look around for toy breeds or mixes. You can find a local shelter’s contact information online or in your phone book. Give them a call and find out if they have specific hours during which you can drop by to see the dogs.In the United States, you can also find your local shelters by entering your zip code into the search tool on The Shelter Project: http://theshelterpetproject.org/shelters/


, Whether you adopt your dog or purchase it from a breeder, there should be some form of contract or paperwork involved. It should discuss any spay or neuter agreement you’ve made, as well as any adoption or vaccination fees you’re responsible for paying.It should also include instructions on how to care for your dog, and information about any specific health requirements.
Make sure you understand whether you’ll be responsible for providing vaccinations, initial veterinary exams, and spaying or neutering. Some shelters will provide assistance with these or waive adoption fees during certain times of the year.
 Put away anything that you wouldn’t want your new dog to chew or destroy, since it might not be familiar yet with your house rules. Try to move electrical cords out of view or make them inaccessible for a curious new dog that loves to chew.Remember that toy breeds are typically fragile, so make sure all furniture, lamps, knick-knacks, and other household objects are secure and won't fall onto the dog.
Keep houseplants, which might be toxic, out of chewing range.
Consider using baby gates to cut off areas without closing doors that you don’t want your new dog to enter.
Put the toilet lid down.
 Before taking the dog home, ask the shelter or rescue group what they’ve been feeding the dog. Try to keep its diet consistent, and stick with what it’s been eating if the brand is affordable and matches your standards.If you want to switch up its food, go with food marked for toy breeds and, if applicable, for puppies. You can also discuss its diet with your dog’s vet during the initial exam.
 Go to your local pet store for a breed-appropriate collar. Consider having tags made with your contact information and the dog’s name, if you’ve already given it one.While you’re at the pet store, grab a leash and a few toys, like a ball, chew bone, and plush toys. It’s important to offer your dog designated things for chewing so it learns to stay away from your socks and shoes.
 Your dog will need a safe, comfortable place, like a dog bed or pile of blankets. Consider investing in a size-appropriate crate and crate train your dog, especially if it’s a puppy.Since they’re den animals, dogs can actually find lots of comfort in a crate, as long as you don’t use the crate as a form of punishment.
If you have a short-haired breed, like an Italian Greyhound, consider investing in a bed with a hood. These are designed for dogs that might need a little extra warmth.
 Since their teeth are so sensitive to disease, you'll need a small dog toothbrush. Alternatively, you can use gauze to clean your dog's teeth. Never use human toothpaste, as fluoride toothpaste can upset your dog's stomach.Use either water to clean your dog's teeth or a toothpaste from your local pet store that's marked for dogs.
Chew toys and rawhide that's marked for dental can also help prevent oral diseases.
 If you find the temperature outside cold, so will your short-haired toy. Invest in a breed-specific jacket that will help keep your dog warm when you take it out for walks during cold weather. You can find jackets marked for specific breeds online or at your local pet store.Try to avoid jackets that cover the legs or otherwise restrict movement.
 You should invest in a dog carrier, since your first few months of dog ownership will probably involve trips to the vet for an initial exam and, perhaps, for spaying or neutering. You might also want to take it to the homes of family and friends to show off your new friend.You should always travel with your dog in a carrier, with one exception. If its first trip in a car is when you take your new dog home for the first time, you should have someone hold it in a towel or blanket to help calm it.
 First, to prevent any accidents on the car ride, put its leash on and take it outside to go to the bathroom. If the dog has never been in a car before, it will likely experience anxiety and motion sickness. You should have someone hold it in a blanket or towel to distract and soothe it.Toys have small bladders and you might need to stop on the way home, depending on the length of the car ride. Remember to avoid areas that other dogs frequent if your new dog has not yet been vaccinated or if its vaccines aren't yet active.   

, If you have already have a dog or other pet, introduce them by taking it slow and by first using scent articles. Then, keeping them leashed, consider introducing them through a baby gate. Otherwise, show your new dog where its food, water, and bed are located, and give it time to adjust and explore its new home.Remember toys are usually fragile, so never leave it alone with your resident dog or younger child.
 Ask friends or family members who own pets for a recommendation. You can also ask the shelter or breed group for a referral to a good vet. A breed group can be a great way to find a vet who’s especially familiar with your dog’s specific breed.If you have a few good recommendations, look up their hours and cost. Choose the vet that’s well-recommended, cost-effective, and most convenient for your location and schedule.
 If the shelter or rescue group hasn’t already, get your dog vaccinated against rabies, parvovirus, and other required core vaccinations. Your vet will tell you what’s required for your jurisdiction, and will offer your dog an initial physical exam.You and your dog’s vet can also discuss spaying or neutering and set up an appointment for the procedure.

