 Two potential issues for your dog during the party are hyperactivity and begging. Even if your dog is well-behaved around you, they may see the opportunity to snag a hot dog from an unsuspecting guest and go for it if they’re hungry. Likewise, a dog that didn't exercise recently will be more likely to get too excited when guests arrive.Ideally, get your dog a solid exercise session an hour or so preceding the party. Then feed them shortly before the party begins. A tired, satiated dog is especially likely to be calm and well-behaved.;
, Whatever type of party you’re having, it’s unlikely that fur is one of your intended decorations - at least in terms of the furniture. Aside from the cleanliness factor of fur-free seating, some guests may also be allergic. In short, use a vacuum to clean any upholstered furniture that guests may be using during the party.A quick lint roller to prominent pieces of furniture right before guests arrive can be a good idea as well, especially if folks will be well-dressed.
 This will likely require training before the party. It’s also pretty important if you want to allow your dog to roam freely during the party. Even in your dog is usually allowed to join you on the couch, you should disallow them from getting onto the furniture while others are visiting.The commands to “sit” and/or “stay” will likely be sufficient to keep your dog off the furniture, if they are well-enough trained to follow these commands obediently.
 It’s important to let any visitors know that you have a dog before they arrive. Not only is this fair to them, it will also ensure that you’re aware of any guests' fears or allergies that you need to address. For instance, if one of your guests simply cannot be around dogs for whatever reason, plan to keep your dog outdoors, in a kennel, or even at a different location., Visitors can inadvertently create issues without intending to do so. Most commonly, guests might insist they don’t mind when your dog jumps up or slobbers on their hands. However, if a guest allows your dog to do so, it reinforces these behaviors.Be clear with guests that there are certain obedience things you’re working on with your dog. For instance, say something like, “I’m glad you and Gateway are getting along so well. I have a favor to ask though. Whenever he jumps up, can you ignore him? Only acknowledge him when he's being well behaved, with all four paws on the floor.”
You may have to crate your dog based on your guests' behavior. If they allow or encourage negative behaviors, this will make it much harder to train your dog.
Give specific directions to guests about things you don't want them to do. For instance, "I avoid feeding Rocky from the table, and I'm hoping you'll do the same. If you want to give him a treat, ask him to sit or lay down away from the table and give him a reward if he obeys."

