 You don’t want to plant marigold seeds too early. Wait until early spring is over, and the danger of a spring frost has passed. During mid or late spring, you can begin readying the soil for planting your marigolds., Marigolds grow best in loamy, well-drained soil that water can travel through relatively easily. Sandy soil that traps water can stunt the growth of the plant.To test whether the garden soil is optimal for planting, dig a 12x12 inch hole that is about 18 inches (46 cm) deep. Fill it with water and let it drain, and then do it again and time how long it takes the water to drain. The water level in well-drained soil goes down about one inch per hour., Before planting marigolds outside, you will want to weed the site you will be planting on. Also make sure to clear away any rocks or debris. This makes the site more hospitable to the marigold plants so that they can grow without interference.When you are weeding, grip the weed as close to the soil as you can. You want to try to remove the entire root section of the weed as well as the part above the ground, or else the weed will grow back.
 Before you plant marigolds, mix some organic compost or well-aged manure into the garden soil. This will improve the health of the marigolds by giving them the nutrients they need to thrive., You want to make sure that the soil is warm on the day that you are planting the marigold seeds. Cool or cold soil can affect the growing process., Use a trowel or shovel to dig into the soil 8–10 inches (20.3–25.4 cm). Turn the soil over to break it up and to make it airy. Do this for the entire area in which you will be planting the seeds.As you are turning over the soil, make sure to break up any clumps and remove any rocks or pebbles you find.
 After you have prepared the soil, drop the marigold seeds in the soil a few inches apart from each other. You don’t want to plant them too close to each other or they could interfere with each other's growth., Use ¼ inch of soil to cover the marigold seeds. This will ensure that the seeds aren’t too exposed and will be able to grow. Do not use too much soil to cover the seeds; this will make it difficult for the fragile seedlings to poke out of the ground.