 An allergy test may be helpful if your asthma or your child’s asthma seems to be the result of allergens. Skin and blood testing can help your doctor identify specific allergens that may be triggering asthma symptoms. These allergens may include things like molds, dust mites, and animal dander.Ask your doctor about performing an allergy test on you or your child to identify allergens.
 Learning to identify and avoid your asthma triggers can help you avoid asthma attacks. Everyone has different asthma triggers, so you will have to figure out what your specific triggers are. Keep in mind that these triggers are not always obvious, so you might want to keep track of them in the form of a written log. Pay attention to where and when asthma symptoms occur. Pay attention to what environmental factors are in the air when your asthma begins. Some common triggers include:Tobacco smoke, including secondhand smoke, and smoke from outside burning
Dust mites
Air pollution
Cockroaches
Pets
Mold
Fragrances
Physical exercise
Certain respiratory conditions
High humidity or cold, dry air

, Drinking water can help minimize asthma symptoms and reduce the likelihood of having an asthma attack. Drinking water helps you keep the mucus in your lungs from getting sticky, which can clog up airways.Drink one glass of water every two hours while you are awake.
 Colds and flu symptoms can trigger your asthma symptoms. The swelling and mucus associated with cold-related asthma can put additional damage on your lungs. To help avoid unnecessary asthma, try to boost your immune system and stay healthy during cold and flu season.Wash your hands often, especially after you have been around someone who has cold or flu symptoms. Wear a mask if you have to be around sick people.
Boost your immune system by eating a healthy balanced diet for of vitamins and minerals, exercising, and getting plenty of sleep.
 Getting sick can significantly increase the likelihood that you will have severe asthma symptoms or an asthma attack. To help prevent this, you should get your yearly vaccinations. This can help protect your against certain health threats.For example, you should talk to your doctor about getting a flu vaccine or a vaccine for pneumonia.

