 When you think of a word you don't know how to spell, don't panic. Step back and break the word into parts, either in your head or with pen and paper. Even when the spelling doesn't match the sound, this method will teach you to recognize common spelling patterns.



Example: Break "constraint" into "con — strain — t." The second and third part are spelled how they sound. The vowel in "con" might not be obvious from the sound, but if you keep breaking down words you'll notice that the spelling "con" appears many times.;
, Many English words are formed from two or more parts. When possible, break words down into a "root word," a "prefix" at the beginning, and/or a "suffix" at the end. Each prefix or suffix appears on many words, and almost always has the same meaning and spelling each time.



Example: Break "independence" into "in — depend — ence":
1."In" is a prefix that means "not"
2. "Depend" is the root word
3. The suffix "ence" is probably the hardest to spell, but you only need to learn it once and you'll recognize it at the end of many words.
 When you have no idea how to spell part of a word, write down other words that include a similar sound. Chances are good that the mystery word is spelled the same way. This isn't foolproof, but it's much better than choosing a spelling at random.



Example: "Independence" might sound like it ends with an "s" at first — but "fence" has a much closer sound than "pens." This makes the "ence" spelling more likely to be correct (which it is).
 Some words have such weird spellings that they are difficult to remember even after breaking them into parts. Try ignoring the real pronunciation and instead pronouncing each syllable as it's written.



Example: The military rank "colonel" is pronounced "kernel," which doesn't sound anything like the spelling. To help you memorize the spelling, chant the word as it looks: "col – o - nel."

Example 2: This trick is especially useful for long words. Say the word "congratulation" as "con-grat-u-la-ti-on." Once you're 100% sure about the "tion" ending, you can shorten this to "con-grat-u-la-shun."
Exaggerate the vowel sounds to make sure they sound different from each other. E, I, and A are easily confused if you're not careful.

