 Exercises such as sit-ups are a good place to start if you want to build core strength. They're simple for beginners and don't require you to join a gym or buy any fancy exercise equipment.For sit-ups, start on your back with your knees bent and your lower back against the floor. Cross your arms across your chest rather than putting your hands behind your head – this can put unnecessary strain on your neck.
When doing sit-ups, take care with your form and make sure you're doing the exercise correctly. Your effort should come from your core, not your shoulders or neck, which could cause injury.
If you don't have someone to work out with you and hold your feet while doing sit-ups, try tucking your toes under the couch or another low piece of furniture.;
, Planks are another basic exercise you can do to work out your abs. This exercise strengthens your core muscles so your back and pelvis are supported. Doing planks for a few minutes every day can improve your posture and decrease back pain.To do a traditional plank, lay on your stomach on the floor with your arms bent at the elbow so your hands are under your shoulders.
Raise up slowly so that your arms are extended and you're on your toes (or your knees, if you're a beginner) with your legs and back straight. Hold the position for 5 to 10 seconds.
Do a side plank by raising up from a side position so that your weight is balanced on your elbow and the side of your foot. Your elbow should be on the floor directly under your shoulder, your forearm flat on the floor and palm flat.
 You don't want to work on your abs exclusively and neglect your back. Strong lower back muscles are crucial for overall core strength.Back extensions don't require any equipment. Simply lie on the floor face down with your arms parallel to your body.
Lift your chest off the floor, hold for between 5 and 10 seconds, then slowly back down.
You can increase the time you hold the position to increase the difficulty. Make sure you're able to release the hold in a controlled way.
You should lower yourself to the floor at the same rate of speed as you lifted, maintaining control the entire time rather than simply flopping down.
 Leg lifts are another basic exercise that doesn't require any special equipment – just a little floor space. When you do leg lifts, your back and abs work together.Lie on your back on the floor with your arms parallel beside you. Lift your legs about 12 inches off the ground.
Hold the position for 5 to 10 seconds, then release.
 If you aren't ready to invest in exercise equipment such as resistance bands, the bird-dog exercise is a good option. This exercise adds variety without costing you any money.To do this exercise, get on the floor on your hands and knees with your back flat.
Slowly extend your left leg and your right arm at the same time.
Hold the position for 5 to 10 seconds, then return to the resting position.
Do the same thing with your right leg and left arm.

