 If you are able, at the scene of the accident that caused your injury, get very comprehensive notes. Find out the name, address and telephone number of the other person or people involved. If motor vehicles were involved, you should get the name of the other driver’s insurance company and policy number. Get the names, addresses and telephone numbers of any witnesses. If you have a smartphone with a camera, use this to take photos to document the incident. In addition to this information about individuals, you should also make note of the following details:The cause of the accident
A description of your injuries
The weather
Time of day
Location;
, If your injuries require immediate medical care, go to a hospital right away. If the injuries are not immediate, or even if you don’t believe you were seriously injured, you should still seek medical attention as soon as possible. It is important to be checked by a doctor as soon as possible to determine whether you suffered any injuries that may not have become immediately apparent. Accidents can often lead to internal injuries, muscle strains or other types of injuries that may not be obvious.
 You are allowed to file a personal injury lawsuit by yourself, but you are likely to have much greater success if you at least consult with an attorney. An attorney will know the procedures to follow and will be able to help you maximize your recovery, either at trial, through settlement, or from insurance payments., If you were injured in a motor vehicle accident, your injuries may be covered either by your own insurance policy or by the other driver’s policy. If it was more of a slip and fall in a public place, then the store or office you were visiting may have insurance coverage. Call the owner, or have your attorney call, and find out the name of the insurance carrier.Assuming you have insurance, you should contact your carrier as well. This will get the ball rolling on any property damage and make them aware of the seriousness of the personal injury.
 Although it may be early, you need to determine how much you are hoping to recover. An attorney who is experienced in personal injury law can help you with this. You need to add up the actual monetary damages you suffered from the incident along with less tangible non-monetary damages. Think about all of the following items:


Damage to a car or other personal property
Medical expenses that you have had to pay that have not been covered by insurance
Medical expenses that you may still need to pay in the future
Lost wages, both past and future (estimate)
Pain and suffering. This can be very difficult to estimate, but an experienced attorney can help you determine an idea.
Loss of consortium. This is a financial payment to compensate you for losing time with your family and losing relationships if your injuries are very bad.
 When you determine what you would like to recover to make you "whole" from the accident, send a demand letter to the person or company responsible for your injuries. If you know that the person has an attorney or has an insurance company handling the matter, you can send them your letter. The letter is your initial offer to accept a payment to resolve the matter without a trial.


Your lawyer or insurance carrier may take the lead on this if you are working with them. Your insurance carrier will most likely negotiate any property damages.
You can word your letter as follows: "Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing with regard to the accident that occurred on , when I slipped and fell in your store at on a puddle of water in the aisle. As a result of that accident, I suffered a broken ankle, sprained wrist and a concussion. I am continuing to see a physician and am involved in physical therapy. As compensation for my injuries, pain and suffering, and lost wages, I am asking for payment of $. Please contact me at or my attorney at if you would like to resolve this matter without the necessity of a trial. Thank you."
The initial demand letter very rarely leads directly to a payment, but it can start the discussion. As a result of your letter, the other party may contact you to discuss the matter further, or may refer you to an insurance company. If these discussions do not lead to a payment that satisfies you, then you will need to proceed with a lawsuit.
 The complaint is the document that actually begins the lawsuit. In the complaint, you need to name the party or parties you believe are responsible for your injuries. Then state the facts that led to your injuries. If your injuries are minor, you may be able to file in a small claims court and handle the case by yourself. But if you suffered serious or long-lasting injuries, you probably will need an attorney to help you prepare a detailed complaint.


For more information on drafting a personal injury complaint, see File a Civil Lawsuit or Format a Legal Pleading.
 First, you will need to determine whether to file in state or federal court. Most likely, you will file in state court, which is more locally based and provides essentially the same opportunities for you; however, if the defendant is from another state, or if your believe that your claim involves any complicated legal issues, you may choose to file in federal court instead. This is a discussion that you should have with your attorney., The defendant is the person or company that you believe is responsible for your injuries. You must name one or more defendants in your complaint, and then serve your complaint on each defendant. Serving the complaint means having it delivered, personally, by an adult who is not a party to the case. Usually you can hire a private constable to conduct service or have the local sheriff’s office do it, for a fee., It is possible that the defendant may initiate a cross-complaint against you or a third party. If there is some question of liability — if, for instance, the defendant is claiming you are at fault — then they may file a counterclaim or cross-complaint and sue you for their damages. If the defendant answered your initial demand letter, you'll want to review their response.
 Whoever serves the complaint for you will complete an affidavit or certificate of service. This is a statement that certifies to the court that the complaint was served on each defendant. You will then need to file this certificate of service with the court clerk.A certificate of service needs to have the name of the court, the name of the case, the docket number of the case, and then a simple statement like, “I, , certify that I am over 18 years old, am not a party to this case, and that on I served a copy of the Complaint upon by personal delivery in hand at .”

, The discovery phase of litigation consists of fact-finding. This is your opportunity to learn information from the other party in the trial or from witnesses, in order to help build your case. There are three basic forms of discovery that are commonly used: interrogatories, document requests, and depositions. The discovery phase of trial preparation often lasts for months or even years, depending on the complexity of the case. Make sure that you are aware of deadlines (these are usually set by the court), and plan your discovery requests in plenty of time., Interrogatories are each party’s opportunity to ask direct questions of the opposing party. You are limited to 25 interrogatories in federal court, and something close to that in state court. (You will need to check the local rules for your own state court.) Answers to interrogatories must be provided within 30 days of receipt.Interrogatories should be as open-ended as possible, to generate as much information as possible in the answer. A sample interrogatory in a personal injury case would be something like, “Provide the names of all staff members working in your store on the date of the accident and a description of the specific duties assigned to each one.”
If you are responding to interrogatories, you should make your answers as concise and simple as possible. Do not evade the question, but do not provide more information than is asked. You need to realize that anything you write in response to interrogatories may be used as evidence in court if the case goes to trial.
 You may send any other party a request for documents. Your requests may be sent together with your interrogatories, or you may send a request for documents separately. Some attorneys recommend completing the interrogatories first and then requesting documents that may have been mentioned in the responses. Other attorneys suggest getting the documents first, and then using the interrogatories to ask questions that may arise in reviewing the documents.


You are not limited in the number of document requests that you make.
A standard document request would be something like, “Please provide a copy of all insurance contracts that you carry for employees or customers at your store that were in effect on the date of the accident.”

, A deposition is a direct examination of someone who may have information relevant to the case. You may depose anyone who may have relevant information, not only the parties to the case. For example, if the case is about an automobile accident and your opponent has named an expert witness who intends to testify on the safety features of the car, you would want to depose that witness to investigate their level of knowledge and find out what they intend to say at trial.There is no limit to the number of depositions you may conduct; however, bear in mind that a single deposition can cost several thousand dollars. You will be responsible for the cost of a stenographer as well as your attorney’s legal fees.
The opposing party may call for your deposition as well. If so, you must appear and answer the questions truthfully. As with interrogatories, be cautious against providing too much information. Limit your answers to just the information that is asked and do not volunteer additional information.
 As you near the end of the discovery, you need to review all the information that you have received, together with all the information that you believe your opponent has. Based on all that information together, which side has the stronger case? Do you believe that you will be able to prove your case at trial, or do you think that the other side has stronger evidence and witnesses? The answers to these questions will help you decide whether you should settle for a low number or continue demanding more.Think about your ability to prove your case. You must consider whether your witnesses will be able to impress upon the jury that the accident was the fault of the other party.
Consider the strength of your opponent’s case. While you have been conducting discovery and planning your case, your opponent has been doing the same. You must consider the evidence that could favor their case. If you believe your opponent has a strong case, you may be more inclined to settle for a lower figure.
 In assessing your case, you must review the damages that you have actually suffered, as well as those that you may continue to suffer as a result of your injury. For example, although a slip and fall accident that results in a broken bone may be painful, it is not likely to be long-lasting. Your recovery in such a case is likely to be less than in case for chronic lung cancer caused by asbestos exposure, for example. In calculating your overall damages, consider the following:The amount of your economic damages. Economic damages consist of those expenses that you have had to pay, or will have to pay, as a result of the accident. Economic damages also includes any lost wages.
The amount of non-economic damages. This consists of such things as pain and suffering and loss of consortium. This category is much harder to define. Working with an experienced personal injury attorney will help you decide how much you can expect to recover in this category.
 Although you probably sent an opening demand before ever beginning the trial preparation, you are not bound by that first request. As discovery progresses and you get closer to trial, the number may change based on the evidence you collect. If you believe your case is getting stronger, you may demand a higher figure. If your case looks questionable, you may settle for less. Most parties will continue discussing settlement right up to the trial. Most personal injury cases (as high as 90% or more) settle rather than going all the way to trial.Consider using mediation to settle. This is a voluntary process that both parties must agree to. Both parties will meet with a mediator, who will try to help them come to a decision. The mediator does not give an opinion or make a decision, but instead tries to guide the parties to agree to terms. This is a less expensive and less formal process.These discussions will be based on the evidence that both sides have, on their plans for trial, and their respective views of the strengths and weaknesses of the case. As long as the conversations seem to be approaching an agreement, then continued negotiating may be worthwhile. At some point, you will either reach an agreement or reach an impasse. When negotiations are no longer productive, it may be necessary to proceed to trial., As part of the overall case, the court will schedule a pre-trial conference. Although the procedure may be different in each court, this is generally a meeting between the two parties, their attorneys, and the judge. The judge will discuss the case with both parties and try to narrow the issues that will provide the focus for the trial. A trial date will be set., Most courts will require the two sides to cooperate in drafting a pre-trial memorandum or report. This is a single document that both parties will sign and submit to the judge. The pre-trial memorandum generally reports the following information:A statement of the factual issues that are in dispute
A statement of the legal issues that are in dispute
A list of each party’s witnesses
A list of documents or other evidence that the parties agree may be introduced at trial
A list of documents or other evidence that are disputed
An estimate of the length of time needed for trial

, When the date for trial arrives, the first step is the selection of a jury. The judge and the two parties or their attorneys question a pool of jurors to separate any people who may have biases that could affect their judgment in the case. Depending on the local rules for the court you are in, you may have an allotted amount of peremptory challenges as well as challenges for cause.A peremptory challenge allows you to dismiss someone from the jury pool without stating any reason.
A challenge for cause allows you to dismiss someone from the jury pool because of a demonstrated inability to be impartial.
 When the trial begins, both sides have the opportunity to present their case to the judge or jury. The injured party is the plaintiff and generally goes first. You will want to have your case as organized as possible, calling your witnesses in the most logical order and asking them direct questions to show the jury just why you believe the defendant is responsible for your injuries. You must also provide evidence of the amount of your damages as well. After you finish presenting your case, the defendant has the opportunity to present witnesses and evidence to rebut your case.After each witness testifies, regardless of whether the witness was called by the plaintiff or defendant, the opposing party has the right to cross-examine. This is a procedure of asking questions that are designed to weaken the strength of the witness’s testimony.
For example, if an eyewitness is called to describe what happened at the scene, the opposing party on cross-examination may want to question the witness’s eyesight or the line of vision that they had at the time of the incident.
 In the closing argument, you have the opportunity to “wrap up” your case for the jury. This is the time to remind the jury everything that they saw and heard during the trial and provide the logical connections that you want them to draw. As the plaintiff, you will want to explain why the jury should find the defendant responsible for your injuries. You also need to emphasize the damages you have suffered., After the trial ends, the jury will hear instructions from the judge about any purely legal issues. The jury will then go to a private room to deliberate and decide the verdict. Sometimes this can occur in only a few minutes. Sometimes it may take hours or even days, depending on the complexity of the case. When the jury is ready, everyone will return to the courtroom for the jury to present its verdict.