 She makes it looks natural to bring out her features and doesn't overdo it. Natural make up is important. If you use too much, you will either look like a clown, an LBR, or somebody else - not yourself. As the queen herself always says, "Your beauty must seem effortless, or people will stop wanting to be you."

, Massie always makes sure she has a clean mouth (because bad breath turns people away!) Make sure your teeth are white too. If your teeth are stained, use whitening strips or a whitening toothpaste. Using an electric toothbrush (like the Spin-brush) helps because it removes more plaque more efficiently than manual toothbrushes.


If you have braces, get clear bands so they are less noticeable. You could also pick some pretty colors.

Be careful with green; it might look like there's something stuck in your teeth (ex: salad).


Chew teeth-whitening gum and always have mints on hand.
 Even though Massie may have the money to afford a new wardrobe, you may not. You could go to Abercrombie, Hollister, Wet Seal, Delia*s etc. or find clothes elsewhere that at least look designer. Marshalls is a good place to shop; they have secondhand designer clothes that are way cheap. You can create runway-worthy outfits even if they're not designer.


Stores like TJ Maxx and Nordstrom Rack also have discounted designer clothes.
Read "Teen Vogue" and "Seventeen" to know what’s in style and what's not.
 If there's anything Massie-like that's truly worth the splurge - and that you know you'll like it even after your Massie phase - make sure to get it if you have enough money.


Hobos and satchels work best, for they are perfect for storing anything and everything!
Small purses or cute clutches can also be considered handbags and are probably a better idea for going out.
 However, make sure you don't overpack. Keep your cell phone in your bag in an easy place to reach at all times; an alpha never ignores a call or text. Always keep in your bag:


Your favorite flavor of lip gloss
Your cards
Pictures
A mirror/compact
Time of month things (pads,diva cup,tampons,etc.)
Personal organizer or a password diary/journal

Note: Massie will never use a diary that comes with lock and key because she says it can easily fall into enemy hands


Pens and pencils (go for mechanical pencils, they look nicer)






A notebook (for any random thoughts or brilliant ideas)
Extra makeup for touch-ups
Anything else you need or want.

