 If you are sitting down and working, try to stand up every 5-10 minutes. Do a few jumping jacks or a dance to your favorite song if you need a burst of energy to jump-start your productivity. Going for a short walk down the hall (or, better yet, outside) also helps. , If you consistently feel sleepy in the middle of the day or just after lunch, try getting in a midday workout. Exercise, though it expends energy, also boosts energy.Hit the gym during your lunch hour.
Go for a brisk walk outside.
Walk around the building. Walk some flights of stairs to the fourth-floor office and back. Take some laps around the field house at your high school. Pop by your boss's office instead of sending a message.
Find an office workout routine if you cannot leave work to exercise. This may include push-ups, chair sits, lunges, and sit-ups. Just remember to close the blinds to your office window!

, Yoga, while calming, is also rejuvenating. Doing a few yoga poses that promote energy when you feel tired can give your body an energy boost. Here are a few poses to try: Camel pose: while on your knees, arch your back so that your heart and your chest are open forward. With your feet flexed and your toes grounded, reach back and hold your ankles with your hands, and let your head fall back to stretch your neck.
Warrior Two: do a deep lunge, with the forward knee straight above the ankle and the foot facing the wall in front of you. The back leg should be extended with the leg straight and the foot sideways, perpendicular to the forward foot. Extend both arms out in the directions of your legs and look forward, over your extended arm and forward foot. Be sure to alternate sides.
Chair pose: stand with your feet flat on the floor, shoulder-width apart. Then sink down into a squat, as though you were going to sit in a chair. Be sure to keep your back completely flat. Raise both arms up over your head, shoulder-width apart, palms facing each other but not touching and fingers spread. Hold for several seconds, then stand up. Rest and repeat several times.
 Ward off extreme fatigue by taking a short nap. Evaluate whether this option is appropriate for you based on where you are. This is obviously not an option if you are driving, and it may not be an option if you are at work. The nurse's office at school sometimes encourages a lie-down, with the advantage that you have someone to nudge you awake before your next period.
Try to sleep for at least 20 minutes.
Try other methods of staying awake to rouse yourself fully after you wake from your nap so you don’t feel even more sleepy.
 Taking a shower is sometimes even better than taking a nap. It can refresh you and make you feel like you are ready for more work. A cold shower may be necessary if you are extremely tired. The temperature changes from taking a warm shower then stepping out into cool air can also help you wake up.

