 The rectangles need to be 13 inches (33.02centimeters) wide and 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) taller than your longest knitting needle.


Consider a heavier material for the outside, such as canvas, linen, or twill. Consider a lighter material, such as cotton, for the inside.;
, Make sure that all of the edges and corners align.
 Leave a small gap 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) up from one of the narrow edges. The gap needs to be along one of the long edges, and big enough so that you can turn the fabric inside out. Remove the pins as you sew.
 Try to clip as close to the stitching as you can without actually cutting the thread. This will help reduce bunching and bulking. If you need to, use something slender, such as a chopstick or knitting needle, to help turn the corners.
 If you need to, use sewing pins to hold the flap down. Be sure to tuck any excess fabric into the gap as well. This is your pocket, and the base for the casings, which will hold the knitting needles., Make sure that you are inserting the folded part of the ribbon. Try to align it with the top part of the gap, if you can. When you are done, pin the ribbon in place.The ribbon should ideally be 5 inches (12.7 centimeters) from the bottom edge of the roll up. If you need to, use a seam ripper to undo some of the stitching in the side of the roll up.
Choose a thin ribbon. Something around ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) would be ideal.
Bias tape will also work well for this.
 Try to get as close to the edge as you can. Start and finish sewing at the ribbon, making sure to backstitch a few times. This with reinforce the ribbon as well as prevent the thread from unraveling.
 Use a tailor's chalk or washable pen to do this.


You can also use sewing pins to mark the lines.
 You can use a thread color that matches the fabric, or a contrasting color for something more interesting. Be sure to backstitch a few times at the start and end of your sewing to prevent the thread from unraveling.
 Slide your knitting needles into the slots, then roll the fabric up. Start rolling from the bare side, and work your way towards the ribbon. Wrap one ribbon piece once or twice around the bundle, then wrap the other ribbon once or twice in the opposite direction. Tie both ribbons together into a bow.

