 Finding out that one parent has had an affair can rupture how you think about that parent. Your respect for them may be damaged and you may feel hurt and angry about their actions. Take into account what kind of parent they’ve been over the years. If they have been a kind, caring parent, remember that, as this defines your relationship with your parent, not the affair., In many cases, an affair spells the end of the cohesive family unit, and you will now have parents that live separately. Forming a relationship with the “new” version of your parent will help you move into a new phase, wherein you think of them as individuals instead of a team.Offer love and support to both parents. This is a difficult and confusing time for both parents, and knowing that you are offering love and support can help them through this situation.
 If you are planning to move forward and repair your relationship with your parent, think about how you’re going to treat the affair. You may not want to or need to forgive your parent who had the affair. However, don’t use it as a weapon against your parent, holding it over their heads whenever you argue or don’t get what you want.


The affair certainly doesn’t need to be swept under the rug, but it shouldn’t be trotted out every time you disagree with your parent.
 Your relationship with one parent should not tarnish your relationship with the other parent. One parent may feel like you’re taking sides or forgiving the cheating parent if you decide to repair your relationship with them. Sit down with each parent individually and tell them how you want to proceed in your relationships with them.


Let them know that your relationship with one parent does not impact your relationship with the other parent.
 While an unfaithful parent may threaten the future of your family, your own life is still in motion. You can take control of certain things in your life, which can be especially helpful when you feel like other things are far out of your control.


Ask both parents for advice and guidance, which will help continue repairing your relationship with both parents.

