 Especially if you’re in the beginning stages of your relationship, be bold in bringing up cheating. Talk about whether you’ve cheated or have been cheated on, and ask your partner about his or her past. Talk about what would happen to the relationship in the event of infidelity.


For example, if one person cheats, is the relationship over, or is there room to work through it? How have your past experiences shaped your views now?;
, What is considered cheating may differ from one person to the next. For example, do you consider flirting to be cheating? What about meeting in private? Kissing? Where does emotional cheating fit in? Determine your own boundaries for cheating and discuss them with your partner. Talk about each of your comfort levels and determine what’s okay and what’s not. Boundaries are about controlling what you do, not what other people do.For example, if you disengage from a potentially lustful interaction, this is a boundary that you’ve created.
Say to your partner, “I want to respect our relationship and you. It makes me uncomfortable to be at a dinner alone with someone I know is attracted to me. I will not do that. What is a boundary for you?”

, If you and your partner are going through a rough patch, talk it through. Don’t avoid it or pretend that it doesn’t exist. Instead, be honest and confront what is going on. Find some common goals and work toward them.This could mean “Let’s plan to sit down and discuss our finances each week” or “Let’s work on yelling less.”

, To help increase the intimacy of your relationship, you and your partner should agree on certain practices and rules to help you bond together. These can be boundaries about how you spend time together or little daily habits that help improve your relationship. Some ideas include:

Banning electronics from the bedroom and dinner table
Having at least one meal together a day
Taking a walk together after a meal
Going out on a date once a week

, Maintaining a relationship takes work. Don’t get distracted by work, activities, and other things on a regular basis. Instead, make your top priority your relationship.If you have a fight, repair your bond afterward. Make time for your partner and always strive to put the relationship first.


Do the things you did when you first started dating, such as going out together, talking about life in general, and being silly together.
 Know appropriate versus inappropriate behavior with others. If someone is flirting with you, you do not have to flirt back. If someone asks for your phone number, it’s okay to say, “No thank you.” Practice ways of turning down advances. One boundary to practice is not discussing relationship issues with someone you feel attraction toward. Many affairs begin as supportive friendships that lacked boundaries and became muddled.If someone hits on you, be direct and honest. Say, “I’m flattered, but I’m not interested” or, “No thank you, I’m in a relationship.”

, If you start to see your partner as the cause of your unhappiness, you may start to feel like a victim. If you feel victimized, you may convince yourself of many things by placing blame onto someone else.For example, “My partner is mean to me sometimes, so I don’t have to make time for him or do nice things. If only he was nicer, I’d be a better girlfriend.” Blaming your unhappiness or dissatisfaction on your partner is a slippery slope that can lead to feeling sorry for yourself, even if you know you’re partly (or fully) to blame.


If you find yourself blaming your partner for how unfulfilled you feel in your relationship, take an honest look at yourself. Are you doing all you can for the relationship or are you creating an excuse for bad behavior?

, Prioritizing your relationship doesn’t mean spending all of your time and energy with your partner. Encourage your partner to pursue his or her interests and be supportive. You and your partner likely differ on activities and that’s okay. Allow your partner to pursue his or her interests and be with friends, because not everything has to be done as a couple.This can help your partner feel supported in his or her own pursuits, which can strengthen your bond as a couple.


If your partner enjoys outside activities, don’t be jealous of his or her time. Instead, be supportive of the activity and the friendships your partner enjoys.
Even if you don’t understand your partner’s interests, be supportive and encouraging. For example, if your partner enjoys going to synagogue but you do not share the same faith, be supportive of him or her without putting your partner down.
 If you feel threatened by your partner’s behavior with others, it’s immature to try and make him or her jealous. Don’t flirt with someone else in an effort to escalate cheating behaviors or make your partner jealous.If you have a problem with your partner’s behavior, talk about it instead of acting on it.


Revenge will likely hurt your relationship, not help it.
 If you demand to look through your partner’s phone or know who he or she is seeing, you may be overly vigilant in your relationship. If you constantly must know what your partner is up to or if you go so far to spy on your partner, it’s likely you have some trust issues.Instead of distrusting your partner, talk about why you feel threatened.


Your partner may feel put-off by your possessiveness, which may lead him or her to do things behind your back. This can become a vicious cycle.
 Trust is the primary foundation of a relationship. Avoid bringing past hurts and heartbreaks into your relationship. If you’ve been hurt before, it doesn’t mean that your current partner will hurt you. If your partner knows that you do not trust him or her, it can create tension in the relationship.Distrust comes from feeling insecure and powerless. Work with a professional to help you with these feelings and build trust again.
Avoid tracking your partner obsessively on social media or looking up their ex-partners online. You may want to set rules and expectations about social media use if you think that it will be a problem.
 If you’ve previously dealt with infidelity in your relationship, you may be extra careful to guard against future infidelity. Many couples find therapy helpful for moving through the hurt and pain and transitioning into a stable future together. Therapy can help re-build trust and faithfulness. It can help each partner to work through difficult emotions and gain trust in each other once again.Tell your current partner about past infidelity. Let them know what you learned from the incident as well as what you need in this relationship to heal. Make sure that you both address what is acceptable and not acceptable for you in a relationship.
Don’t make any threats you don’t fully intend to carry out. For example, if you tell your partner that you’ll leave if he or she cheats again, be ready to leave if that happens.
Avoid making any large decisions early in the healing process, such as moving out, leaving the kids, or getting a divorce. These are life-changing decisions that cannot easily be undone.
 When life gets difficult or you struggle to understand your partner, remember that you play on the same team! Don’t purposefully hurt your partner or do something you know will upset your partner. Instead, focus on working together. If something doesn’t work, scrap it and try something new. Avoid turning against your partner as this can cause rifts and create distance between you. Be cooperative in making the relationship work.Letting your partner know you will always stand together assures him or her that you can be counted on.
In times of distress and conflict, remind yourself that even though you may not like your partner, you still love him or her. Act in ways that will help you resolve problems and move on.
 Share your affection with your partner. Hold hands, cuddle, and be close. Do something loving toward your partner that you know he or she will appreciate. This can help your partner understand your commitment and love toward him or her.Being affectionate can reassure your partner of your care and desire to be close together, and that you chose him or her to be near.


Surprise your partner with a night of stargazing or take your partner to the bed & breakfast he or she has always wanted to go to. Pay attention to the details your partner casually says, such as, “It would be fun to go to Mackinaw Island” or “I’d really love to see the northern lights one day.”

, A thoughtful gift can show your partner that you care. Buy your partner something nice that he or she will enjoy.A gift shows your partner that you are thinking of him or her and that you’re putting in effort to be loving. It doesn’t have to be jewelry or cologne; instead, choose something that will appeal to your partner. It may be an action figure or a pair of shoes.


Use the element of surprise to please your partner. Come home and have a gift waiting for your partner, or buy something “just because.”

, Make time for physical intimacy with your partner. If this part of your relationship is gone by the wayside, amp it up again.Sharing sexual intimacy can strengthen your bond together and make you feel close with your partner. Add some spice to your relationship and do things you know your partner enjoys. Be playful, sexy, and fun.


For more information, check out How to Make Sex Better and How to Feel Confident About Being Intimate Again.
Enhance your appearance to look and feel attractive to your partner. Wear perfume or cologne, dress nicely, or buy new clothes.

