 Many places require hunter to attend a hunter safety course before they are eligible to purchase a firearm or apply for a hunting license. If your area does not require it, the information and experience you can gain in a hunter safety course is still well worth the time and investment.You can find hunter safety courses in your area on websites like http://huntinfo.org/

Hunter safety courses often introduce you to different types of hunting rifles. This will give you the opportunity to experience different rifles before making a purchase.
 In some areas, you must apply for a firearm license in order to purchase any sort of firearm or ammunition. Go to the website for your local government to research what the requirements are in your area. Many places have different levels of firearm permits ranging from simply owning a firearm to concealed carry permits.Apply for the level of firearm license you need to purchase a hunting rifle.
You will likely be subjected to a background check and brief questionnaire in order to apply.
 You may choose to purchase your first hunting rifle second hand in order to reduce costs. While this is a common practice among hunters, each state has different laws governing the sale of firearms between private parties. You may need to have a licensed firearm dealer oversee the exchange or provide documentation to the local government.Some states have specific forms to complete when selling a firearm between private parties.
In some places, you will need to undergo a federal background check in order to buy a firearm from another private party just as you would at a store.
 In order to go hunting, you will need a hunting license issued by the state you will be hunting in. Depending on the game you choose to hunt, you will likely also need to purchase tags indicating how many of that animal you are permitted to hunt.Many places require the completion of a hunter’s safety course to apply for a hunting license.
You can often apply for and purchase your hunting license at hunting retail stores.

