 Unemployment benefits are distributed by state agencies responsible for employment related matters. If you have applied for unemployment benefits and your application was denied, you will receive a determination letter telling you why. The determination letter will also tell you how you can appeal the denial. Read the letter carefully so you understand why your claim was denied and how you can challenge that decision.In general, unemployment claims are denied for one or more of the following reasons:You were found to have voluntarily quit your job
You were found to have been fired for misconduct
You were found to have not earned enough during the "base period";
, Once you understand why you were denied benefits, you will be able to put together a convincing letter asking for an appeal. Each state and each agency will have different requirements for drafting the appeal. For example, some states might allow you to fill out a complaint form online while others might require you to draft an appeal letter from scratch. For example, in Texas, you can use an online form or draft your own letter. Your appeal letter will usually need to include at least the following information:Your name
Your social security number
Your address
The date the state agency mailed you their determination letter
A copy of the determination letter
Dates you are unavailable to take part in a hearing

, After your appeal letter has been drafted, you need to submit it in a manner acceptable to the state agency you are working with. Your initial determination letter should tell you how you can accomplish this. For example, in Texas, you can file your appeal online, in person, through the mail, or through fax. Every state will require that your appeal be filed within a certain amount of time. In Texas, you must appeal within 14 days from the date you were mailed the determination letter. The letter itself will have this date clearly printed on it.


If you fail to file your appeal in a timely manner, you may not be able to appeal at all., Once you submit your written appeal, the state agency you are working with will send you a hearing notification. This notification will tell you when and where the hearing will be held, the name of the hearing officer who will hear your appeal, instructions on how to participate in the hearing, instructions on how to submit documents, what the state agency received in response to your claim, anything the agency received while investigating your claim, and the issues that will be discussed during your appeal.When you arrive for your hearing, make sure you bring everything with you. Additionally, come prepared and ready to discuss why you disagree with the agency's initial determination. You will be allowed time to talk and present your case. When you are done, any opposing party will be able to present their case as well.
 After your hearing is done, the state agency will make another determination and send you a letter informing you of their decision. If you are granted benefits, you do not need to go any further. However, if you continue to be denied, you might need to make another appeal. In Texas, the next level of appeal is to a commission. To take part in this appeal, you will need to draft a written letter, much like the one you drafted before, and send it in within 14 days (depending on the state you live in) of receiving the initial appeal decision.You will then have to take part in another hearing where you will be able to make your case.
 After your second appeal, the commission will make a determination and send you a letter telling you what they have decided. If you are successful, you will not need to go any further. However, if you are still being denied, you can ask for a rehearing. You will need to ask for a rehearing within a certain period of time of receiving the commission's decision (14 days in Texas). Most states will limit your ability to ask for a rehearing and will only allow it under certain circumstances. For example, in Texas, you will only be granted a rehearing if you can show all three of the following:Important information has come to light since your hearing in front of the commission
There is a good reason you didn't present the evidence before
That the new information might change the outcome of your case

, Whether you get a rehearing or not, you can file a lawsuit in state court so long as you exhaust all of the administrative remedies available to you. In most circumstances, the agency you work with will tell you when you have exhausted every administrative option you have. Lawsuits must be filed quickly after you exhaust administrative remedies (within 28 days of receiving the commission's letter in Texas).If you plan on filing a lawsuit, consider hiring a qualified lawyer. If you do not know one, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few questions, you will be put in contact with various lawyers in your area.

