 Open your favorite web browser and head over to http://store.steampowered.com/about/. This should take you to the About page of Steam.;
, On the About page, click on the green “Install Steam Now” button. The installer should download.
 Click on the downloaded installer to install Steam. Read the installation text carefully, and click “Next” until the software finishes installing.


Once it is installed, click the Steam icon in your desktop to start.
 Start Steam by clicking on its icon, which should look like a mechanical lever assembly on a black field.


It may take a while to launch Steam, depending on whether there are updates for the platform or not.
 Enter your login details when Steam prompts you to enter your username and password.


If you don’t have a Steam account yet, click the “Create a Steam Account” button on the login screen. The setup window will appear, prompting you to enter a valid email address, username, and password. Go to your email, and click on the verification link Steam sent you, and it will take you to a page in the steam website that confirms your account creation.
 If you don’t have Tribes: Ascend yet, go to the Steam Store. Do this by clicking the Store button in the top of the window.


If you already have the game, proceed to the next Part 3.
 In the search bar at the top right, type “Tribes: Ascend.” In the results, click the game to enter its store menu.
 Scroll down until you see the green “Play Now” button then click it to download the game.


The game is Free to Play, so you can download it without entering credit card details.
You will see the game’s download progress in the Library.
 Click on the “Library” button near the top of the window to view your purchased games.
 If you already have Tribes: Ascend and it is out-of-date, right-click on the game in the Library and click “Play Game.”

, Steam will begin to launch the game. If it needs updates, a progress bar will appear. Simply let it finish, and click “Play” to start the game once done.
 From here, you can select from a bunch of configuration options, but our concern here is starting a game. In the top most of the list, you will see a “Play Now” button. Click that to enter the next menu.
 The next menu will let you select a game mode you want, and it will place you in a matchmaking queue for that particular game mode. You can choose from the following modes:


Team Deathmatch
Capture the Flag
Capture and Hold
Arena.
You can also choose custom servers, but selecting a game mode is the quickest way into a game.
 On the same menu, click “Change Region” to specify a server for a better gameplay experience. Choose only the server for your region.
 Once you’ve chosen a game mode, the game will then let you choose a class. Edit the loadout of each class by clicking on a weapon slot (Primary, Secondary, etc.) and selecting a weapon for that slot.


Upon first learning the game, few weapons are available to you, but you can unlock weapons by earning GP to purchase them. For now, select a class by clicking it and selecting “Choose Class.”

, The game will then enter you into a matchmaking pool, where you wait for the game to put you in a map on a server whose region you specified earlier. A loading screen will appear when you are being placed in a match, then you will spawn into the map on your ship.
 Use X to toggle between first and third person view.
 Move your character with the WASD keys on your keyboard.
 The E key will let you use your melee weapon at close range, and you can fire your gun with the left mouse button.


R reloads your current weapon.
You can use the Shift key to zoom in to make a more precise shot.
 Movement in the game is unique from other shooter games. It has a feel of skating around the map, where you gain momentum from going down slopes and jumping at the apex to get really long airtime. Skiing is done by holding the Spacebar; press the right mouse button uses your jetpack.
 Here are some more keys to try out during your game play:


F throws a grenade or places your equipment
C places your pack (if your class supports it)
G interacts with in-game objects
Z will drop the flag you are carrying (in capture the flag game mode)
K is for suicide that allows players to get to base more quickly.

