 Getting from one step to the next requires applying yourself, working through boredom or pain, and sticking it out until you've made it. That's no easy feat, and the more you practice, the better you'll get at achieving your goals.


If you have big goals that seem unattainable, break them down into smaller doable steps.For example, if you want to work on becoming more assertive, you could set a goal to speak up for yourself three times per week. These instances could be as minor as telling your partner that you want to go to dinner at a specific restaurant, rather than deferring to your partner’s choice.
Have a "stick with it" attitude. Decide that even if you have a setback, you're going to keep trying, whether the goal in question is keeping a job, finishing a project, managing your finances, and so on.
See failures as learning opportunities. Failures are simply temporary setbacks full of lessons for us to learn.
 Negativity can come at you in different ways: it can be from within, in the form of negative thoughts and harmful self-talk, or from the outside, as negative feedback or abuse from other people. While it is beyond a person's control to ever fully remove negativity from her life, there are ways to manage it.


Manage negative thoughts by learning to identify and challenge them. Learn more by reading Deal with Negative Thoughts.
While you may be able to minimize your contact with negative or toxic people — you may even be able to excise them from your life entirely — sometimes these people are family members, coworkers, or other people you must interact with. Instead of taking their negativity to heart, you can learn how to not engage and set boundaries with that person. This wikiHow article, How to Deal with Negative People, is a fantastic resource to teach you how to do this.
 Take a few moments every day to look at yourself in the mirror and say something encouraging to yourself. You can either say something that you believe about yourself or something that you would like to believe about yourself.Some examples of positive affirmations include:


"I am working on being emotionally strong every day."
"I am learning more productive ways to manage my stress and be kind to myself."
"I know that if I take little steps towards this goal every day, I will feel more emotionally and mentally strong."

, When a situation starts to escalate and you can feel your emotions threatening to boil over. When you contain yourself a bit instead of being impulsive and reactive, you have more time to weigh your options and figure out the wisest way forward.


Taking time to count to 10 sounds like a cliché, but it really works. Before you have an emotional reaction to something, pause, take a deep breath, and think it through.Practicing meditation may be helpful in helping you remain calm, as it teaches you to be more objective about your emotions and thoughts. Instead of reacting, you are able to look at thoughts and emotions and say, "Okay, I'm feeling really frustrated right now," and then figure out how what to do next., If you're sensitive to the small annoyances and verbal barbs we all encounter on a daily basis, you will end up devoting time and energy to things that, ultimately, don't matter. When you dwell on these little things and give them your attention or treat them as a major hassle, you not only increase your stress, but you may be increasing your mortality risk.Learning to adjust your attitude so that you take those small, everyday stresses in stride will help keep your stress hormone (cortisol) under control, protecting you from things like lower immune function, increased blood pressure and cholesterol, and an increased risk of heart disease.Instead of stressing out, develop the healthy habit of thinking about what's bothering you, calming down, and deciding the best, healthiest, most productive way of dealing with it.
For instance, if your husband always forgets to put the cap on the toothpaste, realize that it might not be as important to him as it is to you. You can choose how to deal with the situation — put the cap on the toothpaste yourself and think about all the other ways your husband contributes in the house, or put a (nice) note on the wall as a gentle reminder.
Be aware of perfectionism, which may cause you to have extremely high and often unrealistic expectations of yourself and how your day goes, often forgetting to factor in the many things that affect your day that are beyond your control.
Try a visualization exercise to let go of little things that are bothering you. Hold a small stone in your hand and imagine that it contains the thing that is bothering you. Concentrate on that negative thing and squeeze the rock very tightly. Then, when you are ready, throw the rock away. Toss it into a pond or far into a field. As you do so, imagine that you are also casting away this thing and all of the negative feelings that you have along with it., If you tend to get wrapped up in your own problems, find ways to get a different perspective on your life and all its possibilities. Everyone hits a dead end from time to time; those who have emotional and mental strength are able to find another way to get where they're going. If you're having trouble getting out of your own head, try these techniques:


Read more. Reading the news or a novel lets you enter into others' worlds, serving as a good reminder that the world is a big place and your problems are but a drop in the bucket.
Volunteer. Interact with people who need your help. Some studies have shown that volunteering has a wide range of benefits for your mental and physical health.Listen to a friend. Hear out someone who really needs your advice. Put yourself in that person's shoes and give the best, most genuine advice you have.
Travel. Getting out of your comfort zone can really help you get perspective on your situation. Go somewhere new, even if it's just a few towns over.
 Mentally and emotionally strong people tend not to complain very much. They have as many troubles as everyone else, but they take them in stride and see the bigger picture. Being positive about what's going well in your life, and about the possibilities the future holds, will provide you with more mental and emotional strength to tackle difficult situations. Some studies have even shown that having a positive outlook can benefit your physical health as well.Let yourself be in the moment during happy times. Try to enjoy your family, friends, pets, and so on as much as possible.
Look for the positive in difficult situations. There is always something to be learned.
 Being able to face reality might be the biggest sign of a person's emotional and mental strength. If you're going to overcome an obstacle, you need to be able to take it head on. Lying to yourself about what's going on will only end up hurting you in the end.If you have escapist tendencies, like watching too much TV as a way to avoid your problems, recognize your bad habits and work to overcome them.
Be honest with yourself about your challenges.

