 In order to install Forge, you will need to have Minecraft installed and have run it at least once. This will ensure that all of the necessary files are in place.

If you are creating a Forge server, you do not need to have Minecraft or the official server software installed. The Forge installer contains all of the server files.;
, Go to https://files.minecraftforge.net/ in a web browser and this will take you to the download page of the latest version of Minecraft Forge., This button will vary depending on your operating system:


Windows - Click the large Windows Installer to the left of the "Changelog" box beneath the "Download Recommended" section at the top of the page.

Mac - Click the small, box-shaped Installer button to the right of the "Changelog" box beneath the "Download Recommended" section at the top of the page.
 It's in the top-right corner of the page, though you'll have to wait six seconds before this button appears. Doing so prompts the Forge file to download.

You may have to select a save location (e.g., the desktop) or confirm that you wish to download the file before the download commences.
 It's a white anvil on a dark-blue background. Doing so will open the Forge installer.

If you receive a pop-up message telling you to install Java, go to https://www.java.com/en/download/ in your browser, click Free Java Download, click Agree and Start Free Download, and then install Java once it finishes downloading.
 If it isn't, click the box or circle next to "Install client" before proceeding., It's in the bottom-right corner of the page. Doing so will install the client files and folders for Minecraft Forge.

You can change the destination folder by clicking ... and then selecting a new folder.
 This will complete the installation process., It's a .jar file with an image of a cup of coffee on it., The Apple menu icon is in the top-left corner of the screen.

If you don't receive an error message, skip ahead to the "Make sure the 'Install client' box is checked" step.
 It's near the top of the drop-down menu., This is a house-shaped icon in the top row of the System Preferences menu., It's in the bottom-left corner of the window.

You may have to enter your administrator password before continuing.
 This button is next to the Forge file name, which will be something like "forge-1.12-14.21.1.2387-installer.jar".

If Security & Privacy doesn't show this option, click the General tab at the top of the page.
 This will open the Minecraft Forge installer window., If it isn't, click the box or circle next to "Install client" before proceeding.

If prompted to install Java, first click More Info... on the pop-up window, click Download below Java, click the Java .dmg file, double-click the Java .pkg folder, and follow the on-screen instructions.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the page. Doing so will install the client files and folders for Minecraft Forge.

You can change the destination folder by clicking ... above OK and then selecting a new folder.
 This will complete the installation process.