 Maybe you feel like the version of yourself lately isn't someone you recognize, and you just can't seem to shake the feeling. It's normal to have a bad day, or even a bad week, but if the feelings persist and continue to affect your life and the way you interact, it might be time to take the next step and see a therapist.You may usually love being with your friends, but suddenly find yourself wanting to be alone most of the time.
Maybe you find yourself getting angry often, when you never used to feel angry.;
, Do you notice changes in your feelings and behavior only at work, or only at home? Or have you noticed changes that seem to affect home, school, work, friends, etc.? Maybe you've noticed that things at school and with friends feel worse, or things with your family and at work have declined. If the way you feel across situations is consistently different than what is considered "normal" for you, it may be time to see a therapist.You may notice that your patience for other people at work has declined, and you explode at your kids more quickly than before.
Perhaps you've noticed your productivity at work sharply declined, and your caretaking of the home became abruptly non-existent.
 Sometimes it's normal to not sleep well before a big presentation or something you're excited about, but if you find yourself oversleeping (sleeping much during the day) or having difficulty sleeping (such as falling asleep or waking up throughout the night), it may indicate distress.Both lack of sleep or oversleeping can indicate distress.
 You may notice you suddenly find yourself eating often as a way to cope with stress. Or, perhaps your appetite has completely left you and you barely eat, unable to enjoy food. Changes in eating habits can signal distress.Eating food may become comforting to you, and you find yourself eating excessively.
You may also find food unappetizing or lacking pleasant taste, leading you to not eat enough during the day.
 If you feel more down than usual, or experience hopelessness, apathy, and isolation and can't seem to get out of the rut, it may be time to see a therapist. Maybe you used to feel enthusiastic about life and activities and now it all seems dull to you. It's normal to feel sad for a day or two, but feeling sad for weeks can indicate a larger problem. The sooner you find treatment, the sooner you can begin to feel better., Maybe you worry about small things, but lately worrying about things is taking a bigger role in your life. Perhaps you've noticed your worrying is taking over your time and life. You might feel silly admitting what makes you fearful, jumpy, or worried, yet you can't seem to shake it. If you're unable to get things done because you spend so much time worrying about things, it may be time to get help.Other signs of a problem with anxiety can include restlessness, irritability, and trouble concentrating., Your regular doctor (general practitioner or primary care physician) is an important ally in determining whether or not you need to speak with a therapist, and she can also be a great resource to help you find a therapist that may help you. Make an appointment with your doctor and let her know how you've been feeling. She can then run some tests to rule out any medicinal contributors that may be the source of your negative feelings (such as illness, changes in hormones, etc.).

