 You can use random colors, or you can try to pick colors that complement one another. Consider what you want your bracelet to represent. For example, you can choose your favorite colors, the colors of your favorite sports team, or seasonal colors (e.g. orange, black, and purple for Halloween).


Consider buying a rainbow loom kit if you plan to make a lot of bracelets. These kits feature bands in a variety of colors. You can buy a kit online or in an arts-and-crafts store for as little as $10.
Try writing down the order of the colors so that you don't forget. For example, if you have chosen to use red, blue, and green bands, assign a number to each color: red (1), blue (2), green (3). If your design is more complex, it is even more important that you plan out the specific color order.;
, Make a loop on each finger—the band should look like a figure-eight or an infinity sign. You can also use a metal fork. Instead of using two fingers, wrap the rubber bands around two tines of the fork.
 Do not twist this band into a figure-eight. Instead, make a single loop over your middle and index fingers.
, You just need to loop a new band onto your index and middle finger—above the previous band—then pull the previous band over the new band, your index fingertip, and your middle fingertip. Be sure to refer to your color order so that you don't make any mistakes.









If you are making a bracelet for yourself, consider measuring your wrist—and then the bracelet—to make sure that your new accessory will fit. Hold a string tight around your wrist (as tight as you want the bracelet to fit) and then measure the length of the string. Your bracelet is done when it's as long as the string.
If you are making a bracelet for someone else, think about how their wrist size compares to yours. If they have bigger wrists, make the bracelet slightly longer than you would for yourself. If they have smaller wrists, make the bracelet slightly shorter.
 Make sure that there is a band still looped on your middle and index finger. Attach the C-clip or S-clip to the end to hold the band together.
 You can wear this bracelet, give it to a friend, or use it as a decoration. Try making a few bracelets that complement each other. As you gain experience, you can experiment with more advanced designs.








