 You don't need to use a specific temperature; it can be on high or low just as long as you keep an eye on the bread to make sure it doesn't burn. However, it is easier and quicker to have the oven around 180 °C (356 °F). Just pop them in straight into the shelf; no baking tray is needed and wait for them to heat up. Turn over once.;
, Put them on a rack just above the charcoal close to sitting down time as they will be ready to eat quickly. As with the oven method, keep an eye on them and turn them over so they don't burn.
 Pitas can easily be warmed in a conventional domestic toaster. If they stick out of the top a bit, simply up end them half way through heating to warm them at both ends.  

, When they are warmed take them off or out of the heat and place on a chopping board. Use a tea towel or oven glove as they will be hot. Put one hand on top of the pita and using a knife with the other hand, cut either down the length of one side (this is for filling it with kebabs or sheftalia for instance) or to cut along the top into small slices, like little pockets.
 Warm as per one of the methods above then slice in two. Switch out the hamburger for a lamb burger, add fetta, cucumber and thinly sliced red onion rings, pop the lot into the pita pocket and enjoy.
 Warm the pitas using one of the above methods until they are just puffed. Cut the pitta bread along the narrowest part, it's very edge, to make two thin slices. Cut these slices into quarters. Place the halved, then quartered pita slices under a hot grill or in a warm oven until crisp. They will curve slightly at the edges, make sure they don't burn. These chips or crisps are perfect with classic Greek dips such as houmous, taramasalata or Tzatziki.
 Cooked meats, fish, cheeses and salads can all be enjoyed in a pitta. Put Greek salad and grilled chicken in for a Mediterranean meal. Go sandwhich staple with a BLT pita or try some fusion cuisine by filling a pita pocket with teriyaki beef, mooli and pea shoots.
 Dips and sauces are common in Greek cuisine but there's nothing stopping you having salsa, blue cheese dip, sour cream and chive dip, bean dip or whatever other dips you like.
 Make a kebab. There are huge variations on what people consider to be a kebab. Look for a recipe you like or, simply grill meat, or veggies, or both, on a skewer and slide off onto a warmed, unsliced, folded pitta.

