 Never hit, shout, chase, or lose your temper with a cat. You will simply terrify the cat and cause it to become nervous and confused.


Never call a cat to you and then punish it. The cat hasn't got a clue why you're responding negatively to him. In fact, the cat probably expects a pleasant response if you call it.;
, The first thing to do is stop touching the cat and then hold your hands well out of striking range. If he doesn't calm down within a few seconds, stand up slowly so you can remove him from your lap. Walk away and do not return until he has calmed down.


Avoid soothing your cat after biting or scratching. Instead, signal your displeasure to the cat. After you've disciplined it, do not begin cuddling and petting him. This will confuse your cat and give him mixed signals. It may even begin biting you in order to get a cuddle.
 If you are trying to get from one room to another and a hissing, snarling cat blocks the way, look at the situation from his viewpoint. The cat believes he is trapped and you are walking towards him, which he perceives as a threat. He wants to run but there is no escape route so he must defend himself by attacking. The simple solution is to step aside, let the cat pass (which he will do at speed) and then go about your way.Don't feed your cat for 20 minutes following a biting or scratching incident, as this might be wrongly taken as a reward.
 Cats respond best to positive reinforcement, namely praising and rewarding appropriate behavior, while ignoring and withdrawing from inappropriate behavior.


Hand the cat a catnip mouse to bite instead of you. Then, praise the cat for biting the toy.
 As soon as the cat bites or scratches, say "NO!" in an authoritative tone. At the same time, point your finger at the cat. Stare at the cat directly with an unimpressed or fierce look. Stares are regarded in the cat world as a threat of dominance.


It also helps to remove yourself from the cat's vicinity after doing this, or to ignore him for about 10 minutes.
 When your cat bites or scratches, clap your hands and say "NO!" firmly. Remember, don't shout at your cat or clap directly in your cat's face. It can scare him and leave him nervous. Repeat this whenever biting or scratching occurs. Your cat should learn to stop.


This method works with a dominant, aggressive or cheeky cat. It's not recommended for use with a timid or nervous cat, since it can reinforce these traits.
 The moment your cat stops biting or scratching you, stand up and walk away in a dismissive fashion without any further interaction. Make sure that the cat is all alone in the room with no human interaction for 5 to 10 minutes. Repeat this each time he tries to bite or scratch you. He will quickly associate the bad behavior with being ignored.


This method won't work with all cats, but works well with very affectionate cats, since they'll miss the attention, and with kittens, since they're still learning manners.
 Learn to play act. When he gives you a nip while playing, let out a loud squeal and pull your hand away. Then, stand up and walk away, signalling the game is over. If you do this consistently, the young kitten will soon learn that biting ends the game and will avoid doing so.If your cat is giving you love bites and you want to discourage this, press back gently against the bite. Pressing back makes it uncomfortable for the cat, so he/she will stop biting down. Pulling away fast from a play bite or grab is when you're most likely to get clawed from playing rough.
 A cat in middle of playing often forgets to be gentle and you may get a painful scratch or the cat will continue to play later, scratching you unexpectedly. To prevent this, provide toys that are clearly not part of you, such as fishing toys on strings, a laser-light pointer, or a catnip mouse.Cats need to bite, chew and scratch for fun and practice, just not on you or any other human. Try playing with the cat using a fishing pole toy, so your hands will be free of bites.
 Build regular play sessions of 5 to 10 minutes into your day. Get the cat moving after a fishing toy and continue playing until the cat is worn out.


The idea is to mentally stimulate your cat with chasing behavior and physically wear it out. A tired cat is a lot less likely to attack than a bored cat with excess misdirected energy., Cats that are not neutered are more territorial than their neutered counterparts. While being entire (or not neutered) doesn't automatically mean a cat is aggressive, neutering does have a calming effect and tends to make the cat more sociable and home-loving., Watch for clues like dilated pupils, skin rippling, or ceasing to purr. The cat may vocalise and give a low, throaty growl, or a quiet, ululating, whine, or hiss. He might tip his ears back and flatten them against his head. Its whiskers may bristle forward and he may draw back the corners of his mouth and open his mouth slightly (often while hissing).A cat that is playing will also have large round pupils, because he is excited. Take this into account when considering the cat's other body language - so a cat on your lap should not be excited and not have large pupils.
If the cat is cornered, he may often crouch and look anxiously from side to side, as if seeking an escape route (which is what he is doing)., These cats often grow into adults who seem to lash out viciously for no reason.Hand-reared cats that are aggressive usually give subtle signs for humans to back off. Learning these cues can prevent biting and scratching.
 A cat that is stressed and has no escape route is likely to lash out. Stress can come from being cornered by a noisy toddler, change in environment, or new people, so obviously it is important to be aware of your cat's emotional needs and reactions. Avoid labeling the cat as aggressive; it may simply be responding to stress.The best response is to restore calm and a settled atmosphere. Turn down noisy TVs, ask children to be quieter around the cat, and if anyone is upset, ask them to cry or shout out of the cat's hearing.
 If you encourage the cat to attack moving hands, feet, or fingers when playing, don't be surprised if the cat later attacks a foot, even though the game is over. The cat may assume it's still play time., A cat that is in pain or is ill can become defensive making it more likely to attack. Cats showing signs of sickness (losing weight, thirstier, vomiting) or pain (short-tempered, yowling, scratching, biting) should be checked out by a vet. It could be their bad behavior will improve once the underlying health issue is corrected.An older frailer cat that may resent being picked up or cuddled and might bite or scratch to get some peace. Ask family members to be mindful of the cat's age and need for gentler handling. Giving the cat plenty of space should help any behavior issues.

