 Most patients will receive narcotic pain medications after surgery. Follow your doctor’s instructions for how to use these medications and do not exceed the recommended dosage.Keep in mind that prescription pain medications can cause constipation so it is important to drink eight to 10 glasses of water per day and eat foods that contain fiber. You may also want to take a mild stool softener to deal with constipation.
Do not take acetaminophen while you are on prescription pain medication or you may cause damage to your liver. Avoid taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications as well to avoid potential bleeding issues.
 Cool compresses such as a bag of ice or frozen peas wrapped in a towel may be applied to wound for 10 – 15 minutes to help with pain. You can do this once every hour. Make sure that you wrap the compress in a towel or a t-shirt to avoid frostbite., It is important to limit your neck movement for one to three weeks after your thyroid surgery. Stick to non-strenuous activities and doctor-approved neck exercises and avoid anything that might put pressure on your neck.Studies have shown that certain neck exercises decreased common complaints experienced by most patients, such as a feeling of neck pressure and a choking sensation. Studies have shown that patients who performed these neck exercises also had a decrease in their need for pain medications. Ask your doctor about neck exercises that involve flexion and hyperextension of the neck. With your doctor’s approval, you can perform these exercises three times a day, starting on the first post-operative day.Avoid any strenuous activities for the first week following surgery, this involves lifting greater than 5 lbs., swimming, running or jogging. Ask for your surgeon’s permission before resuming your normal activities.
 There are some potentially serious complications that you should watch for as you recover from thyroid surgery. If you experience any of these complications, notify your doctor right away. These complications include:A weak voice
Numbness or tingling
Chest pain
Excessive coughing
Inability to eat or swallow

