 For a more intense removal of dead or flaking skin, make a homemade exfoliation treatment for lips. Mix together equal amounts of sugar and honey (or olive oil), then rub onto your lips in a circular motion with a soft-bristled toothbrush. Let this sit for a few minutes, then wipe off your lips as described below.;
, Soak a soft cloth in lukewarm water for a minute, then gently wipe your lips. This prevents tiny tears in your lips, which can make them turn pink or sore. Follow this method whenever you are removing old lip products, or when your lips feel covered in dead skin or food.
 Use ChapStick, Vaseline, or a similar product to keep your lips moisturized. Apply and leave in until there are no major cracks or flaking areas visible on your lips.


If you plan to apply makeup, use the lip balm 1–2 hours in advance if possible, then continue on to that section.
Drinking enough water will minimize cracks and chapping.
 This full makeup treatment can create the most natural and customizable pale lips, but it involves putting concealer and foundation on your lips. While a base of lip balm helps keep this safer and less dehydrating, it can still cause chapping if used too often. If you want pale lips in day-to-day life, just use a "nude" or pale lipstick instead of the full bevy of products, or try a home recipe.


To check whether a makeup product is safe for use on lips, use the EWG cosmetic ingredient database.
 For the most natural results, pick a concealer very slightly darker than your skin tone. After applying lip balm, dab the concealer in tiny amounts onto your lip, and continue to dab with your finger until it blends evenly across your lips.


Avoid rubbing the concealer on, which can make it look caked on and strange.
 Select a pale liquid foundation, or use the one you typically use for your face. Dab a raisin-sized amount onto the skin next to your lip, and blend it in. Blend a very small amount onto your lips themselves, and the rest around them.


BB cream is more moisturizing and transparent, making it a good choice for this purpose.
 Blend in the foundation by applying a pea-sized dab to each cheek, your forehead, and your chin. Brush this with your fingertips toward the sides of your face, until it is blended in and your skin is an even tone.
 Take a look in the mirror under white light, and decide whether you want a more striking, paler look. If you're satisfied with the current look, skip ahead to the powder step. Otherwise, put on a "nude," pale pink, or pale peach lipstick (or lip gloss for a glossier look) over the other products.


You can use bright white lipstick instead, but be aware that this will look unnatural.
 Cover your lips with a tissue, then brush on a powder makeup through the tissue. This sets the makeup beneath, making it stay on longer, and adds a matte appearance.


If you prefer a glossy look, apply an additional tiny dab of lip gloss on over the powder.
 There are quite a few home recipes people use to give themselves pale lips. These are generally safer and less dehydrating than cosmetic products, although they may not last as long or allow fine control. Try applying one of the following to your lips, rinsing off after 20 minutes, or leaving them on for a less subtle effect:


Rice flour mixed with just enough water to make a thick paste
One part all-purpose flour mixed with two parts water
Crushed rose petals in milk

, Mix white flour with vaseline to create your own tinted lip balm. This will keep your lips hydrated and make them appear paler at the same time.
 Use a cotton swab to wipe a couple drops of lemon juice across your lips, removing dark, dead skin and perhaps making your lips slightly paler. Wash this off and moisturize after a few minutes, as the lemon juice can cause chapping if left on too long.


If you have chapped lips, dilute the lemon juice with lukewarm water to avoid hurting yourself.
 For short-term solutions, stick a spoon in the refrigerator until it feels cold to the touch. Take it out and press it against your lips until it warms up. For a short time, your lips will look paler due to the reduced blood flow. This may only last a few minutes in warm weather.

