 Be sure the horse’s reins are not lifted over their head. Stand on the left side of the horse and take both reins securely in your hands to form a lead line. Your right hand should be close to the horse’s chin, and your left hand should hold the rest of the reins to keep you and the horse from tripping over them. Walk forward and gently pull on the reins to get the horse to walk forward.Never look back at your horse if they’re not moving. Instead, cluck your tongue and say “walk on!” You can tug on the reins if they’re still resisting.
Never loop the reins around your hands. If the horse spooks and pulls, you could get hurt.
 Mounting blocks are large step stools that can be used to make mounting easier. Lead your horse up to the mounting block so the steps are located on its left side. Put the reins over the horse’s head and keep them in your left hand. Walk up the steps, and put your left foot in the left stirrup. Put your weight on this foot as you gently swing your right leg over the saddle.Avoid slamming your body weight down in the saddle. While experienced lesson horses may be used to this, it still isn’t comfortable for them. Keep your weight in your legs until you’re ready to slowly ease your bottom down into the saddle.
 Your fingers should be tight enough around the reins that they won’t slip through your fingers if the horse moves or pulls its head. Be careful not to jerk on the reins or lift your hands up sharply, as this may hurt your horse’s mouth.Don’t use the reins to keep your balance. This will also hurt your horse’s mouth, and you’ll lose your balance quickly if your horse moves or drops their head.
 Your stirrups should sit right under the balls of your feet, which are located at the front of your feet’s arches. This will help you automatically push your heels down, which will make you put your weight into your bottom and legs. This position will keep you balanced and secure in the saddle.Your stirrups should be long enough to create a natural bend in your knee. You shouldn’t be reaching for the stirrups with your feet, but they also shouldn’t be so short that they make your legs feel folded-up or cramped.
 During this first lesson, pay careful attention to your instructor. They’re going to teach you several basic body and voice commands that can be used to get the horse to move forward, stop, turn, walk, and maybe trot. Your instructor will also help you position your body to feel comfortable and safe in the saddle. Be patient with this basic lesson, as it’s a building-block for anything that comes next.If you’re ever feeling nervous or scared, tell your instructor right away. Don’t try to tough it out. Horses are sensitive animals, and they’ll respond to your emotions.
 While your horse probably didn’t get very winded or sweaty during your lesson, it’s a good idea to get in the habit of cooling down by walking them slowly around the riding ring. This will allow the horse’s warm muscles to cool down slowly, preventing stiffness and injury. It will also give you time to take and breath and relax with your horse.You’ll know when your horse is cooled down by resting your hand on their neck. If it doesn’t feel much warmer than the air temperature, you’re ready to go.
 Once you’re completely finished with your lesson, stop in the middle of the ring. Put your left hand on the reins, and swing your right leg over the saddle to dismount. Pull the horse’s reins over their head to lead them safely back to the barn., It’s important to thank your horse for their hard work. You can give your horse a carrot, a piece of apple, a sugar cube, or a horse treat that the barn provides. In order to feed them the treat, put it in the middle of your hand and bring your hand up to their mouth. Keep your palm flat and your fingers together. You don’t want the horse to mistake your pinky for a second carrot!