 Allow gravity to help, but let your bowels do most of the work. If nothing happens, put it off for an hour or so, and try again but most importantly, don’t strain and force a bowel movement that isn’t happening naturally.
 Increase your water consumption to at least 8-10 8 oz glasses each day. Stool (feces) contain significant amounts of water—and the more water a stool contains, the softer it will be, which makes it easier to pass.
 Fiber helps keep water in the stool and bulks it up so that it passes through the rectum and anus more easily--and in the case of hemorrhoids, with less pain. Good sources of fiber include:


Seeds -- One hand full of chia seeds will ensure you will get enough fiber.
Whole grains-- include brown rice, barley, corn, rye, bulgur wheat, kasha (buckwheat) and oatmeal
Fruits, especially with the rinds
Vegetables (especially leafy vegetables like Swiss chard, collard greens, spinach, lettuces, beet greens)
Beans and legumes-- be aware that for some, eating beans and legumes can increase intestinal gas

, Laxatives can be habit forming and can also weaken the bowels, potentially leading to chronic constipation. If you do feel as though you need a laxative, try an herbal laxative instead.Senna and Psyllium are herbal laxative options. Senna is a natural and gentle stool softener. You can take senna as tablets (follow manufacturer’s instructions) or as a nightly tea. You can also try psyllium fiber as found in Metamucil. Psylliumis a natural bulking agent.
 The exercise can be aerobic, endurance, cardiovascular, or even just walking. Excercise makes your heart stronger, thus increasing the efficiency of your cardiovascular system. During excercise, you will also have high circulation thus removing your hemorrhoids (as these are basically blood sacks, caused by sedentary lifestyle and weak cardiovascular system)

, Don’t wait once you feel the urge to have a bowel movement; go as soon as you can, but don’t sit and try for too long waiting—sitting is also associated with an increased risk of hemorrhoids., See if you can arrange a regular time to have a bowel movement without interruptions around the same time every day. This tends to make bowel bleeding movements easier, and it turns out that having regular bowel movements is a great predictor of overall good health.