 Symptoms of hepatitis A are often described as flu-like and include fatigue (tiredness), weakness, loss of appetite and a low-grade fever.To combat these symptoms, get plenty of rest, especially during the initial stages of the infection, and temporarily reduce your activities and exercise regiment.


You'll probably need to stay home from work or school until the flu-like symptoms fade away (a few weeks of so).
Focus on getting at least 8 hours of quality sleep each night, if not more.
Take a break from the gym for a few weeks until your energy levels build back up. Instead, go for a short walk on occasion to get some fresh air and stimulate your blood circulation.;
, Other symptoms associated with hepatitis A are abdominal pain or discomfort near your liver (upper right side beneath your ribs) and joint pain, especially large joints such as your hips, spine and knees.Over-the-counter pain medication such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and acetaminophen (Tylenol) can help reduce painful symptoms, but keep your dosage well below maximum recommended amounts.


The liver is responsible for processing (metabolizing) drugs in your body, so higher doses can irritate, inflame and damage liver cells, especially if they're already infected with viral hepatitis.
Adults tend to experience more symptoms than children because their liver cells don't grow and regenerate as quickly.
Ibuprofen is not appropriate for young children, so stick with small doses of acetaminophen if you need to reduce symptoms.
 Another common symptom of hepatitis is mild-to-moderate nausea and potential vomiting, which can wax and wane throughout the day.To combat nausea, eat smaller meals or snacks throughout the day instead of three large ones. Focus on bland food, such as crackers, bread and white rice. Avoid fatty and fried foods, as well as spicy seasonings.


Ginger is a natural remedy for nausea, so consider taking ginger capsules, eating pickled ginger or drinking real ginger ale.
If your nausea and/or vomiting is severe, your doctor may prescribe an antiemetic drug (such as metoclopramide) to reduce the symptoms.
 A further complication of chronic or severe bouts of vomiting is dehydration, especially if you can't keep fluids down. Symptoms of dehydration to look out for include: severe thirst, dry skin, sunken looking eyes, lack of urination, headache, confusion and lethargy (fatigue).Focus on drinking purified water and herbal teas for hydration, although chicken / beef broths and diluted fruit juices are also good sources of electrolytes (mineral salts that are lost with vomiting).


Avoid beverages with caffeine (coffee, black tea, colas, energy drinks) because it's a diuretic that stimulates urination and increases the risk of dehydration.
If you can't keep yourself hydrated with beverages, you'll need to go to a hospital or emergency clinic to get intravenous fluid through a vein in your arm.
 Another potential side effect with any form of hepatitis or liver disease is a general sense of itchiness (also called pruritis) all over the body.Liver-related itchiness is caused by two main factors: an accumulation of toxins that haven't been filtered out by a damaged liver, and a back-up of bilirubin in the blood.


To combat itchiness wear loose clothing, avoid hot baths and showers, don't get sunburned and maintain a cool, well-ventilated environment in your home.No amount of scratching relieves this form of pruritis, so don't start and then risk getting a skin infection.
A build-up of bilirubin levels due to a damaged liver also causes yellowing of the skin and eyes).
With severe cases of itching, taking an over-the-counter antihistamine medication may help because it reduces inflammatory reactions.
 An injured and inflamed liver has trouble processing and metabolizing (breaking down) the toxins in medications, as well as alcohol (ethanol).As such, take it easy on your liver by not drinking alcoholic beverages while your body fights the hepatitis A virus — it may take a few weeks to a few months, depending on the severity of the infection and strength of your immune system.


Although red wine has some health value (it contains antioxidants), it should also be avoided by people with hepatitis.
Instead of wine, drink grape juice with meals as long as it doesn't trigger nausea.
Instead of drinking regular beer after work or on weekends, try non-alcoholic varieties.
 The easiest way to prevent hepatitis A is to get vaccinated with the hepatitis A vaccine.It's proven to be effective at preventing infection by the virus. Hepatitis A vaccines are typically given in two doses — an initial shot in the arm followed by a booster shot about six months later. All children by the age of two years should get vaccinated to help prevent future infection.


People who are recommended to get vaccinated include: lab workers who handle hep A, people who work with sewage, men who have anal sex, illicit drug users, patients with chronic liver disease, and people traveling to areas with high rates of hep A.The effectiveness of the hep A vaccine ranges from 80-100% after 1-2 doses in most people.The three types of vaccines used against hep A are: a monovalent vaccine, a combined hep A and hep B vaccine, and a combined hep A and typhoid fever vaccine.
For adults, a booster hep A shot is estimated to protect you for at least 20 years., If you're traveling to higher risk places where hepatitis A outbreaks frequently occur, then take the necessary precautions. More specifically, peel and thoroughly wash all fresh fruits and veggies yourself before eating them.Avoid eating any raw or under-cooked meat, poultry and fish. Drink only bottled water and also use it when brushing your teeth. Don't drink any beverages with ice added.


Higher risk areas for hepatitis A include Mexico, China, Southeast Asia, Africa, Asia and most parts of South America.
If bottled water isn't available to you, boil tap water for about 10 minutes before drinking it.
 In addition to contaminated food and water, hepatitis A is also transmitted from infected people — either sexually or from their dirty dirty hands.As such, practice good hygiene by frequently washing your hands with warm water and antibacterial soap. As an alternative to soap and water, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer, especially after you shake hands with someone or handle fresh produce (fruits and veggies).


Always wash your hands after using the toilet, changing a diaper and before preparing food or eating it.The hep A virus can also be transmitted sexually, so practice safe sex and always insist on condom usage.

