 One of the earliest signs of kidney issues is microalbuminuria, which is the presence of protein and albumin in your urine. Often diabetic patients with kidney damage show no overt symptoms, and no changes to their urinary patterns or frequency. Therefore, it is important to request specific tests such as this one from your doctor, as it is the easiest way to detect and damage to the kidneys in the early stages.Protein in your urine (as detected on the microalbuminuria test) is usually a red flag that your kidneys are not in optimal health, and that it is time to begin steps to prevent any further damage.
This test is recommended to have once a year. If you have type 1 diabetes, testing should begin five years after diagnosis. If you have type 2 diabetes, testing should begin annually starting at the time of diagnosis., What starts as small amounts of protein in your urine (called "diabetic nephropathy" by medical doctors), if left untreated eventually progresses to chronic kidney disease and ultimately to kidney failure.This is why showing up for regular testing, and then following your doctor's advice for lifestyle modifications and medical treatment, is key to delaying or altogether preventing the development of long-term kidney disease and kidney failure.
 Your body will begin to retain fluid because when your kidneys start to fail, they become less able to remove excess water from your body. When this occurs, you will experience swelling around your ankles and feet because your body is holding on to fluid.One of the main signs of fluid retention is the skin around your eyes becoming puffy.
 When your kidneys stop working, they have a harder time processing toxins that they can normally deal with. This will cause these toxins to accumulate in your body, which will keep your body from functioning normally. One of the first things that will be affected by this toxin accumulation is your appetite.
 Your kidneys process all of the good and bad stuff that you put into your body. When they stop working properly, waste will build up in your body. This waste buildup can actually cause your skin to become irritated, which will result in your feeling itchy.
 When your kidneys stop processing waste, toxins can build up throughout your body. This means that toxins can also accumulate in your brain, making it harder for you to function properly. This can result in you having a hard time concentrating on anything for a long period of time., Muscle cramps, nausea, and vomiting can occur because of an imbalance of electrolytes in your body. Electrolytes are ions that are found in the body that help to maintain the normal functioning of the body. When you don’t have enough electrolytes, your muscles can cramp up. At the same time, you may begin to feel nauseous, which may cause you to vomit.The most common electrolytes include sodium, potassium, phosphorus, and calcium.
 Ascites is the medical term for a swollen abdomen caused by an accumulation of fluid. When your body accumulates fluids because your kidneys are not working properly, your abdomen will more than likely swell up.