 Splash your raw skin with cool water and lightly apply a gentle, scent- and alcohol-free cleanser twice each day. Cleanse more often if you notice dirt or debris on the raw areas. Pat the area dry with a clean towel to prevent further irritation. This can clear away debris or bacteria and minimize your risk of infection.Avoid scrubbing or rubbing the area too harshly, which can cause irritation.;
, Dab on a thin layer of a protective cream, lotion or ointment. Use products including zinc oxide, petroleum jelly, or aloe on the raw skin and surrounding area. This can protect your raw skin and soothe any irritation. Ask your pharmacist or doctor for the best type of protective layer for your raw skin.Use ointments made with calendula or aloe vera. These can soothe raw skin and aid the healing process., Select a plastic or fabric bandage manufactured for sensitive skin. Apply your choice over any raw areas, securing adhesive edges to healthy skin. This can protect the area from irritants and bacteria, contact with your hands or fingers, and extreme temperature. It also minimizes your risk of infection., If your raw skin is a result of chafing, apply a talcum or alum powder to the raw areas. Reapply the powder after showers or anytime your skin is moist. This can whisk away moisture from your skin and prevent further irritation. It may also promote healing., Fill your tub with warm water to a level that reaches your raw skin. Sprinkle the bathwater with colloidal oatmeal, which is a finely ground oatmeal specifically made for the bathtub. Soak in the oatmeal and warm water for 5-10 minutes. Then pat your skin dry and apply a moisturizer. This can soothe raw skin and promote healing.Use uncooked oatmeal if you cannot find colloidal oatmeal.
 While your skin is healing, put on loose clothing in a smooth and breathable fabric such as cotton. This can prevent further irritation of raw skin. It also increases airflow to promote healing.Avoid overdressing. Loosen your clothing to prevent irritation and excess moisture.
 Minimize or avoid potentially irritating products or allergens. Use products that are labeled scent-, fragrance-, and dye-free. This can speed healing and prevent further irritation., Even with home care, your raw skin may not heal. Tell your doctor when you noticed the raw skin and what home treatment you’ve done. They can diagnose potential causes or conditions and get you prompt and proper treatment. See a doctor if your raw skin:Is so painful that you lose sleep or get distracted from your daily routine
Becomes painful
Appears infected
Won’t heal with self-care

, Examine your raw skin and the affected area around it for raw and red dots. These marks scattered across your skin can indicate a bacterial or yeast infection. If you suspect a bacterial or yeast infection, see your doctor, who can diagnose the problem. They may suggest better hygiene to clear up the area and prevent future outbreaks. For more severe cases, take prescription medication to soothe and heal the area.If you are taking antibiotics, this may cause a yeast infection that leads to raw skin., Notice if the areas of your skin that are raw are on your thighs, groin, underarms or nipples. These may be the result of friction from wearing tight clothing, shoes, or skin rubbing on skin. Soothe these areas with a thin layer of protective salve. This can also prevent future raw skin from friction., Review any products that touch your skin including your skincare, detergents, or topical medications. Gradually remove individual products from your routine until you figure out which one is causing the raw skin. Discontinue use of the product to see if your skin heals or calms down. , See if your raw skin is on an area exposed to or touched by potential allergens such as plants, detergents, food, or animals. This can indicate an allergic reaction that may heal by discontinuing use or avoiding the allergen. Taking an oral over-the-counter antihistamine may relieve pain and inflammation and promote healing.An allergic rash can happen in conjunction with raw skin caused by irritants., Examine your raw skin for mirroring on either side, and notice if the skin also appears moist, thin, or like it has lost several layers, all of which can indicate intertrigo. Keep the area dry by exposing it to air or dabbing a towel on it to promote healing. You should also stay cool and avoid sun exposure to prevent further irritation.Intertrigo rashes can present on parts of the body exposed to heat or moisture., Check your raw skin for scales or rough patches. If the raw skin is greasy skin and has yellowish scales, you may have seborrheic dermatitis.This may also be atopic dermatitis or eczema in rare cases. See your doctor for a definitive diagnosis. They can suggest the most appropriate treatment, such as light therapy or antifungal medication, to soothe and your raw skin.This type of raw skin generally appears on the face, upper chest, and back.

