 Before you can obtain your IDP, you must have a valid United States driver's license. If you do not already have one, you should get your driver's license before applying for an IDP.


You will need a valid license to obtain your IDP. It is also necessary to have one when using your IDP in Japan.
Understand that an IDP is only a temporary solution. You cannot drive in Japan indefinitely with only an IDP; you may need to eventually obtain a Japanese driver's license, especially if you plan on staying in Japan for more than one year.;
, You can only obtain an IDP from the American Automobile Association (AAA) or the American Automobile Touring Alliance (AATA) within the United States.You must secure your IDP from either source before leaving for Japan.
You can only obtain a valid IDP from these two sources. Others who claim to offer IDPs are not authorized by the U.S. Department of State; therefore, an IDP purchased from such a source will not be valid.
 Go to either the AAA or AATP website and print an official application for your IDP. Answer all questions accurately and completely.


The forms can be found online.

AAA: http://www.aaa.com/vacation/idpf.html

http://www.thenac.com/international_driving_permit.pdf


You'll need to provide your full name, home address, U.S. driver's license details, birth date and place, and phone number. You must also indicate where you plan to go and when, along with the type of vehicle you plan to drive.
 You will need to send your completed application to the AAA or AATP, depending on which application you filled out. You also need to include a few other necessary documents and a fee.


Your application must be accompanied by two original color passport photos, a signed photocopy of the front and back of your U.S. driver's license, and your payment.
As of 2014, the cost of the IDP was $15, plus shipping and handling fees.
Send your AAA application to your nearest AAA office, which can be located by using the online search tool: http://www.aaa.com/locations/

Alternatively, send your AAA application to the organization's headquarters at:

AAA/IDP
1000 AAA Drive
Heathrow, FL 32746
Attn: Mail Stop #28


Send your AATP application to:

National Automobile Club
Attn: IDP
373 Vintage Park Drive, Suite E
Foster City, CA 94404



, The AAA or AATP should send your IDP to the mailing address written on your application within four to six weeks.


If you pay extra for express shipping and handling, however, you may receive your IDP sooner than that.
Note that you must have your IDP with you before you can drive in Japan. Simply filing the application is not enough.
 Under most circumstances, you can use your IDP to drive in Japan for 12 months. After a year passes, however, you will need to obtain a Japanese driver's license.


If you plan on staying in Japan for a short visit, there is no restriction on how early you must receive your IDP. If you want to stay longer and attempt to renew your IDP back in the U.S. every 12 months, you must wait at least three months after renewing your IDP before re-entering Japan., You must obtain a Japanese driver's license if you stay in Japan for more than one year and plan to drive, but you must also meet basic eligibility requirements to start the licensing process.You must have a valid U.S. driver's license, and you must have been a resident of the United States for at least three months after the U.S. driver's license was issued.
You will also need to be 18 years of age or older.
It is also required for you to possess a valid visa to stay in Japan, and you must be registered as a foreign resident at the local Japanese city, town, or ward office.
 You cannot present your U.S. driver's license to the officials at the license center. You'll need to have an official translation of your license, which can be obtained from the Japan Automobile Federation (JAF).Bring a completed application form, a photocopy of your residence card, and your original U.S. driver's license to your nearest JAF translation office. Pay the 3000 yen fee when you submit your documents.
You may receive your translated license the same day or you may wait as long as three weeks.
Locate the nearest JAF office here: http://www.jaf.or.jp/inter/entrust/index_e.htm

Download the application here: http://www.jaf.or.jp/inter/translation/pdf/pdf_apli_english.pdf


, Bring your translated U.S. driver's license and passport to the nearest license testing center.


Locate the nearest license center here: http://www.japandriverslicense.com/dl-centers.asp

Once you arrive at the center, present your documents for inspection.
If you are determined to be eligible, the testing process will begin.
If you are not eligible, you will be sent away with instructions regarding any additional materials you need to present.
 Officials at the license testing center will perform a basic vision and hearing test.


The vision test also includes a color recognition check.
 The written test is fairly brief and mostly consists of true or false questions. Grading will be done immediately, and you must answer 70 percent of the questions correctly to pass.Grading should be completed within one to two hours. You will only be informed of your overall result and will not be told which questions were answered correctly.
If you fail the test, you will need to return another day to retake it.
A sample test can be found here: http://www.japandriverslicense.com/test1.asp


, If you pass the written test, you will need to take a driving test. This exam will be performed on an enclosed course at the license center.


You will be notified of whether you pass or fail immediately.
 If you have successfully passed all of you driving exams, your Japanese driver's license will be issued to you on the same day.


Before receiving your license, you will need to pay any associated fees. The officials at the license center will also take your photograph.
 Once you have your driver's license, you will need to carry it with you whenever you drive in Japan.


Failure to present your license when you are stopped by traffic authorities or are involved in an accident can result in fines and other negative consequences.
 Instead of driving on the right side of the road like you would do in the United States, you must drive on the left side of the road when you're in Japan.


When you are making a right turn, you must yield to other vehicles driving straight or making left turns.
 Japan has green lights, yellow lights, red lights, arrows, and flashing lights.


Green means go. You can drive straight, turn left, or turn right at a green light.
When you see a yellow light, you must not move further than the stopping point. If you cannot stop safely, however, you may proceed through a yellow light.
Stop at a red light. If there is a green arrow light beneath the red light, however, you can turn in the direction of the arrow, but do not drive turn if the arrow is yellow.
When you spot a flashing yellow light, proceed cautiously. When you see a flashing red light, stop briefly at the stopping point before driving through.
 Speed limits are described in kilometers per hour (km/h) and are usually posted along the road.


Typically, speed limits range between 80 and 100 km/h (62 mph) on expressways, 40 km/h (25 mph) in urban areas, 30 km/h (19 mph) on side streets, and 50 to 60 km/h (31 to 37 mph) anywhere else.
If you are on a public road with no traffic sign, the speed limit will be 60 km/h (37 mph). When you're on an expressway with no sign, it will be 100 km/h (62 mph)., Traffic signs will be posted along the road where they are needed. In rural areas, these signs will only be written in Japanese. When you're on a major road, however, some signs may also be written in English.


It is strongly recommended that you memorize the common traffic sign symbols before driving in Japan.
Note that many of the signs you'll see in Japan will be similar to those you would see in the United States, but there are a few differences.
In particular, you need to familiarize yourself with the appearance of stop signs. A stop sign looks like a red inverted triangle. The word "Stop" will be written on it in Japanese.
You can review a full listing of Japanese road signs here: http://www.japandriverslicense.com/japanese-road-signs.asp


, You'll need to stop at red lights, stop signs, and railroad crossings


When you reach a stop sign, stop at the or before the adjacent stop line and yield to vehicles traveling on the intersecting road before moving again.
Stop at the stop line before driving through a railroad crossing. Check for a train before driving through.
 Only park in areas designated for parking. Do not park when you see a "no parking" traffic sign.


A "no parking" traffic sign looks like a blue circle with a red border. A red line passes diagonally from the upper left to the lower right. If you see an "x" instead of the single line, it is a "no parking or stopping" sign.
Like the United States, parking lots in the center of large cities tend to be expensive. Fees decrease as the population becomes less dense, and parking is typically free in the countryside.
 Driving under the influence of alcohol is illegal, and the penalties for breaking this law can be very strict.


If alcohol is detected by a formal breath test, you can be imprisoned for three years or may face fines as great as 500,000 yen. If you injure or kill someone while driving under the influence, you can be imprisoned for 15 years.
 If you own a car while staying in Japan, you will need to pay various fees ad meet other requirements.


Light cars, also called keisha cars, are smaller and less costly. Regular cars are standard size and cost more to own overall. Keisha cars have yellow license plates and regular cars have white license plates.
Your car will need to undergo a safety inspection every two to three years.
Expect to pay annual automobile taxes.
You also need to factor in the cost of mandatory insurance, secondary insurance, parking fees, toll expressways, and gasoline.
 There are both full service and self service stations in Japan.


An attendant will put fuel in your car at a full service station. Since you'll need to speak with him, you should know some basic Japanese before stopping there.
You will need to fill your own tank at a self service station. The menu instructions are usually in Japanese only, so you'll need to know the language before stopping there, too.
 If you are caught making a minor traffic violation, you will receive a blue traffic violation ticket and a fine payment bill.


You should pay the fine within eight days to avoid criminal prosecution.
If you do not pay the fine within eight days, you will need to appear at a notification center. You will receive a notice for payment and must pay the fine within 11 days after receiving this notice.
If you fail to pay the fine within 11 days after receiving a notice for payment of the fine, you will be summoned to appear in court.
 If you get into a traffic accident, dial 110 to contact the police and 119 to call for an ambulance.


If you only need roadside assistance, call the Japan Automobile Federation.

Tokyo: 03-5395-0111
Osaka: 06-577-0111
Sapporo: 011-857-8139
Fukuoka: 092-841-5000
Okinawa: 098-877-9163



