 Prepare a list of places where horses or ponies are up for sale that appear to meet your budget and other needs and make appointments to turn up to each place (be sure to leave yourself enough time between visits). Bring a notepad and pencil along, as well as a camera, so that you can document the visits for reflection later.;
, When you have arrived at the place for each horse, check out the surroundings. Does it look neat, clean, and safe? Are all of the other horses (and other animals) in good condition?

, Does the owner have to pull hard, slap, or drag it over? Check to see if the owner is too hard on the animal and if the horse looks afraid of the person. Frightened horses are not suitable for school situations.
 The animal should have good, rhythmic paces and should not falter; if it does falter, it could be lame. If the horse goes crazy when the owner even gets in the saddle, something is definitely up.
 If so, take various pictures at each gait. Make sure that the owner is a good rider and that if the horse is wild, it is not the fault of the owner. Look carefully to see that the horse is not drugged (it will be sleepy looking or unnaturally calm).
 The owner should let you do this. Are the gaits smooth, even, and strong? Is the horse calm and steady, yet still alert? Make sure you know what level the horse is at––is it suitable for beginners?


Ask the owner if the horse has been ridden by other persons than the owner. If the horse is used to different riders, this is a good indicator for a horse intended for school work.
 They should be clean and healthy looking. Check the coat and mane/tail. They should look healthy and well-brushed.
 Get a vet to give the horse an all-over checkup. The vet will tell you everything you need to know about the horse's health.
 After reflection, you'll know whether or not you're making a right choice. If the vet okays everything, and you like the horse's temperament and gaits, etc, go ahead and sign the papers. If the owner has papers proving the breed, etc, take these as well.
 Also prepare ahead, to make sure that your home is ready for the new arrival.
 The owner may not allow you to remove the horse until payment has cleared but be sure that you've both signed a sale contract before handing over money.
 For the first few days, keep it separate until it becomes familiar with you and its surroundings. Make sure your horse is healthy, happy, and safe!

