 There are three types of closing: hard, medium, and soft. Your closing strategy should be based on your intended outcome and your knowledge of your customer. Prepare a closing in each one of these categories.A hard close requires your customer to respond “yes” or “no.”
A medium close is more of suggestion.
A soft close is a suggestion that makes the customer believe they are acting based on their own free will.
If you have an indecisive customer, you may starts with a soft close and then give them a hard close when you follow up. You may say, “Why don’t you think about what we discussed today, and I will give you a call Friday morning.” When you call Friday morning, you may say, “The deal that we discussed is for a limited only. I need an answer today.”

, If you need an answer from a customer by a certain time period, give them a deadline to act. This is useful if you are offering special discounts or pricing or if you are trying to meet e deadline yourself. Try some of the following:Hard close: “The special pricing ends this week. We need an answer today.”
Medium close: “The discount is only running through the end of this month.”
Soft close: “Think about what you want to do, and I will give you a call tomorrow afternoon.”

, Have a pen, a note pad, and a hard copy of the proposal with you when you go to close the deal. The customer should be able to see in writing exactly what they are getting. You should always have your pen in case a customer is ready to sign on the dotted line.If you are not prepared and a customer is ready to close a deal, the customer may be turned off and change their mind.
Remember that you are representing your company. You need to look organized and trustworthy.
 Just because a customer is not interested in buying your product right now does not mean they will not be interested down the line. Work on developing a relationship with the customer to build trust. If a customer likes you personally, they are more likely to buy from you.Offer to take the person to lunch, dinner, or coffee. People are a little more relaxed outside of the office setting.
Send your customer an interesting article related to their business or personal interests. For example, if a person was interested in new farming equipment, you may send them a press release about a new product. You can simply send an email saying, “Hi Ashley, take a look at this article. I think it’s something you may be interested in. Hope to speak with you soon.”

, When you make eye contact with a customer, you are saying that you are confident and interested in them. If you do not project confidence, the customer will not be confident in what you are selling. You should also smile and maintain a friendly attitude no matter what the customer says.This takes come practice. Practice smiling in all different situations. If someone is kind, irritating, annoying, smile through it.

