 Deaths create personal and practical chaos and you can help by providing some sense of order and forward direction. Pull out a pen and paper and write a list of everything that needs to be done from the minutia (such as sorting through the mail) to the complex (such as looking into the existence of probate documents or the lack thereof).Thinking about the thematic grouping of activities may help as you compose the list. For example, if you focus on money then you will include closing out all bank accounts, arranging for the payment of funeral contractors, and paying any outstanding bills.
 If you are skilled at writing, offer to compose and arrange for the publication of the death announcement. Get a phone list from the bereaved person and make calls to spread the word about the service date and time. Arrange for transportation to and from the service, including serving as a driver, if needed.


Continue helping after the services conclude by collecting and donating any flowers. (Hospitals often welcome floral donations). Or, by writing thank you notes for any gifts received.
 Offer to sit-in on the meetings with a funeral director or go to meet with insurance agents. Your role is to provide support to the mourning person, so if you say less than more, that is okay.


If asked for your opinion, it is perfectly okay to turn the question back around and say, “Is that what you want?” Or, “How do you feel about this?”
Ensure that the proper paperwork is filed. Get the death certificate and look over it to make sure that it is filled out correctly.
 Prepare food that is frozen and easy to defrost or that comes ready-made. Lasagna and other noodle-based casseroles are a good idea as they are calorically dense and retain flavor when frozen. Try to be consistent and provide a set number of meals on a schedule.


Cook their favorite foods, such as macaroni and cheese, in order to provide additional temptation. Loss of appetite is a common side-effect of mourning, therefore, it is helpful to have many food options available., Washing the dishes and sweeping may be the last thing on a person’s mind following a death in the family. Offer to do these chores in a concrete way, “I can come by twice a week to do the dusting.” You can also organize any items laying around, such as loose papers.


Watch what you throw away and ask before taking out the trash. That random crumpled list on the couch could have been the last thing written by their loved one and, therefore, worth keeping to them even if it appears worthless to you., A child's need for attention and care does not cease due to a death. If the bereaved has children, offer to babysit for one evening a week. Take the kids out for dinner and a movie or to the local arcade. Keep the conversation light and positive, look at this as an opportunity for you to have fun as well.
 Create a website listing asking for funding or spread the word in person. Detail the circumstances, in a tactful way, surrounding the death and describe the reason for the financial need. These funds, for example, could be used to pay for funeral expenses or to support the children of the deceased person. The average funeral costs over $7,000.The amount of money that you raise is not necessarily the most important thing. The effort that you go through to set-up and monitor these funds shows that you care. Make sure to carefully keep track of all raised monies.
The funds could also be used to help others, such as a memorial scholarship fund.