 Don’t hide your digestive disorder from your date. How you want to word your disorder is up to you, but it is important to disclose your problems. You may want to be upfront and let them know on or before your first date, or you may want to wait a couple of dates. The timing is ultimately up to you, but you do need to bring it up.At first try to keep things simple. Just say, “I have a sensitive stomach, so I need to watch what I eat.”
If you fell like you must go into more detail, say, “I have IBS and need quick access to a bathroom.”;
, If you tell your date about your disorder, they may try to be overly-cautious by asking, “Are you okay? Are you sure? Should you be eating that?” When telling a date about your disorder, be clear about what kind of support you want or need.Say, “My stomach does bother me at times, but don’t feel responsible for me. I can take care of myself.”
If you need to make a request, say so simply. For example, say, “I’d like to have a seat near the aisle so I can leave easily if I need to use the bathroom.”

, Some people choose to isolate themselves or not date due to their digestive disorder. Recognize that your disorder is nothing to be ashamed of and doesn’t make you any less worthy of finding a great partner. You might feel embarrassed about your symptoms, but they don’t define who you are.Stand confidently in your disorder and let your date know that it’s part of your life but it doesn’t define who you are.


For example, say, “My disorder makes my life a bit harder, but I’m determined to live a great life even though I experience digestive problems.”
Many people will be sympathetic to your symptoms. Even if you pass gas loudly, it’s unlikely to make someone close the book on dating you.
Look online for tips or videos on dealing with your specific disorder. If you have difficulty explaining your condition you might even consider showing a video to your date at some point to help them understand your condition and how you deal with it.
 If you want to avoid any potential problems or uncomfortable exchanges, suggest date activities that are non-food related. Go bowling, watch a movie, or go ice skating. Especially if you’re meeting for a first date, choose an activity that doesn’t revolve around eating.


Consider not including food or drinks early on in your dating relationship. Keep the focus on getting to know one another, not on managing your disorder.
 If you’re planning an activity, schedule your date after dinner or at a time that isn’t a typical mealtime. Eat before you meet up. When choosing your clothes, wear something that is comfortable that won’t irritate your stomach or other sensitive parts. If you take medication, make sure you’ve done so beforehand.


Don’t eat any risky foods earlier on in the day. You want to feel good going into the date.
 Stress can often worsen your symptoms, so make sure you feel comfortable and relaxed before your dates.Dealing with your stress on a daily basis can improve your physical and emotional health. Try activities such as yoga, meditation, or guided breathing techniques on a daily basis to help lower your overall stress levels and improve your mood.If you’re having a flare-up, do some relaxation at home. For example, instead of going to a yoga class, do some yoga at home instead.

Power naps may also help if your stress is related to not getting enough sleep.
If you struggle to manage your stress and your digestion suffers as a result, consider talking to a therapist and practicing coping strategies to deal with stress on a regular basis.
 Have an emergency kit ready for any potential problems. For example, carry some medications that can help you out in a pinch. If you struggle with incontinence, carry wipes and a change of clothes if necessary. While you may feel embarrassed to carry these items, it’s best to come prepared to avoid more embarrassment.Having an emergency kit with you can make you feel more confident on your date since you know you can handle anything that might come up.
Carry a backpack with you that has all necessary items. You don’t need to explain why you carry these things around to your date.
 During the date, focus on having fun and getting to know the person. If you’re concerned about your digestive disorder or having a flare-up, try to relax as much as possible and deal with it only if it happens. Be open and show who you are outside of having a digestive disorder. Put your attention to having a good time and finding similarities with your date.Ask questions and get to know the person. Be open and share your own experiences and perspectives.
 Be proactive in anticipating potential problems with food while on a date. For example, bring some food or snacks with you when you go on activities and offer to share. That way, you won’t have to rely on potentially harmful food while out catching a baseball game or movie.Know what restaurants you can safely eat at or what activities may cater to your needs. Write a list of activities that you enjoy that a potential date may also enjoy. Then, choose one and invite a date to join you.
 If you do choose to go out to eat, suggest a restaurant you know you can eat comfortably at. Especially if it’s a first date, you want to feel comfortable and not worry about your stomach. Choose a restaurant that you’ve been to already or know is responsive to special orders.You may want to check the restaurant out or research it online before you go on a date to make sure it will accommodate your needs.
 Know what foods specifically trigger your symptoms, and stay clear of them. Get to know what foods you react to and find some alternative options.Find restaurants that offer menu items you feel comfortable eating that won’t cause distress.


Some foods that may trigger reactions include grains, dairy, alcohol, sugar, and legumes.
For example, if you know dairy sets off your symptoms yet your date wants to go get ice cream, suggest a place that has alternative options like dairy-free or sorbet.
 If you’re out to eat and your problems start to bother you, find a place to enjoy a soothing tea. This can be a way for you to relieve some pain and also keep the date going. Look for teas that can help soothe digestion. For example, chai tea has a blend of herbs and other medicinals that can help soothe the stomach.Green tea can also help with digestion problems.If you’re in a pinch and need a little relief, look to herbal teas to help calm your stomach.


Stash some tea bags in your purse or wallet so that you can drink a tea when you’re out. Just add hot water.
 If you’re feeling comfortable with your date, invite them over for dinner at your place. This way, you can show them how to cook foods that you can eat. You can also anticipate feeling well and not fearing unpleasant reactions.Make sure you feel safe having the person over to your house and knowing your address.

