 Purchase DVDs with the same icon. This format will very likely to work properly with the used device.

Purchase only DVD-R disc formats for this purpose. Many players don't play discs with DVD+R format correctly, and the menus on the DVD may not function right when burned on that format. You can tweak the settings of the authoring program to fix this problem but it's best left to more advanced users.
 If you want to burn a video file to a DVD so that it can be played in any DVD player, you'll need a special kind of burning program, referred to as "DVD authoring" programs. These programs will convert the video file(s) to the format that is recognized by standalone DVD players. These programs typically don't come installed on your computer, though you may have a trial or basic version that came with your DVD burner. Below are a few of the most popular free options for the major operating systems:WinX DVD Author - winxdvd.com/dvd-author/ (Windows)
Burn - burn-osx.sourceforge.net (Mac)
DeVeDe - rastersoft.com/programas/devede.html (Linux; Windows no longer free)
DVD Styler - dvdstyler.org/en/

DVD Flick- dvdflick.net/ (out of date but is operational and with practice you can create your own custom backgrounds and buttons; for Windows)

, The process varies a little bit depending on the program you are using, but generally you'll be presented with a menu when you start your program, allowing you to pick the type of DVD you are creating. Choose the "Video" option or tab.
 After starting your new project, you can add your first video file. Most DVD authoring programs support all the major video formats, so you typically don't need to worry about converting the files first. Click and drag the video into the authoring window, or browse for the video file on your computer.


You can usually fit one full-length movie onto your DVD, or several hour-long TV episodes.
 Oftentimes the video files that you add are not in the proper MPEG-2 format required to make a playable video DVD. The extension name for this is ,MPEG OR .MPG. Most DVD authoring programs will convert your video file either as you add it to the project, or after you're finished adding files. Converting the video may take a while to complete.


If prompted during the video conversion, select the correct region for your DVD player. The US and Japan use NTSC, while most of Europe uses PAL.
If you are using DeVeDe, the conversion happens at the end of the authoring process.
If you are receiving errors when attempting to convert the file, you may need to use a dedicated conversion program like Handbrake. Click here for instructions on using Handbrake to convert your files to a DVD compatible format.
Flash-Integro (or VSDC Movie Editor free version) also converts movies into needed formats and offers many editing options like cutting and splitting as well. Go to the Flash-Integro site and not the other fake ones.
You can also record a video in a media player like VLC or PotPlayer in MPEG format to convert a file as well. It takes as long as the movie duration.
 Many DVD authoring programs have basic menu creation tools. These allow you to create a custom menu for your video. You don't need a menu for the video to be playable, as you can have it just automatically start playing when the disc is inserted.


In Burn for Mac, click the Gear button and select "Use DVD theme" to enable a basic menu for your DVD.When creating the menu, avoid placing buttons along the very edge of the frame. The edge is often cut off by older TVs and DVD players.
 Once the video is converted and the menu has been created, you can start the burning process. Insert a blank DVD-R into your computer's DVD burner. This is the best disc format for creating video DVDs, as DVD-R is compatible with the widest range of DVD players. Some older DVD players will not be able to play any burned DVDs, regardless of format.


If your computer opens the AutoPlay window when you insert the blank disc, just close it.
 Again, the process will vary depending on the program you are using. There are a few settings that you'll want to check before you actually burn the project to the disc:


Set the "Write Speed" low. While it may be tempting to set the speed to MAX or another high value, this can lead to errors on the disc which will prevent it from playing. The best way to ensure that your disc will work is to burn at 2X or 4X only.
If you haven't been prompted to select your region yet, check the Burn menu for the NTSC for PAL option and select the appropriate one.
 After reviewing your settings, start the burn process by clicking Start or Burn. If your videos weren't converted yet, they'll be converted before being burned. The entire process may take a while, especially if you've lowered the burn speed. Try to avoid using your computer while it is converting and burning, as this could slow the process down or cause errors.


If you're using DeVeDe, the program will only create an ISO (disc image) file. You'll need to then burn the ISO file yourself. See this section for more information.
 Once the burning and converting process is complete, you should be able to play your new disc in most DVD players. Remember, not all DVD players support burned DVDs, especially older models.

