 As soon as you recognize that you are having a depression relapse you should contact your physician or mental health professional.A professional can help you determine what triggered your relapse, how to manage it, and how to prevent a future relapse.


Let the health care or mental health professional that has been helping you treat your depression know what is going on. You might say, “Could I come in? I think I’m having a depression relapse.”
If you need to, seek help from a new professional. For example, if you have recently moved to a new city ask your school counselor or human resources office for a referral.
If you are feeling suicidal or if you are considering self-harm (like cutting) call a crisis hotline like the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 or Safe Alternatives at 1-800-366-8288.
 This may mean restarting a treatment plan you already had established but weren’t following. It may mean making changes to your existing plan or creating a new plan altogether. Adjusting your treatment plan will help give you the professional, social, and medical support that you need to manage your depression relapse.Talk to your health care or mental health professional about how to adjust or restart your treatment plan. For example, you could say, “Can we discuss my treatment plan? I think changes need to be made.”
If you have discontinued any part of your previous treatment plan, consider restarting it. For example, if you stopped attending therapy, think about going back again.
Discuss treatment options you haven’t tried with your care provider. For example, if you haven’t tried mindfulness meditation, you might ask how you can incorporate it into your treatment plan.
 Often in life situations occur that make it difficult for us to stick to a routine. It seems that once we stray from the routine, it’s challenging to get back to it. Re-establishing a routine can help you overcome the depressive symptoms you are experiencing.


If you already had a routine in place, then work daily to get back to it. For example, if you pray, wash your face, and then eat breakfast as part of your morning routine, then try to start doing that again.
If you need to, create a new routine for yourself. Think about the things you need to get done each day, as well as things that you enjoy, and include them in the routine.
Include breaks and time to check in with yourself to see how you are doing in your routine. For example, you might have journal writing to document your feelings as part of your bedtime routine.
 Let the people close to you know that you are having a difficult time handling your depression right now. Your family and friends care about you and can help you manage your relapse.They can encourage you, help you stick to your treatment plan, and provide other forms of support.


Tell the people that care about you what is going on. You might try saying, “I’m having a depression relapse right now. I could really use your support.”
Talk to your friends and family on a regular basis about your difficulties, successes, and everyday things.
Let people know if there are specific things they can do to support you. For example, you might tell your sibling, “It would really help me out if you’d call to make sure I’m out of bed in the mornings.”
Consider joining a support group. Your health care or mental health care professional may be able to recommend one for you.
 It may be easy to feel that your depression relapse is your fault. Unfortunately, however, relapses are not uncommon in people with depression. In fact, the more depressive episodes you have had, the more likely you are to have a relapse.Recognize that it’s not your fault that you’re having a relapse and that you can do things to manage it.


Tell yourself, “I didn’t try to have a relapse, so I’m not going to blame myself. I’m just going to work to get better again.”
Remind yourself that you aren’t the only person with depression who has had a relapse. You might say to yourself, “I’m not the first person to have trouble managing their depression.”

