 Similar to punishment, your child needs to have an understanding that as a direct result of their appropriate behaviour, they receive a reward (such as praise or gold stars). This, over time, creates behaviour modification and can help discipline a child.
 Grade the degree in which your child likes different activities or rewards from those they like a little bit to those they like the most. Create a list to keep track of this ranking. You can use these activities to reward desired behaviour in children or when they stop a particular negative or inappropriate behaviour.


Though this may initially sound like a “bribe”, it is in fact not so when applied correctly. The application of the reward system needs to be based on rewarding the correct behaviour, not for stopping bad behavior.
Use this technique casually and sparingly. For example, "I'm really proud of how you handled yourself in that noisy store. We have some free time this afternoon. Would you like to read picture books with me?"

, Each child is different and each autistic child is different. What may be considered a punishment or “boring” for one child could be the ultimate reward for an autistic child, and vice versa. Therefore it is essential to be creative and open to new ideas about both punishment and reward concepts in the area of discipline.Qualification: always think carefully about discipline before implementing it. Would you be comfortable doing the same thing to a non-autistic child? If not, then that discipline practice may do more harm than good.
 There are several ways you can do this, but two of the top reward systems include:


Creating a behaviour chart in which good behaviour is rewarded through a sticker or mark on the chart. If the child receives enough marks on the chart they get a reward. Offer to involve your child by letting him/her place the sticker.
Token reward systems are a very common system that is implemented. Essentially, good behaviour is rewarded with a token (sticker, a chip etc). These tokens can then be changed at a later time for rewards. This system is often designed through a contract with the child as to their behaviour and as such can be difficult to implement for much younger children.
 Speak clearly in a quieter tone when rewarding your child. Being too loud can overstimulate or upset them. Praise the effort as oppose to the outcome. This includes praising them for working towards achieving a goal. Recognising your child’s persistence and efforts is of more value to your autistic child than the result.


If your child doesn't understand spoken words, add a small reward with your praise.
Showing sincerity and delight in your child’s correct behaviours increases the frequency of those behaviours.
 These are sometimes more difficult to administer as rewards, but a great reward includes one that also correctly promotes sensory activity. However, be careful not to overstimulate your child, as this may upset them. Rewards could include:


Sight: Something the child likes to look at e.g. a new library book, a water fountain, animals (fish especially are good), or watching a model airplane fly.
Sound: soft calm soothing music of simple gentle instruments e.g. piano, or singing a song.
Taste: This reward is more than just eating. It includes tasting different foods they like--an assortment of sweet fruits, something salty and any variety of something which your child views as pleasurable.
Smell: have different smells for your child to distinguish: eucalyptus, lavender, orange, or different flowers.
Touch: Sand, ball pit, water, food packaging e.g chip packet, bubble wrap, jelly or play dough.

