 Apply a small amount of the grapeseed oil to a small area on your cheek or neck. Observe the area for 24 hours to see if your skin becomes irritated or if you have an allergic reaction. Look out for redness, swelling, itching, or an outbreak of hives or other signs of irritation.


If you experience an allergic reaction, do not use the oil. It is important to test any new product first to prevent a serious or painful allergic reaction to a widespread area.;
, Before applying the grapeseed oil, splash your face with warm water and blot dry with a washcloth. Apply about ½ teaspoon of grapeseed oil into the palm of your hand. Gently rub and distribute the oil between both hands, particularly on your fingertips., After you have coated your fingertips with the grapeseed oil, gently rub the oil onto your skin. Make circular motions with your fingertips, and apply to your cheeks, forehead, chin, and nose. Be sure to rub the oil onto your skin for about 2 minutes.The oil and the circular motions will help break up dirt, oil, and residue.
 Simply washing your face with water may not remove the oil completely. To wipe away all the oil, rinse your washcloth with warm water and wring out the excess water. Gently sweep the damp washcloth over your entire face to lift away the grapeseed oil., To lock in moisture, use a drop or two of the grapeseed oil on freshly cleansed skin. After you have completely removed the oil that helped lift the dirt and residue from your skin, apply a few fresh drops onto your fingertips. Sweep the oil over your face and allow it to soak into your skin. Do not remove., Cleanse your skin with grapeseed oil a few times each week. As you begin to establish your cleansing routine, you may wish to cleanse with oil each evening.You may notice more oil production during the first few days, but this will balance as your skin adjusts to the new routine., When you are browsing for grapeseed oil, opt for oil that has not been chemically extracted. Seed oils that are released at cold temperatures without chemicals or solvents help the oil retain its natural beneficial properties.Read the label on your bottle to make sure that it is cold pressed so you can be sure you reaping all the benefits of this powerful oil.
 Many local grocery stores or specialty stores will carry grapeseed oil. Beauty shops will often carry grapeseed oils and other products designed specifically for cosmetic use. Visit your local beauty shop and chat with an employee about the oils and other products that they offer. You can also find grapeseed oil from several online vendors.
 Keep your bottle of grapeseed oil out of direct sunlight and high temperatures. Store in a medicine cabinet or in a closet away from excess moisture and light. Exposure to light and fluctuating temperatures can alter the properties of the oil and cause the oil to go rancid.If you do not use the oil often, consider storing the bottle in the refrigerator.When purchasing grapeseed oil, look for oil that is stored in a dark bottle. Dark bottles will help prevent light from damaging the oil.
 Grapeseed oil contains 73% of linoleic acid, a fatty acid that is believed to help strengthen the cell membranes of your skin.This fatty acid is thought to help alleviate acne, dermatitis, allergic reactions, eczema, and dry skin. Grapeseed oil also contains anti-inflammatory properties, which can help reduce redness and inflammation caused by acne., Grapeseed oil contains several antioxidants, including vitamin C, which can help brighten your skin.It can also help protect against ultraviolet rays and lighten age spots caused by sun damage., Grapeseed oil is a natural and mild astringent, which can help to tighten and tone your skin.Since this oil is light and odorless, is absorbs easily.