 Although it may sound like a good idea, staying in contact with your former beau usually ends in disaster. It may leave him confused and give him a false sense of hope that you can make it work. Staying in touch may also make it more difficult for you to move on, as well.


Avoid answering his calls, texts, emails, or other forms of communication. You may also want to remove him from your social media accounts., You may feel like you’ve had a change of heart. However, it is likely that you simply feel bad and lonely after the split. Stay strong in your convictions and you may prevent having to break up with him all over again.


Typically, couples are even more unhappy the second time around than they were the first. Remember, there was a reason you broke up. Getting back together just reintroduces those issues back into your life., Becoming intimate with your ex again is often quite destructive, even if it only happens one time. The comfort you feel from spending time with him in that way won’t last, and you’ll likely only feel worse when it’s over. You’re also sending him the wrong message: he may think you want him back.


Prevent this from happening by not putting yourself in this type of situation. Resist the urge to call or text him if you’ve had too much to drink or when you are feeling lonely.
 Don’t go to a social event if there’s a chance he’ll attend. The temptation may be too great soon after the breakup and you’ll only take two steps backward by spending this kind of time with him.If you must attend an event he’ll be at, ask a buddy to come with you to hold you accountable.
 After the breakup, your ex won’t be the only one adjusting and working through feelings. You might feel relieved or guilty or a combination of emotions, and that’s normal. Do your best to move forward by focusing on taking care of yourself and making yourself happy.

Spend time with friends and engage in healthy activities such as exercise and meditation in order to work through your emotions.
Make sure you’re eating healthy, balanced meals. Try to resist the urge to overeat or undereat during this stressful adjustment period.
If you find yourself reminiscing on good memories with your ex, remind yourself of why you broke up, and then try to move onto a new thought completely.

