 Baths are not like showers, which are often rushed. Instead, they are meant to take longer, so that the body and mind can relax. To get the most benefit from your bath, plan on spending 15 to 20 minutes in the water.


Take a salt bath in the evening if you want to treat insomnia. Many people find that they rest better after a warm salt bath.Taking the bath in the morning will help purge your body from toxins. Your body releases a lot of toxins while you sleep, pushing them towards the surface of the skin. A morning bath will get rid of these toxins the fastest.;
, Choose a temperature that is most comfortable for you. If you are using the salt bath to heal a skin condition, consider making the water no more than two degrees warmer than your body temperature. This will make it easier for your body to absorb the minerals from the salt bath., Holding the salt under the running water will help it dissolve better. If your sea salt came scented, you might even notice a slight fragrance.If the bath salt is colored, you'll notice a slight color change in the water.


If you are using the bath for relaxation or for a treat, you'll need about two handfuls, or one-quarter cup (70 grams).If you are using the bath for healing purposes, such as psoriasis, consider using up to 2 pounds (840 grams)., Some salts will dissolve easier than others. In general, the larger the grain size, the longer it will take for it to dissolve.Don't worry if the salt does not dissolve all the way. This could help scrub away dead skin cells.
 Lean your head back and close your eyes. If you want, you can even turn on some relaxing music or light a few candles. You can use soap or shower gel to cleanse your body, but sea salt is very cleansing in itself., The easiest way to do this is to simply step into the shower and let the water rinse the salt residue off your skin.


Sea salt can leave behind residue on the sides of your tub. After you get out, but before you drain the water, wipe the sides of your tub down using a scrubby sponge.

