 Some essential components you will need to get paid to travel are a passport, a backpack, a laptop (optional), a pad to scribble and preferably a digital camera, which will be an added advantage.;
, You need to gain some independent travel experiences. This could include touring around Europe, safaris in Africa, trekking the Himalayas or sunbathing in Goa and so on.
 To appeal to a wide audience, you need to cover all types of subject matter and content. This includes sites, food, culture, festivals, historical monuments, modern places worth visiting, history, natural beauties, nature, nightlife, places to stay or any other travel related topic that you want.
 You got to take copious notes on the details that others will want and need to know for their trip. Think about if you were going to send your grandmother on your same trip, what would she need to know in order to have a good, safe time? Your audience will reward you with readership, and that readership will help you get paid to travel.
 You get paid to travel by writing stories, articles, and reports about the places you visit. The more articles you write, the more money you can make. So many things will inspire you to put a pen to paper or put your fingers to a keyboard. As you go through your daily routine, put yourself in the shoes of a guidebook author. Your job is to report about the places you visit so that others can rely on your words in planning their travels.
 Once your ideas are organized into well written and informative articles, your next job is to find a home for your writing. There are many places online and in print that are looking for unique, well thought through travel content like what you have created. For instance you can write for BackpackForever.com and get paid to travel. Many newspapers want travel articles for their Sunday and human interest sections. Other places to shop your content include travel agencies, travel guides, book publishers, magazines. You could even start your own website or blog to house all your travel writing and get paid to travel.
 As you write you will gain a following of readers who are interested in your content and interested in your adventures. It is this following that will allow you to truly get paid while traveling. Gaining a following involves optimizing your content for search engines such as Google.com and Bing.com. It also involves promoting your content throughout social media outlets such as Facebook.com and Twitter.com.
 In order to get paid to travel you must now monetize your writing. This involves placing advertising on your website or blog (such as Google Adsense or Avantlink Affiliate Network), selling your content to content aggregators, or accepting freelance writing work based on your portfolio of work and your knowledge of the world.

