 Maybe you already have a career but are interested in finding a way to help children. You can find many ways to volunteer to make a difference as a child advocate. Your first step is to research organizations that offer child advocacy services.Consider a national organization. One of the largest is Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA).
Go to the website casaforchildren.org to find out if there is an organization office near you. If there is not, ask if there is another local organization that is similar.
Do your research. Make sure that the organization you are considering is reputable. Ask former volunteers to tell you about their experience.
 Once you find the right organization, find out what it takes to be a volunteer. Contact the volunteer coordinator for information. Take note of all of the requirements.Many programs will ask for a certain time commitment. For example, programs involving children will often ask you to commit to 1-2 years as a volunteer.
You might also need to make yourself available for a certain amount of hours each week or month. Get specific information about how much time you are expected to volunteer during a given period.
Be prepared for a background check. Many organizations that involve children require prospective volunteers to go through a thorough background check.
 There are likely many different ways to serve as a volunteer. Ask the volunteer coordinator to tell you about each of the different roles that are offered. You can then chose the one that best fits your strengths.If you want to work directly with children, make that clear. CASA and other organizations utilize volunteers as advocates who work with individual children.
Maybe you want to help children, but are not emotionally prepared to work with children in distressing situations. Consider taking on a different role.
For example, you could become a fundraiser. If you excel at planing and coordination, you could find great success raising money for worthwhile causes.
Do administrative work. While you are training to become an advocate, you can find other ways to help the organization. You can answer phones and distribute fliers around the community.
 When you have figured out what type of volunteer work is right for you, you can begin your education. Many organizations have thorough training that you must complete. Take this into account when planning your timeline to becoming a volunteer.Generally, you will be expected to attend an orientation session. At orientation, you will learn more detailed information about the duties of a volunteer.
After orientation, you will often need to complete a training course. Many courses are a 30-40 hour commitment.
These courses are usually done over the period of a few weeks. The time commitment for orientation is often intense.
During your training, you should ask as many questions as possible. This is also a great time to get to know other volunteers.
 After completing your training, you are finally ready to volunteer. If you are a CASA volunteer, this means that you will begin working with children. As a volunteer, you will work to get to know the child that you are assigned to.Volunteers work to learn information from the child. You will ask about placement, about school, and other aspects of life.
Typically, volunteers will handle 1-2 cases at a time. Your supervisor will help you figure out the right work load for you.

