 Create truly natural and native jewelry by using grass or leaves, like the traditional rattlesnake master leaf, to make a bracelet. Twist sturdy material so that it becomes cord-like and can be wrapped or braided into a bracelet.


You can find rattlesnake master growing in prairie areas of the Midwestern United States. You can also experiment with other thin leaves or grasses that will hold up when twisted and folded.
To use a long grass or leaf like rattlesnake master, fold it in the middle and hold onto the fold with one hand. With your other hand, twist one half of the material clockwise so that it rolls into a cord-like shape, then wrap it counterclockwise around the other half of the material.
Do the same with the opposite side, and continue twisting and wrapping with alternating sides until you have a twisted length of bracelet that you can tie off. Push the tied end through the loop you created in the beginning so the bracelet holds together around your wrist., Use silver buttons to recreate a carved silver cuff or bracelet that you might see in Native American-inspired jewelry. Attach buttons to a cord to wrap around your wrist.


Wrap a length of cord around your wrist and add about 6 inches (15 cm) to that length to make sure you have room to tie off and secure your bracelet.
Look for silver buttons with patterns of animals, nature, or other Native American patterns and designs.
You can also alternate silver buttons with semiprecious stones or other beads to add color and interest.
 Use seed beads and beading thread to create a patterned bracelet with different colors. Try incorporating a leather cord on either side of your beading for a natural touch. If you do use cord, make sure it is the double the circumference of your wrist, plus 12 extra inches.


Fold over and tie a knot in a leather or other cord so it makes a loop. Tie a piece of beading thread right under the knot to begin adding seed beads. Use just one bead in the first row, two in the second, and so on until you reach the width you’d like for the length of your bracelet.
To secure the rows of beads between the leather cord, wrap your beading thread under one side of the cord, then string on the beads for your row. Wrap the thread over and around the other side of the cord, then thread back through the beads in your row.
Finish the bracelet by tapering off the number of beads in each row back to just one bead like you began with. Then tie off the beading thread and the cord with a button that you can push through your loop at the other end to act as a clasp.