 If you read lots of books that inspire you to write your own stories, then you will have a lot to fire your imagination with.
, Think about how you can combine the ideas.
 Include everything from the beginning to the end. Keep in mind it's okay to change the ending when you get to it.
 Be sure to use your own words. Ensure that your writing isn't like any of the books you've been inspired by.
 Then present to a friend, family member, etc. and see what they have to say.
 Try finding a picture that has an interesting subject, or is abstract.
 Look at every aspect of the photo.
 Write a list about subjects of the photo, or objects. For example, is the setting in a hot or cold climate? Is the photo still-life, computerized or even a drawing?

, There's no real art to it, just let your hand write and the words flow! Who knows, you may come up with a bestseller!

, You may not see anything worth writing about at first but soon you'll realize that there is inspiration all around you.
 Maybe something exciting has happened in your family that would make a great story with a bit of tweaking.
At school. Do you have a nasty teacher you could describe? Or is there a really mean bully that is story-worthy?
At a friend's house. Do you have any odd friends with strange families or any spooky houses?
At the park. See a strange looking person, goth teenager or an angry business man that you could write about? Or even some interesting wildlife.
In the forest. Plenty of amazing nature.

At a mate's house.
At a sporting event of some sort.
In your family

,, You'll find out all sorts of interesting things for use in writing stories. Find people, any people, and strike up conversation. Ask them about: And more


What they did in the weekend
Their family
Their pets
Who their idol is
What they watch on television
Where they shop
What they love to eat

, Or even the perfect end to your developing novel!

, One by one, go through your old notebooks, checking to see if there are any unfinished stories that could have potential or any scribbled ideas that you assumed were rubbish but are actually golden nuggets.
 Just tweak them to suit you.
 There are plenty of good websites out there for writers block such as:


http://writingprompts.tumblr.com
http://creativewritingprompts.com

http://writers-den.pantomimepony.co.uk/writers-plot-ideas.php.
