 Avoid wearing tight pants made from synthetic materials, such as spandex. Instead, choose clothing that is loose fitting and made from a breathable natural material, such as cotton. Tight fitting clothing is more likely to create a moist environment in the vaginal area and synthetic materials do not breathe as well as natural ones. Both of these factors make it more likely for a yeast infection to develop.If you must wear pantyhose or spandex leggings, choose ones that have a cotton panel in the crotch. This cotton panel will help to pull moisture away from the vaginal area.
If you are especially prone to yeast infections, then you may want to skip pantyhose and leggings altogether. Opt for loose fitting pants and skirts to keep the vaginal area dry.;
, Avoid wearing moist clothing for too long. If your clothing and or undergarments are wet from going swimming or going to the gym, change into clean dry clothes as soon as possible. Keeping the vaginal area dry will help to prevent yeast infections., Hot baths may increase your chances of developing a yeast infection, so it is best to take showers if you are prone to yeast infections.Use a gentle soap or body wash to clean the outside of your vagina.


Do not clean the inside of your vagina because doing so may throw off your vaginal pH.
Avoid hot baths and hot tubs as well.
 The perfumes in scented tampons can throw off the balance of bacteria in your vagina, which may cause a yeast infection. Other scented products may also cause such an imbalance, so avoid products that are scented or that have lots of chemicals.Avoid douches, feminine deodorant sprays, and vaginal cleansers.
Avoid using talcum powder or baby powder in the genital region. Talcum powder usage has been linked with ovarian cancer and some studies estimate a 30-60% increased risk of ovarian cancer in women who use talcum powder in the vaginal area., Women are often taught to wipe from front to back because of the proximity of the anus to the vagina. Bad bacteria from the anus may cause a yeast infection if it gets into the vagina. In order to reduce the chances of getting bad bacteria in the vagina, it is important to wipe from front to back when you use the bathroom.