


Use a metal, enamelware or cast iron pot to fondue meat. Ceramic fondue pots are best suited to cheese and chocolate fondues.
Choose an electric, alcohol or butane powered burner. Fondue pots that use candles as a heat source do not stay hot enough to cook meat.
Look for a pot that has edges that curve inward at the top to reduce splashing of hot liquid.;
, Fondue forks are long 2-tined forks that are usually color-coded to prevent mix-ups between diners.


Prepare bamboo skewers for cooking if you do not have fondue forks. You must soak bamboo skewers for 30 minutes prior to cooking to reduce the chance of burning.
 When you fondue red meat, you typically only cook it for 30 to 60 seconds. Cuts of meat that require braising or roasting will be tough and sinewy if you use them for fondue.
,,,


Consider broth if you want to add more flavor to the meat. You can infuse broth with herbs and spices. Choose a broth that corresponds to the type of meat you are using.
Use oil for a more traditional meat fondue. Suitable oil types include vegetable, canola, grapeseed, and peanut. Thoroughly dry meat pieces before cooking to prevent oil from splashing out of the fondue pot.
 The temperature should reach around 375 degrees F (190.5 degrees C). Check the temperature using a deep-frying thermometer.
, Pour until the pot is 1/3 to 1/2 full. Be careful not to burn yourself with the hot liquid.
 You want to make sure the liquid remains around 375 degrees F (190.5 degrees C) as this is the ideal temperature for cooking the meat.


Re-test the temperature using a deep-frying thermometer if you let the cooking liquid cool at all before transferring it to the fondue pot. Place the thermometer in the hot liquid and note the reading.
Use a cube of bread to test the cooking liquid temperature if you are using oil and you don't have a deep-frying thermometer. Toss the bread cube in the hot oil and wait 30 seconds. If it becomes golden brown, the oil is the correct temperature.



Skewer a piece of meat with a fondue fork or bamboo skewer.
Dip the piece of meat in the cooking liquid. Cook red meat 30 seconds for rare, 45 seconds for medium-rare, or 1 minute for well done. Poultry requires 2 minutes of cooking and lamb and pork 1 minute.
Remove the cooked meat from the fondue pot and dislodge it from the fondue fork with a table fork.
