 And TODAY is always the best time to do so. Many of us either lived by the memories of the past or by our dreams of tomorrow that we tend to neglect what we have now. We fail to live the life that we have at present. Celebrate Life means to live in the most certain day of our life, that is, TODAY.;
, In a day, how many times do you complain on something? On the other hand, how many times do you think of the things you are grateful of? Sometimes we get too consumed by our anxieties that we tend to live a life of negativity. Instead of listing and appreciating all the things we are grateful for, we just named all the things we are ungrateful of. Thoughts can create both happiness and unhappiness. And to help you think happiness, start by listing down the things you are grateful and thankful for.
 Who we are and what we become is a mixture of our choice and the environment we live in. Not all, but most of the time, if you want to know who you are, you don’t need to look far, you just have to look at your environment, the people and place that surrounds you. So if you want to create a change in your unhappy life, you can do so by creating a happy environment, a place that will make you smile. And most importantly, surround yourself with positive people.
 Many of us eat our hearts out, suffering from the contagious “If Only” disease. Like: If only I had more money. If only I had nicer clothes, car or house. If only I have better spouse. If only I have more friends, etc. Discontentment not only lures us to have self-pity but also it prevents us to be contented and be happy with our life. The negative feeling we tends to blind us of how blessed we really are. And as we feel more discontentment in our life, the more unhappy we become. So how can you turn our “if only” to something positive? The answer is to create “I want” list. Listing down what we want give us positive power of dreaming and faith.
 Sufferings happens to all of us one time or another, for wounds and failures are part of life. Most of the time, sufferings are blessing in disguise for much better things to happen. Plus it opens us learning and wisdom we can never ever learn the other way. So whenever hardship occupy a spot of our life, be generous to yourself. Do not fight it back with anger, instead, take it as part of the process for your maturity, success and a much better life.

