 If you're feeling down on Monday morning, it's likely because you're not a fan of your work. Maybe it's the job itself, or maybe it's the people you work with. Take some time to think about what really bothers you about your job by brainstorming for a period. Write down the issues that are really bothering you.Of course, this principle applies no matter what situation you're in. Maybe you dread Monday because you're a student, and you don't like the degree you're pursuing. Maybe you're a stay-at-home parent who needs to make a few changes to make your life a little better.
You could write things such as, "I don't feel challenged," "I don't like it when my ideas aren't heard," or "I feel overwhelmed.";
, If you dread Monday morning because of the workload you have facing you, you may need to talk to your boss. Maybe your workload has increased to a point where you can't keep your usual standards. If your boss is reasonable, he or she may be able to adjust what you are doing, or at the very least, adjust the quality that he or she expects.Before going in, understand how your boss operates. Maybe she plays it by the numbers, or maybe he's more driven by emotional appeals. Whatever the case, know what works best before walking in, and have your appeal planned out. If your boss is more interested in numbers, maybe you can compare the number of cases or emails you're dealing with now to a year ago to show the increase. For someone more emotional, talk about the effect it's having on your family.If you're a student, consider dropping a class if it won't affect your financial aid. If you're continually stressed out, you're coursework will suffer. Dropping a class will allow you to focus more time on your other classes.
As a stay-at-home parent, maybe you can schedule more time for yourself by picking a once-a-week daycare. In fact, many churches and other organizations have parent's day out programs to give parents a break.
 If you're doing the same thing over and over, you may find you've settled into a routine where you're bored out of your mind. To help get you over the hump, ask your boss if you can have some more challenging work. Your boss will be impressed, and you'll find your job more satisfying.Try asking in this way: "I've been feeling like much of my work is the same lately. I was wondering if I could try something a little different to spice things up."
If you're a student, consider taking a class that is well outside your major, just to offer a different challenge.
If you're a stay-at-home parent, maybe you need to spice up your life a bit by taking a class at a community college or starting a book club with friends.
 If you aren't getting along with specific co-workers, ask yourself what the problem is. Trying being a little nicer to them to draw out their happier side. If you have a big issue co-worker, don't be afraid to have a calm, sit-down chat with him or her about the issue. If that still doesn't work, ask your boss for assistance.


Be as non-confrontational as possible when talking to co-workers. For instance, you wouldn't want to say, "Why are you so hateful?" However, you might say something along these lines: "I've noticed that I sometimes seem to upset you. What can I do to help the situation?" By turning it back on yourself, it will be less upsetting to the other person, but you're still putting it out there to start a dialogue.
Sometimes Monday morning blues may have nothing to do with what's happening on Monday, but rather, what's going on over the weekend to make you upset. Maybe your relationships are stalling or making you unhappy, and that unhappiness is lasting to Monday morning. Take some time to talk to the people you care about to make sure you are both ok.
 Surprise your co-workers with a freshly baked batch of cookies. Ask your boss if you can host a chili cook-off some Monday at lunch. Invite your co-workers out to lunch. Make your Mondays more enjoyable, and you'll look forward to them more.