 Make a Twitter Account and familiarize yourself with the navigation and layout of the site.;
, Use a bright, attractive, well-designed picture that will catch people's eyes. A small image of your company's logo is a perfect profile picture. Don't just leave the default Twitter profile picture, as this makes your account seem sketchy and inauthentic.
 Making the bio impressive may attract casual browsing followers. Keep it short, interesting, and to the point. Include a description of your business, including what you do, who your clients are, and where you are located, as well as a link to your website, phone number, address, and hours of operation.
 Start tweeting about your business and anything else that you find interesting or relevant, or think your clients and customers will enjoy. Advertise your Twitter account by posting it on your website or in your store, and try to get as many followers as you can.
 Try all possible ethical means to gain more followers and become noticeable.
 Although you have to pay for their services, Twitter supports ads.twitter.com for promoting businesses and gaining followers. You can buy followers or promote your tweets for a premium price.


You can also buy cheap followers at sites like www.billionfollowers.com , however the followers may not be targeted.
 Tweet about useful things and topics that will interest your customers, and share helpful links and other resources.
 Tweet coupons or special offers, hold contests, or offer your followers other deals that they can't get anywhere else. Rather than giving away large prizes with every giveaway, hold these events often, but offer smaller prizes like coupons or gift cards. This will encourage your followers to actively follow and participate in your Twitter feed.
 Tweet helpful information about your products and services, such as a repair manual for one of your products.
 Accept customer complaints and feedback, and act on it privately if needed.
 Funny tweets, beautiful pictures, great videos, or inspirational quotes can make your Twitter feed more interesting and entertaining for your followers. Make sure that these are all somewhat related to your business or your field, and limit these posts so that most of your tweets are directly related to your business.
 Interact and converse with your followers to involve them in the conversation. By recognizing your followers in this way, you can help them feel more a part of and excited about your business.
 Mark key words in each tweet with a hashtag to connect them to related tweets. This will help you join the larger conversation on Twitter. Also, since hashtags are searchable, this will increase the outreach of your tweets.
 Do not post automated tweets more than once or twice a day, as this can quickly become annoying and turn your followers away. Limit self-promoting tweets, and don't post anything that doesn't have some kind of relevance or value. Remember that your followers follow you for a specific reason, and if you overstep those boundaries, you risk losing followers - and potentially losing customers.

