 If your topic initially seems quite boring, it means that you have taken a fairly superficial approach to it. There is always a story behind every topic and there are always things to discover that you didn't know. Look for the unusual, the untold and the unknown behind even the most commonplace and well known of topics. Plan to bedazzle your classmates with interesting facts that they didn't know.;
, Don't presume that all there is to know is available on the internet. A lot of it is yet to make it online, and much of what is online is often opinion rather than fact. So get down to the library, haul out some good books and learn different angles and greater details than simple web trawling will return.
 Some topics will be perfect for you to do real world research on. Family, friends, local businesses, professionals and experts are good people to ask questions of. Note the time and date of your interviews with them and keep a written record of the key points so that you can reference these if classmates or the teacher ask. Oral evidence of your topic can often be the most engaging, as it comes from people who know the subject-matter well and can bring to light real life examples. Practical examples that relate to real life can help everyone to learn better.
 Don't be afraid to jot down details.


Make your writing interesting. Be sure to use better words than the standard and obvious "nice" or "big." Rather opt for words such as "gigantic" or "fantastic."

, Perhaps add pictures or make a life size model from the topic. Drawing a time line, especially if it's a history report, can also work well to help others visualize the period or occasion to which you're referring.
 Put the report together in such a way that you can find the information with ease, keep your place and learn as much of the material by heart as possible.


Make bullet points. These are easier to memorize and read from quickly.
 Add details where needed and exchange words with those that would fit the report better. If you have made statements that are bold or controversial, do you have sound references to back them up? Make sure that you have easy access to these.
 Look at yourself in the mirror and talk as if you're in front of people. Make sure that you're not leaning or fumbling around when you talk. With a bit more practice, you will be able to ace that report and look good at the same time


Don't try to say your oral word for word; this will make you nervous and queasy if you try to remember everything word for word. It can also look a bit over-the-top unless you are engaging in your delivery; avoid simply reciting something learned off-by-heart.
Tell the story; it doesn't have to be said exactly the way you wrote it––you just need to tell the story. That said, your oral presentation should reflect some of the things you wrote in the report.

