 It's hard to be impressive to anyone if you don't take care of your hygiene first. Make sure you keep your hair and facial hair well groomed. Shower regularly, with body wash, shampoo,and conditioner. Never forget to brush your teeth because girls hate bad breath. Trim your nails and keep them dirt free. It's those kind of details that girls especially will notice., The way you dress can make you stand out, in either a good way or a bad way, so pay close attention to your fashion choices. There's no right or wrong style, but have one. Your clothes are an expression of yourself, so think carefully about what you're expressing with your choice in dress. However if at your school you have to wear a school uniform most schools hold school discos where you can dress however you want!Even though there's no such thing as a right or wrong style, there are guidelines you can follow. For example, dirty clothes give off a certain impression, and it's not a good one, so keep your clothes washed and clean.
Also, try to avoid dressing inappropriately for the occasion. What you wear to school should be different from what you wear to a fancy dinner or a music recital.
Unless you're going for a specific look and you know what you're doing, stick to clothes that fit well. Baggy jeans and oversized shirts aren't typically very flattering.
 Having interests makes you a more interesting person. Think about what you like to do, what interests you, and find ways to pursue those things more. If you're into sports you should look into joining a team. If you're into chess you should see if your school has a chess club. It doesn't matter what your passions are, just as long as you have them and find ways to cultivate them., Contrary to common sense, it's the people who are well-rounded, rather than the people who focus all their energy in one part of their life, who stand out the most. Don't let your social life get too much in the way of your academic life, and vice versa. Balance your time outside of school between quality family time, studying time, extracurricular time, and social time.
 Girls are impressed by a confident guy, that's just a fact. If you've got problems with your confidence, work on it by getting better at things you like to do, and When you do things you're good at, it makes you feel good about yourself, and that will give you confidence. Confidence in one area of life will spill over into others. Find your talents, interests, and passions, and improve yourself in those areas to build confidence.
The other way to build confidence is simply to fake it until you make it. Pretend to be more confident in social settings than you are, and eventually you won't have to fake it.

