 Your goal may be to hire temporary, entry-level administrative staff to cover for employees when they are out sick or on vacation. Alternatively, you might be in need of a highly skilled Web developer to help you launch your start-up product. Look for a recruitment agency that meets these requirements., Some staffing firms focus primarily on filling temporary administrative and accounting assignments. Other agencies place highly skilled professionals in short- or long-term contracts in industries like engineering and marketing. Executive search firms specialize in the recruitment and placement of corporate executives., An online search using terms like "staffing agency," "temporary staffing" and "employment agency," along with your industry and geographic location, will lead you to firms in your area. A great way to find an agency is to ask around., Gather information about their specialties, reputation and policies. Start by looking at many different ones and decide what you like about each one to narrow down your search.Review the staffing agency's client list. Visit the recruitment agency's website or call the agency to ask for a client list. A long history of serving reputable companies is generally a sign of a high-quality agency.
Ask for agency references. Call companies that use the services of the agency to inquire about its reliability, professionalism, communication habits and other questions relevant to your industry.
 A recruiter's lack of familiarity with your industry, excessive focus on agency profits, rushed communications and empty promises are reasons to avoid specific staffing agencies. On the other hand, if a recruiter is well-informed, takes the time to answer your questions, and has data to back their claims, they will be a much better choice., An agency that promises personnel at a price below market value might not necessarily be the best choice if it's not attracting high-quality personnel. On the other hand, a high-priced agency might be paying workers very little and charging an excessive markup. Investigate these issues before making a decision.Fees can vary from 8-25%. This depends on the agency and the salary. Find out this information ahead of time so that you know what to expect.
 Do they have a rigorous screening process? Will they be sending you lots of resumes? Ideally, they will do the hard work for you by carefully screening a wide variety of applicants from many sources and only sending the most qualified resumes to you. Find out exactly how many resumes you will have to sort through, what their application process entails, and what information they gather on applicants. Look for an agency that will do the hard work for you., A good recruitment agency should be able to place employees that will last in their position. It is both expensive and a waste of time to hire employees that leave the job quickly. If you will pay a fee to the agency for each employee, see if they offer a rebate should the employee leave.