 Your child's pediatrician is required to provide you with information on the vaccines your child is receiving. These pamphlets lay out in detail how vaccinations help your child, as well as any risks vaccinations pose to your child.Keep in mind that vaccines do not cause autism.This is a myth that has been disproven many times, and the person who originally fabricated this claim had his medical license revoked due to skewing data.;
, If you are concerned about the safety of vaccinations, it's a good idea to talk to your child's doctor before your child is vaccinated. Your child's pediatrician can explain what each vaccine will do and how they can help your child, as well as any risks to your child., Vaccinations introduce a weakened or partial form of certain viruses and bacteria to the body. They don't actually make a person sick, but they teach the body to fight off these invaders that make your child sick.Taking a vaccination is much safer than getting the actual disease, as many of the diseases that are vaccinated against can lead to disabilities and even death.
 Vaccinations help keep your child healthy, which means fewer sick days. Plus, it's important for those who can get vaccinated to do so, as some children are not able to get vaccinations. Having as many kids as possible get vaccinations helps protect the more vulnerable kids and adults, as diseases are not able to spread as readily.Vaccines help prevent many diseases from the past, such as polio or diphtheria, but they also prevent or reduce diseases that are still very much around. These include chickenpox, measles, whooping cough, influenza, meningitis, pneumonia, and even ear infections.
 Vaccinating on schedule is important. Doing vaccinations on a schedule helps to keep your child protected from serious diseases. If you miss vaccinations or don't do them when you should, you leave your child vulnerable to these diseases.In the first year of life or so, your child will need about 4 sets of vaccinations. The vaccinations will include hepatitis B, rotavirus, DTaP, haemophilus influenzae type b, pneumococcal conjugate, polio, flu, measles, mumps, rubella, varicella, hepatitis A, and meningococcal. However, your child won't get all of these doses every time they go in, only some of them. Some people worry that this is too much for a child's body, but children are exposed to thousands of bacteria and viruses during childhood and can safely deal with the amount of vaccines required.
Your child will need an annual vaccination (for the flu), as well a set each at 18 months, 4 to 6 years, and 11 to 12 years.
Talk to your child's doctor about the best schedule for your child., You don't need to spread out vaccinations. Rather, vaccinations are easiest done in groups. You don't have to visit the doctor as often with your child, which means less trauma. Plus, your child's body is able to handle multiple vaccinations at once., While vaccines are generally safe, it's a good idea to pay close attention to your child after they get a vaccine. Mild side effects include a light fever and pain or mild redness or swelling at the injection site, and these side effects are usually not cause for concern. More severe side effects are very rare.Watch for allergic reactions, such as hives or redness that is severe or is on a large area of the skin.
Also look for things like blood in the urine, seizures, or very high fevers (over 105 degrees Fahrenheit or about 40.5 Celsius).
Also, watch for things like vomiting or extreme tiredness.
 If your child has a bad reaction, you should take them to the emergency room or call your doctor, depending on the severity. However, you should also report reactions to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, which is in place to monitor reactions.You can call 1-800-822-7967 or go to the website at http://www.vaers.hhs.gov to report the reaction.
 It's important to keep track of your child's vaccination history. For one, if you move, you may need it to show a new doctor. Also, most schools require proof of vaccinations before kids can enter, so it's good to have proof on hand.Make sure you hold on to any papers your doctor gives you about your child's vaccination. It can also help to keep your own written document of the dates your child received vaccinations. Most doctors' offices and health departments keep electronic records of vaccines, but it is still important for you to have a written copy.
 If your child has an allergy, including food allergies, it's important to talk to your child's pediatrician before your child is vaccinated. For instance, if your child has an egg allergy, they may need a certain form of the flu vaccine, as many of these vaccines are grown in eggs. Similarly, a latex allergy is important to note, as many vaccines are packaged in latex., If your child has had a reaction to a vaccine in the past, it's important to remind your child's pediatrician of that if your child is scheduled for more vaccinations. Depending on the reaction, your doctor may choose to not give certain vaccinations to your child., It's important to discuss any chronic illnesses your child has with their pediatrician along with any medications they take. Certain diseases or medications may make your child a poor candidate for certain vaccines. It's especially important to bring up these diseases if your child has a new doctor.For example, conditions such as cancer or a compromised immune system may make your child a poor candidate for getting certain vaccines.
 Often, your child can still have their vaccinations when they are sick. However, that is a conversation you need to have with your child's doctor, as some vaccines may be better off rescheduled. If your child is sick the day before or the day off their appointment, call in to see what the best option is.For instance, if you child has a mild fever, a cold, or an ear infection, it's usually still fine to get vaccinations.