 Try to get a feel for their life and pick up on how they dress.;
, In Manhattan, good schools often require you take a test to get in, keeping out bad students. Also, if you ever plan to move there, having a good education can get you far when job seeking.
 It may sound like a given, but it really is important. A whole look can be ruined if you aren't careful. If you have zits, get acne-free(Target+local drugstores have it). It's the same as proactive, only cheaper. Any skin type should get a good facial mask and scrub, as well as the basics(cleanser, toner, moisturizer). Always try to see your hair stylist regularly. It can be hard to afford, but it can be well worth it.
 Do you want to look like a clown? If you have bold lips, keep the eyes subtle and vise versa. Also, don't feel pressured to buy expensive brands. Some are nice, but you'll probably do just fine with things from a drugstore.
 There are many styles out there, but if you want that Manhattan fashionista look then stick with this. Don't just blindly follow trends. They'll go out soon enough and then you'll have no money. Try to get at least on good pair of jeans. Lucky Brand Jeans, Seven, True Religion, and Chip and Pepper jeans are good. They really are good quality and will last you a long time. Old Navy can be good for basics and the occasional funky piece if you don't have to much cash. Some stick their nose up to it, but you can get some good things there. TJ Maxx, Marshalls, and Filene's Basement are good for cheap designer clothes. You just might have to do a bit more searching. Target can be good and originated in NYC. If you have the money, splurge on the following:a pair of heels(Manolo Blahnik's are always nice), a purse, and a good quality(non ski-type) jacket. Don't fall victim to the teenie bop trends(Hollister, Abercrombie). Some of their stuff is nice, but why spend there when you could save your cash and get that Prada bag? A pair of those oversized sunglasses would be nice too. Burberry scarves are common in the city during the winter.
 If you go to the Myspace music section and look in the indie genre, you'll get a ton. Try to find some in both NYC and somewhere close to you.
 The most stylish people are not people who just follow what they see in magazines and keep it safe. Take Carrie Bradshaw as an example, she always wears something that you will never see anyone else wear. She stands out. She made you look, and even during the show, she would make you wonder: " WOW! She's just amazing!". I know that's corny, but she's possibly one of the most influential fashionistas out there. The point of being fashionable is to create a piece of walking art, not just another scribble walking down the street. Don't ever be afraid!

, Both are very important to maintain a good look. Drink 8 glasses of water a day, eat well, and exercise. If you can't afford a gym membership or equipment at home, walk or run around your area. Go online for some exercises and get some hand weights (they're really not expensive).
 also exercising. So don't feel like "I can't have that Twix, it's going to make me fat.." because frankly if you're active, the Twix is not going to do anything to your figure!!! Just a few ideas. I personally think that one should not have to exercise alone, because you need a little competition, you need someone else to push you and motivate you so you can exercise and prove to them how much you can handle. SO! I believe that it's better to maybe take a kickboxing class or Pilates... where you are able to see the people around you, and strive to do better than them.
 Just keep it simple and wear something that works with the outfit. Good quality jewellery is nice to invest in, especially diamonds and pearls. Stores such as Target may even have some affordable fakes that are still beautiful

,, Name drop when appropriate.

