 Everyone should agree that it will be prank night before the sleepover begins. Try and set some ground rules. For example, the first one to fall asleep gets pranked. Or maybe it's fair game and anyone can be pranked at any time.


Consider setting rules for situations where the person being pranked wakes up or catches the prankster. For example, if a prankster is caught then they have to do their victim's bidding for the entire night.
Try getting creative by limiting the items that can be used for pranking. One night only allow shaving cream, Jell-O, and a whoopee cushion for pranking. Change it up for every night prank-themed sleepover.
Establish a prize for the person who successfully pranks the most people. For example, the person with the least amount of pranks or the one who was pranked the most has to buy lunch for the top prankster.;
, Some people may have a particular aversion to certain pranks. Some people might not want their belongings frozen while others might not want any pranks to happen in the bathroom. It's vitally important to make sure what everyone is comfortable with so none of the pranks potentially offend anyone.
 Some people make mean-spirited pranks with the intention of hurting someone or getting revenge. If you see anyone prank a friend in a physically or emotionally damaging way, call them out and let them know that it's not acceptable. Pranks should occur in an inclusive atmosphere, not a hostile one.
 This one is great if everyone wants to have fun without pranking anyone at the party. Consider picking up a phone book to find an unsuspecting victim if a friend isn't answering. When they pick up the phone, pose as a refrigerator repairman. Ask if their refrigerator is running. When they say 'yes,' respond with, 'well you better go catch it!' Make sure to hit *67 before calling so the number can't be traced.
 For example, watch a couple of movies or listen to relaxing music. If it's near 11:30 P.M. and there still aren't sleepers, find a friend who doesn't fall asleep easily and tell them to help you plan something boring and relaxing. Have everyone lie down on the floor or on the bed. Then start going around the circle telling secrets. If you reach someone who doesn't respond lean over carefully to check if they nodded off. If they have, it's go time. Otherwise, rinse and repeat until you have a sleeper.
 This prank is easy to pull and is perfect for some harmless fun. The best part is that you get to be a little creative with it. Just be sure not to get the shaving cream near the eyes as it can cause irritation.


Take someone's shaving foam from the bathroom. It will likely be near the razors and other shaving supplies.
Squirt some on their hair and give them a mustache, goatee, or whatever crazy hairstyle you can think of.
In the morning, they'll wake up and will be completely surprised.
 Get some washable markers or red lipstick. Make sure the markers and lipstick are both non-toxic and easy to clean off. Be especially careful with the lipstick as its owner may get upset when they realize it has been used for a prank. When your friend is fast asleep, write 'Gotcha' or some other phrase across their forehead.
 When your friend is sleeping, carefully spread some peanut butter on both of their hands. Next, tickle their nose with a feather or other small object until they wake. Typically they will be startled and their reaction will be to immediately swat at their face, covering it with peanut butter. , This prank is perfect for those who love pranking with a little preparation. Make sure your friend is asleep or away from their bag so they won't notice their missing bra.


Take your friend's bra out of their bag.
Soak it in warm water.
Put it in the freezer.
Once it's frozen, break it in half by breaking the ice in between the cups of the bra.
Then put in their bag so when they put it on in the morning they're going to get a chill!

, This prank was famously seen on the television show The Office when a character suspended a stapler in a bowl of jello. Be sure to allow a couple hours for this prank as the Jell-O requires some time to make.


Find the object you want to suspend in the jello. Try a small piece of clothing, a wallet, or someone's student ID card.
Make the Jell-O according to the package instructions, but fill the container to the halfway point.
Put the Jell-O in the refrigerator and let it sit for two hours.
Take the Jell-O out and put the desired object on top of the first layer.
Prepare another packet of Jell-O and pour it on top of the first object.
Put the bowl back into the refrigerator and let it set for another two hours.
Finally, you will have your friend's precious object firmly cased in Jell-O.
 For example, sneak in a fake rat, snake, or bat into the sleepover. Think of strategic places to hide your fake animals. A fake rat would be perfect to hide in someone's bag or under a pillow. Snakes are great for hiding in the toilet or peeking from beneath a shower. Bats should be hung strategically above sleeping friends or in spooky closets. , Many phones have apps that allow you to change your voice, which can come in handy for spooking someone. Wait until your friend is asleep or preoccupied and position yourself behind them at an angle where they can't see you. Load up the scariest sound on your voice-changer app, something like a Darth Vader tone usually works, and say menacing things into their ear when they least expect it. , Anyone can pull off this scare but it takes skill to perfect the timing. Find a strategic location to hide behind such as a door or a wall where you can't be seen. Wait until your target walks by. Consider recruiting a friend to lead the target near your hiding place. Jump out and make a loud yelling noise right when they're close to you and watch as they yelp from the surprise.
 Loud shoes and heavy footsteps can easily wake up your unsuspecting victims. When sneaking up on friends or navigating around sleepers, be sure to take your shoes off and tip-toe carefully around the victims. Socks or bare feet are preferred. Make sure you maintain your balance while tip-toeing to avoid falling over and making commotion.
 Don't take more time than absolutely necessary as it will prolong your chances of getting caught. Plan out your prank beforehand and time out the steps necessary to get a feel on how long it should take. Set a silent timer and stick to that time as much as possible so you don't risk ruining the prank.
 Everyone will be trying to figure out who the prankster is so feign disbelief when you are accused. Keep a calm, cool face even when you want to burst out laughing or proudly proclaim your victory.

