 Use a sharp kitchen knife to cut the white chocolate into even pieces, roughly 1/4-inch (6.35-mm) to 1/2-inch (1.27-cm) big.









You could also use your hands to break the chocolate into pieces or a box grater to grate the white chocolate into shreds.
This is only necessary if using bars of white chocolate or white chocolate wafers. If you are using white chocolate chips, you can melt the chips as they are without breaking them into smaller pieces.;
, Fill the bottom half of a double-boiler with around 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water. Heat the water over medium-high heat until it begins to boil.









Note that the double-boiler method is the preferred method of melting white chocolate. White chocolate has a very low burning point of about 110 degrees Fahrenheit (44 degrees Celsius). This method grants you the greatest level of temperature control, so it is usually the most successful.
There should be plenty of room between the surface of the water and the bottom of the double-boiler's top half. The water should not come in contact with the top portion of the double-boiler even after it starts to boil.
Test the water level by placing the top half of the double-boiler in place after the water starts to boil. Remove the top half after about 30 seconds to check for moisture. If water splashed onto it, reduce the water level in the bottom half and try again.
If you do not have a double-boiler, you can create something like it with a simple saucepan and metal bowl. Choose a small to medium saucepan and a shallow bowl that fits over the saucepan snugly. If possible, use a bowl with a lip that can fit over the side of the saucepan so that the bowl itself fits into the saucepan instead of simply sitting on top. Make sure that the bowl does not touch the bottom of the saucepan or the surface of the water inside the saucepan., Reduce the heat to low. Add the chopped white chocolate to the top portion of the double-boiler and replace the top portion so that it sits above the water. Stir the white chocolate continuously until it melts.









Remove the white chocolate from the heat after most of it has melted but while a few lumps are still present. The chocolate will continue to melt after being removed from the heat as long as you continue to stir it, and pulling it off early prevents it from overheating.
When white chocolate overheats, it becomes lumpy and grainy. You may not be able to return it to a usable state if that happens.
If you cannot melt the remaining lumps of white chocolate after removing it from the heat, simply replace the top portion of the double-boiler and heat the chocolate for 30 to 60 seconds longer.
Do not allow any liquid to get into the white chocolate as it melts. Liquid will cause the chocolate to seize up and become lumpy. If possible, you should even avoid letting steam from the bottom half of the double-boiler from getting into the white chocolate. You should also make sure that the spoon used to stir the chocolate remains dry throughout the process. Metal spoons are better than wooden or plastic spoons since they are less likely to retain moisture.Do not cover the double-boiler as the chocolate melts since condensation will build on the lid. If this condensed water drips down into the white chocolate beneath it, the chocolate could be ruined.
If you do need to add a liquid ingredient to the white chocolate, like an extract or food coloring, it is best to add the liquid to the white chocolate before you begin melting it. This will allow the temperature of the liquid and chocolate to remain the same, minimizing the risk of seizing the white chocolate up.
 If the white chocolate does become seized and lumpy, you might be able to save it by stirring in a small amount of butter or shortening.









Remove the white chocolate from the heat before attempting to rescue it.
Add the butter or shortening into the lumpy white chocolate 1 tsp (5 ml) at a time to avoid overdoing it. You will probably end up needing about 1 Tbsp (15 ml) per 6 oz (170 g) white chocolate.
You could also use flavorless vegetable oil, warm milk, or warm cream. Make sure that all liquid ingredients are added only if warmed to the temperature of the white chocolate first. Adding cold liquids will likely worsen the problem.
Use re-emulsified white chocolate with other ingredients to make sauces, frostings, and batters. It is difficult to use it on its own for coating candy or creating decorations since the texture and shine will be different. You might be able to use it on its own for drizzling over cookies, however.

