 Don’t spend time worrying about what makes you metal and others not metal. Why waste time judging others when you can be enjoying the company of friends or discovering new bands?


Many metal fans claim to feel like outsiders in the regular world, but to feel welcome and happy in the metal community. If you make people feel unwelcome, chances are you’re the one who’ll end up getting shunned.;
, A lot of metal fans fit the stereotypical image of having long hair, wearing band shirts and baggy pants, and violently dancing to their favorite tunes, but just as many metal fans look like “regular” people.


If you’re a metalhead, chances are the music will inspire your personal style, but that doesn’t mean you have to look like a metalhead just to fit in with your community.
 True metalheads live their lives according to a philosophy taught by the music they love. This could vary depending on their favorite bands, but if you’re a metalhead, the music will be part of your moral fabric.
 Let metal inspire you to discover who you are as a person. Use the songs to explore your feelings and ideas. Let the music inform your decisions, but don’t let it make them for you.


A lot of the lyrics of metal songs can be violent and self-destructive, but that doesn’t mean you need to be. There’s often a deeper meaning, so seek it out before you make poor life choices.
As an example, the song “Suicide Solution” was once cited in a court case as causing a teenager to commit suicide, but the artist (Ozzy Osbourne) argued that the teenager had misinterpreted his lyrics., Many people claim that most metal is fantasy regardless the subgenre. This is because it explores reality through a lens that reaches beyond the things we see every day.


This might be more obvious with a band like Rhapsody, but fantasy (albeit horror fantasy) is also explored in Cannibal Corpse lyrics and album art., A lot of metalheads claim to be nerdy. Some regularly play role-playing games like Dungeons and Dragons. Some claim to be obsessed with video games and fantasy fiction. Others claim to be passionate about composing and producing music.Regardless of the genre, metal is generally quite intricate and complex music. It invites repeat listening and obsessive attention.
 Invest in high-quality sound equipment. Metal is complex music that is best heard on a sound system that can handle it. Try out your favorite songs on various stereo systems before deciding on what you like best.


In addition to purchasing a good sound system, you’ll also want to treat your records and CDs with care. If you have any rare recordings, be sure that you back them up., A lot of people have a fixed idea of metal but don't actually know what it’s about. Try not to get offended when they immediately assume you’re a Satanist or deranged in some way.


Metalheads are some of the most sensitive, happy, and friendly people you’ll meet. Don’t let a few ignorant people change that!

, Metalheads are no different from other types of fans in that they value trivia. If you haven’t already done so, read up on the history of metal. This will also help you discover new bands and figure out which subgenres of metal are your favorite.


A topic that often comes up in discussions of metal is “Who was the first metal band?” The most popular answer seems to be Black Sabbath, the first band to play “the Devil’s Chord”, but people also argue for Blue Cheer, Dennis Edmonton/Mars Bonfire, and Alice Cooper, among others., There are an overwhelming number of metal subgenres, and these will differ depending on who you talk to. Knowing the types of metal will help you explore your tastes and broaden your horizons.


Some subgenres include power metal, progressive metal, stoner metal, glam metal, thrash metal, stoner core, black metal, Norwegian black metal, Swedish death metal, goth metal, industrial metal, new wave American metal, folk metal, viking metal — the list goes on indefinitely., If you spend time in the metal community you’ll likely hear various labels for types of metal fans. Some labels include Hessians, Bangers, Metallians, and Death Rockers.It’s better to get to know a person than to base your opinion on a stereotype, but knowing what the labels mean can still broaden your knowledge of metal.
 For the most part this is common sense, but it becomes particularly important if you’re planning to be in the mosh pit — which is likely if you’re a metalhead. If you’re going to be in the mosh pit, here are some considerations:


Wear sturdy shoes and clothes. Don’t wear anything that can be easily wrecked. Don’t wear anything that is super important to you, which you’d be sad to lose or have destroyed.
Minimize. Only wear and bring what you absolutely need. If you can avoid it, don’t wear glasses. If you have a wallet and keys, attach them with a chain or leave them with a friend who isn’t going to be in the mosh pit. Leave the phone at home if possible. This isn’t just for your safety; it’s for the safety of others too, who could be hit by your flying items.
 Also called the horned hand or the Mano Cornuto, this hand gesture was made popular by the famous metal vocalist, Ronnie James Dio. It involves making a fist with your hand, but leaving your pointer and pinky fingers pointing upwards.When doing devil horns, make sure your thumbs aren’t sticking out.
 If you want to look like a stereotypical metalhead, you’ll need to rock metal shirts. If you wear a tour shirt, make sure that it’s from a show you’ve actually been to. Many fans look down on wearing shirts from tours you haven’t actually attended.


It’s kind of immature, but a lot of metal fans look down on wearing shirts of the bands whose concerts you are at. For instance, you wouldn’t wear an Arch Enemy shirt to an Arch Enemy concert.
 Denim vests and leather jackets covered in patches are popular in the metal community. If this is part of your style, be sure to buy and sew on the patches yourself. Pre-patched clothes are looked down upon.
 Boots are another popular item worn by metalheads. If you go to a lot of shows (and if you’re a true metalhead, you probably do), you might want to invest in a pair of steel-toed boots to protect your feet in the mosh pit!

, Arm and wrist cuffs are popular metalhead accessories. The type you wear might depend on the type of music you listen to.


If you’re into folk metal you might be more likely to wear a forearm cuff of embossed leather.
A viking metal fan might wear a traditional metal viking bracelet.
If you’re into goth or black metal you might wear something a bit more dangerous looking, with spikes or long nails protruding from it.
 Metal fans have all sorts of hairstyles. The main reason for growing your hair long is that it can make it more fun to head-bang, particularly since it makes the head-banging look more dramatic.

