 Preheat your oven to 425 F (218 C). This recipe will make about 12 scones. Along with your ingredients, you'll also need:


Large bowl and mixing spoon
Sifter
Pastry cutter or two table knives
Fork
2.5-inch (6-cm) cookie cutter
Small bowl and whisk
Pastry brush
Ungreased baking sheet
Wire cooling rack;
, Place the sifter over the large bowl and pour in all the dry ingredients, including the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, cayenne, and salt.Tap the sifter against the side of your hand to knock the ingredients into the bowl.


If you don’t have a sifter, put the ingredients right into the bowl and whisk them together.
 Add the cold butter cubes to the bowl and cut them into the flour with pastry cutter or knives. Continue working in the butter until the dry ingredients and butter come together and form pea-sized crumbs.Mixing in the butter this way will ensure that the scones are light and fluffy, rather than dense and heavy.
 Once added, use the fork to mix the ingredients together. You want everything to come together as a slightly sticky ball of dough. Stop when all the ingredients are incorporated, otherwise the gluten in the flour will start to develop, and you'll have tough scones.


For an extra punch of flavor, you can also add in a clove of grated garlic., Turn the dough out onto a flat, floured surface, such as a countertop. Flour your hands and knead the dough for 30 seconds to a minute, about 10 times.Use your hands to roll out the dough. Don’t use a rolling pin, as it’s too heavy. It will flatten the dough too much and your scones won’t rise. Spread out the dough until it’s about three-quarters of an inch (1.9 cm) thick.
Use the cookie cutter to cut out circles from the dough. If you don’t have a cookie cutter, use the rim of a drinking glass or mug. When you’ve cut out as many circles as you can, roll up the remaining dough, work it back into a ball, and pat it out again.
Arrange the scones on the baking sheet, leaving at least one inch (2.5 cm) between them.
 Break the egg into the small bowl and beat it with the whisk. Use the pastry brush to wipe a thin layer of egg on top of each scone. This will help the tops of the scones develop a nice golden color.Instead of egg, you can also brush a bit of milk onto the scones.
 Place the scones onto the middle rack in the oven and bake them for 12 minutes. Check on them at the 12-minute mark, and cook them for another three minutes if necessary.


The scones are done when they develop a golden color., Remove the scones from the oven after 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer them to a wire rack and allow them to cool just long enough that they can be handled.


Serve the scones either on their own, or with extra butter, jam, or more cheese.