 Costumes or outfits that represent villainous characters, menacing gangs, historic figures, etc. will likely not be received warmly, but will be viewed as a threat by many people. The University of Texas study is suggestive that authoritarian or anti-social uniforms result in negative reactions from others.Also pay attention to the colors used; lighter colors might be more effective depending on the context of the avatar.;
, It doesn't get more genuine than the real you. Patrick Winfield says that use of a photo "can bring you more credibility and trust." Dan Benjamin points out that humans are hardwired to remember a face, so it makes sense to make the most of this evolutionary reality., People seeking to connect online are more likely to want to see you, not a creative angle or favorite teddy bear obscuring half your face. By all means, photograph your more attractive profile, but don't make it an obscuring shot.
 OK, so you looked adorable at 3, but unless you have the renown of someone like Rove, you probably won't pull it off because there are no other reference points for people to check out "the real you" (Rove is on TV almost each week). Same goes for using your pet, your favorite drawing, or an out-of-focus blur. And the least effective things are a blank space or relying on the generic site avatar; these tend to be suggestive of spammers, affiliate marketers gone ballistic, or people lacking in real interest., A smile is an almost universal means for showing lack of aggression and establishes a warm and welcoming demeanor. A successful avatar helps people connect with you because they see the person you really are and a smile counts for more than words can ever say.
 Changing it too frequently causes confusion for people and can lead people to distrust you or fail to recognize you.There are always exceptions, but unless you have aged rapidly, or had plastic surgery or you're famous, maybe the exceptions don't apply to your fragile logo-building at this point in time. Be very, very certain that frequent changes won't damage your instant recognition factor.