 Regardless of if your letter is formal or informal, it’s always a good idea to immediately grab your reader’s attention and get them interested.Some interesting ways to hook your reader might be with a quote, a metaphor (probably related to the point you will be making/information you will be reporting in the letter), or even an anecdote.
Some of the best cover letters for job applications and even college entrance letters are ones that open with a memorable hook.
Let your recipient know that you are looking forward to talking to them, or seeing them, again. It’s a simple and straightforward way to end a letter, and it lets them know that even after writing and sending the letter, you are still thinking of them, and missing them.
 If you read your letter over and find yourself bored with your own writing, you might want to start again.


Don’t feel like you have to be too formal, especially if you are writing to a friend or family member. Be light-hearted, honest, and engaging. Throw in some inside jokes, if you want! A letter is, after all, just another form of communication.
 Like a good story, a good letter does not meander around too terribly much. Instead, it has at least a loose focus on a certain purpose, idea, or thought. Maybe this is the thought, idea, or purpose that first made you sit down to write, or maybe it is one that you came across as your thoughts unfolded while writing.


If you do not have a single reason for writing—maybe you just felt like writing to that person—that is alright, too. Let them know that! It’s never a bad idea to let someone know you were thinking of them. If a friend moved away and you promised to write, do it! Doing rather than simply saying is an easy way to show someone you care.On the other hand, if you do have a specific reason for writing, keep it in mind as you write. If you start a letter saying something like, “I have something really important to tell you” and then skip to talking about the nice walk you went on today, your recipient might get a little anxious to find out what that important thing is.
 Look again at your first paragraph and tie on something from that to close your letter.


Like an essay or even a story, the ending is just as important as the beginning! The ending will be the lasting thought left for your recipient, so try to make it something interesting or impactful.
In a letter to her husband F. Scott Fitzgerald, Zelda Fitzgerald closed by saying, “I walked on those telephone wires for two hours after holding your love like a parasol to balance me.”If you are writing a love letter, go all out! Use poetic language and a lasting image to leave your recipient with something to remember.

