 Before opening your desktop's case, it's recommended that you detach all of the cables that are currently attached to the back.Make sure that the power cable has been detached.
You may be able to perform this method on a laptop as well, but it will require removing the protective case from the back of laptop. You will usually need to remove all of the other panels as well as the battery to get access to the motherboard.;
, This will dissipate any charge remaining in the motherboard's capacitors, reducing the risk of electrostatic damage.
 Most desktops have thumbscrews, though you may need a Phillips-head screwdriver to loosen or remove the screws.


You may find it easier to lay the desktop on its side on a table or workbench so that you can easily access the inside without having to bend over.

Click here for more detailed information on opening a desktop computer.

Click here for more detailed instructions on opening a laptop computer.
 Before touching anything inside your computer, you should ground yourself to discharge any built-up static electricity. If you discharge when touching a sensitive component, it could damage or destroy it.


You can quickly ground yourself by touching a metal water tap. Click here for detailed instructions on grounding yourself.
 This jumper is typically two pins, and is almost always blue. It is usually located near the silver CMOS battery (it looks like a watch battery), but this certainly isn't always the case. Refer to your computer or motherboard's documentation if you are having difficulty finding it.


The jumper may be labeled CLEAR CMOS, CLEAR, CLR, JCMOS1, PASSWORD, PSWD, etc.If you don't have a reset jumper (and not all computers do), skip down to the next section.
 Most BIOS jumpers are installed on two of three available pins. Moving the jumper over by one pin will reset the password.


For example, the jumper is covering pins 1 and 2. Move the jumper so that it is covering pins 2 and three.
If there are only two pins available, removing the jumper completely will reset the password.
 This will ensure that the BIOS sees the changes made by the jumper and clears the password.
 After waiting for about thirty seconds, you can return the jumper to its original position.
 You shouldn't need to get back inside the computer after this, so make sure to close it up completely.
 Press the BIOS setup key as the system is booting up. Since you've reset the BIOS, things like your system clock will need to be adjusted. Any settings changes that you previously made in the BIOS, such as drive assignment or boot order will need to be set again.

