 We often change, as people, when we’re around another person a lot (especially someone we care about significantly). Sometimes we change each other for the better and sometimes we change each other for the worse. You will need to decide if you positively impact him and he positively impacts you.


Do you find that either of you is becoming possessive, jealous, distrusting, lazy, or constantly stressed out? This is probably not someone you want to be around. They probably are not the one for you and you will not like the person you become if you stay with them.
Do you find that you inspire each other to be better people? Do you strive for more from life and for yourself when you’re with him? Does he do the same? Do you make each other kinder, happier people? This is a healthy relationship and you will only improve each other’s lives.
 Does it coincide with what you hope your future will be? Does he share the same values? For example, if you recycle and he throws trash out his car window, is this really going to work?

, Is he comfortable letting you see his tender side? Do you openly tell him you love him, even offering qualifiers such as "I love you a lot" or initiating the "I love you more" game?


Look for discrepancies between what is said and what is communicated. We’re often so blindsided by someone who waxes poetic about their love that we fail to notice whether or not they’ve done anything to back it up. At the same time, we might be so frustrated by someone who doesn’t spout poetry that we overlook all the thoughtful, loving gestures they’ve made. Reflect on whether either of you fits into one of these categories.
 It’s often said that living together is the true test of compatibility; a relationship that takes place entirely in restaurants and parks might be wine and roses, but having to share dishes, watch each other shave, and trip over dirty laundry can dispel an illusion in no time. If you live together, how well do you compromise on individual and shared responsibilities? If you don’t, have you at least swapped keys to each other’s places? And if so, how welcome do you both feel?

, Having your own separate interests will provide for a more interesting relationship and help you both to maintain healthy, independent identities. If the relationship is on the right track, you will feel comfortable and secure even when you are apart.

