 Perhaps you are romantic and dreamy like Aurora, strong-willed and spirited like Ariel, clever and considerate like Belle, sweet and polite like Snow White, strong and brave like Mulan, or a charming, loyal hard worker like Cinderella. Go for one (or more) princesses that match your natural qualities. The Disney Princesses would never change their identities to be like someone else. There are many more Disney princesses to choose from though. Watch the Disney Princess movies and note their behavior.;
, When tidying your bedroom or cooking in the kitchen pretend that woodland animals appear out of nowhere like they did in Sleeping Beauty and Snow White. It may be helpful to get an unusual pet for yourself. You might even want a tiger like Jasmine, a raccoon like Pocahontas, some mice like Cinderella. But any pet will work. Remember, pets aren't for show! Feed, groom and take care of them like a real princess would! And if you can't get a pet of your own, consider pet-sitting, working at an animal shelter or even getting a stuffed animal and treat it like a real pet. And don't stomp on bugs in the house, let them go outside and show them respect. After all, animals have feelings, too!

, Your locks should be in their natural color! Your color is unique to your hair, so don't dye it, but enhance what you were given. Loose curls will look great, especially if you have a nice accessory, like even a tiara, for the finishing touches. A (jeweled) headband like Jasmine and Briar Rose (Aurora) will work, too. Find your ideal length and keep it in good condition!

, You should be able sing with a beautiful voice and think of great lyrics off the top of your head. Consider joining a choir at church or school and know whether you're a soprano,mezzo-soprano or alto. Practice by singing what you're doing in a basic rhyme pattern and then move onto a love song. If you cannot sing, hum! And dancing is always recommended. While cleaning up or doing other chores, sing something to make it more enjoyable. Sing Disney Princess songs like Part of Your World, Let it go, Once Upon A Dream, or Someday My Prince Will Come.
 Most girls don't have a Disney princess figure. Don't bother changing what you are (no eating disorders!) to look like a Disney princess; just wear something that suits your shape. Disney Princesses will agree beauty comes in all shapes and sizes. Just take good care of yourself. For a flatter midsection and a slimmer waist, try crunches. If you're naturally Disney Princess-looking,that's great! But if you don't have the same figure as most Disney Princesses,that's just as great.
 Also, try to have somewhat of an innocent air. Being sweet and innocent without being laughably fake is what you're most likely going for.
 All the Disney princesses are gorgeous, but they are very humble and modest. Don't be stingy with compliments either; if you love someone's hair, let them know!

, Lip scrubs, neat eyebrows and facials therefore are the foundation of your flawlessness! Make it seem natural too. Your concealer should not be able to be seen and your lashes should not be clumpy. But if they are, don't worry. You are a princess, therefor you can wear your makeup however you'd like to. What's more important is how you carry yourself.
 You can wear dresses or something that suits your goal. Don't go for colors and styles that you don't like just because your favourite princess wears them. Go for colors that suit you. If you're concerned about your waist go for vertical stripes and if you don't like your arms, go for the Aurora or Belle-style sleeve dress. Also, wear push-up bras. The princesses always like to show just a bit of cleavage - when done correctly, it looks classy. Or, you can forgo a bra. It's your choice, because you are a princess. Remember, princesses like Aurora lived way back in the 1500s, so she had to wear corsets. Those are painful, and you likely won't want one. Her (and likely several others) didn't have any bras to wear either, due to lack of invention at the time.
 It's good to know characteristics of your perfect princess or prince, but it won't do to have your head constantly in the clouds dreaming of your ideal partner. "If you open your heart, it will open your eyes, it's not a mystery!" It pays to keep your head in a book every once in a while like Belle would! Don't go chasing after your ideal partner; chase your own dreams. You will find your true love when the time comes! Belle went to the beast's castle to free her dad, not find love and she turned out to have one of the most true romances of all.
 You are not evil whatsoever unless a spell has been cast on you. You are kind and affectionate. As for villains themselves, if you are in contact with a male villain - he will most likely fancy you. Take heed. But this doesn't mean wait around for people to help you! If you need to fend for yourself, do so.
 Stand up for what you believe in, don't be afraid to say what you are feeling inside. Even the very polite Snow White will voice her opinion, and it belongs to the traits of strong-willed princesses like Ariel and Jasmine to be straightforward. However, there's a fine line between outspoken and rude, so try to recognize it. If you accidentally come across as rude, apologize and don't worry about it, it happens to all of us.
 Be proud of who you are, don't try to be somebody else. Don't ever be afraid to be yourself, Stand up straight, walk with pride, and look into the mirror on the wall and remind yourself that you are the loveliest of all.

