 Animals want to eat and not be eaten. Give the pest an illusion of the pests' main enemies by creating an illusion of the predator being present. When animals sense that a main predator is in the area and notice signs they will stay away from that area. Using these tips in combination can be very effective.

Let your cat or dog chase the animals away! In the wild cats and dogs are top predators many animals are afraid of. Even a bark or purr can send an annoying creature into fear and flee mode immediately. Make sure however your pet knows the boundaries of the garden, is a breed that doesn't prefer to dig or is trained not to dig up yards, and that it's tested/shot for rabies. Also keep an eye out for animal battles that are likely to put the pet in danger. Also keep the pet within property lines and from running away from home whatever means necessary.
There are predator scent and/or urine kits you can purchase in many garden centers. It can sound gross, however these are urine scented sachets you tie to plants or granules you add to the ground around the landscape. The scent of a predator and it's urine will make many pest not want to visit the area for a long time.
Use an artificial duplicate of an predator animal. If there's a nice duplicate of a snake in the toy store or a Halloween owl decoration purchase it and put in the yard and move it around every few days. If you don't change the location of the mock predator the animals will know it's fake and get back into the garden. Animals will want to stay away from anything that resembles a creature that'll eat them. There are also lots of these models of predators available in any garden center. There are also things that resemble large eyes that can hung from fruit trees to scare birds and squirrels away from eating the fruit off fruiting trees and bushes.
 Any animal is scared of fire. There's a flashing tape you can buy that flashes in the sunlight that can resemble flames to a bird flying overhead. Also hanging old CD disk from a tree can also cause anxiety for any animal with similar flashing., Some wind chimes and other devices are hung in the garden and make noises that really get on the birds' nerves Also on the market are some high tech options that scare animals away from landscapes. Some use recorded sounds of predatory animals and there are others that use ultrasound. Humans and pets can't hear the very high-pitched "sounds" produced by ultrasound devices but the pest can. This hurts their ears and sends them foraging somewhere else. Loud neighbors and noisy garden and power tools can also help!

Don't use loud noise as a deterrent for or around the killer bees or any wasp or bee nest. Vibrations can set the hive into attack mode very quickly. Killer bees which are called Africanized Honeybee or Fire Ant attacks can be fatal as these species are more aggressive and and attacks last longer.

