 Manufacturers may choose to have their toilet models tested by Maximum Performance (MaP) a group that advocates for better toilet flush performance in North America. The group maintains a public database of about 2,500 toilets that have undergone voluntary testing my MaP. Access the site to see the flush performance of toilet models you may be considering.


MaP has set removal of 350 grams of waste per flush as the minimum acceptable level and the U.S. EPA's WaterSense Program sets the same minimum for their tank-type toilet specification.Since participation in this testing program is voluntary, you won't find information for all toilets in the database.
 A high-efficiency toilet (HET) is one that uses 1.28 gallons (4.8 liters) of water per flush. Since a toilet accounts for one-third of your home water use, these can be a great way to save money on your water bill. On the downside, staining and clogging can be an issue with some models, so do your research.


Check with your water utility company to see if they offer a rebate or some form of financial incentive if you install a high-efficiency toilet.
High-efficiency toilets earn the U.S. EPA's WaterSense label, a designation that means among other things that they perform as well or better than their less efficient counterparts and are 20 percent more water efficient than average products in that category., These toilets use a separate tank to hold water under pressure. When you flush, this water is released at high velocity and removes waste more thoroughly. These toilets are more expensive and noisier than traditional models and could present a challenge should they need parts or need to be repaired.
 Standard toilet bowl height is 15", but you can purchase a toilet with a bowl height between 17" to 19" These toilets, made to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, are easier on the back and the knees and more comfortable for older and/or taller adults. Their added height comes with a bit of a higher price ($50-$100) and small children or shorter adults may find them more difficult to use.
 Dual-flush toilets, available in both gravity and pressure-assist models, use 25 percent less water. They cost a couple of hundred dollars more than other models, but you'll save money in the long run. They're available only in a limited number of colors and style options.

