 Think about what kind of bag you need. Do you want a backpack or a lunchbox? What material of bag do you want - cloth or tin? Square or oval shape? Zipper or button? Think about these little things and ask the boy what kind he would prefer and look for a bag that matches at least a few of these conditions.


Go with the boy and pick out what kind of bag he wants (Target, Walmart or Stop and Shop can have some quality bags), so he can choose himself.
Do you want a design on it? This is an important question to ask yourself, especially if you are tight on money and want to reuse the bag next year. Maybe he'll be sick of SpiderMan and will want Superman on his backpack instead.;
, Talk to the boy about what kind of things are important to him, and he wants to have in his bag. For example, his iPod Touch might be something that he really wants to have in his backpack, because he wants to play it with his friends at recess. Have him be honest with you, even though it may pain you to hear that he still wants his iPod Touch more than his library book you've been trying to get him to read.


Approve of his decisions. Be sure that you are okay with everything that he wants to have in his bag.
Talk about the important things that you need to have for curriculum or academical needs. He will need a snack for snack time, but will also need his folder for Math Class.
Consider what he will need. For example, you have to remember that on Mondays, you need to pack his baseball because he has sports after school. Think about what activities he has after school and plan accordingly.
 Pencils, pencil cases, books, folders, notebooks, etc. Be sure that those go in the backpack first. Make those more important then the iPod Touch.


Write his name. Maybe you don't need to write his name on each pencil, but be sure to have his name and class on each book, folder, and everything else, so you don't lose everything as much.
 Make sure you both know where supplies are going, this way each morning there isn't any screaming "WHERE is my stupid pencil case!"


Label. Sometimes, it can be good to label where to put the keys, but if you think he is too old for that, don't bother.
 Agree that when he doesn't need his baseball, he puts it immediately in his desk.


Make a list of what he needs every day and where it is.
 One example is key chains, but don't add too many or they can become too jingly (unless you want to hear where he is all of the time).
 Avoid packing his backpack for him every day. Let him know that he has to take responsibility for his things. Once in a while, when he is busy, you may pack his bag for him. Usually, though, make sure he knows to take care of it.


You can make taking care of his school bag a chore if he has a problem doing it.
 Make a tradition of writing a little note, reminding him what he has after school, how's he's getting home or who's picking him up, or maybe just reminding him that you love him.


Sometimes, he may find this embarrassing. Try this a couple of times and see what happens.

