 No girl wants to hear only about you and your interests. In fact, it's much easier to win her over if you spend the majority of the conversation chatting about what she's into.You don't need to discuss "girly" topics. The barrier between men and women has been reduced significantly in the last decade. It's your responsibility to figure out what she's into and always digging deeper.


If you're really stuck on conversation topics, you can always start with larger discussion points and narrow it down.You might start by asking her about her hobbies or job aspirations. Once you bridge that initial gap, she'll open up about those topics, giving you room to investigate deeper. If she says she's into sailing, you can follow up with a barrage of other questions about that particular interest. Figure out who taught her how to sail or where she enjoys sailing. This could open up conversations about her experiences growing up, her love for nature, and more.;
, Everyone loves to receive a compliment, especially one that's original and specific to the individual.There's definitely a wrong way to compliment a woman; anything that you've heard in the movies will come across as corny or superficial. But if you learn how to compliment her properly without being too excessive, you'll make it clear that you're interested. Remember the four major guidelines to giving compliments:


Be succinct. If you speak for too long, you might talk yourself into a hole or worse, embarrass her.
Don't exaggerate. There's no need to call her the most amazing woman on Earth. Your compliments will work if they seem real and genuine, not extreme.
Be as specific as possible. Telling a girl that she's "beautiful" or "awesome" will do very little for you. If you've observed her behavior and listened to her conversations, then you'll have a good basis for real compliments.
Don't be excessive. If you throw out a couple compliments over the course of one date or interaction, you'll be in good shape. Anything more than that might seem a little desperate, and each compliment will lose impact.
 Laughter is a healing medicine, and there's no better way to break any tension than a shared moment of levity. It's also a great way to prove that you're paying attention to her, as most moments of laughter come as a direct response to a conversation point.Humor is also extremely flirtatious, so you'll be tapping into that if you're trying to make her laugh.


Even if you don't think of yourself as a particularly funny person, there are still ways to make her laugh. Try the "push-pull" technique. This essentially requires that you "push" her away by deeming yourself unworthy of her. If paired with a nice compliment, though, you'll be simultaneously "pulling" her toward you by expressing your interest. This will make things feel playful. A good example of the "push-pull technique might be: "You're a pretty cool girl, too bad you're stuck with me."

, Anytime you disconnect from the conversation, whether this is poor listening or diverting attention away from her, you lose your charm factor. Being charming with a woman often just requires proper attention, making it no different than any conversation you'd have with another person.Respond directly to her reactions. Nod when she nods, laugh along with her, and mirror her behavior without copying her completely. This should be a fairly natural thing, but if you're having trouble being charming, be as sensitive as possible to her mannerisms.

