 Schedule the event for at least 2 weeks prior to the Scottish wedding. This will allow the bride to focus on final wedding planning in the weeks before her wedding.;
, You may have a general idea on the number of women you will be inviting. Find a location that will accommodate all of them. If you are hosting the event at a hall or banquet room, check with the business to see their policies on catering and bringing in your own food and beverages. If your home is large enough, you may wish to use it for your event.
 This is a festivity for women only. You may wish to also set an age limit on those who can attend the party, as some bride's prefer an adult-only atmosphere.
 Guests will be sending these in throughout the engagement and the bride should be setting them aside until the show of presents. You may choose to open the bridal gifts prior to the showing or you can open them at the party. If you are opening them before the event, make a card with the name of the person who gave the gift to display at the show of presents.
 You may wish to serve guests finger sandwiches and tea for the party. Normally the show of presents takes place in the afternoon so a light snack can be offered as opposed to a large luncheon. You can also serve desserts and appetizers.
 Have all the bridal gifts and name cards in order and any decorations that you may need to transport to the party site. This will reduce any last minute worries and help eliminate anyone forgetting items needed to host the event.
 Arrive to the party site at least 2 hours before the scheduled start time. Give yourself enough time to arrange the room and set out the gifts and name cards. The bridal gifts should be set up on a long table and you may wish to have the gifts arranged around the entire table. You can use boxes covered in fabric to place some of the gifts on to give the table display varying heights. Food and beverage should be set up against the opposite wall to reduce the risk of anything being spilled on the gifts.

