 Draw animals, hearts, stars, letters, or other simple shapes onto sturdy felt and carefully cut them out using scissors.


You could also use sturdy construction paper or cardstock.
If desired, you could print pictures from your computer and cut those out to use instead of drawing pictures by hand.
 You should have four lengths of string, one for each shape, and each piece of string should be slightly different in size from the others.









As an estimate, make one piece of string 1 foot (30 cm) long and each additional piece 2 inches (5 cm) longer or shorter.
You can use yarn, twine, fishing wire, ribbon, thread, or any other string for this step. Thicker options, like yarn and ribbon, might last longer, however.
 Center each piece of string on the top center of one shape. Staple in place.









Alternatively, you could punch holes into each shape using a metal hole puncher. If using this approach, tie the string through the holes instead of stapling it on.
 You should cut off a piece of wire that is roughly 1 foot (30 cm) long from each hanger.









Use a wire cutter. Do not use ordinary scissors.
Work carefully to avoid cutting yourself on the jagged wire edges.
 Use pliers to bend each cut end of wire down and over into the shape of a loop.









The loops should be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) in diameter.
Create a closed loop so that the sharp ends are no longer exposed. A closed loop will also prevent the string from slipping off after you attach it.
 Use your pliers to bend one of the two wires at the center. Twist the wire around to create a loop at the center of this wire.









This loop should be a little larger. Aim for a loop with a diameter around 1 inch (2.5 cm).
 Slide the wire without a center loop through the center loop of the other wire.









If you have difficulty getting the end loops through the center loop, carefully unbend one loop enough to slide the wire through before bending it back in place.
Position the second wire so that its middle rests inside the loop of the first.
 Use your pliers to bend the second wire into a loop that locks around the center loop of your first wire.









Both loops should be at the center of their respective pieces of wire, and both should be roughly the same size.
 Tie each string to the loops on the end of the wires.









Readjust the lengths of the strings as desired until you achieve a final result that looks pleasing to you.
 Attach another string to the top center loop. Use this string to hang your mobile.

