 If you have not already, buy one (most are available for under $200).;
, Purchase three more Wii Remotes and Nunchucks (since your console will automatically come with one.) Now you can play hours of multiplayer games with your friends without having to take turns!

, The Wii isn't as much fun when there is not anyone to play with. Invite your friends over and serve refreshments if you want. You might also want to have a soft cloth handy for wiping off any dust on the TV screen. It is annoying trying to see through a thick layer of dust while playing!

, Connecting to the internet will give you access to purchasing more channels with your Wii points, chatting with friends, and you can even get some stuff for free! You can also browse a limited version of the internet which can let you check your email, watch YouTube and loads more! You can also buy virtual console games with an internet connection. These are old games from older consoles that you can buy from there and play on your Wii! You can also purchase an SD Card so you can import all of your photos from your camera and mobile phone onto the Photo Channel!

, Always wear the wrist strap to prevent injuries towards other people, animals or objects. Also, make sure you use the Wii remote jacket to avoid sore hands. If you have an older console, it may not include jackets. You can order one for free at Nintendo.com! Keep your distance from other people and furniture. Also, send in your Wii Remotes at Nintendo.com to get your wrist straps reinforced! Take breaks every so often, too!

, Make your game library nice and big! Here are some suggested titles. The ones marked with an asterisk (*) are highly recommended:


Resident Evil 4: Wii Edition (Action/Adventure)*
Super Mario Galaxy (Platformer)*
Super Paper Mario (Platformer)
Mario Kart Wii (Racing)*
Super Smash Bros. Brawl (Fighting)*
Rock Band 1 and 2(Music)*

, Even though it isn't licensed by Nintendo, it is still a great way to load third party apps that the Wii normally doesn't allow

