 This is an extreme measure to be taken only in drastic circumstances. These trees provide food and a place for reproduction for the bugs. If they are not near your house, your house is less likely to be infested with boxelder bugs.


Removing the trees that boxelder bugs feed on is not a particularly effective solution, since boxelder bugs can travel more than a mile in search of winter shelter. So, removing the trees on your property will not ensure that your home does not become infested.
If boxelder bugs become a major problem in your community, you may consider organizing at a community-wide level. However, boxelder bug infestations are usually only widespread in particularly warm years. It is best to use the methods described above to combat the bugs and to avoid the drastic measure of removing trees from your local habitat.
Boxelder bugs reproduce on female boxelder trees. Removing these trees specifically may be the most effective tree removal process for limiting the bug's numbers near your home., This is a temporary solution that will keep the bugs off your house until the water dries up. Boxelder bugs do not like soap, and it can even kill them if they are covered with it completely. Applying soapy water with a sprayer or with a sponge can deter them from specific areas, such as near vents or openings that you want to keep them away from.


Boxelder bugs like to congregate on the sunny side of homes.This is a good place to focus on when applying soapy water.
 It is best to avoid this step, if possible, because insecticides can cause insects beyond just boxelder bugs to die. However, it may become necessary to use them in extreme circumstances. Visit your local hardware store or nursery to find an appropriate pesticide. Common active ingredients for fighting boxelder bugs include bifenthrin, cyfluthrin, deltamethrin, lambda cyhalothrin, permethrin, and tralomethrin. There are a number of things to keep in mind when using insecticides:Always follow the directions on the label.
Avoid using insecticides indoors. This can damage the inside of your house and is not as effective as using them on the outside.
Spray during late summer and early fall. This is the time when boxelder bugs are on the move from their summer homes to their winter shelter. Your efforts will be most effective if you spray at this time.
Focus on the spots where boxelder bugs are most likely to enter or to congregate. These include the openings and cracks in your home, as well as areas that receive a lot of sunlight.
Be observant. If you notice that there is one spot around your home where boxelder bugs tend to congregate, spray that spot. While some may already have entered at that spot, you can prevent more from coming into your home in the coming days.

