 When you are pregnant, you should drink about 10 cups or 2.3 liters of water a day. Staying hydrated will help your body flush out foods and liquids in your body. It can also prevent constipation and reduce your bloating.You may try adding lemon or lime slices to your water to give it a little natural flavor and to motivate yourself to drink water throughout the day.You can also drink more water by having a glass of it with every meal. You can also get in the habit of carrying a water bottle with you so you can sip water throughout the day.
Avoid drinking soda and fruit drinks, as they often contain high fructose corn syrup. This ingredient can be difficult for your body to digest and lead to more bloating.;
, If you are feeling bloated, fiber is a good way to help get things moving in your intestines. You should make sure you get at least 25 grams of fiber a day so your digestive system can do its job properly.Have bran cereal or other high fiber foods like strawberries, blueberries, dried apricots, and dried plums. Add a little bit of fiber at a time to your diet as having too much fiber at once can lead to more bloating. Your body needs some time to process increased bulk in your digestive system.
 Beans, broccoli, cauliflower, and cabbage all contain sugars that can lead to bloating and gas. Try cutting them out of your diet or eating a half-cup serving of these foods at every meal. You should also reduce your intake of fried foods, sugary foods, and rich sauces high in fat. You can try moderating your intake by having smaller amounts of these foods or cut them out of your diet completely.Another option is to take a digestive enzyme before you eat any foods that could cause gas. You can find digestive enzymes at your local drugstore or online. Speak to your doctor before you take the enzyme if you are worried about complications while pregnant.
 Break up your meals so you have five to six small meals a day rather than the standard three meals a day. Having smaller meals will make it easier for your body to digest your food and keep your nutrition levels consistent.You may try making a meal plan where you schedule in small meals throughout the day so you know exactly when you are eating and what you are eating. Post the meal plan where you can see it or keep it on your phone so you can refer to it throughout the day.
 Take your time when you eat and chew your food several times before swallowing. Eating too fast can cause you to swallow air, which can lead to feeling bloated and gassy.When you eat, you should try to focus on your food and enjoy each bite. Eating while distracted, such as while watching television, can cause you to eat too fast and not pay attention to your food.

