 You can help your child relieve a stuffy nose by elevating their head with one or two pillows. You can also place a pillow under your child’s upper back and shoulders so their upper body is elevated. This can help to reduce their irritated nose and any headache symptoms they may be experiencing., If your child feels pressure in their sinuses, you can place a warm compress over their nose, under their eyes, to help relieve the pressure. Leave the warm compress on for 10 minutes at a time and replace the compress after a few uses.If your child has irritated or swollen eyes, you can try putting a cold compress over them. Make sure you use a clean towel for the compress as you do not want bacteria to get into your child’s eyes.
 If your child has a congested nose or irritated sinuses, you can irrigate this area using a saline solution. Try using a Neti pot with saline solution to flush out your child’s nose and make it easier for them to breathe. You can use the Neti pot on each nostril to clean out the area.You can also use a saline solution nasal spray, found at most health stores or online.
Another option is to use a bulb syringe to suck out gunk in your child's nose to help remove the congestion.
If your child has a sore or irritated throat, you may have them gargle salt water to help remove bacteria and soothe the area. Make sure your child does not swallow any of the salt water as this can lead to stomach issues.
 Honey is a natural antiseptic and anti-inflammatory. Give your child a spoonful of honey a day to help relieve an itchy throat. You can also put honey in hot water with fresh lemon and have your child drink it to relieve their symptoms.Another option is to have your child suck on the honey by putting it on a popsicle stick or a spoon. They may enjoy sucking it and consume it more easily this way.
Keep in mind you should only give honey to children that are 12 months or older.
 This is a good option if your child has a cough as a result of allergies. Apply an over-the-counter chest rub like Vicks Vapor Rub or Tiger Balm on your child’s chest once a day. Make sure the chest rub does not get in their eyes or mouth as it can sting. Put the chest rub on your child at night to help them sleep despite their cough.Do not apply chest rub products to children younger than two years of age. It can cause breathing difficulties in babies and toddlers.
 Often when a child is allergic to something, one of the first symptoms that shows up is red and itchy eyes. If your child has irritated eyes due to their allergies, give them eye drops. Look for eye drops that are lubricating and have antihistamines. Give your child the eye drops several times a day for a few days. Follow the dosage instructions on the label.If your child’s eye issues do not improve after four to five days, you may want to bring them to the doctor. You should not give them the eye drops for a prolonged period of time.
 Giving your child warm water to drink will facilitate the clearing of their sinuses. You can also try to add a little bit of honey and lemon to flavor the drink for your child. However, remember to avoid giving honey to your child if your child is younger than one year old.

