 Letting go of the past can be difficult. Nevertheless, in order to move forward with your life, you have to reconcile and let go of the past. Some of the ways to do this include::

Become clear on your morals and values as they are right now.
Realize the past is the past.
Realize you did the best you could at the time.
Identify your biggest regrets.
Move towards self love.;
, Do not try to forget about it as some of your family or peers may suggest. That may work for them, but it is obviously not for you. If you could forget about it, it would not be on your mind. Stay positive and make peace with your mistakes:Try not to take you dwell on the errors in your past. This can have a negative affect on your self esteem and confidence.
Analyze the reason(s) why you failed in the past. Is there anything that you could have done differently? Was there circumstances that were beyond your control? Is it possible that you are trying to accomplish a task that is beyond your capabilities?
Quit obsessing about it. You are only making yourself crazy running it over and over in your head, and this is adding to your negative self esteem issues.
Be true to yourself and quit worrying about getting approval from family or peers. You know what is right for you. You are confident. You have your best interests at heart, so do not let what others say cause you self doubt.
 You can spend a lifetime comparing yourself to others and ultimately it will just make you feel self conscious. Whenever we compare ourselves, we will always come out looking bad. Here are some things to think about:Everyone is an individual. We excel at some things, and fail at others. When you find a task or are in situation that is beyond your capabilities, there is no shame in admitting defeat. Pick yourself, dust yourself off and try something else.
Spending time focused on what someone can do better than you is not only going to make you feel bad, it is a waste of time. It can also make you resent yourself or the person that does it better.
Comparing yourself is a losing situation. It is not only going to rob you of pride, but also your self esteem, passion and drive. There is no up side.
 Walk a mile in another person's shoes. It is easy to beat yourself up about your past wrongs. If you get the opportunity, sit down with a friend, a peer, and listen to their story. By being empathetic, you listen to others and gain an understanding of their feelings. It may help to put the regrets you have in a different light. To be truly empathetic, some of the things you will want to work on include:Building a bond of trust. Be able to listen to another talk about their feelings and regrets with an open mind and then be able to open up to them about your feelings.
Keeping any judgement(s) you may have to yourself. As you build trust, opportunities to offer help or a suggestion will likely come up, but it will not happen the minute you sit down to talk. Have patience.
Giving a physical show of support. This may be a pat on the shoulder, or a hug, but make sure you are confident that it is appropriate.
 Do not dwell on "what if"s and "if only"s. It will only lead to despair. Instead, work to overcome your negative thoughts by refocusing on the positives in your life:Take responsibility and refocus your thoughts. Until now you may have automatically assumed the worst or thought negatively. Train yourself to do the opposite; default to positive thinking. It will take a bit of time, but you will find yourself much happier when you stop automatically expecting bad things to happen.
Smile. To quote BJ Palmer: "It takes 63 muscles to frown and 13 to make a smile. Why work overtime?" People are attracted to happy, positive people. Just think, smiling takes less energy, and attracts people. You will save yourself some energy and maybe charm a friend. Sounds like a WIN/WIN situation!
Sing! Even if you think you are a lousy singer, remember, you are not the only "shower" singer! Sing while your cooking, running the vacuum, or doing errands. You will be amazed at how singing can change your mood.
Help other people. Perhaps you have an elderly next door neighbour that you could take grocery shopping. You could volunteer at a soup kitchen, to help the less fortunate in your community. Donate clothing that you or your family no longer wear to your local Salvation Army or Goodwill. It will give you a positive feeling to know that you have helped those less fortunate.
 Take personal inventory of actions you might or should have done differently. It will not be easy, but doing right by the person(s) that you have wronged in the past, you will be able to move on with your life.Examine and take stock of what you have done.
Explain to those you have hurt that you want to repair the damage that you have caused.
Admit what you have done.
Find an appropriate way to make things right.
Realize that it will take time to regain the trust of those you have hurt.
 Learn to accept yourself for who you realistically are; your strengths and your weaknesses. It is important to understand yourself if you are looking to improve your self esteem. Some suggestions on how to build your self esteem include:Cease talking about yourself negatively. Be positive, because this has a large affect on your self esteem.
Quit beating yourself up when you make a mistake. We all make mistakes.
Exercise. When you exercise, endorphins are released into your system, triggering a positive feeling in your body. Also, there is the obvious benefit of exercising for your health.
Celebrate the little things. Take the time to be proud of yourself, even if it is something as simple as organizing your closet.
Surround yourself with positiveness. Spend time with people who are a positive influence on you. Immerse yourself into activities you enjoy.
 By ridding yourself of the negativity of the past, and working on making changes to make your life happier, your future should look so much brighter. Enjoy the feeling. You deserve it!