 Because it can be a dangerous task being a hero and can even be life threatening as well.;
, Don't be a hero just so you could get publicity or because you wanted to be all that. Do it because you feel like it's the right thing to do.
 Like as simple as helping people when they needed, or help people up if they tripped, or even help treat their wounds or call for an ambulance if they hurt themselves.
, Sometimes there's a safer method of doing things that can be just as heroic as well. A good example would be:


Calling the police if you saw a store that is currently being robbed and get as much detailed information as you can by watching from a distance so you could report what you had saw.
Noticing and assisting someone who was alone but is injured, like severe burns, broken parts of the body such as limbs, arms or legs, or anything that prevented them from getting medical help on their own.
 If you ever encounter such situation in the public, you don't necessarily need to have a large medical knowledge. You'll most likely just be recognized to show signs of heroic characteristics if you could somehow take control of such things and assisting people and letting them know what they should do until proper help arrives. During the process you might even be able to save the person's life if he or she was injured.
 Sometimes just thinking about the right time to act might not always be a good idea. If someone was pointing the gun at you for example, don't just risk other people's lives by trying to steal the gun from him or her. It'll risk them trying to shoot you and others around the vicinity. Also if you're not really all that physically healthy then the chance of unnecessary harm is greater.
 Many times, if you want many people to look up to you then doing this might encourage them to do the same. Also, maintaining good health helps you become physically fit and will help improve your chance of assisting people more efficiently.
 Many times just by assisting people whenever they needed, or without being asked, or even volunteering at an old folks home or other similar places and being a good role model by putting their needs ahead of your own is a good way to show selflessness. But don't do it if you just want do it for the thanks. Some good example of doing so would be:


Volunteering at an old folks home
Work at a homeless shelter area during Christmas time or free time
Work with the people who have mental and/or physical disabilities.
If you can afford it, donate to groups that help starving children or families from different countries that are much less fortunate, and possibly give them a greater chance to have a brighter future.
 Knowing how to defend yourself and others is a good ability to learn because if and when you really do need to protect yourself and others, you need to act quickly and safely. But only use it as a last resort and don't just use it to try to heroically save others because doing so might lead to casualties.
 Because, if you attempted to save someone at a wrong time and not knowing how to do so, the consequences most likely would be bad.
 Sometimes, even every one of us who tries to help others needs help as well, and it wouldn't make you look less of a person. In fact, sometimes the right thing to do is to ask for help.
 On those rare occasions, you can be a little bit selfish during your personal time, but can easily take it too far so approach with caution.

