 The main symptom of hemophilia is that you have a hard time clotting after you start bleeding. Clotting does not usually happen instantaneously but if you have a small cut or a small nosebleed it should begin within a few minutes. If you can't seem to get even a small cut to stop bleeding, then you may have hemophilia.To get a cut to stop bleeding, apply pressure to it with a sterile bandage. Once the bleeding slows down, do not remove the bandage. Simply continue pressure and keep the bandage on so that the clot does not get pulled off the injury.;
, Since hemophilia is a genetic disorder, it is usually passed down from parents to children. If your parents have hemophilia, you are at greater risk of getting it. Additionally, hemophilia occurs in males more often than in women.Ask your parents if they have it or if any of their relatives have it. In many cases, you will already know if your parents have hemophilia. If they do, you are more likely to have it.
Hemophilia is a mutation that occurs on the x-chromosome. Men have both x and y chromosomes, and women have two x chromosomes. This means that to have hemophilia, men only need one mutation in the x chromosome whereas women would require two--one on each x chromosome.So while hemophilia appears more often in men than women, women can carry the gene and pass it on to their sons.
 There are some reasons you may bleed a lot that have nothing to do with hemophilia. Before you assume that you have this condition, you should rule out possible other causes.


For example, if you are taking anticoagulant drugs, which limit clotting, you will bleed longer. There are many medications that can make you blood thin and inhibit your ability to clot, including warfarin (Coumadin, enoxaparin (Lovenox), clopidogrel (Plavix), ticlopidine (Ticlid), aspirin, and NSAIDS, such as Ibuprofen.Other types of anticoagulants include factor Xa inhibitors (Xarelto, Eliquis, Arixtra) and thrombin inhibitors (Angiomax, Pradaxa). Consult with your doctor or pharmacist about whether the medications that you are taking might thin your blood and limit clotting.If you are having unexplained bleeding it could be due to foods that contain salicylate, which naturally thins the blood, or even excessive intake of alcohol.High doses of of garlic, ginger, fish oil, and vitamin E supplements may also act as anticoagulants., If you are concerned that you might have hemophilia, then you should consult with your doctor about it. Don't just assume that you can manage a bit of excessive bleeding on your own. Hemophilia needs to be managed medically, so get a professional diagnosis and treatment plan.Hemophilia can be a very serious condition, so when you call to make the appointment tell the medical personnel what you think is going on. They should get you in to see the doctor relatively quickly.
 Explain your symptoms and why you think they might be connected to hemophilia. Be prepared to discuss other possible reasons for excessive bleeding with your doctor.


If you bring up hemophilia with your doctor they are likely to do an extensive family history with you to figure out if you have a history of the condition in your family. This is because the condition is so connected to genetic inheritance.Make a list of all of your symptoms and when they occurred before you go to the doctor's office. Bring that list with you when you see the doctor. Symptoms include bleeding gums, dark urine, bloody nose, blood in stool, and easy bruising.
 If your doctor thinks it's warranted, you will have testing done to evaluate how quickly your blood clots, what your level of clotting factors are, and whether you have clotting factors as all. Tests will show whether you have hemophilia, what type you have, and how severe it is.Getting a diagnosis of hemophilia requires a blood test. The blood test looks at the levels of factor VIII and factor IX in the blood, which are the clotting factors in the blood.
If initial blood tests show low levels of clotting factors, then your doctor will most likely move on to genetic testing to identify the hemophilia mutation.There are two types of hemophilia. Type A, which accounts for about 80% of cases, is a deficiency of blood clotting factor VIII while Type B is a deficiency of blood clotting factor IX. Both have identical symptoms, but a blood test can determine which type you have., Once you have been diagnosed with hemophilia you will need to get treatment for the disease. Hemophilia can cause excessive bleeding outside and inside the body, so treatment is important to your health.The main treatment for hemophilia is replacement therapy. This is a process in which human blood from donors is processed and has its clotting factors removed. These clotting factors are then put into the hemophiliac's blood stream.
Replacement therapy can be done on a regular basis to prevent bleeding in people with severe hemophilia. It can also be used once in awhile to stop bleeding in people with less severe conditions.
 Once you are diagnosed with hemophilia it's important that you make changes in your lifestyle that will prevent bleeding problems. In addition to treatment, you will need to avoid activities that could cause you bodily harm and avoid medications and foods that could promote bleeding.Taking precautions to avoid injury is a large part of the changes that will be needed. Avoid sports or activities that could result in a bruise or a cut. For a hemophiliac, these things can be life threatening.
Also avoid taking medications or eating foods that can thin the blood. Medications that thin the blood include NSAIDS (ibuprofen), aspirin, and anticoagulants, such as warfarin. Foods that can thin the blood, including garlic and ginger., Follow your doctor's treatment plan, including getting replacement therapy, and make sure to get regular medical care and monitoring. If you have hemophilia, it is important that you keep abreast of your condition, instead of ignoring it and hoping it will go away on its own.Part of ongoing care is preventing illnesses that could be a threat to your health. You will need to have regular vaccinations and preventative care to reduce your risk of diseases that could be very serious for someone with hemophilia. For example, get a flu shot yearly to ensure that you do not get the flu.