 You may be referred to a physical therapist where you will be taught the proper ways to bend and lift things. This helps regulate how your muscles contract and relax.


Physical therapists are experts in addressing musculoskeletal problems, and can teach you how to better handle your condition throughout life.;
, Osteoporosis is one of the most common conditions that affects bone composition, and can lead to spinal degeneration. Osteoporosis can be managed with certain medications. However, before starting the treatment of osteoporosis, other potential diagnosis have to be excluded (such as vitamin D deficiency, parathyroid hormone levels, etc.).


Under strict instructions given by the physician, the underlying condition can be managed and treated with medication.
 Some types of infections can cause spinal degeneration, and can be treated with antibiotics. Antibiotics can eliminate the bacteria causing the infection, and allow for the proper regeneration of the spine.


Proper identification of the microorganism involved, and the instructions about the antimicrobial resistance of this microorganism, given by the antibiogram, are key steps in effectively removing the pathogenic bacteria.
Strict guidelines should be followed when the bacteria is identified, in terms of which antibiotics should be given, their dosage, and how many days they should be taken.
In case a fungus is identified as a pathogen responsible for causing the symptoms, the right anti-fungal agents should be administered by the guidelines previously mentioned above.
 You may want to try using a corset (firm belt) that helps to support the back and reduce pain. The belt is worn around the back, extending to the abdomen and it should be worn during the day when the patient is undertaking the activities of daily living. The belt acts to reduce stress on the muscles and spine.
 Sometimes, a therapeutic massage for the whole body can work wonders. Massage can relieve pressure and tension on the joints in the body. Swedish massage uses tapping and kneading strokes to soothe and relieve tension in the whole body by loosening the sore joints. Therapists use five methods in this technique including strokes, petrissage, friction, tapotement, and vibration.


Petrissage is grabbing the muscles lightly and lifting them, using friction created by the fingertips and thumbs to work deep circles into the muscles.
Tapotement is the use of beating, tapping and chopping strokes to work the muscles.
Vibration is where the fingers are flattened and pressed on a muscle and that part of the body is shaken rapidly.
 A small transcutaneous device can be used to deliver electrical pulses into your affected joint. The electricity stimulates the sensory nerves and the opioid system. The opioid system contains opioid receptors that help reduce pain through communication with the central nervous system where the pain center is located.
 Steroids are usually given in form of injection into the spaces inside the spine that separate the cartilages. These drugs work by reducing the inflammation of the joint that causes discomfort and pain.


These injections can be uncomfortable and disconcerting, so make sure you are mentally prepared for the procedure.
Injections may or may have a long-term effect on your pain, depending on the actual cause of the degeneration.
 Surgery is usually considered as the last option when other modes of treatment have failed. Surgical intervention may also be recommended where numbness is extensive, or the patient is unable to walk or properly control bowel and bladder functions.


Surgery is usually done to reduce the pressure that is exerted on the nerves and the spinal cord.
Spinal surgery is quite invasive, and the recovery time can be months long.
Some types of spinal surgery are laminectomy and discectomy. If there is irreversible degeneration of the bone, which can be the case in osteomyelitis, treatment can include removing the part of the bone (or sometimes parts of the disc between the vertebrae) that has been damaged.
Drainage and debridement, the removal of contents, like abscesses, are an effective way of dealing with spinal injuries. Debridement of necrotic tissue can help the tissue regenerate, by removing dead tissue.

