 Sharpen the pencil for thinner lines. Allow it to blunt for thicker lines. The darkness or lightness of the line from a regular pencil depends on how much pressure you apply to the paper., It can achieve a finer and more consistent line. For a preparatory sketch, a 0.5 millimetres (0.020 in) lead will be sufficient. If you're aiming for a more detailed drawing, go with a narrower lead, around 0.3 millimetres (0.012 in)., Drawing involves creating a variety of lines and tones. Use H-grade leads for drawing light, solid lines that you don't want to smear. Opt for a B-grade lead for creating shadows or other parts of a drawing that require smudging. B-grade leads also create much darker lines and tones., If you're doodling on notebook paper or computer paper, go for the least expensive brand like Crayola. Sharpen them like a wooden pencil to achieve thin lines. Allow them to get blunted for thicker lines.If you're serious about art, visit an art store for high-quality colored pencils. They're more expensive, but you may find that they give a stronger color than you'll find in typical colored pencils. Some brands are much easier to blend than the less expensive brands., Like straight charcoal in stick form, this pencil is based on wood that has been burnt to the point where only the carbon is left. Unlike regular charcoal, they write a bit more smoothly. Apply strong pressure for heavy, dark lines. Ease up on the pressure for finer lines. Like lead pencils, charcoal pencils come in a variety of hardnesses. Buy them at any art supply store., Go with this variety if you're looking for true black, which you can't get with graphite. These pencils are based on lampblack, the byproduct of burning oil. Carbon also comes in varying hardnesses and can also be obtained in stick form. Buy them in any art supply store., Also known as china marker, this variety of pencil is based on a waxy crayon-like material. Choose this variety if you need to make temporary marks on smooth surfaces like ceramic, metal and, plastic. Sharpen it by pulling a string to expose more of the waxy point. You can buy them at the art supply store.