 One of the main symptoms of hemorrhoids is bleeding from the rectum, but this is also a symptom of colorectal cancer. For this reason, you should visit your doctor as soon as possible if you are experiencing internal hemorrhoid symptoms. Your doctor will perform a physical exam and may also order some imaging tests to rule out cancer. Some of the tests that your doctor may order include:Colonoscopy — For this procedure, a long, flexible tube with a camera and light on the end is inserted into the anus and moved into the rectum and intestine to capture images.

Sigmoidoscopy — This procedure is uses camera and light at the end of a short tube. In a sigmoidoscopy, the camera captures images of the lower rectum and the sigmoid colon (the lowest part of the colon).

Barium enema x-ray — This procedure requires an enema with barium followed by x-rays to capture images of the colon.
 If internal hemorrhoids move outside of the rectum, then you may be eligible for rubber band ligation. In this procedure, your doctor will place one or two small rubber bands around the base of the hemorrhoid.The rubber band cuts off circulation to the hemorrhoid, which may cause some discomfort. There might also be some bleeding. But after a couple of days the hemorrhoid will fall off.
 For this procedure, your doctor will inject a solution into your hemorrhoid that will cause it to shrink. This treatment is effective, but not as effective as rubber band therapy. You might have some pain with the injection, but otherwise this procedure is pain-free., Coagulation uses infrared light, heat, or a laser to treat hemorrhoids. After exposure, the hemorrhoids will harden and shrink. This procedure can treat hemorrhoids, but they are more likely to come back than when treated with rubber band ligation., For large hemorrhoids or for hemorrhoids that have not responded to other treatments, surgery may be the best option. There are two main types of hemorrhoid surgery that are used to treat hemorrhoids:



Hemorrhoidectomy — In this procedure, the surgeon removes the hemorrhoids by making an incision around the base of the hemorrhoid.Keep in mind that you will be anesthetized during the procedure so that you will not feel anything; however, recovery can be painful and you may need prescription pain medicine to deal with pain after the surgery.Stapled hemorrhoidectomy — In this procedure, the surgeon uses staples to block blood flow to hemorrhoids. This procedure is less painful and includes a faster recovery time than a standard hemorrhoidectomy, but it also carries the a higher risk of hemorrhoid recurrence and rectal prolapse (where part of the rectum falls out of the anus).