 A French drain involves digging a trench in your yard. It’s not difficult to do yourself, but it’s important that you contact your local utility company a few days before you begin the work. Have them locate and mark all of the underground utility lines around your home. These underground utilities include gas, water, sewage, electric, and phone lines.
If you damage any of them while you’re installing the French drain, repair costs can be significant.
 Include the house, driveway, porches, the street and any other applicable features. Go into your yard with a line level or builder’s level and use it to figure out where the high and low spots are. Note these spots on the sketch, then draw arrows showing how the water tends to flow on your property.


You now have a diagram to help you properly and efficiently redirect drainage away from your home.
You should never plan to redirect water to run onto your neighbor’s property. If you are considering directing water into the street or storm sewer, find out what regulations apply by contacting the city for information.
 A French drain is essentially a gravel-filled trench that includes a perforated pipe which acts as a drain around your home.Begin the digging four to six feet away from the foundation of your home. Make the trench about six inches wide and about 24 inches deep. The trench should extend to the lowest part of your yard.


The end of the trench can level off, or you can have it go around your yard like a fence.You can dig the trench manually with a regular shovel. You can also purchase tools made specifically for trenching, like trenching shovels or trenching hoes, at a hardware store., Compact it tightly. Lay washed gravel on top of the compacted soil in a layer that is one to two inches thick. You will lay the piping on top of the gravel. The piping should be perforated with two rows of holes running down its length. Lay the piping so that the holes point down toward the earth, not up toward the sky.


If you lay the piping with the holes pointing up, they will get clogged with gravel and the drain will not work properly.
Never lay piping directly onto the soil. The gravel beneath it helps to properly disperse the water, along with the gravel surrounding it., The gravel pieces should be one inch or larger in diameter. The gravel should completely fill the trench within one inch of the surface.


Cover the remaining inch of space with a piece of sod. This will disguise the trench.

