 Combine 1 Tbsp (15 ml) liquid fabric dye, 1 Tbsp (15 ml) salt, and 1/2 cup (125 ml) hot water in a glass or disposable plastic cup. Stir until evenly dispersed.Dye is fairly potent, so a small amount should do the trick. Do not dip the lace directly into the dye without diluting the dye first.
The salt is not strictly essential, but adding salt to the mixture can help make the final color more vibrant. It can also help the dye to set.
The ideal water temperature should be about 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius). You can heat the water in a microwave or on the stove if you cannot get it hot enough from the tap.
If the piece of lace you want to dye is too large to fit into a small cup, you can use a bigger container and increase the amount of dye, salt, and water in relative proportions.
 Dip the lace in hot water and gently wring it out with your hands. It should be damp when you get ready to work with it.


Damp lace will absorb the dye better. This is essential if you want to create an ombre dye effect since the shades of dye will need to blend together in a gradient. If you keep the lace dry, on the other hand, you will not be able to achieve this gradient effect.
 Lower roughly one-third of the lace into the dye bath and leave it in for 5 minutes. This will be the darkest part of the ombre pattern.


Agitate the lace continually by moving it back and forth and side to side. Do not move it up and down, though.
Agitating the lace as it dyes will produce a more even color.
 Lower another third of the lace into the dye bath while keeping the first third submerged, as well. Let it sit for another 3 minutes.


Continue agitating the lace in the same manner to produce an even color.
 Dunk the rest of the lace into the dye bath so that the entire piece is submerged. Leave it there for 1 minute.


Continue agitating the lace during this last part. If you are using your fingers, wear thick rubber or plastic gloves to prevent the dye from getting on your skin. Otherwise, you could use a coffee stirrer or disposable plastic spoon.
 Remove the lace from the dye bath and rinse it under lukewarm running water until the water runs clear. Examine the effect. If the ombre effect is not strong enough for your liking, continue with the remaining steps.


If you do like the effect you are presently left with, however, you can skip the second dye phase and simply dry the lace.
 Dunk the bottom one-third to one-half of the lace back in the dye for another 1 minute. Drain the dye when done.


To drain the dye, clip the lace onto the edge of an empty disposable plastic cup. Let it drain for 10 minutes in a vertical position.
 Rinse the lace in lukewarm water until the water comes out clear. Let the lace dry by air.


You could dry the lace faster using a hair dryer, if desired.

