 Some science fair projects fail because the people doing them lose interest or can’t stay motivated during the preparation process. Picking a topic that truly interests you will largely eliminate this possibility.Especially when first deciding on your topic, worry less about what will interest the judges or your teacher, and more about what interests you. If you can’t enjoy doing the project, the odds are good that others won’t enjoy observing it.
For instance, if you are interested in resource conservation, you might choose topics ranging from comparing water usage in baths versus showers to rating light bulb efficiency levels, among many possibilities.;
, To begin, jot down every interesting project idea that comes to mind. Don’t worry about whether they are realistic at this point — that part of the process comes later.


One version of brainstorming you can try is called a “mind web” or “mind map.”With it, you start by writing down a basic idea for a topic you like and circling it.
Then, you connect this “bubble” with lines to others that contain words or ideas that come to mind when you think of your topic.
Finally, you connect these secondary bubbles with another group that contains questions that come to mind about your topic.
Repeating this process several times with different ideas can help you decide which ones are most interesting and most manageable.
 If you’re feeling a bit “stumped” because your brainstorming and mind-webbing are not producing many results, you can turn to sample project ideas for inspiration. The internet is full of good sources for science fair project ideas.Don’t just copy someone else’s project, though, especially if yours needs to be original. Let a project for building a pizza box solar oven inspire you to design your own project about solar energy output, for example.
Another option is to try the “Topic Selection Wizard” at http://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/recommender_register.php. You provide some basic background info and answer about 25 questions about your interests, and it produces a list of project ideas that might be a good start for you. Again, however, make the project your own, especially if the rules require it.
 Once you’ve come up with a good list of project ideas that interest you, it is time to narrow them down to your one best project idea.At this point, it is not so simple as asking which idea you like best. Instead, you have to consider questions like:


Can I turn this idea into a project that I can finish in the time allotted? (For example, if you have three weeks, you can’t make growing tomatoes from seeds part of your project.)
Do I have the skills and resources to transform this idea into a project? (For instance, building a computer from spare parts is not for everyone.)
Will I have the patience and perseverance to turn this idea into a project and see it through to the end? (After all, good ideas do not always translate into good projects.)

, Before you dive into formulating a hypothesis and setting up experiments, it is always wise to double-check the rules and judging criteria for your project.Make sure you are clear on simple things like the time frame (that is, how long until the due date) and any restrictions on outside help, resources used (or money spent), and so on.
If, for instance, you find that you will be evaluated primarily on the quality of your poster presentation, you will want to devise your project in such a way that you can devote more time to this aspect.
 Having the idea to separate salt from sugar (for example) is one thing, but figuring out a way to do it safely and effectively can be quite another. Use similar project examples, like those found online, as your guide once again.If your project needs to be original, do not just copy an existing one you find. This is cheating and unethical. You can, however, complete this existing project, alter some elements to make it original, then complete your version of it. Be sure to cite the original project in your references, however.
The quest to find the right way to do a salt-and-sugar project may lead you, for instance, to instead move on to a more manageable project that separates salt from sand., Science fair projects generally fall into one of five varieties (presented in typical order of difficulty): description, collection, demonstration, engineering, and experimentation. Experimentation is most common for high school and above levels.Depending upon the requirements for the science fair (or class assignment) and your age / grade level, your idea to investigate why bananas turn brown could range from describing the process to devising an experiment to delay the decomposition of various fruits.
 Though there are variations on what exactly constitutes the Scientific Method, it can generally be summed up by the following steps: 1) research a topic; 2) identify a problem (or ask a question); 3) formulate a hypothesis; 4) conduct an experiment; and 5) draw a conclusion.Moving from an idea to a project basically takes you from step one on through the remaining four steps.


The question(s) you ask that will lead you to your hypothesis — the claim you will test — tend to be of the what / when / which / who / why / where / how variety. The need not always start with one of those words, however. Consider this example: "Can a simple solar oven be made that works consistently in various conditions?"
Your hypothesis should be a clear, straightforward statement that can either be proven or disproven through an experiment that you can conduct. For example: "A solar oven made from a pizza box can consistently heat foods any time there is abundant sunshine."
Your experiment will need to employ independent and dependent variables. These are conditions that you change (independent) and those that change in response (dependent). For the pizza box solar oven example, these could include the time of day and the temperature of the tested food item.
Remember, starting off the process by choosing a topic that interests you will make this job of turning your idea into a workable project much easier and more enjoyable.

