 As a senior, you may have a very heavy course load or a very light one. Taking electives and signing up for extracurricular activities is what makes senior life fun. However, make sure you don’t pile on too many things. Leave yourself some time and space for relaxation.Before signing up for anything, make a calendar. Pencil in your classes and activities. Look hard at the calendar and consider how busy you actually want to be.
Try not to over commit. It’s better to not sign up for something than to sign up and have to quit. People may be relying on you once you’ve signed up.
 Each day, make a to-do list, or a schedule for your free time. The checklist can consist of things you have to do and also things that you want to do. When you complete a task, check it off. It will feel good. Your list can include things such as:Swim practice
Volunteer for one hour at ASPCA
Hang out with Angela
Help mom with yard work
Catch up on favorite TV show

, Getting to senior year is a big deal in itself. Reward yourself by not expecting this year to be the most challenging one yet. It’s great to have goals, but make sure they’re reasonable given how much time you’d like to spend relaxing or spending time with friends.If you have a specific goal, such as running a half marathon or being the editor of the year book, that's great. Make that your central goal for the year and keep other obligations or goals to a minimum.
You can also set smaller goals to accomplish each week or month. For example, maybe this month you’re going to volunteer 5 hours per week at the food pantry, and then next month you’re going to exercise everyday.
 Senioritis is sure to get worse if you don’t let yourself have some fun. While you don’t want to completely abandon your responsibilities and schoolwork, you do need to blow off some steam and enjoy the company of your friends.Schedule the fun into your calendar. Make weekend plans at the beginning of the week so that you have something clear to look forward to.
Make specific plans, rather than just planning to "hang out.” Decide with friends that you’re going to see the local premiere of a cool movie, or go on a weekend camping trip.

