 Minecraft allows users to change their usernames via the Mojang website. To begin, enter your information on the login page (account.mojang.com) — you'll need your email and your password to log in.If you don't have an account already, click the "Register a New Mojang Account" button and follow the prompts. See the Troubleshooting section below for more information.;
, On the next screen, you should see a list of the Mojang games registered to your account. Find the Minecraft row in this list, then find your username to the right. Click "Change" next to your username to proceed.
 On the next screen, you should see your current name and beneath it a box to enter a new name. Type in the name you'd like to change to. When you're satisfied, enter your password in the box below and click "Change name" to confirm your choice.


You can use the "Check availability" button next to the box for your name to see whether or not someone already has your name. Two Minecraft players cannot have the same name.
 Once you confirm your name change, it should take effect immediately. However, note that you may not be identified by your new name in Minecraft servers right away. It can take anything from a few minutes to a few hours for your request to be processed.


According to Mojang, you may need to completely log out of the game, then log back in again to see your new name.In the rare event that your new username hasn't been applied within a day or two, feel free to contact Mojang Support via the official Twitter account., In an effort to keep users from changing their names constantly, Mojang enforces a mandatory 30 day waiting period between name changes. This means that once you change your name, you'll have to wait at least 30 days before you can do it again.This waiting period also comes into effect when you create a new account. In other words, you also can't change your name if you just made a new account., When you change your Minecraft username, other users can't take your old name right away — it is stored in the Minecraft servers for 37 days before being released. After 37 days, anyone can use your old name.Thus, if you want your old name back after a name change, you have a seven day window for getting it back: any time between the end of the 30 day waiting period for name changes and before the 37 day storage period for old names.


To be clear, you still have to wait 30 days to change back to your old name. There is no instant way to do it.
Your username will not necessarily be taken by another user immediately after the 37 day storage period ends. However, the seven day window of opportunity is the only time that you'll be guaranteed to get your old name back.
 In the Minecraft launcher window, there is an option in the bottom left corner to edit your existing profile or create a new one. Neither option will affect your in-game username, which is displayed in the bottom right corner of the launcher as "Welcome, (Username)."


As opposed to usernames, profiles exist to save different selections of preferences (which you can set in the "Edit Profile" menu), not to change your in-game title.
 Before Minecraft switched to using a shared account with all other Mojang games, it used its own account system that required users to log in with their username, rather than their email. If you still have one of these old accounts (in other words, if you log in with your username), you have to migrate to a Mojang account to be able to change your Minecraft username. This is easy — just use the steps below:Visit .
Enter your Minecraft username and password.
On the following page, supply the basic information requested in the appropriate boxes. Follow the prompts to complete the process.
Start logging in to Minecraft with your email address (not your username.)

, Have a question or problem that isn't addressed here? The official Mojang support site at help.mojang.com is a great place to get the answers you're looking for. You can also try following the official Mojang Twitter for updates on the most frequent changes to Minecraft and other Mojang games.


Note that if you're using mods, these official support resources might not have answers to every mod-related question. In this case, your best bet is to visit the official site of the mod(s) you are using.

