 There are templates specifically designed for raffle draws. Look up one of these templates and print rows and columns of them onto as many printer sheets as you need. You can take the image and type the necessary information as needed via a Word processor. Print off a sheet and have it ready.

Even if they're blank to start with, you can fill out the details afterward by hand, so long as the work is done in a permanent marker or pen.
Some programs like Microsoft Publisher will guide you through the process of numbering and printing tickets., Much like making your tickets by hand, you'll need to input information for the tickets. Because you're doing it via computer, it will be faster to make the tickets consistent. Write in the basic information into the template you're using. The individual ticket number can be either written in or sequenced via a program like Microsoft Publisher.Although specifics will vary between raffle events, here are some things you'll absolutely want on each ticket:

The name of the hosting organization.
The date and name of the event.
The price of the raffle ticket.
The number of the ticket. This can be done automatically, or by hand. Because it's so fast to write the number by hand, many raffles choose to approach this route.
 When the tickets have all the necessary information on them except for the ticket number, load adequate paper into your printer and make as many copies as you need. It's a good idea to print a couple extra sheets in case you make a mistake, or wind up needing more than you expected.

The number of the ticket is the only thing that changes. If you're starting to sell tickets that are in the double or triple digits, you can add a digit to the front. However, given how fast numbers can be written by hand, this may not be worth the trouble.
 If you're using a computer, keeping track of the tickets digitally via a program like Excel can help avoid screw-ups as the event goes on.Keeping a firm grasp of the numbers will give you a better idea as to whether the raffle will be lucrative or not.

If you find your raffle won't be worth the costs, try selling more tickets or cut the costs somehow.
 Printed tickets are more uniform, so it works in your favour if you're a little more professional with them. Perforating your tickets means you'll be able to tear them each off quickly.Perforating tools are spindled wheels that poke holes evenly in a line. Run them between tickets like you would use a pizza cutting wheel. Cut your tickets out into rows and perforate the border between each ticket.Perforation isn't necessary, but it does make the raffle easier when it comes time to sell them. You can purchase a perforating machine from an arts store.
It should be mentioned that perforating tickets yourself is a pretty time-consuming ordeal, especially if you're going through a lot of raffle tickets. If you want to save money by going DIY, it can make your product more professional. However, if the funds are available, it is easier to go ahead and get them done by a third-party.

