 It is possible to set broken powder using just pressure, but it will be very fragile. The heat from the iron will help set the powder further and make it more durable.


Because this method contains no rubbing alcohol, it is safe for sensitive skin.Most compact powders will come in a metal pan set into a plastic tray. Make sure that your compact powder has this metal pan.
 You can use anything hard, such as a toothpick or fork. This may seem like you are only making things worse, but it will help give you a smoother finish.
 Make sure that you get all of the powder out. If you need to, use a toothpick or the end of a fork to get the powder out of the corners. You will be breaking the powder up further inside this bag.
 The easiest way to do this is to simply press down on it with the flat side of a fork. You can use anything you'd like however, even a spoon. Make sure that there are no clumps or crumbs however; the powder must be very fine. If you leave any clumps or crumbs, your finished powder will be very grainy.
 Most powdered makeup will come in a metal pan that is glued into a plastic case. You will need to pull this metal pan out before you move on to the next step. The easiest way to do this is to hook a butter knife under the lip of the pan, and then pry/pop it out.


If you don't pull the pan out, you will risk melting the plastic tray.
 Open up your resealable bag, and tip the powder into the pan. Don't worry if you lose some powder.
 Place the bowl of the spoon onto the powder, and press down on it until it becomes firm. Start around the edges of the powder, and work your way towards the center. Try not to push any of the powder out of the pan. When you are done, the powder should be packed firmly into the pan.


At this point, the powder may look as good as new, but it is very fragile and may shatter again with the smallest bump. You will need to set it further using heat.
 By now, your iron should be nice and hot. Turn it off and unplug it. This is very important. It will ensure that no water gets into your powdered makeup, which can ruin it.


Make sure that the steam option on your iron is turned off. You want to use dry heat.
 Make sure that you are pressing down as hard as your can. Do not move the iron up-and-down or side-to-side like you would when ironing clothes. The heat of the iron will help "set" the powder., When you lift the iron, you may notice that your powder is looking a lot smoother already. You will need to do the pressing process one more time, however. Again, make sure that you are pressing down hard, and that you are not moving the iron around.
 While the pan cools, swirl some glue inside the cavity in the plastic case. Then, carefully lift the metal pan up, and press it back into the plastic case. Wait for the glue to dry before closing the case.
