 Chimneys should be cleaned at least once a year, and more often if you use your fireplace frequently.


Take a flashlight and peer inside the chimney flute. Use a pencil or plastic knife to scrape off a bit of the creosote that has accumulated on the side of the chimney. If it's 1/8-inch thick or thicker, it's time for a cleaning.
If you only clean your chimney once a year, do it in the fall, before the burning season begins. Otherwise, you risk sparking a chimney fire the first time you light up your fireplace in the winter.;
, If it has been awhile since the last time you used your chimney, check for critters before you begin cleaning. Birds, squirrels and raccoons like to nest there, especially in the cooler months. Shine a flashlight up the chimney from the fireplace, and if you find an animal, take steps to have it removed.
 To clean your chimney, you'll have to use properly-sized tools. Measure the sides of your chimney from the bottom, through the fireplace. You could also climb up a ladder and measure it from the top.


Determine the size and shape of the flue. It will be either square or round, 6" or 8."
Determine the height of the chimney. If you're guessing, it's better to overestimate, so you have more than enough extra rope or piping to make sure the chimney brush can reach the entire length of the chimney.
 Go to the hardware store and buy the following items in preparation for cleaning the chimney:


A chimney brush, either wire or plastic. Use your chimney's measurements to buy the right size.
Chimney brush extension pipes, to help you clean the whole length of the chimney. Alternatively, you could buy a weighted rope designed to be used with the chimney brush, or a rope pulley system.
A smaller stiff wire brush.
A plastic tarp or drop cloth for use inside your house.
A ladder tall enough to reach your roof, if you plan to clean your chimney from the top down.
A broom and dustpan.
A dust mask and goggles.
 Wear old clothes that you don't mind getting messy with soot. Cover your hair with a bandanna. You may want to wear work gloves to protect your hands. Use a dust mask and goggles to prevent soot from getting in your mouth and eyes.
 Drape the drop cloth or tarp around your fireplace, extending it out into your living room several feet. Use sheets or tarps to cover furniture with light fabric. Roll back your expensive rugs.
 Locate the damper handle inside your chimney, and use the small wire brush to clean it off. Detach it from the chimney and set it aside on the drop cloth, so it won't obstruct the chimney brush as you proceed with cleaning the chimney.

