 If you know you will be outside a lot, or outside in rainy or windy weather, skip your white clothes in favor of a more forgiving color. Although whites do not have to be stuffed into the back of your closet or set aside only for calm, careful lounging indoors, to keep your whites a brilliant white, you do have to be careful how and when you wear them.


White can be useful to wear in the summer heat, so you may not be able to avoid wearing white outdoors or in inclement weather. If this is the case, try to only wear white on top; white bottoms and shoes will tarnish quickly.;
, White clothes and pizza do not mix. The same goes for virtually any dish with a tomato-based sauce, or a food item with a dipping sauce. Opt instead for fresh ingredients (think vegetables and salads) whenever possible, as few of these ingredients stain.If you are wearing white when you go out and have no choice but to eat stain-prone foods, use your napkin to your advantage; tuck it into your collar, or spread it over your lap to catch dripping food.
 Children spiffed up in their Sunday best are undeniably adorable. Children covered in dirt and food, while also adorable, are highly likely. Trying to keep whites white with children is a difficult task. Although using these tips and tricks will help, largely avoiding whites for children will prove an easier task.


If you must use whites with your children, treat any stains immediately upon removal.
White onesies and T-shirts are often stained yellow from drool. To prevent this difficult-to-remove staining, use drool bibs or handkerchiefs.
 While some clothing items allow you to wear them 2-3 times before needing a wash, whites do not hold up quite as well. Each time you wear your white clothes, they should be washed. Even if you can’t see dirt or grime, everything from the sweat of your body to the chemicals contained in your deodorant has the potential to turn your whites a dingy yellow or gray. These items should not be allowed to linger any more than necessary.For jeans and skirts, wash every 1-2 wears. Bottoms are typically made of a hardier fabric and can take more of a beating, so to speak.
 If you are out and about, blot the stain carefully, but do not rub. If you have a laundry pen with you, you can dab the stain with that. If not, immediately remove the stained article of clothing upon coming home and use either a stain remover or a toothbrush and your standard detergent to pre-treat the stain.When pre-treating, always use a white cloth to dab away the stain, as a colored cloth may leave behind some dye.
 You can even go so far as to have a pile of more dingy whites, such as underclothes and socks, and a pile of crisp whites, such as dress shirts, or work attire. Whatever you decide, this is a step that cannot be skipped under any circumstances.While it may be tempting to throw really light colors in with your whites, or even light grays, stick to white alone.
Keeping your whites separate may mean washing whites in small loads. If this is the case, adjust your washer’s settings accordingly; using too much water could interfere with the laundry soap’s ability to clean properly.
 After each spot treatment, rinse and soak them for 30-60 minutes in hot water. This will help lift any lingering stains, and will give the treatment a chance to dissolve.If you used a lot of soap, you may need to repeat this step twice, gently squeezing the garment in between soaks.
If your laundry is sensitive to hot water, a warm or cold soak will achieve the same effect, though to a lesser degree.
 The type of fabric will determine the ideal wash cycle; some fabrics can withstand extremely hot water, while others will shrink or become disheveled. Sort your white laundry according to color, as well as fabric, to avoid discoloration and disrepair.Cotton is a tough fabric, while wool and linen are both prone to shrinking. While cotton can withstand high temperatures, wool and linen should be washed in cold or warm water. Synthetic fibers vary from manufacturer to manufacturer.
 The fabric and cut of your clothing will play a significant role in the type of wash cycle you should use. Instead of merely sorting your piles into whites and throwing all of your whites into a one-size-fits-all washer setting, wash and dry each of your whites according to the tags’ specifications.Although it may seem easier to just throw all of your delicates together, different fabrics require different care and washing settings. Failing to adhere to the labels’ instructions could damage the fabric, cause colors to run, or void warranty and return policies.
 Hot water lifts debris and disinfects. To keep your whites white, use the hottest setting your washer (and your fabric) will allow. The exception to this rule is, of course, when delicate fabrics such as silk, linen, and wool come into play.Although hot water is ideal, your washer itself should be disinfected regularly to prevent buildup from transferring to your clothing. Once per month, run an empty load with hot water and vinegar to remove buildup and residue.
 A rinse cycle is designed to rinse away detergent, dirt, and debris. If the rinse cycle is impeded in any way, dirty water will soak into your whites. If you have the option, run your whites through a second rinse cycle to make sure everything has been washed away.Using an extra rinse cycle can get expensive quickly. If having multiple rinse cycles each wash is too difficult, simply pay careful attention to how clean your washer is, and the amount of laundry soap you use. Never exceed the recommended amount.
 The heat from the dryer can set stains deeply into fabric. Whenever possible, avoid drying your white clothes, instead hanging them to dry. As an added benefit, your whites will last longer; the extreme heat used in the dryer can cause fabrics to break down and wear through more quickly, which means replacing your favorite white items more often., If you have the option, dry your whites in the sun; the sun acts as a wonderful bleaching agent, and can be an indispensable tool in keeping whites white. In addition, the outdoor air may provide a natural method of giving your clothes a fresh, clean smell.When drying in the summer, be sure to check for bugs on your clothing before bringing them in. The last thing you’d want while folding laundry is to encounter a large beetle or spider.
If you cannot dry clothes outdoors in the sun, drying next to a sunlit window is the next best thing.
 Vinegar’s acidic nature helps disinfect and remove stains, and can also remove unpleasant smells, such as mold mildew, and body odor. If your whites have been overtaken by poor smells, vinegar is the best option to remove them. All it takes is between 1 tablespoon and ¼ cup poured directly into the wash basin or detergent reservoir.Do not overdo vinegar use; because vinegar is acidic, too much can cause damage to your clothes over time.
 Lemon juice is an all-natural bleaching agent. You can use lemon essential oil, pre-squeezed lemon juice, or juice directly from a lemon. If you juice your own lemons, be sure to strain the juice through cheesecloth or a thin strainer to prevent getting lemon residue on your clothes.If you are using lemon juice, you can place the juice of two lemons in a bowl or tub with one gallon of warm water and allow them to soak for 30-60 minutes.
If you are using lemon essential oil, simply place 2-3 drops directly into the wash bin.
 To remove stains, you can make a paste with baking soda and warm water, then apply this mixture directly to the stain using a toothbrush or clothes brush. Allow the stain to soak in the mixture for 10-15 minutes before running it under warm water.This treatment is gentle enough that it can be done multiple times to get rid of a stubborn stain. However, be sure to thoroughly rinse the clothing item between each soak, as leaving baking soda in place can cause clothes to become brittle.
 Peroxide is an excellent, safe way to get tough stains out of clothes. Peroxide is particularly useful for removing blood and other dark, hard-to-lift stains. Once you have pretreated a stain, place the stained or discolored item in a tub filled with hot water and peroxide. Peroxide disinfects and cleans, and provides a safer alternative to bleach.Peroxide is used as an alternative to bleach for a reason: it acts as a bleaching agent, not merely a brightening or cleaning agent. Do not use peroxide on clothes you not wish to whiten.
 Although bleach is useful in disinfecting and whitening clothing items, there is some doubt as to how safe it is for use. Being a harsh chemical, bleach can begin to break down the fibers in a given fabric, weakening it and causing tears.If you do decide to use bleach on your whites, be sure to store it away from the reach of children and pets, and away from fire hazards such as the stove or dryer.

