 When seeking to define a specific body of law, it is helpful to consider what that body of law aims to achieve. If you can understand what a particular area of the law is trying to accomplish—i.e., the purpose behind the law, or the reason it exists—it is easier to define that body of law in a way that differentiates it from others. In this way, you can arrive at a useful definition.;
, Many, including the United Nations, believe that the rule of law and international development law are closely related.That is, it is necessary to advance and encourage the rule of law around the world in order the achieve the sort of responsible global development international development law aims to achieve. The rule of law refers to upholding the following principles:That everyone—including the government, its officials, and private entities— is subject to and accountable under the same law.
That laws are published, stable, applied evenly, and fair to everyone.
That laws protect fundamental human rights.
That the process by which laws are enacted and enforced is fair and transparent.
That justice is delivered efficiently and fairly by an independent judiciary that has adequate resources and reflects the community of which it is a part.
 A key goal of international development law is to ensure that peoples of all nations—especially those recovering from extended conflict or despotic rule—have access to fair, efficient, and accountable legal institutions.In many cases, these nations do not have systems in place to promote the rule of law, and so this area of law seeks to remedy this through encouraging constitutional reform and the independence/integrity of judges.


This also includes promoting greater access to the political process, in addition to restoring lost confidence in existing institutions., All the institution building in the world is not worth much if people do not have access to the benefits these institutions provide. International development law also seeks to ensure that all people—especially those who have been traditionally disenfranchised like children or the poor—are able to take advantage of judicial institutions (such as courts) to protect their rights and dignity.One way this area of the law seeks to achieve this aim is by making people aware of the rights they possess., While economic development around the world is important, it is even more important given current environmental concerns that this development be achieved in a responsible, sustainable way. International development law seeks to protect natural resources, ensure everyone has access to water, address climate change, promote responsible agriculture and investment in clean energy, and preserve biodiversity so that nations develop in a way that does not further damage the environment., International development, by encouraging sustainable development coupled with the advancement of the rule of law, ultimately seeks to ensure the basic human rights of every person in the world are protected.This includes everything from the eradication of poverty and hunger, to promoting economic growth, to ensuring peoples of all nations have the right to determine their own destiny on the world stage.The three main goals of the United Nations are peace & security, human rights, and development.The goals of international development law encompass all of these.
 Before you can define what constitutes international development law, you must first try to define law itself, of which international development law is a species. This is a complicated task in its own right, as scholars and philosophers have debated whether law is a collection of binding rules on a particular group of people, a reflection of societal customs, a means of ensuring a particular group stays in power, or a set of rules handed down from a divine power.For our purposes, think about the analytical definition of law put forth by well-regarded legal professor Arthur Goodhart, that "law" can be defined as "a body of rules recognized as binding within an organized society."Think of law as the "family" in the hierarchy of biological classification. International law would be the "genus," and international development law would be the "species.", With the above in mind, it is also helpful when trying to define international development law to define international law. This can be defined as the body of law that nation-states, international organizations, and multinational corporations consider binding on them, along with the sanctions carried with it.However, it is important to note that an important element of international law—when it is applied to nation-states—is consent.


This means that, because international law recognizes that each nation-state is its own sovereign power (basically meaning that a nation-state is the sole authority for what happens within its territorial borders),each state must consent to the application of the principles of international law in order for them to be enforceable against that state.
 With all of the above in mind, we can now attempt to define international development law. It is not simply law concerned with international development. While this area of the law is constantly evolving and is not yet well-defined, consider the following definition: international development law is the species of international law that concerns itself with the international regulation and advancement of national development, in addition to the development and protection of shared global resources.A key part of this definition is the concept of "national development." As explored above, this involves the economic, political, environmental, social, and cultural development of a nation-state.
Older definitions refer to international development law as "the law regulating the relations among sovereign but economically unequal states" or "the international law of the modern era of the development of mankind."