 Swim for distance, practice all the swimming strokes, read about drownproofing, and be able to do a bit of diving. Read surfing, bodyboarding and surfing books and articles and learn how other surfers deal with getting caught on the inside. Also know the dynamics of the ocean, waves and currents.;
, Observe, talk to other people and read books. Go snorkeling or paddling, when the ocean is calm. Identify the problems such as reefs, pilings, rocks, strong currents, metal etc.
 A six foot high layer of whitewater takes time to settle enough to allow breathing, and even so, the next wave will be coming. Do not get separated from your board.
 Shop around for the right board and price.


On the beach, set your bodyboard on the sand and notice how it reacts to the wind. Aerodynamics is similar to hydrodynamics. Note that all bodyboards are the most stable upside down. In smaller waves, dismount and experiment hanging on to your bodyboard in a broken wave: 1) with the board right side up and hanging on to the nose, 2) with the board right side up and hanging on to the tail, 3) with the board upside down and hanging on to the tail, and finally 4) with the board upside down and hanging on to the nose. The fourth method has the least resistance and is what you should do in the big waves.
, Whatever the reason for being in a terrifying position, this is what you should do: 1) paddle either for the horizon or the paddling channel, 2) get caught in deep water or get pushed in to shallower waters.
 Either be: 1) ahead of that power or 2) after the wave has broken and its power has weakened somewhat. When ahead of the power, you may have to get off the board and dive. If you can survive that wave, without losing ground, paddle furiously to outside to escape the next wave - you will be in good position. If paddling to the outside is not an option, let the wave break before you - you will lose your position and get pushed towards shore

, Stay flat, perfectly level on your board and do not have the nose high such as in the paddling and wave riding positions. Paddle out of the shallow water with shallow, oar-like strokes and with your legs level. Beware of sharp corals, boulders, metal and sea urchins. For fun and safety, ride safe waves and at places where people do not get hurt or die.
 When in extreme underwater turbulence, perhaps in eight feet, or bigger and powerful wave, minimize the violent wave force (like a 500 pound gorilla chiropractor adjusting your back) on you by forming your body shape into a ball. In very big waves, the board will get ripped out of your grasp and you will be at the wave's mercy. If you fear a collision, protect your head and neck.
 You will be the anchor and headed to the horizon, and slightly downwards, where there is less turbulence. If you need just a bit of distance, away from the churning turbulence, to avoid disaster, bailing out may be the correct move, however factor in, the kite-effect, the board will have if the leash is attached far from the tip of your bodyboard. Generally, do not abandon your board.
 Do chin-ups, rows and rearward shoulder shrugs. Keep your shoulder and elbow tight, when you lose your board and have to depend on your leash.
 This is an easy exercise, do it twice a month at the very minimum. The purpose of this exercises is to avoid any mind-numbing heel to shin impacts when getting tossed around, like a rag doll, in the underwater turbulence.

