 To make a disappearing card box, you’ll need the following materials:A real deck of playing cards
Thin cardboard or posterboard
Clear tape
Glue
A pen or pencil
Scissors or a craft knife
Color photocopies: 1 of the front of a playing card, 1 of the back of a playing card, 2 of the long edges of the card deck, and 1 of the short edge of the card deck

, For this trick, you will create a box insert that looks a deck of cards -- a "fake" deck. The fake deck will be inserted into the real card box.


Place the bottom edge (the short narrow side) of the card box onto the cardboard and trace around it.
Place the box on its long narrow side and trace around it. Repeat this process a second time.
Place a playing card on the cardboard and trace around it. Repeat this process a second time.
You should now have one short rectangle, two longer rectangles, and two rectangles the size of playing cards traced onto the cardboard.
Use a craft knife or scissors to cut out the rectangles.
 Alternate the playing-card-sized rectangles (A) and long thin rectangles (B) like this: A B A B. Tape them together.


Next, bring the untaped edges of the fake deck together to form a box shape. Tape those edges together.
Tape the short rectangle to the bottom edge of this box.
 This is where you create the illusion of the “deck” that you’ll make disappear. It's actually an empty box that you'll insert into the real box.


Glue the photocopy of the front of the playing card (the "face," such as the Jack of Diamonds) to the front of the fake deck. Glue the photocopy of the back of the playing card (it usually has some sort of pattern) to the back of the fake deck.
Glue the photocopies of the deck edges (the ridged edges of the cards when they’re held as a stack) to the sides of the fake deck.
You should now have a box that’s open at the top and looks like the front and back of a playing card, but much thicker.
 For this trick to work, the fake deck needs to look as realistic as possible, so trim any ragged edges from where you glued on the photocopies.
 You'll perform this trick by making your audience believe that the fake deck you just made is a real deck of cards. Because the fake deck is actually an empty box you insert into the real box, when you open the real card box after putting in the fake deck, it will look empty!


Place one or two real playing cards on top of the fake deck. Hold the fake deck vertically, keeping the open top facing upwards. Cover the open top with your fingers. Show the audience the “deck,” keeping the real cards fanned out in front of the fake deck.
Slide the fake deck into the real box, keeping the open top facing upwards. Do some tapping and say a few magic words. Be very showy about it Then, open the real box to reveal that it's "empty"!

