 Remember that you are going to be reading the speech out loud. You will want to figure out to sound. Try to speak in your natural voice.


Some speeches play to people’s fears and anger, but the best ones remain positive and play toward people’s optimism. People want to know how you will improve things for the better; they don’t only want to know how you think other people have messed up. Ronald Reagan had a gift for optimism that worked in speeches. John F. Kennedy did too. Their tone embraced what was good about the country.
Make your tone conversational. You don’t want it to sound like you are too rehearsed or reading from a piece of paper. The most effective speakers sound like they are speaking directly to the audience. Thus, people don’t see them as regular politicians. Bill Clinton was a master at this. George W. Bush also had a conversational style.
 Remember that you are writing for the ear, not the eye. People process less information through hearing than reading. So keep your sentences short.


This is why broadcast writing is less dense than print writing, generally. When writing a speech, keep the sentences concise.
Try to use one direct point per sentence. People can understand complex topics better when they are reading.
 People don’t back into sentences with endless opening clauses generally. Use strong verbs and active, not passive, voice. Read your speech out loud as you write it so you can make sure it sounds conversational.


You don’t need to fixate on proper grammar, punctuation, and so forth in a speech that will be given verbally (and presidential speeches are designed to be spoken).
It’s more important to capture the cadences and colloquialisms of regular speech, while staying true to yourself.
 No one wants to vote for someone who sounds dry, boring and cold. Take off your professor’s hat, and speak with emotion that appeals to the common man or woman.


Ancient philosophers who perfected the art of rhetoric called this “pathos.” An appeal to the emotions. Figure out the emotional response you want to create in your audience and then use sensory language and anecdotes to create it.
The philosophers believed that the core of any persuasive speech should be logos (an appeal to reason). However, they believed that speeches without pathos failed to move.
 Don’t wing it. You need to know the speech like the back of your hand. There are some politicians who know their speeches so well that they don’t need notes.


The key though is to practice the speech without sounding too rehearsed. There are some politicians who prefer to use an outline and speak more contemporaneously so they don’t sound “like a politician.”
Remember that giving a speech is theater. You need to be dramatic and show passion, but you don’t want to stumble over words or look down like you’re reading it.
 It’s a big mistake to go on the attack against your opponents. It will make you seem smaller, and it risks building them up.


Focus on your own platform. What you will change and how you plan on doing that. Talk about the qualifications that you bring to the job. Don’t bog down by attacking other candidates.
They say that when people get in trouble, it’s usually because they went negative.
 Of course, putting a joke into a speech is risky. If it’s not funny, you can fall flat and create an awkward moment. However, if you pull it off, a joke can make your audience connect with you and this is a key to an effective speech.


Presidential speech writers recommend that, if you’re going to use a joke, that you open the speech that way. Create a rapport with the audience and use a joke that is specific to the location.
Stay away from any offensive jokes and make sure a joke is appropriate to the occasion.
 It’s important that the audience be able to identify with you early on in the speech. Tell stories or anecdotes to illustrate your points.


This technique will also make your points more persuasive. If you are promising to deliver on a certain campaign point, the anecdote can humanize the topic and show why change is needed. It can also illustrate the human importance of voting for you.
The key phrase to remember is to “show, don’t tell.” Show your telling points with vivid human stories. You could also tell an anecdote or two about yourself to show the audience you’re relatable or have been through what they’ve experienced.

