 Exercise increases the chemicals serotonin and dopamine in the brain. These chemicals reduce stress and are as effective as anti-depressants.Even doing mild exercise regularly, such as taking your dog for a walk around the block, will increase your heart rate and boost your mood. Aim for 30 minutes a day.

Make sure to choose exercises that match your mood and personality, rather than forcing yourself to do something you don’t enjoy., Focus on foods that are good for your body and brain. Alcohol, sugar, and foods that are processed or high in fat may temporarily boost your mood, but you’ll often experience a mood and energy crash soon after consuming them.Instead, focus on

Eating fresh fruits and vegetables
Consuming healthy fats, like olive oil and nuts
Limiting sugar and artificial sweeteners
Limiting or avoiding alcohol
Eating lean protein and complex carbohydrates
Eating small meals and snacks every few hours

, People who get fewer than 6 hours of sleep per night tend to feel more stressed and sad, while people who regularly get 7 to 9 hours of uninterrupted sleep tend to report being in better moods., To improve your mood and mental health long-term, evaluate if you like your job. It doesn’t matter so much if you get paid well, as much as if you’re satisfied with what you’re doing. Does your work challenge you? Do you feel creative and productive at work?If you don’t like your job, but for some reason cannot quit and find something different, do other activities and hobbies that bring you joy. As long as you’re doing something personally meaningful and fulfilling to you, you’ll improve your mood.
 Humans are social by nature, so make sure you’re not isolating from other people. Create a network of supportive people, whether that’s friends, family, and/or coworkers, and interact with them on a daily basis. Surround yourself with people who will listen well without judging, help you reach goals, and be there for you during rough times.If you’re having trouble meeting new friends:Avoid spending so much time using your phone, computer, or TV. Get outside and interact face-to-face with people!
Join a support group, a professional networking group, or a club.
Take a class at the gym.
Take a walk and introduce yourself to neighbors.
Volunteer.
 Doing yoga a few times a week reduces symptoms of depression, and allows you to focus on breathing instead of what’s bringing you down.The stretching in yoga can help open up spots on your body that may be storing tension. Some good yoga poses to boost mood are:Tree pose, which requires you to focus on balance
Side plank, which strengthens the side and core of your body
Twisted lunge, which energizes and stretches your back

, Looking inward and enriching your spiritual life can be a source of happiness, motivation, and inspiration when things might not be going well in your life. Some ways you can strengthen your spirituality include:Prayer
Meditation
Attending church

, Think about an organization or charity in your neighborhood you’ve been wanting to help out. Give them a call and schedule, ask how you can help, and schedule a time to go in to volunteer for them. Committing to take time to help others, especially for a cause you care about, will instantly lift your mood., Aromatherapy can help boost productivity and mood, mostly because your sense of smell is connected to the area of the brain where emotion gets processed. You can buy essential oils at your local drug store or online. Simply put one or two drops on a cotton ball and inhale whenever you need a boost. Some essential oils and scents that are good mood boosters are:Lavender
Jasmine
Peppermint
Rosemary
Lemon

