 Its icon resembles a white ghost on a yellow background.

If you aren't already logged into Snapchat, tap Log In and enter your username (or email address) and password.;
, Doing so will open your profile., It's in the top right corner of the screen., You'll find this option in the "Additional Services" section., It will turn green. You should now be able to access Snapchat filters after taking a photo or video!

If the switch is green, filters are already enabled.
 Do so by tapping the Back button in the top left corner of the screen until you're back at the profile page (there should be a yellow box at the top of this page), then swiping up on your screen., Doing so will take a photo or video snap respectively., Swiping left or right will pull different filters over your snap. If there are geofilters available in your area, these will usually appear before the standard Snapchat filters (e.g., altitude or time stamps).

If this is your first time applying a geofilter, tap Allow when asked if Snapchat can use location services. Doing so will take you to your phone's location settings for Snapchat, where you'll need to tap Location and then tap While Using the App (iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch) or slide the Location slider right (Android).
You can't enable location services for Snapchat if your phone's location services are disabled.
 Depending on your location, you may have multiple geofilters to select from. You may also have no geofilters available, which is more common in less-populated areas.

If you don't see a geofilter for your area, consider creating and submitting one yourself.
 You'll need to select people to whom you'll send your snap from here.

You can also tap the box with a plus icon on the bottom of the screen to add this snap to your Story.
 Each friend you select will receive your snap when you send it.

Tap My Story at the top of the page to add the snap to your story as well.
 You have successfully sent a snap with a geofilter attached!, Geofilters are tied to specific locations, so if you can't find a certain geofilter, consider visiting a different geographical location (e.g., a city).

If you do a lot of traveling, check your geofilters at all of your new locations.

