 Aim for 8 hours of solid, uninterrupted sleep every night. This will allow your body to head into a deep sleep cycle and replenish. Your brain gets to rest after a hard day of work. Keep this pattern up heading into a test and make sure to sleep in the days immediately before.
 Consume a well-balanced diet of fruit, veggies, grains, and meat. Eat regular meals and snacks. Try to avoid processed and sugary foods. Keeping a close eye on your diet gives your brain the fuel that it needs to perform at a top level. Pay attention to those foods that make you feel mentally sharper, such as walnuts.


Diets that are high in fats and sugars can lower mental reaction times, reduce memory retention, and prompt feelings of depression. All of these outcomes are problematic in many ways, including damaging your IQ potential.Herbal supplements may also prove helpful. Ginseng and sage are both potential memory boosters., Engage in cardiovascular exercise at least 3 times a week for 30 minutes each session. This will help to increase the blood supply headed to your brain which in turn elevates the oxygen level as well. Exercise creates a better physical environment for your brain to do difficult work.There is currently some talk about creating a series of “exergames” that combine physical activity with brain training.
 As you take the test, concentrate on making deep, slow inhalations of breath. Mentally repeat the mantra “calm down” if you get stressed by a particularly difficult question. Put your arms over your head and do a slow stretch. Practice in the days and weeks before to figure out exactly which methods calm you down the best., Nothing will distract you more than fiddling with your clothing or jewelry mid-test. Wear simple, basic clothing without any embellishments that you can play with. Choose something that you will comfortable sitting in for a long time. Don’t worry about what anyone thinks, you are there for the test.


If you can find out the general temperature of the room beforehand that may be helpful. Some test centers keep rooms extra-cold to prevent drowsiness meaning sweats may be a good idea for you.

