 If you want something truly DIY, scotch tape a flagpole to an empty cassette case. you don't use anymore. Loop two coils of tape around the top and bottom of the case respectively, and wrap them around a flagpole. To create a wedged angle to better aim your camera with, place a length of sponge behind the top of the case and the pole. This will aim the selfie stick downwards, making it easier to catch yourself in the photo.


Alternatively, you can buy a specifically made cellphone holder. They are adjustable and will offer you a greater degree of security if you're worried about your phone being damaged.Although cassette cases may be harder to find now than they used to be, you can usually scrounge them up at used music shops or yard sales. Some electronics stores may have them in stock as well.
 In order to know how far you should space sponges apart to secure your phone, you'll need to know how wide your phone is. Measure your phone, and measure the space between sponges to be approximately 9/10ths of that width. This will give the phone some squeeze factor to help further secure it., Glue two dish sponges face up on the case on either end of it. Leave an area in the middle of the case front to squeeze in your phone. While you're making this, it's recommended you have your phone at hand to fit test it as you go. The sponges should fit snugly enough to keep the phone in place.
 Gluing some popsicle sticks across the bottoms of the sponges will give your phone a foundation to rest upon. This is recommended if you don't think the sponges are holding your phone in snugly enough.


Placing an extra popsicle stick's width from under the phone as support is a good idea, as it helps keep the phone in place if it somehow becomes dislodged from the sponges.
 If you have given a snug mount of space to squeeze your phone into, your phone should can be secured simply between the sponges. Push apart the sponge foam slightly with your fingers, and slide the phone down in a steady motion.
 When you're finished the basic steps, scotch tape around the sponge and pole until you think the stick is suitable for outside use. This will maximize the security and help keep the phone from falling out unexpectedly.


To be safe, cover the top and bottom ends with tape. Because scotch tape is clear, it won't have a significant impact if the tape covers the camera, so long as the tape itself is relatively clear of lint and dust.

