 Birds can be hard to find because they’re small enough to hide under a lot of household items, but they can also fly up out of your line of vision. Finding them could require that you do some extensive searching. Start by verifying that they are not any place dangerous.


Dangerous hideouts include water glasses, bathrooms, doorways, window, stoves, and sofas.
Hard to find hideouts include curtain rods, plants, lamps, mantels, ceiling fans, picture frames, and underneath furniture. They can also hide inside objects like laundry baskets, boxes, and drawers.;
, Birds understand body language so screaming or frantic movement will cause them to be as anxious as you are. To ease their nerves you should speak softly and move at a normal pace., Your bird will be more likely to fly back to its cage if it likes being there. The cage should be someplace near where people congregate, so that it stays interested, but should also be away from windows, which birds believe leave them susceptible to danger. Have a variety of toys in the cage to make it interesting. Finally, give your bird a special treat whenever it goes into the cage.


Do not give the bird the same treat on any occasion other than returning to the cage, else it might find going back to the cage less special.Never use time in the cage as punishment; this will create negative associations with the cage., It is a bad idea to give your bird food outside of the cage, because this encourages it to believe that it will never need to go back to the cage for anything. Similarly, reserve the bird’s favorite toys for inside the cage. Finally, don’t build up the expectation that your bird can be outside all the time. Instead of letting it out all day once a week, try to establish a consistent amount of daily time out of the cage to manage expectations.


While you don’t want to make the outside too inviting, you should make sure that your bird gets a good amount of exercise out of the cage. It’s good for its health and a tired bird will be easier to put back in the cage.It can also help to time your birds outside time up with a regular sleeping schedule. That means, put it back in the cage every night before returning to bed. As the lights begin to go off it will understand that it is time to rest.