 Hygiene matters if you want to put your best foot forward—so brush your teeth, floss, use mouth wash, shower, and wash your hair. Wear clean clothes.;
, This shows that you care how you look, and it never hurts to look a little extra attractive! Try a nice shirt in a color that flatters you (ask for help if you don't have an eye for color). Try a little cologne if you want to; it'll give you a slight scent that she'll remember.


Too much cologne may result in an annoyed or wheezing girl—not good!
Nerds tend to be attracted to fellow nerds. So, if you're a nerd looking for a nerdy girlfriend, put on a nerdy outfit and own it.
 A little friendly teasing is okay, and it will definitely help form some inside jokes, but remember girls, especially teenagers, are always at least a little insecure, and often really, really insecure, so be careful, even the most confident of girls are somewhat insecure about something, so watch what you say or you will most definitely annoy someone.


Gross or "wrong" humor may alienate a smart girl (particularly a younger smart girl), so avoid this unless you know she's into that sort of thing.
 One of the reason you are reading this article is because somewhere, deep inside, you think you don't deserve her, you are not worthy of her, which is complete nonsense and a lie. Remember that it matters if you think it matters; if you think you are unworthy of her then the same thought will come to you again and again until you believe it to be true.


To remove that thought try to change the response of the cue. For example whenever you see her in reality or in your head, loudly repeat in your head 'I am worthy of her, I deserve her'.
 Keep the truth in mind that she is not the only smart girl in the world and there are plenty of cute and smart girls out there. If you keep this 'abundance mentality' in mind it's not only going to help you get girls but will help you in other aspects of life as well. So don't limit your options because there are plenty.
 Smart girls often like smart partners, so don't hide your brains. Some girls enjoy witty banter and intellectual discussions, and it makes them feel like they're in a Jane Austen novel. Try bringing up intellectual topics, and using your larger vocabulary words (if you usually hold back).


Don't feign intelligence. You don't need to have an IQ of 140 to win her over, and she can probably tell if you're faking it.
Even if you aren't particularly smart, that's okay. Brains are way less important than personality. If you treat girls well, you'll find that some of them will be interested in you.
 An intellectual girl may be put off by vulgar language. Instead, work on being your best self around her, and keeping things clean unless she expresses preferences otherwise.
 Maybe you both like to write computer code, bake, or watch Star Trek. Find things to share and enjoy together.


It never hurts to do a little reading on her interests. Maybe she can teach you a little, and maybe you'll end up liking it too!

, Even a light, brief touch can send a message that you're interested. Touching her arm in conversation or to get her attention is a great way to get her thinking about you in a "more than a friend" way.


Hugging is a great way to show how tender, compassionate, and sensitive you are (all great traits). Try hugging her as a greeting, hugging her after she tells you something personal/emotional, or from behind if you know she doesn't startle easily.
Don't touch her sexually without her consent, and without signs that she's ready for it. Many smart girls are not ready for sexual touching in their teens.
If you're a girl attracting another girl, you may have to build up to being even more obvious, because it's pretty normal for female friends to touch each other.
 Many girls enjoy the special feeling of someone taking the time to open doors and offer seats to them. These little acts can make a girl feel like a princess.


If you're concerned about sexism, think of it as an act of caring, rather than a "women are weaker" form of benevolent sexism. If you'd do it to anyone you cared a lot about, then it's not sexist.
 Girls who want a more serious or longer-term relationship tend to be very cautious with guys who have a reputation for playing the field. You may be thought of as a jerk, and she'll wind up frequently questioning your intentions.


Girls protect each other. If you mistreat a girl (e.g. disrespecting her, not listening to a "no"), then word amongst the women will spread to steer clear of you.
 Besides treating your (potential) date like she's special, it's good to treat everyone well. Be polite to her parents, her friends, the waitress, her peers, complete strangers... If you act respectfully towards everyone, you'll seem polite and kind. This definitely attracts girls.


Respect all women. She sees how you treat other women, and this is part of her evaluation of whether you can be trusted. If she sees you respecting other women, it'll be a positive sign to her.
 Not too much, especially if you aren't going out. If you are still in the "Chase Stage" don't overdo it. Just stand up for her if someone is being a bully or is somehow hurting her feelings, position yourself just a touch ahead of her when you do and stand tall. Be a hero, it's hot.


Remember the difference between being protective and being controlling. Your job is to stand up for what she wants and feels, not to limit her options. Let her make her own choices, so she can meaningfully choose you.
 It's a subtle way of telling her and people around her that you are into her and it really does make all the difference. If she's open to it, try placing a hand on her shoulder or an arm around her.
 Every girl wants to feel heard. Ask her questions, listen to the answers, and learn more about her perspective on life. This can make her feel really interested in talking to you again. And, if you remember the little things she's said before (her favorite book, what type of jewelry she likes) it makes her feel very special.
 Girls want a partner who has a good sense of self and is confident. Yes, your mom really is right sometimes. Work on being the best version of yourself.
 Keep her secrets, share your emotions, and don't go and tell your friends all about her flaws, just tell them the good things. And even if things unfortunately don't work out between you, her keep the secrets she told you. This will make you look trustworthy to other girls too.
 If there is something you like about a girl, whether it is her personality, some physical attribute, etc., then say something about it. It'll make her happy, and she'll enjoy being with you.


Tailor your compliments to the girl. "I love your hair" is fairly generic. "You have such beautiful curls" is more specific, making it more personalized and memorable.
You don't need to constantly compliment her. If she starts to look uncomfortable after the 5th compliment that you've given her in 3 minutes, you're probably overdoing it.

