 As part of your annual checkup, your doctor will order a standard blood test that checks your blood sugar level. Ideal targets are between 80–120 mg/dL (4–7 mmol/L) for people younger than age 60 with no other medical conditions, or between 100–140 mg/dL (6–8 mmol/L) for people older than 60 and those younger people who have a history of heart, lung or kidney disease.If your blood glucose levels are higher than these targets you've got hyperglycemia.


Your doctor may also conduct a special A1C blood test, which measures your average blood glucose levels for the past two to three months.
An alternative option is routinely testing your blood glucose at home with an inexpensive store-bought meter that works by pricking your finger and reading a drop of your blood.
In general, your target blood sugar range changes (gets higher) as you get older or if you're pregnant.;
, Once it's established that you have chronically high blood glucose levels and not just temporary hyperglycemia from binging on sweets, your doctor will likely recommend synthetic insulin-based medications.Insulin is a hormone produced by your pancreas to shuttle glucose from the blood into tissues so they can use it for energy production.


Medications for hyperglycemia come in injectable medicines (syringes, pens, pumps) and oral pills. Talk to your doctor about the pros and cons of each and which may be more appropriate for your condition. Injectable medication have to be stored a proper way some need refrigerated while others do not. Make sure that you are storing you injectables properly.
Diabetic medication typically needs to be taken every day, especially if you have type 1 diabetes. Make sure that you take your medicine on time and when you are supposed to. If you are off then this might contribute to your hyperglycemia.
Be careful not to take too much medication because you can easily trigger hypoglycemia, or low blood glucose. Hypoglycemia is the feared complication of aggressive diabetic treatment. Talk to you doctor about hypoglycemia and how to prevent or counteract any side effects from your medication.
 If you or a friend or family member start to show the signs of severe hyperglycemia (particularly if you or they cannot keep any food or fluids down), then get to the emergency department of the hospital as soon as you can to get insulin and/or other diabetic medication to stabilize the blood sugar.Once a diabetic coma commences, the risks of permanent organ and brain damage increase significantly.


While at the hospital you'll receive fluids (likely intravenously) until you're rehydrated. The fluids also help to dilute the excess glucose in your bloodstream.
Along with fluids, you'll also get your electrolytes replenished, which are charged minerals (calcium, potassium, sodium and others) needed for normal muscle, heart and nerve function.
 Regardless if you have diabetes or not, your diet has a big impact on your blood sugar levels. All fruits and other carbohydrate-containing foods (bread, pasta, rice) get broken down to glucose and absorbed into your blood, but refined sugars such as high fructose corn syrup are absorbed so quickly that your blood sugar spikes — leading to hyperglycemia.As such, focus on fresh foods and avoid prepared foods, which are often high in refined sugar.
Eat lean meats and fish, fresh veggies, whole grains and moderate amounts of fruits, but avoid sugary baked goods, sweet desserts, ice cream, milk chocolate, candy and soda pop.
 Your portion size during meals can also have a dramatic impact on your blood sugar levels.Thus, instead of eating two or three big meals per day and risk triggering hyperglycemia, eat four or six smaller meals per day. Stick to meal portions that can fit into the space created by cupping both hands together (as if you're washing your face with water).


Smaller portions don't cause as big of a insulin spike because they don't raise the blood sugar levels as high.
Eating smaller portions will give you energy spread throughout the day without any of the "sugar rushes" and resulting energy "crashes."
Make sure you still stay within the amount of calories you should eat each day. You can use an online calorie calculator to help determine how many calories you need to eat to maintain your weight or lose weight.
 Eating food high in fiber (veggies, whole grains, beans, legumes) tends to fill you up so you don't over-eat and risk developing hyperglycemia.Fibrous veggies (celery, carrots, zucchini) also tend to be very low in sugar, so they won't spike your blood sugar levels — assuming you lay off the veggie dips and processed cheese!


Some fibrous fruits can be relatively low in sugar and make good choices also, such as strawberries and apples, but make sure they're not too ripe because the sugar content will be higher.
Instead of white rice and white bread, eat more brown rice and whole wheat bread with flaxseed or nuts.
High fiber diets also keep blood cholesterol levels low and stimulate better digestion and colon health.
According to the Institute of Medicine, women need 25 grams of fiber per day whereas men need 38 grams of fiber per day., Another way of avoiding, minimizing or managing hyperglycemia is via regular (daily) physical exercise;however, don't push yourself too hard with strenuous exercise because it can overly stress your body and trigger temporary hyperglycemia. Instead, stick with brisk walks, hiking, cycling, stair climbing and swimming for good glucose-controlling exercise.


Exercise can lower blood sugar levels because it improves cell's sensitivity to insulin and helps them burn glucose for energy.
Try to get 150 minutes of moderate intensity exercise every week. That is about 30 minutes five days a week.
Don't exercise, even moderately, if your hyperglycemia is so high (typically above 240 mg/dL) that ketones are present in your urine because it can make your blood sugar level even higher., During periods of high stress, both physical and emotional, your body releases lots of "stress hormones," which cause a spike in blood sugar levels.This is because stress triggers the "fight or flight" response and your body needs the extra sugar in the blood for quick bursts of energy; however, chronic stress leads to hyperglycemia and the risk of health problems, such as diabetes, heart disease and kidney failure.


Reducing chronic stressors such as financial strain, job pressures, relationship difficulties and health issues can help you manage or avoid hyperglycemia.
Learn stress-relieving practices such as meditation, tai chi, yoga, positive visualization and deep breathing exercises to help you cope.
Also physical stress injury, illness, infection, or surgery can lead to elevation in blood sugar. Treatment of this type of stress usually involves treatment of the underlying cause and a change to your diabetes treatment plan., Hyperglycemia doesn't typically trigger noticeable symptoms until glucose values are greater than 200 mg/dL (11 mmol/L).Furthermore, the symptoms often develop slowly over several days or a few weeks. The early symptoms of hyperglycemia to look out for include: frequent urination, increased thirst, unusual hunger, dry mouth, blurred vision, headache, numbness in your extremities, reduced sexual desire and fatigue.


If you notice any of these early symptoms, you should either measure your own blood sugar with a home monitor or make an appointment with your doctor as soon as you can to determine if your have hyperglycemia.
Recognizing the early symptoms of hyperglycemia allows you to treat the condition promptly and avoid any further health issues.
 If early stages of hyperglycemia goes unnoticed and untreated, it can cause toxic ketones to build up in your blood and urine (ketoacidosis) and lead to: fruity breath, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, general weakness, abdominal pain, confusion and eventually loss of consciousness and coma.Untreated hyperglycemia can ultimately be deadly.


Ketoacidosis develops when your body doesn't produce enough insulin to use glucose, so it breaks down fatty acids to use for energy which produces toxic ketones.Over the long term, chronic hyperglycemia (even if it's not severe) can lead to nerve and circulation problems complications that affect your eyes, kidneys, heart and feet.
 The symptoms of hyperglycemia are similar to other serious conditions, such as a heart attack (myocardial infarction) and pulmonary embolism;however, hyperglycemia doesn't typically involve chest pain or any referral pain down the left arm, which is so common with heart attacks. Furthermore, severe heart issues and pulmonary embolisms come on very fast, whereas hyperglycemia generally takes many hours or even days to develop and escalate.


Other conditions that can mimic hyperglycemia include: severe dehydration, central nervous system infection, a head concussion, extreme alcohol intoxication and severe blood loss from a wound.
Your doctor will rule out other conditions and use blood tests to confirm hyperglycemia before beginning treatment.

