 If you choose to undergo a hysterectomy it is important to understand the recovery period. There are several things that you will need to keep in mind as you recover from the surgery:You may experience burning or itching around the incision or a numb feeling around the incision and down one leg. This may be present for up to two months after surgery.You will be able to resume eating your normal diet after the surgery as long as you are able to tolerate it.
You will be able to shower or bathe but should keep the area clean and dry otherwise.
The area around the incision can be itchy. You can use lotions or creams to help relieve the itching.
It is important to increase your activity level each day as long as you feel capable and aren’t in pain.
Make sure to speak with your doctor about when you’ll be released to drive. Do not drive when taking pain medication.
Avoid lifting anything heavier than 10 pounds for four weeks after surgery.
Avoid any vigorous exercise for four weeks after surgery
You should be able to go back to work between three and six weeks afterward.
 However, if the ovaries remain then you will continue to experience some hormonal changes to your body, including bloating and other symptoms that were normal for you while menstruating. You might even experience light vaginal bleeding for about four to six weeks after surgery.If the ovaries were also removed you’ll experience more sudden symptoms of menopause. You experience hot flashes, emotional ups and downs, vaginal dryness, irritability, increased number of headaches or insomnia. Your physician may prescribe hormone replacement therapy initially to help your body ease into menopause more naturally as it would have if your ovaries had been left intact., A hysterectomy will not affect your ability to enjoy sex. Your sexual desire and drive should not change unless the ovaries are also removed, which will put your body into menopause right away. Removing the ovaries will decrease sexual drive and increase vaginal dryness.Even though a hysterectomy should not affect a woman’s sex drive, some women find that the emotional aspects of undergoing a hysterectomy have an effect on sexual desire and drive.
Your physician will advise you to abstain from sexual intercourse, using tampons, or douching for four to six weeks after surgery or until you have fully healed.
 The emotional effects of this surgery will vary from woman to woman. You may feel freer and no longer worry about an unplanned pregnancy, or you may grieve the permanent loss of your period and ability to bear children.Both of these responses are normal.


If feelings of sadness continue for longer than two weeks after surgery, talk with your surgeon or primary care physician.
 Some women also discover that they gain weight after a hysterectomy. Along with this, you may have more trouble sleeping and be more irritable after the surgery. However, with good nutrition, exercise and stress reduction techniques you can often alleviate these symptoms.