 People are living a worldly lifestyle, suiting their own dreams, goals, and desires. Some people also have severe depression, which makes their lives very dark and desperate, but if you are humble and cry out to Jesus, and repent, (which means to turn away from your sins in your heart fully) then he will hear you, speak to you, and help you like he did for me. But you have to put Jesus first in your life, and seek a relationship with him, then you will come to know his voice. You need to be willing to open your heart to the love of Christ.;
, Cry out to him, he will hear you, and answer you if you mean it! Ask Jesus to save you and forgive you of your sins, and wash you whiter than snow, however you must leave all your sins. In prayer to Jesus, you must repent of your ways, and decide to put Jesus first. Jesus will give you peace, a deep peace, and instantly the depression and the darkness will simply disappear, as it did for me.
 Jesus will talk to you, when you draw near to Him. He will show you how you need to abide with him, lay your faith in him, and leave your way. He will show you that to be serious, one has to lay aside their own way, and take up their cross and follow him! He will show you that no sin enters the kingdom of heaven, and that only if we repent and come to him for a personal relationship, which is true faith, can we enter the narrow gate to life!

, Jesus will let you know that he forgives all sins in the past, and if we make mistakes, he forgives them also IF we repent and stop doing them, however we must not go and live in sin again, or we will be lost if we don't repent, and thus end up in Hell if we die in our sins!
, Many people have gone to hell, because they left it too late to repent and get to know him. Many don't want to have a relationship with him, because many people would rather continue living the way of this world, or being religious by studying the Bible and basing a doctrine on certain verses, yet not seeking him for real in prayer and commitment, as Jesus said in John 5:39. You need to seek him like you would a real person, because Jesus is alive and risen from the dead, is in heaven as King, and can hear and speak to us. He will soon return for those who accept him as their King and Saviour, and are faithful. Read Jesus's words in the Bible and obey them, and by your faith, you will be justified, and he will add your name in the Book of Life which is in heaven.
 For God will give you this gift to give you power from heaven to do his will on earth, and to lead you. The most common sign of this gift is to begin speaking in other tongues that the Holy Spirit will give you, among other gifts. Then you can pray in other tongues. This prayer is very powerful, for it is the Spirit of God praying through you. As it is said, "Today is the day of Salvation."

