 Making a pair of lace up ballet flats is an easy do it yourself project, but you will need some special materials, such as a pair of ballet flats. Keep in mind that you can choose any color and style of ballet flats that you like. For example, if you want a pair with pointed toes, then look for a pair of pointed toe flats. If you want a pair with polka dots, then look for some polka dot ballet flats. Before you get started, you will need:a pair of ballet flats in the style and color of your choice
leather or faux leather fabric (in a color that matches the ballet flats)
scissors
ruler
fabric glue
10 binder clips
leather cord (in a color that matches the ballet flats);
, Use your ruler to measure out 10 strips of your leather or faux leather measuring 1 centimeter (0.39 in) by 3cm each. You can use a marker or pen to mark on the back side of the material. Then, cut out the strips.








Keep in mind that leather will not fray, so you do not need to worry about the raw edges.If you are using leather, then make sure that the leather you use is thin enough to bend into loops. Also keep in mind that leather thickness is measured in ounces. For best results, choose a piece of leather that is no more than 3oz. thick., Next, fold over one of the strips so that the two short ends are lined up and the leather forms a loop. Apply some fabric glue between the two ends, but make sure to leave enough space for the cord or ribbon to pass through. Then, clamp a binder clip over the ends of the leather to help the ends bond tightly.








Follow the same process for the rest of your leather strips. When you are done, you should have 10 loops.
Let the glue dry completely. Since you do not need a lot of glue to secure each of the loops, they should be dry in about an hour. However, you may want to leave the loops for a few hours to ensure that they are totally dry.
If you want, you could even make loops out of a special ribbon or out of some colorful shoelaces. Some people have even skipped the loop step altogether and used a leather hole punch to punch holes in the ballet flats., After the loops have dried, you will need to glue them onto the inside of your ballet flats. Apply a generous dab of fabric glue to the inside of the shoe and clamp each of the loops onto the shoe with a binder clip.








Start by gluing one loop to the inside of one of the ballet flats. Position the loop so that it is centered near the toes.
Attach your next two loops slightly higher up on the inside of the shoe so that they are opposite each other, but still somewhat near to the toes.
Then, attach your final two loops for the first shoe. These loops should be positioned so that they will be just in front of the ankle, similar to how laces are placed on sneakers.
Attach the loops in the same places for your other shoe. Use the position of your loops on the first shoe as a guide to help you position the loops on the second shoe.
Allow the glue to dry completely on both shoes. Leave them to dry overnight if possible.
 Take your leather cord or ribbon and cut it in half so that you have two pieces of the same length. After the glue has dried, start threading your leather cord or ribbon through the loops.








Begin with the loop near the toes and make sure that there is an equal amount of cord or ribbon on both sides.
Then, thread the cord or ribbon through the next two loops.
Criss-cross the cord or ribbon and then thread the cord or ribbon through the final two loops.
Repeat the same threading process with the other pair.
You will have enough excess cord or ribbon to wrap the pieces around your ankles a couple of times. Then, tie the cord or ribbon in a bow to secure them.
 Adding a back flap is optional, but the result is a slightly more dramatic, intricate shoe. If you want to amp up the drama of your ballet flats, then you will need a few extra items. You will need:template for the back flapanother piece of leather or faux leather
a permanent marker in the same color as your leather.
 Cut out the paper template and then use it to trace the shape onto your leather or faux leather. You will need to have two of these flaps, so trace the design twice. Then, cut out the shapes.








The cut edges of leather will not fray, so you do not need to hem the sides.If you are using a non-leather material, then you may want to check to see if the edges fray when you cut them. If they do fray, then you will also need to fold over the sides and glue them. If the edges fray, then fold over the sides and glue them before you create the loop in the top if the flap.
 The top part of the flap is a little wider than the bottom part. You will need to create a loop at the top of the flap so that you can thread your leather cord or ribbon through this space.








Fold the top part of one of the leather flaps and apply a generous amount of fabric glue to the flap. Make sure that you are leaving a wide enough space for the cord or ribbon to pass through.
Secure each of the flap sides with a binder clip. Do not use pins to hold the leather in place. Pins will leave permanent holes in your leather.Let the glue dry completely. It might take a few hours for your glue to dry, depending on how much glue you apply. You can let it dry overnight if you want to be totally sure that it is dry.
Repeat the same process for the other flap.
 The sides of the leather piece will likely be much lighter than the front side of the leather. To blend the colors, you can color in the sides of the leather with a matching permanent marker.








For example, if the leather you are using is dyed black, then the side edges may look tan. You can use a black permanent marker to color over the tan edges.
 Next, you will need to secure the flaps to the heels of your shoes. Apply fabric glue to the lower part of the flaps and press the flaps onto the heels of your shoes.








Allow the glue to dry completely before you do anything else. Since this part cannot be clamped down and you are gluing over a larger area, you may want to let the glue dry overnight or even for 24 hours.
 After the flaps have dried, take the end of one piece of cord or ribbon and start to thread it through one side of the flap until it comes out on the other side. Then pull the rest of the cord or ribbon through.








Thread the other piece of cord or ribbon through the opposite end of the flap loop.
After you have pulled the cord or ribbon through both sides, you should still be able to wrap the cord or ribbon around your ankles a few times. The cord or ribbon will just be higher up than it would be without the flaps. Tie the ends in a bow to secure them.

