 Apply a small, quarter-sized amount of shampoo to your scalp and massage vigorously with your fingertips. Then, work the lather through your hair and rinse. Rinse hair thoroughly so no shampoo is left behind. Washing your hair should take about five minutes.;
, Even though greasy hair looks and feels dirty, washing your hair every day will make your hair more greasy because shampoo strips hair of its nutrients and natural oils, causing your scalp to produce even more oil.Wash your hair every 2-3 days at the very most. This gives your hair enough time to replace the natural oils, so you're not producing an excess.
 In addition to not shampooing every day, use a gentle cleansing shampoo. Shampoos that are aggressive tend to irritate hair follicles, causing the scalp to produce more oil. Also, switch shampoos once every week to avoid buildup.


Shampoos with salicylic acid, selenium sulfide, or ketoconazole are good for greasy hair.
Salicylic acid helps reduce oil on the scalp.
Keep 2-3 different shampoos in the shower so you can easily switch back and forth.
 Oily hair does not need to be conditioned often. Condition every other time you wash or just once a week. Also, only use conditioner on the tips of your hair instead of the roots, where grease gathers more easily., The best dry shampoos for greasy hair come in a powder form. Try not to use liquid dry shampoos. Massage the dry shampoo powder in your hair and on your scalp between washes to soak up grease and leave hair smelling fresh, but don’t use them more than once a day.
 It can be difficult to resist washing your hair after working out, but when your hair is wet with sweat, you do not need to wash it to feel clean again. You can use a spray bottle to wet your hair and blow-dry it instead of washing.
 Many hair products have silicone and oils in them, which causes hair to be heavy and greasy.Try using less hair styling products, and if you do need to use hair products, avoid ones with silicone or oils., After one month, your hair should be less greasy from adjusting your shampooing methods. If changing your habits does not help at all, try seeing a dermatologist, who will most likely prescribe you shampoo or medication to reduce oil.

