 Though eating healthy and exercising won’t cure the problem, it will help get rid of any fat that is not caused by the disorder.Maintaining a healthy diet and exercising may also help reduce inflammation.
It is important to understand that this disorder is not a result of being obese, and though you may be doing everything right in terms of diet and exercise, you won’t be able to cure the disorder through diet and exercise.;
, This is a fairly straightforward treatment which involves wearing a garment designed to compress the affected area for several hours each day. You will need to discuss what garment is appropriate for your needs with a doctor or therapist.It is believed that wearing compression garments encourages blood flow while also providing support. Additionally, the compression encourages the fluid to move out of the area and drain properly.
If you are experiencing pain because of your lipedema, this treatment option may not be a good option for you.
 MLD is a type of gentle massage that is meant to encourage the flow of the lymphatic fluids in the body. Usually, the massage will be given by a trained professional, and combined with another type of therapy, such as compression therapy.This treatment may also be effective in reducing pain.
 This type of therapy involves combining several non-surgical techniques including use of compression wear, manual lymphatic drainage, exercises meant to help remove lymph from the swollen areas, and skin care to help prevent infections.This type of treatment usually involves two phases. The first phase is an active phase which involves two to 12 weeks of one-hour treatment sessions. These sessions are usually limited to four or five days each week. The second phase is called the maintenance phase and involves giving self-massage to the affected areas, completing exercises, and wearing compression wear or bandages day and night.
 In some severe cases, and if other treatment methods have not helped, you doctor may suggest liposuction as a way to treat the disorder. This is a surgical method, and thus comes with all of the risks.


There are three varieties of liposuction: the dry technique, Water Assisted Liposuction (WAL), and Tumescent Liposuction (TLA). You should discuss which method is right for you.
Generally, liposuction for lipedema patients is more commonly used in European countries than in the USA. Thus, if you live in the US, it may be a bit more challenging to find a surgeon experienced in this method of treatment.
 Unfortunately for many, lipedema is not only disfiguring, it is also painful. The fat on the legs, hips, and buttocks is painful, sensitive to the touch, and bruises quite easily. This can make living a normal life difficult, and only contributes further to the emotional effects of the disorder. If you experience pain with your lipedema, be sure that your doctor knows this. Ask the doctor how you can manage the pain. Some doctors may prescribe pain medications, while others may refer you to a specialist who can teach you various pain management techniques.


Many of the therapies discussed in this article (such as MLD and CDT) work not only to help reduce the swelling but also to reduce pain as much as possible.Being overweight (in addition to lipedema) can contribute further to the pain caused by lipedema. This is why it is especially important to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Many lipedema patients report that swimming offers an excellent way to exercise because it is very low-impact and does not exacerbate the pain.
Other exercises that may offer a good way to reduce stress and improve blood flow include: yoga, pilates, walking, stretching, and bouncing on a trampoline. Try out these exercises to see which (if any) are painful, and which you enjoy most.

