 Take a wide mouth canning jar and place two tablespoons of salad dressing in the bottom. Next add hard vegetables like cucumbers, beets, carrots, or peppers. Then add a protein like beans, grilled chicken, or tofu. Top your protein with some nuts or seeds, and then place your salad greens on top. Screw on a lid and enjoy on the go!You can store Mason jar salads in the refrigerator for 4 days.
Try making several salads as part of your weekend meal prep and enjoy throughout the week.
If you’re making salads ahead of time, wait until the day you plan on eating the salad to add the protein and the dressing. You can place the protein directly on top of the greens.
 You can quickly make a wrap or sandwich that is healthy and portable. Start with a whole grain wrap or bread as your base. Then add a lean protein like tuna or turkey. Top with lettuce, tomato, carrots, and/or cucumber. Add low-fat mayonnaise and/or mustard and enjoy!


Make your wrap or sandwich portable by wrapping it in plastic or foil.
If you’re packing a sandwich to go, you can wait to add the mayonnaise or mustard. Instead, pack it separately in a small plastic container or plastic bag.
 An easy grab and go choice is a make-ahead salad that includes grains, vegetables, and protein. Try cooking one cup of quinoa and letting it cool. Then chop one tomato, one green pepper, four green onions, two cloves of garlic, and a handful of cilantro. Mix the vegetables with the quinoa. Add one can of drained black beans. Top the salad with four tablespoons of olive oil and three tablespoons of balsamic vinegar.Grain based salads are easy to make in large quantities. You can prepare them on the weekend for easy lunches all week long. Choose a different grain-based salad each week and try a 4-week rotation to mix up your lunch routine.
 Whole grain pasta can be a great base for a lunch on the go. Try combining whole-wheat penne with chopped zucchini, red peppers, cucumber, and feta cheese. Top it off with balsamic vinegar and olive oil or some low-fat bottled salad dressing, like Greek or Italian.

