 It is recommended that you use an 8” diameter by 24” long stovepipe. Along with the stovepipe you will need to purchase a slender galvanized pole/pipe (.5” in diameter and 7 feet long), hardware cloth, 7” long hanger iron straps, and two No. 8 B32 by ¾” machine screws and nuts.You can purchase these materials from your local hardware or home improvement store. Find the stovepipe in the plumbing section.
Purchase a tin snips tool to cut the hardware wire if you do not have a pair.
 Using the tin snips, cut a circle in the hardware cloth that is one inch bigger than the diameter of the stovepipe. Then, cut a small hole in the middle of the hardware cloth circle.The size of the hole should be the size of the mounting pole’s diameter. For example, if your mounting pole is .5” in diameter, then cut a .5” hole in the middle of the hardware cloth.
 Bend the edges down one inch and fit them inside the stovepipe. Slide the cloth an inch down the stovepipe, or until the cloth is fitted tightly inside it. Make sure the fit is nice and tight. Then, take your tin snips and cut three tabs in the top of the stovepipe. Bend these tabs inward and over the top of the hardware cloth., Using the machine screws and nuts, bolt the hanger strips together and securely around the center of the pole. Bolt them no more than a foot from the top of the pole—the top of the baffle needs to be at least four feet off the ground. Then, bend the edges outward. These edges will support the stovepipe baffle.Place duct tape or a radiator hose clamp around the pole and underneath the hanger straps to hold them in place better.
 Do this once the hanger claps are secure. Slip it over the pole until it rests on top of the hanger clips. To discourage predators, the baffle should wobble a little bit.When mounting the nesting box on the pole, the bottom of the box should be only three to four inches away from the top of the stovepipe baffle. This will encourage snakes to go inside of the baffle and get stopped instead of climbing over the outside of the baffle.