 If you are talking to your family and they continue to bring up the fact that they’d very much like you to visit them during your next vacation, you might give in to their pressure. To keep this from happening, take a break from spending time with family members who do not respect your decision to not visit family on vacation.For instance, if you and your father are talking on the phone and he says, “It would be great if you’d visit me during your upcoming vacation,” reply simply, “Thank you, but I’ve decided to go elsewhere for my vacation.”
If he continues to pressure you, say, “It was nice seeing you, but I’ll be heading home now.”

, You may be tempted to feel guilty or like you've done something wrong by not spending your vacation visiting family, but try to focus on the fact that you made the decision that was best for you, even though it was hard. Remind yourself that you are not responsible for the reactions of others — if you family chooses to take offense to your decision, that is a shame, but it's not your fault.

Family or not, no one should be making you feel guilty for the choices you make — especially a trivial one such as where you want to spend your hard-earned vacation time.
 Willpower is like a muscle. If you exercise it frequently, your ability to stick to your decisions and remain strong in the face of difficulty will increase. If you’re easily swayed by the desires and commands of others, you will have a hard time being resolute in your choice to not visit your family on vacation.To get in the habit of saying “No” and sticking to it, make more difficult decisions and follow through on them.
For instance, if you are dieting, you might decide, “I am not going to have dessert because it will not help me meet my dieting goals.” Follow through on this decision and deny yourself dessert.
 You’ll have better luck sticking to your decision to not visit your family on vacation if you move toward that goal one step at a time. For instance, you can imagine your vacation as a process consisting of steps like making hotel reservations, booking a flight, deciding what sights to see, packing your bag, heading to the airport, and boarding your flight.As you accomplish each step along the way, you’ll begin to see that your decision to not visit family on vacation is much closer to becoming a reality.
 Once you’ve decided not to visit your family, stick to your decision. If, for instance, your parents call you frequently to try and change your mind — or if your in-laws call trying to pressure your partner to change their mind — be strong. Say simply, “No, we’ve decided that we will not have enough time during our vacation to visit.”If they are calling to the point of extreme, let the call go to voicemail. Then you can choose a time to call them back when you feel confident and ready to talk.
Remember that you don't have to tell your extended family that you are even taking a vacation. You don not need to feel obligated to tell them about your decisions.
Don’t let yourself feel guilty for doing what you want. Remember, it’s your life.
 If the conflict about not visiting your family vacation is hanging heavy on your shoulders, you might find it hard to think about anything else. But if you open your imagination, you’ll find that you can use it to strengthen your will and stick to your decision.Try imagining that your family supports your decision not to visit them during your vacation. These thoughts will help you relax and make it easier to remain resolute in the face of the conflict.
You might find other ways to distract yourself from the conflict, too. For instance, you might curl up on the couch with a good book or view a film at your local movie theatre.

