 If you are dehydrated, your epidermis (the outer layer of your skin) dries out along with the rest of you. As a result, your skin will lose its smoothness and bounce. If you already drink enough water, though, extra won’t really help your skin.Make sure you drink at least eight 8-oz glasses (2 liters) each day.;
, More and more, dermatologists are emphasizing the connection between what you eat and how your skin looks — from acne and greasiness to fine lines and wrinkles. This isn’t the old-fashioned “chocolate causes acne” warning, though — in fact, dark chocolate contains many of the antioxidants that are at the center of a skin-friendly diet. The latest research focuses on avoiding processed foods and adding in more natural ones.Try a Mediterranean diet, which focuses on fresh fruits and vegetables, Omega-3 rich fish, olive oil, and whole grains. In addition to heart-healthy compounds and antioxidants galore, this diet has even been shown to protect against skin cancer.Sources of Omega-3 fatty acids include vegetable oils such as flaxseed, canola,and soybean oils. These are good oils to cook with.Some people argue that drinking apple cider vinegar can reduce acne by balancing your pH level. If you’re up for it, try a tablespoon each day.
Limit your intake of salt, which can cause puffiness.
Be aware of foods that are high in iodine, like shrimp, crab, and lobster. A buildup of iodine can lead to acne, so dermatologists recommend eating these foods only a few times a month.
Try giving up dairy. There is no consensus on whether dairy causes acne, but some people have had success with eliminating it from their diets.Some doctors trace this possible connection to the hormones found in dairy products, with skim milk seeming to be the worst culprit.Keep in mind that dairy can show up in unexpected places, including many processed foods, where it masquerades as dairy protein.
Avoid foods that are high on the glycemic index, a measure of how much something spikes your blood sugar. These include things like white bread, pasta, and sweets, as well as sugary drinks like soda and juice.
Beware of added sugar. You know it’s in candy bars, but would you expect it to be in pasta sauce? Read labels carefully — it’s everywhere. There are over 50 different names for added sugar that might appear on a label (and there may be more than one in a product), including high fructose corn syrup, dextrose, fructose, fruit juice, molasses, sucrose, and rice syrup.

Limit your consumption of alcohol. Alcohol dehydrates you, emphasizing the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles and possibly setting off a rosacea outbreak.
 When your body experiences stress, it releases the hormone cortisol, which can lead to breakouts. Stress can also trigger an outbreak of hives, along with many autoimmune disorders. All told, it can affect acne, eczema, rosacea, and more, so do your absolute best to keep it at a minimum.In a study, acne and psychological stress levels were evaluated, suggesting that there was a significant correlation between stress and acne, especially males. The correlation may or may not be due to an increase in sebum secretion., Getting sweaty helps to increase blood flow, making the process of carrying materials to and from cells more efficient. By exercising, you’ll be helping your blood carry waste—including skin-damaging free radicals—away from your cells.As a bonus, it is also one of the best ways to reduce stress., While the efficacy of vitamins in general is hotly debated, some experts recommend taking supplements to improve your skin. While multivitamins can help fill in any nutritional gaps, Vitamin A, Vitamin D, Omega-3s, and Biotin are among the supplements sometimes recommended for specific skin problems.