 OSHA is a federal agency charged with ensuring workers have safe and healthful working conditions and that they are not subject to any extraneous risks of harm while on the job.
 Before you go to OSHA, alert a manager or supervisor to the hazard that is impacting health or safety in your workplace. They can’t fix the problem if they’re not aware of it.
 Almost all employers are covered either by OSHA or by an OSHA-approved state program. OSHA requires certain information to accompany your complaint and request.Reviewing the complaint form can help you figure out what information you’ll need to compile to make your complaint.
Apart from identifying information about yourself and your employer, OSHA would like to know how many employees work there and are exposed to the hazard, when they are exposed, and for how long, what kind of work they’re doing, and how long the hazard has existed.
Additionally, if you have any knowledge about whether anyone has been injured as a result of the hazard and whether anything has been done to correct it in the past, this would also be helpful for OSHA. However, you don’t have to know all of this information to file a complaint.
You should include any and all information that you think might be helpful, as long as it is true and accurate to the best of your knowledge. Don’t worry about not knowing the rules or regulations, or knowing which health or safety standard has been violated., OSHA allows you to file a complaint online, over the telephone, or using mail or fax. You can use whichever method is easiest for you.


However, if there is an emergency or the situation is life-threatening, you should call 1-800-321-OSHA for an immediate response.Submit your complaint form to your local or regional OSHA office.
Written complaints that you sign and submit to your nearest OSHA office are most likely to result in onsite inspection and further action., If you were fired, demoted, transferred, or otherwise discriminated against because you requested an inspection or demanded your employer comply with your rights under the OSH Act, you can file a discrimination complaint with OSHA as well.
 When the OSHA inspector arrives at your workplace, you have the right to accompany her on her inspection and meet with her privately.


You also have the right to sit in on any meetings that are held between the OSHA inspector and your manager or other employer representative.
If you aren’t represented by a union, the OSHA inspector also is required to talk to other employees about the subject matter of your complaint.
If the inspector finds a violation of OSHA standards, she can order the problem fixed by a certain date and charge fines to the employer. You and other employees have the right to challenge the deadline for resolution of the problem.
If your employer appeals the inspector’s decision, you have the right to be involved in the appeals process. However, you must notify OSHA in advance that you want to be involved.