 Remember that the measurement to making steamed rice is "one part rice, two parts liquid". So, if you use a cup of dried white rice you should use two cups of liquid. One cup of dried rice is plenty to serve two people. If you're serving more people than that you should increase the amount of rice and water accordingly. Make sure the pan is big enough to accommodate the amount of rice and liquid you are using.


While the style of pan you use does not matter too much, you will want to use one which has a tight-fitting lid.;
, Put a tablespoon of olive, peanut, or other oil into the pan. Add in more if you are making a large amount of rice.
 Turn the burner on medium and heat the oil slightly, then add your rice to the pan. Stir it to make sure all the rice is well coated with oil. At this point, the rice will have a translucent look to it.


Cook or fry the rice in the oil just a bit longer if you want a drier, crispier rice.
 After a minute or so it will turn from translucent to a hard white color.
 Add your water and give it a slight stir to make sure all the rice is in the water. Then stir occasionally until the water comes to a boil.
 Turn the heat down extra low when the rice comes to a boil. The dial should go as low as you can go on a gas burner and then put a lid on the rice.
 Let it simmer, without removing the lid, for 15-20 minutes. Any longer than this and you're risking burning the bottom of the rice. Make sure you don't remove the lid! This point is very important because this is the "steaming" step.
 Turn the burner off completely after simmering. Set the pan aside with the lid on. It can sit like this until you are ready to use it, but let it continue to steam for at least 30 minutes.
 Enjoy your steamed rice!

, A rice cooker will always make a superior cooked rice. Invest in one if you plan on eating rice often. It will make your life much easier.
 Different rices work better in different dishes. Depending on what you want to use the rice for, you might want to change which rice you buy. Different rices will be drier or stickier, have different flavors, or have more or fewer nutrients.


For example, basmati makes a dry final product, but jasmine will be a lot stickier. This is because of starch content.
 Wash rice before you cook it, if you don't want it to be too sticky. This will remove some of the starch and improve the final texture.
 Soaking your rice in warm water before you cook it will greatly improve the texture of the final product. Cover the rice in warm water and allow it to soak.
 Long grain rices need about 1 1/2 cups of water to every cup of rice. Brown rice will need at least 2 cups of water and likely more, but short grained white rice will need less than the standard to get it perfect the first time. You should always adjust the water once you see how a new rice cooks up.
 Before you close up the lid for your rice to steam, add in some spices to give it a little flavor, and then give it a stir. Good spice options include a slight sprinkling of celery salt, garlic powder, curry powder, or furikake.

