 Licking your lips does temporarily add moisture, but at a cost. Your saliva will irritate your lips while constant licking will also remove the natural oils that protect them and hold in moisture., The more you breathe through your mouth, the drier your lips will become.This means that if you have a cold as well as chapped lips, a decongestant can do wonders for both.
 Instead, soften them with emollient oils such as coconut oil or almond oil and let them fall off naturally. Pulling them off too early will expose raw, painful skin., All of the above can further irritate your already damaged lips. In particular, be sure to avoid:Citrus like grapefruit or orange juice
Popcorn or nuts
Hot wings or salsa

, Both can cause allergic reactions that aggravate already irritated skin. Check here for a list of SLS-free toothpastes., Sun and wind are the two main causes of chapped lips. If your lips are damaged, more sunshine will only make them worse, especially since sunscreen is not recommended for chapped lips, as it may irritate them., Windy, dry weather can quickly dry out and crack your lips. You’ll want to stay indoors as much as possible to give your lips a chance to heal.
 These are the two main treatments suggested by the National Institute of Health.Beeswax contains propolis, which is an anti-inflammatory that aids in healing.Petroleum jelly is an emollient that moisturizes and protects lips.
 Cucumber has been shown to be a very effective moisturizer due to the presence of vitamin B-5,and it also soothes skin and reduces inflammation.Alternately, you can apply cucumber juice to your lips several times a day., Both are emollients that keep skin moist and flexible. Both also have anti-inflammatory properties.In addition, coconut promotes healing, reduces the risk of infection, and reduces pain, making it a great treatment for chapped lips.Other oils used to treat chapped lips are olive oil, jojoba oil, canola, and mustard oil. All have moisturizing and protective properties though their healing properties are not as pronounced as almond and coconut oil.
 Both have emollient and anti-inflammatory properties. They will trap moisture and protect your lips. Cocoa and shea butter also contain antioxidants that will help prevent further damage to your lips from the sun., The fat content of milk cream makes it effective at moisturizing your lips though it does not have the same anti-inflammatory and healing properties as some oils and kinds of butter. Still, if you don’t have the right oils or butter to hand, it can help. Let it sit on your lips for ten minutes, then wash it off with lukewarm water.
 You can purchase aloe vera at a store, or purchase an aloe vera plant, break off a leaf, and squeeze some out. Aloe vera is an anti-inflammatory that also promotes skin healing.However, some doctors feel that it can irritate lips that are very cracked, so use it with caution.



Some beauty sites suggest applying vitamin E oil directly to your lips, but some doctors warn that vitamin E can irritate chapped lips., Keeping your room moist will help to prevent your lips from drying out any further. This is especially important when your air conditioning and heat are running a lot, as both may dry out the air in the room where you sleep., Dehydration is one of the main causes of chapped lips. This is particularly true in the winter when many people drink less water. If your lips are chapped, try to drink at least ten 8-oz cups of fluid a day to stay hydrated., Alternately, you can rub a moisturizing and protective oil on your lips before applying lip stick.Or try a lip balm that contains an SPF of at least 15.
 The wind can cause chapped lips, and it can aggravate already chapped lips by stripping them of moisture. Putting a scarf over you mouth when outside gives your lips a chance to heal.