 If it is not possible to be alone in your surroundings then leave the area and find a quiet place undisturbed by other organisms. Such places include the forest, your own room, or a quiet outdoor park.
 (Cellphone, etc.) You may wish to keep an iPod or other music playing device with you in order to block out noise if you cannot find a quiet enough area.
 Whether you have chosen to be alone in order to have time to yourself to think or to finish reading a novel, this is the perfect time to get it done.
 Learning how to be independent is a skill. Independence means that you don't have to rely on other people for help. Independence means that you determine the outcome of your actions, not anyone else. Once you think of the benefits of independence rather than its disadvantages, you'll find yourself a lot happier.


If you need a little inspiration, think of these quotes about independence that might help you adjust to being alone:

"I am no bird; and no net ensnares me: I am a free human being with an independent will." - Charlotte Brontë, Jane Eyre


"Freedom (n.): To ask nothing. To expect nothing. To depend on nothing." - Ayn Rand, The Fountainhead


"To find yourself, think for yourself." - Socrates



, Put your heart and soul into whatever you are doing. That way, you won't think about being alone — you'll distract yourself from being distracted. Humans are naturally social creatures: we crave attention from other people, and recognition from our peers. If you lose yourself in your activity, you'll be a lot less likely to care about that stuff.
 As much as you might think that being alone is all you'll ever need, it's probably not healthy. In fact, being with other people from time to time will help you be alone.


Think of it like this: We need to recharge certain batteries. When we're tired, we need to sleep. When we're hungry, we need to eat. When we're lonely, we need to be around other people. Being around other people will help you "recharge your battery," hopefully enough so that you'll feel energized by and excited about the idea of being alone again.

