 Obviously it's allowed to tell about your own merits, but it's a fine line between telling and bragging. The latter is generally considered rude. Be especially careful when talking about money. When telling about your merits, try to be subtle, and don't exaggerate. However, it's perfectly OK to brag about others.;
, Norwegian traffic runs much more passively than in most other countries, even in Europe. Drivers are expected to stop at pedestrian crossings, and it is rude, dangerous and illegal not to. Always drive carefully, keep a good distance to the car in front, and be very cautious when passing by pedestrians. When overtaking bicycles, be sure you have at least two meters between you and the bike. Traffic fines are high, especially offenses for speeding and ignoring red lights (about 800 USD). Bribery of policemen is unheard of. The legal blood alcohol limit, is 0,02 percent.
 It's considered extremely rude, and could generate dangerous situations.
 Do not be afraid of bringing up the subject, but be prepared for a discussion if you strongly advocate a right-wing political opinion. (even that of the Republican party in the US.)

, Norwegians do. It is rare for people to dress up on regular week days, unless the occasion is special. This applies especially to men. Some businesses (like law firms) obviously have a dress code, but it is relatively rare in most others. This includes most offices. You will come a long way with a nice, regular sweater or t-shirt. Jeans will work in almost every situation.
 Norwegian news coverage includes large parts of the world, so don't be surprised if Norwegians have strong opinions on foreign countries politics. This applies especially to the US, and to a lesser degree the UK and other countries in Europe and Asia.
 Norwegians emphasize egalitarian principles heavily. Never treat people differently based on wealth or other factors. Be equally polite towards women as you would towards men, as well as children.
 Except for when doing business, it is perfectly OK to address people by first name only, even if you don't know them very well, especially if the circumstance is informal. It's unnecessary using titles such as Herr or Fru (Mr and Mrs).
 Punctuality is extremely important. If doing business, you should be minimum 5 minutes early.
 Do not invade people's personal space. The personal space in Norway is generally larger than most other places. Do not stand too close to others, even when queuing. A stretched arm's length is generally a good distance. Don't queue jump unless you politely ask first. Never express your own opinion unless the same opinion has already been expressed by the majority in the room, at least not until you get the hang of the social crowd. Norwegians tend to shy away from people who express opinions they disagree with.
 Keep in mind that Norwegians tend to be reserved and relatively introverted. This is not a sign of hostility, it's just the common practice. (When on a bus, most people would elect to sit down at an empty seat, rather than beside someone else.) Be prepared to take the initiative when creating relations, but be polite and discrete.
 It could be considered rude to talk excessively loud, especially in public. There are no need to whisper, just keep an eye on your volume if you tend to speak very loudly.
 In the summer time, many will dress very lightly. This is perfectly accepted, and not an invitation for men to sexually harass them. If you are from Europe or the US, you shouldn't experience any surprises., Of course, it's perfectly OK if you dress conservatively.
 Most Norwegians speak English exceptionally well, especially people in their 40's or younger. Some even speak a few words German. You might encounter difficulties if you want to talk to older people, though.
 While some travel guides advocates tipping, this is never an obligation in Norway. While some might do it if they have encountered extraordinary service, some never do. Very few Norwegian tip for just adequate service. Waiters at restaurants are paid relatively well, so there is no need. While some people accept that the taxi driver keeps the change, he is obliged to give you exact change back.
 In Norway, cash is not king. Many Norwegians pay exclusively with Debit or Credit Cards, and some enterprises even discourage paying by cash. ATMs are widespread. However, as a traveler, you are probably better off paying with cash anyway, as the fees for using your card abroad could be high.
 In Norway, religion is a personal matter. Therefore, it is a touchy subject. It is perfectly OK to discuss it on a general basis, but unless talking with a close friend, it is probably best to avoid discussing it on a personal level. Nevertheless, if you are going to bring the subject up anyway, be advised to do so discretely and be cautious advocating any strong or fundamentalist opinions. Many people would consider it rude to plainly ask them whether they consider themselves members of a particular religion. Never ever assume anything about someone's beliefs.

