 Knowing some of the most common symptoms of SAD will help you to recognize the disorder. People who suffer from SAD have an excessive fear of situations in which they may have to face strangers or be observed and examined by others. These situations include public speaking, presentations, meeting new people, and having social interactions. Someone who has SAD might respond to such a situation by:experiencing intense anxiety
avoiding the situation
exhibiting physical symptoms of anxiety, such as blushing, shaking, or vomiting;
, Everyone experiences anxiety sometimes. A new situation or situation involving public speaking, interaction or being observed by others might involve a little anxiety and fear, which is normal. This types of anxiety helps you prepare for the upcoming situation. The problem arises when this fear and anxiety is overwhelming, makes you unable to perform, is irrational, and/or forces you to avoid or escape the situation.Normal anxiety includes the following: apprehensiveness before a public appearance, speaking or performance; shyness or awkwardness when meeting strangers; or unease when beginning a new conversation or social interaction.
Social anxiety includes the following: extremely high anxiety and fear of failure, physical symptoms like sweating, trembling, and shortness of breath; negative thoughts regarding the performance; excessive and exaggerated feelings of fright and terror while facing new people; extreme anxiousness and a need to avoid them at any cost; and refusing a social gathering invitation because you are afraid you will be embarrassed or rejected., Some people are at a higher risk of developing SAD due to the experiences, genetics, and personality. If you have any of these risk factors, it does not mean that you will get SAD, but you have a higher risk for developing SAD. If you already have SAD, being aware of your risk factors may help you to understand what might have caused it.Bullying. Humiliation or childhood trauma such as being bullied can create social phobias and fears. Also, the feeling of not fitting in with peers may lead to social anxiety.

Hereditary factors. Growing up with a parent who showed signs of social phobia as well. Often when a caregiver struggles in social situation in creates an environment that avoids social events leading to limited development of social skills and avoidant behaviors of their children.

Shyness. Shyness is related to one’s personality and is not a disorder, but many people who have social anxiety are shy as well. But keep in mind that social anxiety is much more severe than “normal” shyness. People who are just shy do not suffer the way that people with social anxiety disorder do., Some mental health problems are associated with SAD and others may even be caused or intensified by SAD. It is important to be aware of the other mental health issues that can be confused with SAD or related to SAD.SAD and Panic Disorder. Panic disorders refers a person that has a physical reaction to anxiety that can often feel like a heart attack. SAD is different from Panic Disorder but both disorders can coexist. One of the reasons the two disorders get confused is because people with panic disorder often avoid social situations to prevent having a panic attack around people who might see and judge them. People with SAD avoid social situations due fear.SAD and Depression. Depression is a common coexisting diagnosis with SAD because people with SAD tend to limit their contact with other people. This creates a feeling of being alone and can cause or intensify depression.SAD and Substance Abuse. There are higher rates of alcoholism and other substance abuse among people with SAD. Around 20% of people with SAD suffer from alcohol abuse. This could be due to the anxiety reducing effects of alcohol and drugs in social situations.