 You may very well slip up during dry January. Many people end up indulging in one or two drinks or end up drinking with friends socially one night. Instead of seeing this slip up as a reason to quit altogether, see it as a small mistake and get back on track the next day.Remember, if you've been drinking a lot during December, limiting your drinking in January is an accomplishment. If you can go all of January drinking only once or twice, this is still something to be proud of. One mistake in dry January does not mean the month is shot.
 Alcohol is often a reward for people. You may have a drink at the end of a long day, for example. Many people combine dry January with other goals for the new year, but do not eliminate all your rewards at once. If you're too strict with yourself, this increases your likelihood of slipping up. Replace alcohol with other rewards instead of eliminating rewards altogether.You may find you save a lot of money not drinking. Use that money to indulge in another way. Order takeout on Friday night instead of spending it at the bar. Buy yourself a new outfit on Sunday afternoon instead of a glass or two of wine.
 While you can order non-alcoholic drinks at bars, it's easy to feel awkward or uncomfortable being the only one not drinking. You also may be under pressure to drink if a friend is, say, buying a round or buying shots. For the most part, try to avoid bars altogether during dry January. Only go to bars if it's an event you cannot avoid, like a good friend's birthday party., Going dry for a single month is unlikely to make long term changes to your health. Many people who go dry for the month of January end up returning to bad habits after the month has passed.Therefore, try to see dry January as a way to address and break bad alcohol habits. See it as a route to long term changes rather than a month-long break.


Think about how you feel not drinking. Pay attention to the benefits, like increased energy, reduced anxiety, extra income, and more free time.
Consider how you can cut back in February. You can plan to, say, only drink once a week or every other week as your New Years goal.

