 Preheat your mug by filling it with hot water, letting it sit, and pouring out the water. Drizzle the sides of the mug with 1 ounce of vanilla syrup.


You could also do a combination of vanilla and caramel syrup drizzled along the sides of the mug if you prefer a stronger caramel flavor.;
, Pour 3/4 cup (180 ml) milk into your small metal pitcher. If you like a very sweet caramel macchiato, consider adding caramel to the milk that you steam. Otherwise, the milk will be sweetened from the vanilla on the sides of your mug and from the caramel that you'll drizzle on the finished drink.

You'll steam more milk than you'll end up using. This allows you to create foam and easily steam the milk.
You can also use soy, almond, or hemp milk although they may steam differently than milk.
 Start with a clean portafilter and dose 18 to 21 grams of espresso grounds into the basket. Level the grounds using your finger. Set the portafilter on a clean surface and tamp down on the grounds. Make sure you're applying even pressure so the espresso remains completely level. Aim for 20 to 30 pounds of pressure, or enough to pack the espresso compactly.

Practice your dosing by dosing and checking the weight of the grounds on a digital scale. Continue to do this until you're regularly dosing between 18 to 21 grams for a double shot.
 Insert your filled portafilter into a clean grouphead on your espresso machine and immediately start pulling your shots. It will take a few seconds before the espresso begins dripping out of the machine. Let it keep extracting until it starts to turn blonde or yellow. A double shot of espresso should take 25 to 30 seconds to pull., While your shots are pulling, steam the milk in your small metal pitcher using the steam wand of the espresso machine. Heat your milk to 150 to 160 degrees. It may help to use a thermometer and stop steaming when it reaches 140. The milk will continue to heat even after you've removed the steam wand. To create plenty of foam for the macchiato, allow the tip of the steam wand to gently tap the surface of the milk so that it sucks in air. Tap the pitcher once you're done to break any large air bubbles.


Clean the steam wand with a clean wet cloth until no milk remains on the wand. Purge it by turning it briefly so that any liquid that was left in the wand is sprayed out.
 Pour the steamed milk into your preheated mug. Make sure that you include foam at the top of the drink. Take your espresso shots and pour them directly over the foam so they slowly sink down into the bottom of the drink. Don't stir the caramel latte macchiato.If you're having trouble pouring plenty of foam, use a long bar spoon to scoop the foam onto the top of the drink.
 Drizzle caramel syrup across the top of the foam so that you create a design. You can make swirls, diagonal lines, or the familiar crosshatch pattern.It may help to put the caramel syrup into a squirt bottle. This will allow you to easily create a caramel design.

