 If you have never had an algae problem in your swimming pool, there is no need for the algaecide.;
, Some algaecides are preventative and others are used to treat an algae problem. Once algae has grown in your swimming pool, only a treatment algaecide combined with shocking will kill the algae.


Copper-based algaecides use copper to treat algae growth, and are most effective against mustard and green types of algae. Copper algaecides will not cause foam in a swimming pool, which can be a problem when using “quat" algaecides. Although they are effective against many forms of algae, copper algaecides can cause stains on the surface of a swimming pool if the product is not used properly. Copper algaecides cannot be used in a swimming pool using a biguanide-based sanitizing system (such as Baquacil or SoftSwim).
The “quat" or “polyquat" algaecides are quaternary ammonium compounds (instead of a copper formula), which treat and prevent algae growth in a different way. These algaecides are safer to use than a copper based algaecide because they will not stain a swimming pool. If you have experienced any pool stains caused by metals in the past, you should use a quat or polyquat algaecide to treat your swimming pool. Although quats cannot cause staining, these algaecides may cause foaming if not used properly. Polyquat pool algaecides cannot cause staining or foaming, and are typically more expensive than the other forms of algaecides.
 If all chemical levels are properly balanced, cloudy pool water is caused by fine debris suspended in the swimming pool water. Dust or debris particles are sometimes too small for the pool filter to remove from the pool water, and may pass directly through the pool filter. A sand filter provides the least efficient filtering of pool water, and this problem is more likely to occur when using a sand pool filter. A pool clarifier chemical will group together very fine particles of debris into larger bunches, which can be more easily trapped by the pool filter. Most pool clarifier chemicals cannot be used in a swimming pool with a D.E. (diatomaceous earth) filter.

