 Graceful meaning delicate with her movements, as if floating in the air. Aurora is always graceful with her movements. When strolling in the forest with her animal friends, she walks with such poise and has perfect posture. When she picks some berries, her arms are fluid - she never does any harsh movements, like a ballerina. For you to become graceful, you first need to perfect your posture. Your shoulders should be slightly back and down, head held high and spine straight. Next you need to be more aware of your movements and practice been graceful. Lastly, you could go to dance classes or even gymnastics. This will help you become very graceful.;
, Kind means being friendly and sweet to others. Aurora is never rude to anyone. She makes friends really easily, and even if she wasn't blessed with this trait, she would still have no trouble making friends anyway! You can be kind by thinking more positive thoughts instead of negative about others. See the good in people and give genuine compliments. Smile more and be genuinely sweet.
 This means being nervous and not confident around strangers. Aurora shows this when Prince Philip startled her and even though an encounter like this was what she had only dreamed of, she reacted in a shy manner and tried to get away. You can be shy by acting nervous around new people. Speak with a soft and sweet tone of voice.
 Dreamy meaning often has head in the clouds and thinking of wonderful things such as meeting a prince. This is what Aurora was dreamy about anyway. She even had dreams about him she told her animal friends. You can be more dreamy by thinking about the perfect guy, a place you have always wanted to go or your dream job. Think of all the wonderful possibilities.
 Respectful means having admiration and treating with kindness. Aurora shows respect to her three guardians. When they ask her to do chores, she doesn't fuss and does exactly what they say. She respects them so much because they show her respect in return and love her dearly. It is all about returning the favor. For you to be more respectful, if your mum or dad are always doing housework and they ask you to help out occasionally, then just do it. Even better, offer to help out yourself and they will respect you back.
 Aurora is naturally a romantic. After the shyness fades when she first encounters Prince Phillip, she smiles sweetly at him, holds his hand and they dance, go wandering and then watch the sun set in the distance while she leans on his softly. When you have a boyfriend, be romantic by day dreaming more about him, look at him lovingly in the eyes, smile sweetly to him and gently kiss him.
 Aurora isn't the type of girl who would sit at home all day. She likes going into the woods to feel at peace and openly by dreamy, telling her animal friends her thoughts. She also loves singing, humming and dancing in the woods. It's almost like she becomes one with nature. You can do this by getting outdoors more and soaking in the beauty. Go for a walk in a forest or some woods and even sing and dance. Even pretend to talk to the animals.
 Aurora shows her emotions, them being shy, happy, sad, dreamy etc.
 When Aurora was told she was actually a princess, this news didn't seem to impact her so it didn't matter to her. But when she was told she couldn't see the man she fell in love with again, that caused her to lose it and run to her room and cry. This was something she cared deeply about. Be like this by just caring deeply for things important to you such as your family, a talent of yours, pets, etc.
 There are many things that Aurora does that are distinctly her. She uses hand gestures quite frequently such as cupping her hands together to her chest and softly putting her hand on her collar bone. Aurora has very distinct arched eyebrows which she is very expressive with. When showing emotion, her eyebrows are the main focus. She also waves by holding up her arm at about a 45 Degree angle in front of her and uses her wrist to wave. She does this with such grace. Another thing she does is smirk, such as when the guardians told her to go pick some berries (again) and she knew they were up to something. Start doing these things regularly and eventually, they will be natural to you!

