 Have you been wanting to learn how to mountain bike or cook an Italian meal? Perhaps you’d like to try your hand at poker or maybe you yearn to learn a new language. Regardless of what it is, jot down all of the things that interest you.


Realize that brainstorming isn't about judging ideas or forcing yourself to think in a certain way. Brainstorming is solely about creation.For now, don’t focus on the practicality of doing a new activity. Just have fun in coming up with a list of ideas!;
, If you’re struggling to come up with ideas, seek the help of a friend. Think of someone you know who likes to try new things. It’s OK to borrow ideas.


Invite a group of friends over and ask them to share some of their favorite past times. Chances are you’ll be inspired by what you hear!
Post a message on Facebook and ask for help from your Facebook friends.
 Websites such as Pinterest are great resources for finding ideas. Do a simple search for, “try something new” and see what comes back.


On Pinterest, for example, there are ideas for couples trips, there are different hairstyle ideas, etc.
Be aware that when you do searches online, there may be services that require you to sign up before receiving more information. Know that there are plenty of free ideas online, so don’t feel pressured to join anything unless you really want to.
For further inspiration watch the TED Talk by Matt Cutts entitled, Try Something New for 30 Days. Short in length (at only three-and-a-half minutes long); it is extremely encouraging., Now that you’ve made a list of all the new things you would like to do, it’s time to determine what you'll need to make your dream a reality!


Take the time to research what equipment you should buy, what preparation you’ll need to do, etc.
Consider the financial aspect of doing this activity. If there are monetary restrictions, don’t give up on the idea. Try finding a workaround. For example, if you want to learn to cook in Paris, but can't afford the plane ticket, try finding a local, French cooking class.
Remember, you can and you should do more than one new thing - start researching all of your ideas!

, For example, if you would like to try a new hair color, you may want to start with a temporary dye. This would allow you to try out that new hue, without having to commit to it.


A simulator may also come in handy if your new activity is particularly costly. By simulating the activity, such as flying a plane, you can see how you'd like it before you commit to the expense of actually taking flying lessons.
This may not be applicable for everything. Don’t worry if you can’t do a trial run beforehand. That’s part of the fun!

, If you’d still like to learn more, talk to someone you know who has already done that particular activity, or gone to that place.


If you don’t specifically know someone who has already done what you want to do, try creating a forum. Forums are areas where you can post and read online discussions, typically in an organized thread layout, from other users with similar interests,, You've done the prep work. Now you need to make time for your new activity or idea.


Fear of making mistakes may result in procrastination.While doing something new may be scary, don't keep putting it off. You can do this!
Select a date on your calendar and commit to doing your new activity. Better yet, share what you'll be doing and when with friends and family. It will help you to follow through if others are involved!

, What better way to do something new than to share it with a friend. It will not only be a great way to create memories, but may help you to feel more at ease if you have any hesitations.


The person you choose to join you could be your spouse, significant other, best friend or your mom. Think of who you’d have the most fun doing your new activity with!

, You’ve put time into prepping for the big day. Don’t forget to bring everything you need.


This is where having a friend with you could come in handy. Give them the checklist of what you need, prior to the big day. They can serve as your checks and balances should you forget anything.
 It’s OK if things don’t go well the first time you try something new. That’s part of the fun in living life and doing new things!


Keep referring back to your list of everything you hope to do. Check off as many as you can - you’ll be grateful you did!

