 Yahtzee is a great dice game, but relying on five dice to fall your way can be a daunting task. There is only a 6/7776 chance that you'll roll that coveted Yahtzee combination, which are not great odds at all. There is a 7056/7776, or 91%, chance that you'll get a pair on your roll, so you might want to try to strive for something higher early on since you are much more likely to get at least a pair or two on your final roll.
 To determine the chance of a Yahtzee, you simply multiply the number of sides that a die has as many times as there are dice (6 x 6 x 6 x 6 x 6). This is your base number (7776). And since there are 6 numbers that can be used to make a Yahtzee, then your probability is 6/7776, or 0.1%. The other combinations have much greater odds, so settling for one of the other combinations is more likely to get you a higher score and win the game than always holding out for a Yahtzee., A good way to pick up some extra points in Yahtzee is to always take a full house when it first comes up. The full house is much more likely (300/7776, 3.9%) than four of a kind (150/7776, 1.9%) and it yields more points (25) than the highest four of a kind can yield (24). Although you might want to try for a Yahtzee as well, the likelihood is so low that taking the easy points early on will likely work in your favor. Plus, a full house can be elusive late in the game when you really need it., On your first roll in the game, there is only a 3.1% chance that you will throw a large straight. If you happen to roll three of four numbers in a row, play the odds and keep rolling. Say you roll a 2-2-3-4-5 combination. There is a 2/6, or 33%, chance that you will get either the 1 or 6 needed to complete the straight if you re-roll the 2. The likelihood that you will get enough 2s to make a four of a kind or Yahtzee are not nearly as promising, so go with the straight., If you roll a three of four 4s, 5s, or 6s, use them in your upper section as your total score for those numbers instead of counting them as three and four of a kinds. This will add more points to your overall upper section score and help you to get your bonus of 35 points. If you count them as three and four of a kind, you are just guaranteed the total on the dice. If you get your bonus on the upper section, you get the score for those dice plus an additional 35 points.


If you are left near the end of the game with only one or two of the higher numbers in the upper section to count as your totals for those numbers, you may lose your bonus, which will decrease your overall score by 35 points.