 Go to http://www.nirsoft.net/utils/shell_menu_view.html and download ShellMenuView. Look for the download links towards the bottom of the page.;
, Locate the downloaded file and unzip it first. The file is named shmnview.zip. From the unzipped files, double-click on shmnview.exe to install the program.
 Locate the program shortcut from the Start menu or from your desktop. Double-click on it to launch the program.
 Upon running the program, a list of context menu options and commands will be listed in a simple tabular format.
 Click on any of the column headers to sort and organize the menu items. The File Type and Type Description are good columns to start with.
 Go through the list and locate the programs that has menu items on your context menu you’d like to remove. Most of the menu items can be identified with the programs they’re associated with through their names.
 Before making any changes, make sure you exercise caution. Any wrong manipulation can cause Windows to be unstable.

You may want to do a system restore point before proceeding.
 Click on the menu item you’d like to disable.
 While the selected menu item is highlighted, click the red circle button on the action toolbar. This will disable the selected menu item.


Click the “Yes” button on the confirmation dialog box when you’re done.
 You will notice that menu items are disabled by looking at the Disabled column. All those marked with Yes are disabled.
 Repeat Steps 2 to 4 to disable more menu items.
 All the changes you’re making will only take effect after your reboot your computer.
 If for some reason you want to re-enable menu items you’ve disabled from Part 3, you can still use ShellMenuView to do so. Before making any changes, make sure you exercise caution. Any wrong manipulation can cause Windows to be unstable.

You may want to do a system restore point before proceeding.
 Click on the menu item you’d like to enable.
 While the selected menu item is highlighted, click the green circle button on the action toolbar. This will enable the selected menu item.


Click the “Yes” button on the confirmation dialog box when you’re done.
 You will notice which menu items are enabled by looking at the Disabled column. All those marked with No are enabled.
 Repeat Steps 2 to 4 to enable more menu items.
 All the changes you’re making will only take effect after your reboot your computer.