 When requesting your personal FBI records through the Freedom of Information Act, you must draft a detailed letter specifically requesting the information that you desire and any information that can help the FBI identify the records. This letter should include the following:


Date
Address: Record/Information Dissemination Section Attn: FOIPA Request 170 Marcel Drive Winchester, VA 22602-4843
Identifying the request as under the Freedom of Information Act.
Date range of the request. You can make the request from your date of birth to the present.
Description of the request. Request copies of all information, including but not limited to files, correspondence, reports, surveillance or any other records concerning you.
Provide information to assist in the search. You should give your name, date of birth, social security number, place of birth and the first and last names of your parents, any aliases that you use, and former addresses.
Description of the scope of search, including the FBI’s indices, including manual indices, as well as all Field Offices.
Indicate a dollar amount that you are willing to pay for processing the request.
State that you are seeking the information for personal use and not for commercial use.
Provide your name, address, phone number and email address.You can view a sample letter at:https://www.fbi.gov/foia/sample-fbi-foia-request-letter
;
, Since you are requesting FBI records for a living person, you must submit your request either by mail, fax or e-mail.


You can mail your letter to: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Attn: FOI/PA Request, Record/Information Dissemination Section, 170 Marcel Drive, Winchester, VA 22602-4843. 
You can fax your request to: (540) 868-4391/4997
You can email a PDF of your request to: foiparequest@ic.fbi.gov. In addition to the PDF, you should put your request in the body of the email., You can check the status of your request my calling FOIA’s Public Information Officer at (540) 868-4593.


If you have a FOIA request number, you can also check your request status online at: http://vault.fbi.gov/fdps-1/@@search-fdps.
 If you have an extremely large file, your may be contacted by a negotiator to help narrow down the search parameters. Once the search is complete, you will receive a letter explaining any exemptions that were used to justify not sending you certain records, as well as a copy of the records that were not exempted.


The letter will also indicate the number of pages that were reviewed and the number of pages that were released to you.

