 Take your turkey breast out of the fridge and set it on a clean surface. Use your hands to rub the butter across the full surface of the turkey.Wash your hands before and after handling raw meat.;
, Liberally sprinkle salt and pepper over the turkey. Make sure you cover all sides of the turkey., Set your oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (218 degrees Celsius). Set a timer for 15 minutes and let the turkey roast for this time period., After 15 minutes have passed, reduce the oven's heat to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). Then, cook your turkey for an additional 60 to 90 minutes. When the turkey is done, a thermometer inserted into the turkey should read about 155 degrees Fahrenheit (68 degrees Celsius)., After removing the turkey from the oven, place a piece of tinfoil over it like a tent. Allow it to sit in the tinfoil tent for about 10 minutes before slicing it.Leave the oven on. You will be using it later.
 Measure out your butter and place it in a sauce pan. Place the pan over medium heat to melt the butter., Toss in your flour. Using either a wire whisk or a fork, whisk together the flower and butter until you have an even, consistent texture., Toss the milk into the flour and butter mixture. Again, using a fork or wire whisk, beat everything together to get a smooth, even mixture., Whisk the mixture constantly while leaving it over heat to bring it to a boil. This usually takes four to five minutes, but times may vary depending on the precise heat of your stove., Once the mixture is boiling, add the cheese and stir until it melts. From there, add the spices and stir everything together. Remove your sauce from the stove and set aside., In a small mixing bowl, place your eggs, milk, and salt. Use a wire whisk or fork to beat everything together until you have an even mixture., One by one, dip your bread slices in the egg and milk batter you made. Coat both sides of each slice of bread with the batter and then set it aside.Make sure each slice of bread sits for at least 30 seconds to soak up the batter.
 Measure your butter and oil into a saucepan. Heat the butter and oil over medium heat until the butter is melted and the oil is shimmering., Cook each slice of bread on both sides. Cook your bread until both sides are golden brown. When you're done cooking, set your bread slices on a baking sheet.Times will vary depending on the heat of your stove. Also, the number of bread slices you can cook at once depends on the size of your frying pan.
 Make sure your bread slices are spread out on the baking sheet. They should not be touching over overlapping.If your baking sheet is not big enough for all the bread slices, you should warm the bread in batches.
 Take your turkey out from under the tinfoil. Cut the turkey into about eight thick slices. Then, top each slice of bread with a piece of turkey., After adding your turkey, top your bread slices with slices of tomatoes. Then, ladle the sauce over the bread. Lastly, evenly divide your parmesan and cheddar cheese between the eight bread slices., Place the baking pan about six inches from the source of heat source in your oven. Allow the bread to broil for about three to four minutes. When done, the cheese should be bubbly and lightly browned., Remove the bread from the oven. Top the bread with two slices of bacon. Then, sprinkle the chives and parsley over each slice.