 Find out if your church follows the tradition of collecting donations from the congregation and distributing them to the less fortunate on Boxing Day.Ask if they need any assistance. If they do, donate your time.;
, Embody the spirit of charitability by giving and finding organizations who need volunteers for programs that day. Collect food and/or donations for a food drive.Assist in a soup kitchen. Donate blood. Contribute to improving the lives of others.
 Since charity is needed all year round, use Boxing Day to plan your calendar for the upcoming year. Search online for future events in which you could be of assistance. Plan a budget so you can donate to your favorite charities on a regular basis.
 If you haven’t already, give a holiday bonus to your doorman, postal worker, delivery person, and anyone else who provides you with regular service.Although this used to be a strong tradition that originated back when house servants lived onsite with their employers, offering holiday bonuses on Boxing Day itself has waned since carrying over to the modern era. Since many of the people you wish to tip may have the day off, be sure to tip them ahead of time., Buy a stuffed bird and a birdcage light enough to carry. Dress up in fancy women’s fashion. Parade around town and ask for donations from passersby on the street, customers at pubs and restaurants, or by knocking on houses from door to door.Originally actual wrens were hunted down and killed to use as props, but stick to using a stuffed bird instead to avoid upsetting people today.In earlier days, donations were usually collected to fund a dance on the same night. Although some localities might still have this tradition, many collections are now donated to charity.“Good King Wenceslaus” is a popular carol that’s specific to Boxing Day. The album “Bells of Dublin” by the Irish band The Chieftains also features three Boxing Day carols: “The St. Stephen’s Day Murders,” “The Arrival of the Wren Boys” and “A Wren in the Furze.”

