 You should both be ready to have sex and ready to accept the consequences. Make sure you are both on the same page about all of this. It might be awkward at first, but you'll need to talk about sex in order to arrange the best way to do it secretly. If you're going to keep your parents from finding out, you need to communicate.


Find a discreet way to talk about these things. If your parents read your text messages, then you shouldn't discuss your plans over text. If you go to the same school, you can talk there. Consider agreeing on a "code" to refer to sexual things so that you can make plans more openly.
 Lying may seem easier than telling your parents up front, but pulling it off may take a lot of quick thinking and mental energy. Sneaking around means plans, alibis, codes, and cover-ups. This comes more naturally to some people than others. There is no room for error if you are going to do it right. If not, you might as well just tell your parents everything right now!

, Do this even if you don’t think you will need it. As your parents leave the house for dinner and a movie, tell them you plan to spend your evening doing homework or watching TV. If you are going to a social gathering that your parents might not approve of, think of a more wholesome activity you could claim to be doing for the night: e.g. a study group or a sleepover. Use your imagination, but be ready to back up any claims that you make.


Be careful what you say. Your parents might know more than you think they do, and you don't want to give them any reason to be suspicious. Be aware that parents often talk to other parents.
Make sure that your story matches the stories of other people who will supposedly be around. If you say that you're sleeping over at a friend's house, make sure that A) your parents won't ask your friend's parents about it, or B) your friend's parents will cover for you.
 Secrets are best kept on a need-to-know basis – so be careful who you tell. This also means covering your tracks to avoid detection. Don’t leave your diary, a gift from your partner, a pack of condoms, or any other evidence lying around.
 You can’t expect to keep this under wraps when you make a clumsy ruckus every time. Explain to your partner why you need to keep quiet. After you learn to do your business swiftly and quietly, you may even be able to get away with it in a house full of people., Mutual masturbation, oral sex, and other non-penetrative sex acts tend to be much easier to hide. You may find many unexpected opportunities for a quick session when you wouldn't necessarily be able to go all-out.

