 While your birthday may feel like a reminder of negative things, remember that you are just one person in this big world. Many people are feeling the same way. You are not alone in thinking about your purpose and what will make you happy.Avoid isolating yourself. By doing things in your community, you can feel more connected. Consider doing something out of the ordinary.
Try to see the best in people. They may not know exactly what you're going through, but often people want to be supportive. Treat others as you would want to be treated.
Lean on your support system. Connecting more with people you trust will help to distance yourself from your negative thoughts.
 Depression can feel worse when you don't take care of your mind and body. Consider these ways to cope with depression and feel healthy:Eat well. Drink lots of water. Avoid junk food.
Stay active. Exercise regularly. Stretch.
Get a good night's sleep. Have routine sleep schedule.
 If you notice that you are thinking in a way that is unhelpful to you, then it is important to challenge these thoughts. By challenging unhelpful thoughts, you can turn them into something that is beneficial to you.


For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I have to get people to approve of me or my life won’t matter,” then this is an unhelpful and untrue thought.
You might challenge this thought by telling yourself something like, “My worth does not depend on what other people think of me. I have value because I am me and I am here.”, While depressive thoughts on your birthday are common, persistent thoughts of sadness or hopelessness for more than two weeks should be addressed with professional help and support. Depression may have been triggered by a recent loss or event, and your birthday was just a reminder amid this event. Get help with life's transitions in these ways:Get advice from your friends, family, and people that you trust.
Talk with your pastor, rabbi, or other leaders at your place of worship.
Talk with a professional counselor or therapist.
Find a support group for others going through a difficult time like yours.
Talk with your healthcare provider about ongoing depressive thoughts and medication options.

