 There are two ways that mobile devices can connect to the internet: cellular data or Wi-Fi networks. If you don't have any signal and are not connected to a wireless network, you won't be able to access the internet.If you don't have a mobile data plan with your carrier, you won't be able to access the internet unless you're connected to a wireless network.
 If you're trying to use a public Wi-Fi hotspot, there's a good chance that you'll need to register through your web browser first. Many devices will display a notification that you need to register, but if you don't see it you can open your web browser app and try to load any website to bring up the registration screen.
 A quick way to fix a lot of connectivity problems is to put your device into airplane mode, which will turn off all of the network adapters, and then turn airplane mode back off.


For both iOS and Android, you can open the Settings app and tap the "Airplane mode" slider to turn it on. Android users may need to tap "More..." to see the Airplane Mode option. Wait a few moments after enabling it for your networks to disconnect, and then tap it again to reset your network adapters.
 If you're trying to connect to a wireless network, your device's Wi-Fi adapter needs to be turned on. You can toggle Wi-Fi on from the Settings menu on both iOS and Android.
 Sometimes corrupt settings can cause network connection problems. Resetting your network settings may solve the problem. This will erase any custom settings you have entered.


iOS - Open the Settings app and select "General". Tap "Reset" and then "Reset Network Settings".
Android - Open the Settings app, tap "More...", select "Mobile Networks", then "Access Point Names", tap ⋮, and then "Reset to default".
 If nothing above has worked in getting your device to connect to the internet, you may need to perform a factory reset. This will wipe everything off of your device and reset it to the state it was when it came out o the box.



Click here for instructions on resetting an Android.
Click here for instructions on resetting an iPhone

