 If you don't like something about someone, try to say it in the cutest, most polite way possible. Chances are that person won't get offended and think about their actions... but if they don't, then they weren't really that much worthy were they?;
, Cute is all about being positive and friendly; make sure your personality reflects this. always try to have a better outlook of things, rather than let negativeness pull you down. that will help you overcome problems and in the long run you'll be able to help others as well.
 but in honest truth you cannot revert to be childishly innocent after a certain age. Even so, you can revive some of that spark in various ways like staying away from sensationalist publications and shows, not watching adult videos or magazines, things like that.
 Sweet innocent girls don't swear like sailors. Don't pick on people; never laugh at someone's misfortune or when someone gets hurt. Instead of laughing at them, stand up for them.
 If you want to look sweet, don't bawl and shout at people. Talk to them, and be nice and gentle, and this will help you be cute no matter what age you are.
 For one thing, it shouldn't be done, second, innocent girls must avoid this.
 Charm bracelets, pearls, and pendants are great. Do not wear something crazy and flashy. And don't wear too many accessories at once. Wear maximum 2 necklaces and max. 3 bracelets on each hand. Your choice, just don't overdo it.
 Eye contact is a way of engaging others directly. It shows interest, it shows that you are attempting to bring this person into your sphere and keep them there. Don't stare though, just use common sense and remember that it is about communicating with other people, not sucking them into your sphere of influence.
 Attractiveness comes from being happy, vivacious and bubbly. This translates to being a person who engages others in conversation, takes an interest in what others say and shows a genuine concern for the other person's interests. Active listening is a very important part of appearing attractive to others.
 Smelly people aren't cute.
 Just because you're not a gutter girl doesn't mean you have to be a brain dead ditz. Make your mom & dad proud.
 You want be cute on the inside, and the outside. A simple floral sundress with a cute hat and sandals; a t-shirt with a cute picture on it, clean jeans, and fun sneakers... Being girly doesn't mean you can't wear trousers or sneakers, just be more feminine about it. Also don't go overboard childish if that doesn't suit you, but using fun and cute characters like Hello Kitty or the Care bears on your t shirts or an accessory does the trick a million times better than trying to look like a child. You can also use a wide array of colours, not just pastels or subdued ones. You can look cute in neons too, just try not to overdo anything. Keep it simple, girly, and clean.
 Everybody loves someone who sees good in others and makes them feel good. It can be a great conversation starter sometimes too.(Where'd you get your shoes? They're so cute!) Just make sure you mean it; say it in your normal tone of voice, not a squeaky overenthusiastic one, unless that's your normal tone of voice.
 Don´t be sweet just to be popular (try to understand who you really are and what kind of life you want to live first!)

, For example: The "F" word turns into fudge. ("Oh, fudge!")

