 Many routers allow you to block websites and create a schedule for the blocking, which can be more powerful than blocking the website for everyone all the time. This can allow you to set "browsing times", such as an hour for Facebook after dinner. Not all routers allow you to block sites, but most modern ones do.


You can access your router by typing the router's address into a networked computer's web browser. Most routers use 192.168.1.1 for their address, but some use 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.2.1. Refer to your router's documentation if you can't figure out the address.
You'll need to log in with your router's administrator account. Different routers have different default accounts, so refer to your documentation or look the model up online to find the default admin account.
 The label of this section will vary depending on the model router that you have. Some routers have this option in the Advanced section.
 You can enter specific websites, or enter keywords that you want to scan for. Block specific sites when you know what you're trying to block, and use keywords to block general subject matter. Click the Apply or Save button when you're finished.
 The scheduling options may be on the same page, or in a related section. Set the schedule to your specific needs. Blocks will apply to all connected devices by default. Click the Apply or Save button when you're finished.
 Many routers allow you to set a computer or device to be trusted, which will allow that computer to access any of the blocked sites. Enter the IP address of your private computer if you still want to be able to access the blocked sites. Your router's Devices section will tell you the IP address of each of your connected computers.
 If you leave the administrator password at the default settings, anyone on the network can look up the defaults and change your router configuration. If you want your blocking rules to be secure, change the router login information to something that only you know. You can find these options in the Administration section, which may be in the Advanced section.

