 Your touch can communicate many things to her, but what you may not know is it can also communicate your state of mind. If you are feeling nervous, tense, or fearful, your girlfriend will very likely be able to sense it through your touch.If you are feeling nervous about holding your girlfriend, remind yourself she's your girlfriend for a reason (she likes you!), and that she's probably hoping you'll take her hand or put your arm around her.


Be confident, but not cocky. While it's likely your girlfriend is looking forward to your touch, don't assume you have free access to her body at any time. Be respectful of her space.
Calm yourself by breathing in for four seconds, then breathing out for four seconds.Repeat this at least four times and you should begin to feel more at ease.
If you're still nervous, pinch yourself in the fleshy part between your thumb and index finger. Applying pressure to this area can quickly calm your nervous system.;
, The easiest way to do this is by simply asking her. Saying "Can I hold you?" is not only sweet, it's also a way to know 100% for sure she's comfortable with being touched. You can also try touching her in non-threatening areas, like her upper back or between her elbow and her hand, and watch her reaction.Pay close attention to her body language. People can very accurately read each others emotions via touch--if they're paying attention. If she seems uncomfortable in any way--if her muscles tense, she avoids eye contact, or you just get a vibe that she doesn't like it, stop what you're doing.
Don't be upset or offended if your girlfriend isn't in the mood to be touched. It probably has little to do with you--some people simply don't like to be touched. It doesn't necessarily mean she doesn't like you.
Think about how long you've been dating or any statements she's made in the past about her limits. It's not a good idea to grab her butt after you've been dating for a week, especially if she's expressed that she wants things to go slow.
 If you're in the middle of the lunchroom or at a family gathering, you probably won't want to hold her the same way you do when it's just the two of you sitting on the couch. It can make things awkward for her and the people around you. If you're around her parents, it might even get her in trouble!


When you're in public, keep things PG--just hold hands, or put your arms around each other, or maybe put your hand in her back pocket. Save the cuddling and really intimate stuff for when you're alone.

