 If you are considering a tank of many different species of fish, you will want to form what is known as a "community tank". This will require selecting fish (or other aquatic species) that are not typically aggressive against each other. Better aquarium stores on on-line guides can help you choose what works for you. Here are a few of the many:


Corydoras (or cory catfish)
Ghost shrimp
Plecos (Although non-aggressive and algae eaters, these fish will eventually grow very large)
Loaches (these have the same issues at plecos)
African dwarf frogs;
, Here are some things to be aware of when selecting a new companion:


Never choose fin-nippers like tiger barbs. They will destroy your betta's beautiful fins.
Make sure that the fish do not resemble male bettas, like male guppies with long, flowing tails. Though guppies are peaceful, a male betta may mistake him for another betta, and attack.
Make sure that the fish have the same, or very similar, water and heat requirements.
Avoid fish that give off a lot of ammonia, like goldfish. Too much ammonia will damage your betta's health.
Make sure they are large enough not to get eaten by your betta. Some baby fish may be mistaken for snacks.
 Take size and care requirements into consideration before choosing.
 Consider the following:


Check that the tank is large enough for more than one fish. The key is 1 inch (2.5 cm) of fish per gallon.
Examine your betta to make sure it is not sick before adding any more fish. It should be swimming normally, be free of spots, fuzzy areas, or any abnormalities. Many betta diseases are contagious to other fish.
 This will help to ensure that your betta will not be too territorial.


Do a complete water change, change the gravel, and rearrange the decorations if necessary.
Remove any sharp decorations, such as very sharp rocks or artificial plants. Betta tails are long, flowing, and somewhat delicate. They can snag on these things and cause tears.
 He will be more likely to attack if he has a trespasser in his territory.
 This helps the fish get used to the new water temperature because a new temperature may cause ultra-sensitive fish stress, and sometimes even death.
 Let in some of the new water. This lets the fish get used to the new water. Do not dump the fish in. Let them swim into the tank by themselves.
 Allow it to become settled before adding in your betta.
 Make sure your new fish is not aggressive towards your betta, tries to nip his fins, or cause him harm.
 Watch them for a very long time, and try not to leave them unattended for long.
 If your betta tries to hurt your new fish, it is best to catch the new fish and bring them to safety in a separate tank.


Many pet stores allow you to return fish before a time limit. Try to return the fish.
Or keep it separated from your betta with a divider, sold at most aquarium stores.
Alternatively, provide a separate tank. Betta fish evolved to survive in low-oxygen, small aquatic environments. Therefore, they do not require large or even filtered aquariums. Betta tanks are sold at most aquarium supply stores that require space or upkeep. Homemade betta tanks are easy to construct, as well.

