 Sometimes it’s easier to remember something if you connect it to something familiar to you. This can help with certain kinds of memory loss from strokes. Make the association point something you already know and can easily remember.For example, connect dates you need to remember with dates you know. This can be a holiday, like Christmas or your birthday. You may remember you have an appointment two weeks before your birthday or a month after Valentine’s Day.
Connect people’s names to things you are familiar with. If someone you meet has the same first name as a famous person, use that as your association. Use details to help you remember what someone looks like and their name. For example, Billy with the blonde hair, Rachel with the red hair, or Ted who is tall.;
, If there are important tasks you can’t remember to do, try to pair them with things you remember to do. This can help you build the recognition of the task so you can start to commit it to memory.For example, if you always eat eggs or oatmeal in the morning, place a Post-it note on the egg carton or oatmeal container that reads, “Take your medicine” or “Feed the cat.”
You might also try placing items near other items you use every day. For example, if you use the television remote each day, place your pills or cat food beside the remote.
 Another way to help build your memory is to work on visualizing what you want to remember. To do this, create a picture in your mind of what you’d like to remember. Visualize yourself in a past memory. If you want to remember to do something later, visualize yourself doing the activity.When trying to remember to do something later, try adding odd details. This can help you remember better. For example, if you need to go to visit your friend, imagine yourself going to see them while wearing a weird outfit or while riding a horse instead of driving a car.
 You can try to process information and commit it to memory through repetition. Repeat the information over and over again. Write it down and read it multiple times. Do this multiple times a day for as long as it takes to learn the information.After you read or repeat the information, try to explain it to yourself by putting it in your own words. This is a different process in the brain that can help you learn information after studying it.
 Part of increasing your memory is improving cognitive function. To do this, you need to stimulate your brain. You can do this by trying new things that push your brain to learn new information and do new things.Try a new hobby the helps both your brain and your body. This may include painting, cooking, or gardening.
Physical activity can help stimulate your brain and improve function. Consider trying a new activity, such as tai chi, swimming, or nature walks.
 Music can help your brain in many ways. You have to pay attention, listen to the words, understand the emotional and literal meaning, and even remember what you’ve just heard. This all is done easily as you listen to music.


Try listening to music every day. A recent study found that stroke patients who listened to music each day over a period of two months had increased memory and attention.Music is also relaxing, which is good for your brain. Relaxing your brain can help improve healing and brain function.
 It may be helpful to use acronyms to trigger your memory. An acronym connects words with letters to form an easier to remember word. All you have to remember is the acronym letters instead of a full sentence.For example, if you need to go to the grocery store every Wednesday, you may remember SOW - Store Every Wednesday. If you are going to dinner with your children on Friday, you may remember DCF - Dinner Children Friday.

