 Before you tell your parents about your depression, you may want to make sure it fits what you're going through. Do some research to learn more about depression from credible sources like the National Institute on Mental Health.Depression in adolescents and teens can manifest in different ways. You might feel indecisive, fatigued, angry, or overly sad. Recently, you may have pulled away from your friends and family and chosen to spend more time alone. You may have trouble sleeping or sleep too much. You might also try to numb your feelings with drugs and alcohol, or engage in other risky activities.Even if you aren’t so sure what you’re experiencing is depression, it’s best to speak up about your symptoms so you can get help.;
, Telling your parents about depression can make you very emotional. You may cry, or your parents may cry. This is perfectly okay. Depression is a difficult subject, and you are doing the right thing by addressing it now before it gets worse.


Chances are, your parent(s) have already noticed something is wrong. They just don't know what it is or how to help. By naming the problem, you will help them feel better and know how to take action.
 You may worry about your parent’s reaction to your mental illness. If so, you might choose to ask a school guidance counselor, a teacher, or a coach for their advice. This can help you warm up to the idea of talking about your depression.You might say, “Ms. Anderson, I think I might be depressed. I don’t know how to tell my parents.”
This trusted person might call your parents in for a meeting so that you can break the news in a safe and comfortable environment.
 Consider whether you want to talk to one parent first or both parents at the same time. Chances are you may be closer to one parent, think that one parent may react better, or even feel like one parent is part of the problem.If that’s the case, talk to the parent you feel most comfortable with first. That parent can help you tell the other parent.
 Sometimes, communicating your feelings is really difficult. You may feel better about sharing the news with your parents in an indirect way like writing a note or sending a text message.Be sure you convey a serious tone, so your parents know that this is a real issue. Describe some of your symptoms, explain how they have been affecting your life, and ask to see a doctor.
 Discussing a tough subject like depression may be hard to do off-the-cuff. Do a practice run by sharing the news aloud in front of a mirror, or by role-playing with a close friend. This can make you feel more comfortable during the talk.
 Be prepared to explain depression and describe your feelings and symptoms. From your research, you might also share your insights about how your parents can help you. Your parents will likely have many questions. You can think about your answers beforehand, or you can simply tell them you’ll feel more comfortable talking to a mental health professional. Here are some examples of questions your parents may ask:Are you going to hurt or kill yourself?
How long have you felt this way?
Did something happen to make you feel this way?
How can we help you feel better?

