 A good ratio in a one-on-one conversation is to listen about 70% of the time and talk about 30%. Try not to talk for more than five to ten minutes at a time. Let the other person set the pace of the conversation.


Sometimes people are interested in monologues, because they want to learn more about your special interests. If they ask, it's okay to dive right in! Monitor their expression, and give pauses to allow them to react, so that you can adjust the subject or answer questions as need be.
 While most neurotypicals engage in it, it is perfectly fine not to do it if it makes you feel uncomfortable or distracted. Depending on what you can handle, try one of these:


Watch their hands or feet. (Looking in their general direction suggests listening.)
Look at their shirt, scarf, or necklace.
Observe their chin, mouth, nose, hair, or forehead wrinkles.
Look at their left eye briefly and then shift to their right eye.
Look at the point between their eyes. Unless they're really close to you, it will appear to them that you are making eye contact.
 This can be done by:


Watching television shows and observing the faces
Looking at art tutorials: what do angry faces look like? What do happy faces look like?
Asking other autistic people for tips

, Try to fully understand how the person feels before you explain your point of view. While this can be a difficult thing to do, people usually respond very well to it, and feel more opening to listen once they know that they're heard.


Ask questions to clarify. "She moved the deadline of the report?"
Summarize what they've said. "So, you felt frustrated when your dad kept cutting you off like that." (It sounds silly, but it works!)
Ask for their opinion. "Did you think it was fair of the academy to do that?"

, Many autistic people experience a strong sense of social responsibility, or a desire to help out and fix problems. However, sometimes neurotypicals do not want advice—the best way you can help them is by listening. In this case, it is best to stave off the impulse to help, and allow them to be independent (for better or for worse).


"Were you looking for advice, or just someone to commiserate? Because that sounds like it stinks."
"Would you like some suggestions on how to deal with that?"
"I went through a similar experience last fall. Let me know if you'd like any tips."

, Practice what you learned and try to follow the treatment plan recommendations.
 Whether you agree with their actions or not, make it clear that you hear them and sympathize with their troubles. Acknowledge their feelings, rather than trying to one-up them, and your social skills will be better than those of plenty of neurotypicals.


"I'm really sorry to hear that. That sounds rough."

