 This is not an easy quest to do, and it is even harder at a low level. Try thinking about why you want this dagger. Maybe you want to roleplay an assassin or just get the oblivion walker achievement/gift. Whatever your reason be sure to be persistent.;
, The dagger is in pieces. First look for the hilt, as it is the easiest part to find. It is in Jorgen's and Lamis' house in Morthal. The house can be found across the bridge directly left of the lumber mill. Note that you will either need a good supply of lockpicks or the key to Jorgen's chest, as this is not an easy lock to pick. You can pickpocket the key off Jorgen while he sleeps. Make sure to save before pickpocketing. Inside the chest the hilt of Mehrunes razor and  some gold will be inside.
 These are located in a place called Cracked Tusk Keep. It is found west of the dark brotherhood sanctuary in Falkreath hold.


Follow the hidden path to the keep. This can be considered an orc stronghold, only all the orcs will be hostile. Kill all the orcs outside of the keep, then head to the back door. The back door is around the forge area in the little terrain depression.
Once inside, look directly to your right; there will be a room with some bars in front of it. For this you will either need a good supply of lockpicks or the key which can be obtain from the leader.
To get the key go out the door to the left.
Kill the orcs in that room, then open the door and kill Ghorzul. At a low level, he will use a battle axe and wear iron armour. However, he is still a challenging opponent.
Once Ghorzul is dead, head back to the bars. Open the bronze looking tablet to the right, and push the button. Head through the door. You will see the shards on a pedestal. Don't head straight for it as both ways to it are littered with traps. Cut the trip wires leading to it and wait for the poison darts to stop shooting.
Quickly grab the pieces and back up, as there will be more darts shooting at you. Leave the keep.
 It is found is a place called Dead Crone Rock, which you get to by going through Hag Rock Redoubt. Hag Rock Redoubt is found Northwest of the orc stronghold of Dushnikh Yal.


Kill the forsworn in Hag Rock, then go up to Dead Crone Rock. Beware of two things: The forsworn Briarheart at Hag Rock and the Hagraven Drascula in Dead Crone.
Kill Drascula and she will have the pommel stone. Beware––Drascula is the hardest to get the piece from. She uses a fireball spell and Claw attacks. At a low level, these two are a deadly combination. You may want to acquire a scroll of summon storm antrocach first, as this helps a lot in the battle.
Once you have killed Drascula, search her body and take the pommel stone, as well as her feathers and claw to use in potions or sell.
 A courier should soon come to you telling you about a museum opening in Dawnstar. Once the courier finds you, talk to Silas Vesuvius at his house in Dawnstar. Accept the job he gives you. Give him the pieces of the razor. He will tell you to meet him at the shrine to Mehrunes Dagon.
 You will find a place called Frostmere crypt. Help the women kill the bandits but don't attack her. She will be wearing steel armour. Listen to her story. Don't go into the crypt. Instead, keep going east and head up towards the hall of the vigilantes. It will either be destroyed or intact, depending on whether or not you have Dawnguard installed.
 Beware of the frost troll to the left of the stairs. The Lord stone is also left of the stairs, along with some bandits.
 He will try to commune with Dagon, and fail. He will ask you to try. Dagon will tell you to kill Silas. Silas will beg you not to. Select the option "Lord Dagon has spoken". Kill Silas. Go to the altar and activate it. Dagon will tell you to place your hand on it. Activate the altar and the pieces will form into the dagger. Take the dagger.
 You can either kill the dremora and take their hearts and the key to the inside of the shrine. Inside the shrine, there are more daedra and a good supply of valuable ingots. You now have Mehrunes razor.

