 Use a stovetop kettle, saucepan, microwave, or electric hot pot.


If heating water in a kettle or saucepan, fill it with enough water and set it to a boil on the stove using medium to high heat.
To microwave water, place the water in a microwave-safe dish with a wooden chopstick or other non-metallic utensil. Heat in 1 or 2 minute intervals.
Fill an electric hot pot with as much water as necessary and plug it in. Set the heat to medium or high and let boil.
 Scoop enough pre-ground coffee into the center of a single coffee filter and tie the filter into a bundle using string or twine.









Tie the bundle tight to prevent coffee grounds from slipping through into the liquid. In essence, you are creating the coffee equivalent to a tea bag.
Leave enough twine or string at the end to hang out of the mug. This will give you something to pull the bundle out with.
This method works best if you only intend to prepare one cup of coffee at a time. If you want to prepare enough coffee to fill multiple mugs, you should create as many coffee filter bundles as you need and place one in each mug.
The coffee produced by this method is slightly less strong than that produced using the strainer method. As a result, you should use at least 2 Tbsp (30 mL) of grounds per 1 cup (250 mL) of water. Anything less may produce weak coffee.
 Place the bundle in your mug and pour enough hot water directly over it to fill.









If using multiple bundles of coffee, place each one in its own mug. Do not try to create a big batch by combining the filters into a large bowl or measuring cup.
 Let the coffee steep for 3 to 4 minutes.


If you prefer stronger coffee, you could steep it for 4 to 5 minutes.
For weaker coffee, steep it for 2 to 3 minutes.
No stirring is needed during this time.
 Tug on the string to pull the filter bundle out. Add cream and sugar as desired, and serve.









Give the bundle a slight squeeze with a spoon against the side of the cup to force out extra liquid. Since the liquid inside the bundle had prolonged contact with the grounds, it will make the coffee stronger if you squeeze it back into the mug.

