 If your cruise caters to teens and families, there should be a designated teen hangout where this takes place. Aim to be there a few minutes late to avoid being the only one there, but be sure you have an idea of where the hangout is located. Be confident and not shy, chances are you aren't going to see them again so if you say something stupid WHO CARES? Dress casually and comfortably.;
, You need to make yourself stand out. Take a half second pause by the door without looking too desperate, and if you want to be subtle and avoid looking like a loner, now is a good time to take out your cellphone or iPod and pretend to text or fiddle with it. Casually scope the crowd till you see a group that looks like fun. Avoid choosing the quiet, nervous, and, in all honesty, boring group by the corner because you'll be accepted easily - this defeats the point of a cruise, to have fun! Your ideal group should be:


a mix of guys and girls
talking to each other
a fair amount of people (at least more than three)

, Is there one who seems to be the leader? Generally this would be a cocky guy who is chatting up all of the group and keeping the conversation going. Go over and introduce yourself, making sure you make eye contact with the leader (But do not stare! Do not make yourself look like a freak!) Do a semi-smile that reaches your eyes and speak clearly but confidently and casually ask if you can join them. It is important to look at the entire group but focus on the leader. This will fan his ego (just a little) and give him an instant favourable impression of you. Note: For guys, this should be toned down a bit. Be a bit less shy- guys can pull off a bit more attitude.
 Once you've introduced yourself, sit (Note: Girls, if you are wearing a skirt/dress, be conscious of this!) and ask the names of those sitting closest to you and introduce yourself, smiling and making eye contact. Most likely, at this point the leader will grill you to feel you out a bit. Try to make your answers fairly short, but intelligent. If you have some jet lag and aren't able to pull off something witty at the moment, at least try to sound nice.
 Don't be afraid of getting friendly quickly; you can even get goodnight hugs by the first day. However, your friendliness should be purely platonic with minimal flirting. Do not get too clingy or creepy -- no one likes a stalker. Also, try not to lie (especially if you have a sibling with you!) This has a habit of totally biting you in the rear end later.
 If you are going on many excursions, this may be more difficult, but there are always nighttime activities. Some fun stuff to do (depending on your ship) is to go dancing during teen hours, go tanning, go ice skating and hit the pool.
 You can then tag them in all the awesome pics you took having a blast on the high seas.

