 This version was made to be played with two people. It requires one standard 52 card deck. Remove the jokers from the deck.
 Both players should have 25 cards. Players may look at their hands, but must keep them private. The cards should be kept visible at all times.
 This player must place a single card in the middle of the circle, face down. He/she should announce the rank of the card, whether it's a queen, or a 2, etc. If he/she chooses, he/she can play a card that doesn't match the rank announced.
 Play goes clockwise. The next player has two choices. He/she can pass the turn without playing a card, or play a single card facedown on the pile. By playing a card, he/she is claiming that it is of the same rank as the first card, but it may or may not be.


Passing is the safer option if a player doesn't have any cards that match the round's rank, but bluffing will get rid of his/her cards faster.
Even if you have a card that matches the round's rank, you can bluff, and play a different card. This can be an effective strategy because the other player will have no reason to believe you don't have a card that matches the rank if s/he doesn't have all the cards of that rank in their hand. Then you can go on to play more of your cards by later using cards of the actual rank.
 If at any point in the game a player thinks another is bluffing, he/she can say "Bluff!" right after the card is set down. The challenged player now turns over the challenged card. If it is the wrong card, the player who bluffed must take all the cards from the pile. However, if he/she didn't bluff, the challenger must take all of the cards from the pile

, Any time the opposing player has just played a card, a player may say "Force!" This challenges the player to produce another card from his/her hand that matches the rank of the round. If the player is unable to, he/she must pick up the pile. If the player does produce a card of the correct rank from his/her hand, the challenger must pick up the pile.


A player on their last card cannot be "forced."

, The round continues until all players pass, or someone is challenged, either by someone calling "Bluff!" or someone calling "Force!"


If both players pass, the pile is discarded without revealing the cards, and the player who passed last starts a new round.
If a player is challenged, the player who wins the challenge starts the next round.
 The game ends when it is a player's turn, he/she has one card left, and either the card matching the current rank of the round, or he/she is starting a new round. That player has won.