 These poles look very similar to ski poles, except they’re usually adjustable to adapt to the terrain. Trekking poles allow you to push tall grass and other brush out of your way, potentially scaring off any hidden snakes. As you hike, your pole hitting the ground and banging against rocks will also deter snakes. They can feel the vibrations in the ground, and will usually leave when they sense your approach.If you can’t afford or otherwise acquire a trekking pole, a ski pole will do fine.
 Snakes tend to hide under stones, logs and in dense foliage. Trails cleared of clutter are less likely to attract snakes. Additionally, if you stick to well travelled trails, the frequent foot traffic will already keep snakes away. They have no desire to approach humans, and if they know people frequent a particular area, they’ll tend to stay away from it., Many snakes, such as the rattlesnake, are colored in a way that blends in with their environment. Keep your eyes open while on a trail; you might spot and effectively avoid a snake encounter before it happens. Be especially careful if you’re traversing rocks or fallen logs. Both of these are favorite hiding spots of various snakes. If you need to traverse these fallen objects, step up on them, then down, rather than simply stepping over. This gives you the chance to scan the area around the object, to ensure no snakes are hiding nearby.Avoid picking up stones or wood while on a trail. This might disturb any snakes hiding underneath and provoke an attack.
If you need to lean on something while hiking, such as a rock face or a tree, pay close attention to where you place your hands.
 Snakes are cold-blooded, meaning they can’t regulate their body temperature the way humans can. They have to expose themselves to sunlight to warm themselves up, and hide away from sunlight to cool down. Consequently, snakes tend to be more active in warmer weather. If you’re really concerned about encountering a snake on a hike, consider planning your hike for the cooler weather of fall and winter.