 There are other programs for the purpose, but qtpfsgui is free, open source, and works on many platforms (Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X)., Tone-mapping is a very CPU-intensive task and may cause your computer to run extremely slowly., In the window that pops up, click "Load Images" and browse for the three photographs you just took. qtpfsgui should automatically determine the exposure value from the EXIF metadata in the image; if it cannot (for example, if there is no aperture set in the EXIF data, for those using old lenses with a DSLR via an adapter), you will have to set it yourself. Click "Next"., Just click through it by hitting "Next"; you probably won't want to bother with anything therein., Again, these parameters do have some effect, but the defaults are usually pretty sensible. Hit Finish. You now have a high dynamic range image, but not one that can be displayed in a low dynamic range format (like the universal JPEG format). This is where tone-mapping comes in: compressing the dynamic range of the image you have created so that a 24-bit format like JPEG can appear to have more dynamic range than it really does., Hit the "Tonemap the Hdr" button in the toolbar. A window will pop up with a slightly bewildering array of tone mapping algorithms and parameters. For the most part, the Mantiuk algorithm (which is the first one shown) does a very good job. But you may want to play with the others as well. Hit "Apply" to tone-map the image., Experiment with algorithms and their parameters on a reduced-size version of your image (you can pick a smaller one from the dropdown box of different sizes near the top left). Tone-mapping is a very mathematically demanding operation; the Mantiuk algorithm can take many minutes to render a photo at full size on slower computers, but only a few seconds to process a 256x170 version of the same., Go to File -> Save as... Under "File name", be sure to give your file a jpg extension., You'll need Adobe Photoshop, or its free and open-source alternative GIMP, or photo editing software of your choice. Fix the colour/white balance (this should not be done with photos before creating your HDR image, as it can have weird effects). Applying subtle amounts of "Unsharp mask" can be a very good thing. You may also have weird ghosting artifacts that you will want to edit out.