 Your cat’s dietary nutrition is important, and the animal’s health could be damaged if you make an ill-advised change to their diet. Schedule an appointment with your vet, and ask their advice about the feline diet.


See if the vet recommends providing your cat with a natural (or raw) diet, and ask which specific foods—and in what quantities—they suggest feeding your cat.;
, Although the majority of commercial cat foods are made of dried kibble, these actually contain relatively little nutritional value for cats. Dried kibble has next to no water content, gives cats an excessive amount of carbohydrates, and often contains plant-based proteins rather than the animal-based proteins that cats need to stay healthy.Dry kibble is also heavily processed and contains few natural ingredients. If you’d like to give your cat natural foods, the first step is to switch them to a wet food.
 If your cat has been eating only dry kibble, now is the time to switch them to a wet food. Do not leave wet food sitting out all day for your cat; feed them at two or three daily meal times. If the cat does not eat the wet food within 30 minutes, pick the food back up. To ease the transition, you can start by mixing in a moderate amount of dry food with the wet food, and then slowly phasing out the kibble.You can find a high-quality wet food for purchase at your local pet-supply store. Speak with the staff or owner, and ask their recommendations for a wet cat food.
Also read the nutrition label on a few different brands of wet food. Select the option that provides high protein, low carbohydrates, and plenty of vitamins. If possible, select a low-grain wet food.
 A high-quality canned cat food will contain healthy proteins and nutrients for your cat. While wet canned food undergoes some degree of processing, it’s much less than high amounts of processing done to dried kibble. Wet food is also low in carbohydrates, which will benefit your cat’s nutrition. A cat’s diet should be very low in carbs, with carbs composing only 1–2% of the whole diet.Cats living in nature get a large percentage of their water from the food they eat, since animal flesh has a high water content. Serving your cat a high-quality wet food can provide cats with a natural means of staying hydrated.

