 Teaching your dog command words, like sit and come, gives it mental stimulation and helps it develop discipline. Say the command word, physically guide it into the correct position if necessary, then offer a treat as soon as it follows the command.


For example, say “Sit!” and guide its rear into a seated position if you’re just starting out, then give it a treat. Repeat the process up to twenty times, and be sure to offer a small treat the exact moment it sits so it makes the connection between sitting and getting a reward.
 When you play tug of war, be sure to keep an eye on how rowdy your dog gets. If it becomes too excited, stop the game and take a break for a few minutes, then move on to another game.It’s best to play tug of war if your dog understands “drop it” and “leave it” commands. Use command word training to teach it how to drop a toy when told.
 Puzzle and dispenser toys, such as toys that hide a treat inside, offer both mental and physical exercise. They can also keep your dog busy, typically for around a half hour depending on your dog’s attention span.If your dog gets used to a toy with a treat inside, hiding a frozen treat in it makes the game more challenging.
 Try hiding treats and toys in areas of the house where you’re okay with your dog snooping. Have it stay and when it’s not looking, hide treats or toys under lightweight boxes or other opaque containers throughout the house.If your dog has trouble at first, try doing the activity in one room, then gradually make it more challenging by expanding to other rooms.
 If your dog is fairly active and appropriately sized, try teaching it to jump on a chair, foot stool, or up and down a step ladder. Choose an object that’s safe for your dog to play on, but that will require it to exert lots of energy.Tricks like these are great for small, agile breeds like Italian Greyhounds and Miniature Pinschers.
 Try assembling an agility course using objects like a box with two open ends, a hula hoop, a kitchen chair, and a pole leaned on two stools. Teach it to crawl through the box, crawl under the chair, and jump through the hoop and over the pole.Try working on each trick individually using reward-based training. Physically guide it through each motion as best you can and offer a treat. When it masters a trick, train it to do a new one and gradually combine them into the obstacle course.

