 Self-care involves taking care of your physical and emotional well-being. When you feel your best you will be able to give freely to care for others. A good start would be getting regular check ups at the doctor, eating nutritious food, getting some exercise, and enjoying some of your favorite hobbies. Neglecting yourself can cause you to feel fatigued and depressed, which make it difficult to grow.
 A sign of emotional maturity is allowing others’ needs to come before your own. Volunteering somewhere allows you to help others and can help you achieve humility. Seeing how other people live and being able to empathize with them is a step in the right direction towards emotional maturity.



Find volunteer opportunities in your area such as an animal shelter or senior center. You can also simply give your time to someone who is need, such as a co-worker, neighbor, or family member., An emotionally immature person typically only sees one side of the situation: their own. They tend not to see what someone else could be going through. If you try to imagine yourself as that person, however, you may learn something new about yourself, and them.


For instance, when you have a disagreement with someone, consider things from their perspective. Ask yourself what previous life experiences that person has had, if they knew the same information as you leading up to the situation, and what is going on in their home life. Imagine yourself as them once you’ve asked yourself these questions and you may be able to change your stance.Let's say your friend is a person of color who tells you that you are naturally privileged. With emotional maturity, you should be able to take a step back see how being of the majority race gives you more privilege than being a minority., Hearing that you are wrong is often difficult, as is not getting your way. However, you’ll need to let that go if you want to be emotionally mature. This type of maturity means being OK with allowing someone else to win an argument or two, or letting them have the last word.


Learn to say, “Let’s agree to disagree” when you are in a debate with someone. Allowing yourself to let it go and not have to win for the sake of winning can help you keep integrity and a relationship with the person with whom you are having the disagreement.