 Tell your audience, "Watch and learn! I'm going to make this pen magically disappear before your very eyes."


If you want to make a spectacle of it (which is all the more entertaining), assure your audience that this is just a normal pen. Wave it around a bit, flick it with your finger, and bounce it up and down. Give them time to get ready for your magic skills.;
, In this trick, for it to be convincing, it's a good idea to count out loud and gesture with your other hand. This is visually and aurally distracting from what you're actually doing.


Tap the pen against your left hand as if that somehow makes the pen disappear-able. The more of a routine you make it, the more impressive the trick will be.
 You need to be facing perpendicular to your spectator's line of sight. This way whoever is watching cannot see the pen as you hold it near your ear next to the side of your head.


This is mainly building up suspense. Once it's beside your head take it back to it's originally position, as if teasing your audience.
 You can keep count, saying one, two, and then make it vanish on the third go. It takes a lot of work to make a pen disappear – you've gotta rev up!


This part of the trick you can milk however you'd like. You could act like you have to warm the pen up, shake it out, or roll it between your hands to get the trick to work. Your friends will never know!

, Now comes the actual work. As you raise your hand for the third time, carefully and without losing a beat, place it behind your ear. You must do this smoothly and while focusing on your hand in front of you.


The counting is important to help you keep the timing exactly the same each time you raise your pen-holding hand. Try to perform every raising quickly to prevent detection.
 Bam! The pen is gone! Smugly show both sides of your hands and that the pen is nowhere to be found. Just be careful not to turn your head, showing the pen.
 Whatever you do, don't seem like you don't want to turn your head to face your audience head on. If you don't want to do more tricks or run out of time, simply say you're going to tie your shoelace and bend down; if they look away, quickly pull the pen from behind your ear.


If you do want to make a show of it, hold your hands against your head as if this great psychic exertion pains you greatly. While clutching your head in agony, slide the pen into your hand and produce it from wherever you see fit.

