 It helps if you have a particular reason for making a presentation, such as using slides for illustrations for your public speech or creating an animated user guide. Otherwise, you may get inspiration from truly exceptional presentations, pictures or videos that you have seen or know about.;
, Put all digital files in one folder. Doing this provides multiple benefits:


Easy access to all relevant text documents, pdfs, digital images and video
Assessment of the material accumulation you have brought together
When looking at the files, you might use for your slideshow you are getting ideas on better ways to apply them.
 It does not need to be a real plan drawn on paper. You may create it in your mind. Just take a moment and think what information should come at the beginning, how to engage a viewer with the first slide and how to put an end to your presentation.
 Note that the software should offer stylish templates and graphic elements, handy tools to modify and customize your slides along with an intuitive interface. Last but not least - it must be able to produce a slides which are viewable on every device. There are several popular tools like Flash, PowerPoint, and a variety of online options. Flash used to be the gateway to interactivity but its demise has been result of not being supported by mobile devices. Powerpoint remains a popular tool but has its limitations or a learning curve for creating professional slides.
 In the beginning it helps to take it easy - open any pre-built template you like and start adding your own titles, text, pictures and icons. As appetite comes with eating, inspiration comes within creative workflow. As soon as you begin to compile visual elements, an idea on how to rearrange and modify your slides can come instantly.
 Generally a presentation should contain graphic elements designed in a similar style. This gives it continuity and a cleaner feel. Avoid adding pictures or icons which do not look good together with other slide components. If you are short in pictures, you can always find plenty on them using free online services (free photo stocks, Flickr and similar resources). The other good idea is to use complimentary icon and other graphic elements gallery (usually a good presentation software has built-in galleries).
 It means using the same color and color combinations for background, titles, text, frames, shapes and icons throughout all the slides. It makes your slideshow look very neat and stylish as if it was designed professionally.
 A lot of people tend to pack their slideshows with as much information and graphic as they can. But it makes slides hard to read and understand. That’s why it is so important to leave some empty space which separates different sections. Blank canvas helps viewers to focus on key blocks instead of shifting their eyes around the slide hopelessly trying to find the main idea.
 Formulate every issue in just one brief sentence, turn it into a big title and add an expressive picture. It works much better than tons of text typed in 10 point font.
 Help a viewer to absorb information quickly - give short ideas one by one. Using animation effects add more fun to your presentation. Arrange the logical order in which elements must appear on canvas. Choose several built-in animation effects you like the most and use them for all of the slides. Don’t forget to add enough time to let your viewers read each slide thoroughly.

