 Often numbness in the feet or toes occurs when you have been sitting or standing in one place for a long time. The best way to get rid of this kind of numbness is to stimulate circulation in the foot by moving around. Try going for a short walk, or even just moving your foot around while you sit.


In addition to helping you get rid of occasional numbness, regular exercise can also help prevent numbness in the first place. Try to incorporate some physical activity into your daily schedule, even if it's just a short walk.
High impact exercises like jogging can cause numbness in the feet and toes for some people, so try lower impact exercises like swimming or biking.
Stretch well before workouts, wear appropriate exercise shoes, and exercise on level surfaces.;
, Numbness is often triggered by seating positions that pinch the nerves in your legs and/or feet. Avoid sitting on your feet or crossing your legs for long periods of time.If you have to sit for long periods of time, you might want to try elevating your feet periodically to increase blood flow.
 Overly tight pants, socks, or other garments worn on the lower part of your body might prevent blood from flowing to your feet, which can cause numbness. Remove or loosen these items to allow for better blood flow.
 Gently massaging the numb area of your foot can help increase circulation and make occasional numbness go away faster.
 Exposure to the cold can cause numbness and tingling. Warm your feet to get rid of numbness.
 High heels or shoes that pinch the toes can cause numbness. You may also experience numbness if you wear shoes that are too small for you, especially while exercising. Choose comfortable shoes that fit you well. Insoles may help make some of your shoes more comfortable.
 Occasional numbness in the feet or toes is usually no big deal, especially when there is an obvious cause, such as an uncomfortable seating position or tight clothing. If, however, you experience numbness frequently, or if it lasts for more than just a few minutes, you should see a doctor to make sure there are no underlying causes.Seek emergency treatment if your foot numbness accompanies symptoms such as weakness, paralysis, loss of bladder or bowel control, or slurring of speech.

Pregnancy often causes swelling of the feet and toes, which can cause numbness. If your doctor tells you that your numbness is due to pregnancy and not to any other condition, follow the recommendations for relief of occasional numbness.