 Ensure those you lead are on board with your view of the way forward to ensure the wind keeps blowing in the right direction. Set specific dates that your expect certain tasks to be completed and check in with those responsible when those dates arrive.Cultivate the belief in others that you’re approaching your collective goals by emphasizing the positive steps taken along the way.
Maintain this confidence by communicating consistently with everyone around you.
 Remind yourself that nobody can read your mind, and that your ability to articulate your vision of an idea or solution is initially the most important factor in the realization of that idea. In simplest terms: get the word out and keep everybody – including yourself – up-to-date.Value your own and others' time by planning exactly how you want to convey certain concepts to those you lead.
Understand that you may have to explain a certain idea in several different ways to ensure it is fully understood by everyone involved.
 You will get nowhere if you’re not aware of the needs and feelings of those around you. In fact, your ability to lead is in large part dependent on being able to recognize the value of other peoples’ contributions.After ensuring that you’re on the same page with everyone, trust those around you to make innovative decisions about different ways of doing things.


Stay out of the way when good things are happening. Believing in those around you and giving them the freedom to rise to the occasion will inspire confidence and productivity.
Ask those you lead what more you can offer to help them accomplish the tasks they are assigned.
Ask yourself how you can better bring out the best in those you lead to fine tune your leadership approach with each specific colleague.
 It’s no secret that the world turns just as quickly outside your realm of awareness, let alone your sphere of influence. Keep an active external network with other leaders in your industry and read widely about the technological and socio-political developments that will affect whatever you’re involved in., Even if you don’t have a formal leadership role, present your ideas and opinions clearly and assertively.Always be professional, but don’t withhold the charisma. Particularly when you’re advocating for something you truly believe, use both your physical and verbal language to convey your excitement.


Stop just short of not giving a damn about what other people think.
After important conversations, reflect on whether you could have played a more active role.
Every evening, make a list of the things you did to become a better leader that day and think about how to incorporate what worked well into the following day.

