 Younger, inexpensive cognacs don’t have the complexity or flavor of older cognacs. Instead choose a mid-range Very Superior Old Pale (VSOP) cognac or a luxurious Extra Old (XO) cognac.VSOP cognacs are aged for a minimum of four years.
XO cognacs are aged at least six years. Higher end brands can be aged for twenty years or more.;
, The right kinds of glassware will help warm the cognac and funnel the rich aromas to the top of the glass. Most cognac drinkers choose to use tulip glasses, balloon glasses or wobble snifters. If you don’t have any of these, use a regular wine glass instead.


Tulip glasses are long, bell-like wine glasses. This shape allows the aromas to concentrate on the surface of the cognac.
Balloon glasses have a large body and a short stem. These glasses allow you to evenly warm the cognac.
Wobble glasses look like stemless balloon glasses. These glasses are hard to set down, forcing you to hold the cognac in your hand and bring it to temperature.
 First, pour about 25 milliliters (0.85 ounces) of cognac into your glass.Next, hold the glass in the palm of your hand, allowing your body heat to slowly warm the cognac. This will elevate the flavors and intensify the aromas. Warm the cognac for 8 to 10 minutes before drinking it.
 Look at the surface of the cognac to identify the colors you see. If necessary, tilt the glass under a light to see if the color changes. The more cognac you examine and drink, the more easily you will be able to identify quality cognac by sight.


Light, one-dimensional straw colors indicate a younger cognac.
Dark, layered colors with notes of gold and amber indicate an older cognac., Swirl the glass gently to agitate the cognac. Next, lift the glass to your nose and breathe in deeply. Try to identify the different notes you can smell. With practice, you will be able to easily identify a high-quality cognac by smell.


Younger cognacs have strong floral or fruity notes with a hint of spice.
Older cognacs have many layers of smells. For example, an expensive cognac might have a deep spicy smell with subtle notes of vanilla and nuttiness.
 Take a small sip of cognac and hold it in your mouth. Move it around your mouth and try to identify the different flavors. Once you have thoroughly tasted the cognac, you can swallow it. Continue drinking the cognac one sip at a time, examining the flavors of each mouthful.


Less expensive cognacs often have strong fruity flavors such as raisin, apricot, orange or lemon.
Mid-range cognacs can have floral rose or clover notes.
Expensive cognacs have a variety of flavors, but usually include spiced notes such as nutmeg, cinnamon, or coffee.

