 Eat healthier foods like fish, fresh fruits, and vegetables. You can still eat other foods but lower the intake of fat, sugar, and calories. Some foods have empty calories. Avoid them as much as possible. Try not to eat too much junk food such as potato chips, pizza, cookies, cakes, etc.


Don't starve yourself or try to force your body to be thinner than it naturally is; it won't work in the long run and you could end up with serious health problems. Eat a healthy diet that includes fruit, vegetables, protein, and enough water.;
, Make sure to take in plenty of cool water each day. Water flushes away the toxins and gives your skin a natural glow. Avoid drinking too many caffeinated drinks and minimize alcohol intake.


Drink at least 8 glasses of water per day.
Veggie drinks are also a healthy choice.
 Both will give you a healthy glow. Exercise ensures fitness, releases pent-up energy that can be exhausting to deal with otherwise and rejuvenates you. Exercise is an ideal way to reduce the frown lines!


Exercise on a regular basis to maintain your own level of fitness. Try to get at least 30-60 minutes of cardio a day. Add some strength training to get toned, sit-ups, push-ups, weightlifting. Mix it up until you find something you like. Don't forget to also mix up your routine, if it becomes too normal your body will get used to it. You should know when you feel your best (not too much and not too little exercise).
, What sort of skin do you have––combination, oily, dry? What texture is your hair? How does your body respond to specific beauty products? Knowing these things will help you to develop a beauty regime that keeps you looking beautiful naturally. The following steps will help you to find out these things and apply them successfully.
 Only exfoliate your skin once or twice a week, though. Over exfoliating can make you more prone to breakouts.


Never wash your face with hot water. It makes it dry . Always use normal or cold water which energizes your skin and makes it more pink, giving it a blushing effect.
 This will keep your skin soft and will also keep your skin beautiful as you get older.


Use moisturizer at night to keep it from trapping sweat and dirt that gather on your face during the day.
 Boil 1.5 liters (0.4 US gal) of water until it is very hot. Pour the boiling water into a bowl as soon as you can, whilst it is still very hot. Move your face above the bowl of hot water and face it downwards (put a towel over your head for maximum benefit). You'll be able to feel a lot of heat getting to your face as if it is getting steamed. This is a very good method to reduce acne and any scars you have as the heat fights it back into your skin and almost kills it.
 Skip the foundation unless you really, really need it. Heavy makeup hides true beauty! Work on your skin instead, applying coconut oil to your face before you turn in for the night will smooth and clear your skin tone plus it treats acne. Add some pink blush to the apples of your cheeks (smile when you're putting it on). Swipe on chapstick to your lips to keep them lush looking.


Avoid overusing makeup. Too much makeup can destroy a healthy glow. It also trains people to expect a less-than-natural you.
Try going without makeup for a few days. Allowing your skin to breathe will be better in the long run. When you do put makeup back on, it will look even better than before!
Always wash your face and remove any makeup before going to bed.
 Or, pluck them yourself, but make sure you know how to do it correctly and be careful. This will help to open up your eyes. But don't pluck them too much, over-plucked eyebrows can be just as bad as messy ones! Look up some guides on how to pick the right eyebrows for your face shape first, and if you're still not sure then go to a beautician and ask their advice.


Try curling your eyelashes, if they do not have a natural curl. It will open your eyes and give you a nicer appearance, even without mascara.
 Always wash your hair with warm to lukewarm water, never hot. Hot water strips off all the natural oils. Depending on the season, style it so that you are comfortable and your hair is protected from environmental hazards.


Always keep your hair brushed. To keep it in place during the day, spray on a little leave-in conditioner. Keep your hair neatly groomed.
Regularly massage your scalp with a healthy oil such as coconut oil, olive oil, egg oil or castor oil, leaving on overnight.
Use a quality shampoo and conditioner (you might like to use only organic products, if you can afford these). To avoid over-drying the hair, avoid anything with sulfates in it. Avoid repeating shampoo application (usually for more foamy feeling) since it depletes the natural lipids of the scalp leading to dryness and dandruff.
To get rid of residue, occasionally add a little baking soda to your shampoo.
 Consider using mouth wash and dental floss for fresh breath and cleaner teeth.


Brush your teeth with a pinch of baking powder, salt and vinegar to make them brighter.
 When outside, protect your skin with a sunscreen. make sure you apply the sun sunscreen at least 15 min before you step out into the sun. Choose a sunscreen that is oil-free and non-comedogenic, so it won't clog your pores.
 You'll reveal a new you. Avoid drinking Pepsi, Coke etc. They stain your teeth giving your smile a yellow look. Brush brush brush!


Many people believe in the value of practicing daily or regular gratitude. Counting your blessings can help to keep you positive and smiling.
 Roll your shoulders a few times to feel where they should be. Keep your chin up. Keep your head balanced atop your shoulders, avoiding "forward-head posture."

, If you aren't, then try to be. Try some assertiveness training and affirmations. Tell yourself regularly that you are beautiful and always will be.


Seek to be happy with who you are. This can take time to learn, and it can be buffeted now and then by events in life, but try to make this your grounded point and always return to being happy with who you are now, who you were in the past and who you will become.
Never say you're not pretty, that will make you upset. Always be confident and think positive and this will come through in your poise and voice.
 Try to avoid wearing clothes that do not flatter your figure. You don't need to religiously stick to every single fashion tip you come across (most are quite boring anyway) but do take the time to learn how to bring out the beauty of your unique figure.


Wear some matching accessories with your dress to give you a pretty and modern look.
Seek to be happy with who you are. This can take time to learn, and it can be buffeted now and then by events in life, but try to make this your grounded point and always return to being happy with who you are now, who you were in the past and who you will become.
 Too much will make your face looked cake up, and like you are seeking attention. It's also not natural, so it will be obvious that that is not what you truly look like.


Wearing some makeup is alright. As long as you don't overdo it.
Wear skin colored eyeshadow, and carefully blend it in to match your skin tone.
Light pink blush will do.
Nude or a light colored lipstick can also be added to complete the look (Preferably in light pink, or red).

