 The most recent set of MLA guidelines relies on a set of principles that will allow you to cite any type of source, rather than a set of separate rules for different media (book, website, film, interview, podcast, etc.). You will list the details, with a period between each. Include any information you can find on the work’s:Author(s)
Title
Version
Number
Publisher
Publication date
Location (where you found the source)

, List the author (if known) starting with the last name. Follow with the full title of the source. If there is no author, just begin with the title.For instance: Francis, John. Planetwalker.
Generally, the titles of things like songs, poems, and articles are given in quotation marks. Books, films, television series and other large works are italicized.
If a work has multiple authors, list them in the same order they are given in the source. Put only the first author in last name, first name order.
 This applies to both traditional and new media, so for simplicity the MLA now refers to the works sources are nested in as “containers.” If your source has a container, list it after the title. Examples of containers include:An article in a journal title (follow the article title in quotation marks with the journal title in italics: Jacobus, Francis. "Early American Pottery Designs." American Historical Review.)
A website hosting an article (follow the article title in quotation marks with the brief web address in italics: Miller, Frank. "Gotham City at Night." CNN.com.)
A poem in a poetry collection (list the title of the collection in italics after the title of the poem in quotation marks: Yeats, William Butler. "Sailing to Byzantium." Twentieth Century Poetry.)
A television series (list the television series in italics after the episode title in quotation marks: "Hush." Buffy the Vampire Slayer.)

, Some works may have contributors other than the primary author. For instance, a book may have a translator, editor or illustrator. If this applies to your work, give the other contributors after any details about containers.For example: Dostoevsky, Fyodor. Crime and Punishment. Translated by Constance Garnett.
 For example, an article in a journal will typically belong to a certain volume number, some books will be published in different edition numbers (first, second, third, etc.), and television episodes will be a certain number in an ordered series. If any of this information applies to your source, list it next.For example: Jacobus, Francis. "Early American Pottery Designs." American Historical Review. Vol. 6, no. 2.
 For traditional print sources, the publisher is the organization that issues the text. Other examples of publishers might include a television show’s production company, a scholarly organization that issues a journal, or a museum that hosts a webpage on modern art. Follow this information with the date of publication.For some media, like books or journal articles, the publication date may be given as a year. For example: Francis, John. Planetwalker. National Geographic Society, 2005.
For others, like newspaper articles, the full date is provided in date/month/year format. For example: Frankl, Jo. “Killer Bees are on the Rise.” Dallas Times. 14 June 2017.
 An MLA works cited entry should list information about where the information was found. For a source like a chapter in a book or a journal article, you could provide page numbers. If you are citing an artwork, list the museum it is located in. If you are citing a website, include the URL.The MLA now recommends including URLs for internet sources. If you are a student, your teacher may or may not ask for these.
You can include a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) instead of a URL, if one is provided.
For example: Jacobus, Francis. "Early American Pottery Designs." American Historical Review. Vol. 6, no. 2, 2016. DOI: 10.1326/history.1064107

, Some sources are nested within larger containers, particularly when it comes to ones accessed electronically. For instance, you might cite an article in a journal that is hosted on JSTOR, a television series episode you watched via Netflix, or see a music video that is hosted on YouTube. If this applies to your source, include the information at the end of the entry.For example: Jacobus, Francis. "Early American Pottery Designs." American Historical Review. Vol. 6, no. 2, 2016. JSTOR. DOI: 10.1326/history.1064107

, Put all of the source entries you have together in a page or section called “Works Cited.” List the sources in alphabetical order. Double space and use hanging indentation to make the list easier to read.