 Blend half of a cucumber in a blender until you get a mushy consistency. Spread the blended cucumber over your face and wait 10 minutes. Rinse the cucumber off with cool water and pat our skin dry.Be sure to drink enough water and to cut back on the salt. Both can cause your face to become bloated.
 Add one peeled banana and one tablespoon of honey into a small bowl. Mix with a fork until you get a smooth paste. Spread the mask over your face and wait 10 to 15 minutes. Rinse the mask off with warm water and pat your face dry., Mix the 1 teaspoon of Matcha green tea powder with ½ to 1 teaspoon of raw honey until you get a paste. Spread the mask on your face and wait 10 minutes. Rinse it off with warm water and pat your face dry with a towel.If you want a simpler mask, you can use a little bit of water instead of honey.
For a richer mask, substitute yogurt for the honey.
If you have dry skin, replace the honey with olive oil or coconut oil.
You can also reduce redness by rubbing your face two to three times a day with ice cubes made from green tea., This mask will also soften and lighten your skin as well. Simply spread some plain yogurt over your face and wait 15 to 20 minutes. Rinse the yogurt off with warm water and pat your face dry., You will need ½ teaspoon of cinnamon and just enough honey to make a paste. Leave the paste on your pimple for 20 minutes, then rinse off. Both honey and cinnamon are antibacterial., Combine just enough nutmeg and milk to make a paste. Start with 1 part milk and 1 part nutmeg. Wash your face first, then gently massage the scrub over the affected area using circular motions. Do this for 3 to 5 minutes, then rinse the scrub off.The nutmeg will get rid of excess oil and act as an exfoliant.
The lactic acid in the milk will get rid of the dead skin cells and leave your skin looking brighter.
 Blend 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of dried roses, 1 tablespoon of dried chamomile, and 1 tablespoon of oats in a coffee grinder. Transfer the powder to a jar, and add 2 tablespoons of honey and ¼ cup (xx milliliters) of oil. Mix with a spoon and seal the jar tightly. To use, simply scoop some of the scrub out with your fingers. Massage it over damp skin, then rinse it off., Simply combine some sugar or salt with a food-grade oil in a jar. Consider adding a few drops of a refreshing essential oil for the ultimate spa experience. Here are some proportions to get you started:If you are using brown sugar, use 1 part brown sugar and 1 part oil.
If you are using white/granulated sugar, use 2 parts sugar and 1 part oil.
If you are using salt, use 3 parts salt and 1 part oil.
If you want to use essential oils, try something with a refreshing scent, such as tea tree, peppermint, lavender, or grapefruit.

