 For example, if you want to be a forest elf, wear green, brown, blue, and silver. Other colors may be added, Don't limit yourself (or your 'elf). You may continue to wear clothes that suit your style of fashion without compromising your elven style. You can wear denim mini shorts successfully if you wear them with a floaty top and/or accessories. Skirts are quite good. Long, short, denim, cotton, silk, it doesn't matter. There is absolutely no need for a cap (this would detract from your "normality").;
, Silver, green, blue, brown are good base colors for forest elves. Brown, orange, yellow, red and blue are good for desert elves. Don't be afraid to add splashes of other colors and don't limit yourself only to these colors. Be adventurous sometimes. Be careful though, and always remember that Elves are subtly beautiful. They see no need to go flashing their wealth and beauty to everyone.
 Elves are always beautiful but don't let this dishearten you if you feel you are not. You will almost certainly look beautiful if you are confident in yourself. You will require lovely skin though. Find a good skin care regime with antibacterial products for acne. You don't need to wear make-up: an elf has a natural beauty, and having clean skin should be all you need. I f you really like make-up, you may want to wear it, but stick to natural colors or greens and browns. Make sure that the colors you choose look natural on you and complement your natural skin tone. Eyeliner applied skillfully will make eyes look bigger and angled upwards. Do this by putting eyeliner on the top of your eyes but only from the middle to the outer side. Flick it out gently if you wish. Then apply it on the bottom but only on the outer quarter. Blend it with the top and smudge for a more natural look. Bronzer and blush may look good but don't overdo it, elves are naturally beautiful, you want to make it look like you aren't wearing makeup at all. Keep lips moist and healthy with balm. Nail polish is fun too.
 It doesn't really matter about hair, but long usually looks right. Short hair will still look really cool, but you may look more pixie than elf (nothing wrong with that though!). Colour and texture do not matter. Keep it clean though and wear it out usually. As long as it's clean, any style will do; however, it's usually most elven-looking to not have it hanging in your face. Braids look really good; you can try french braids, one long braid, pulled-back braids, braiding small sections, putting braids in buns, etc. Half-ponies and buns are also good.
 Elves are usually tall and thin so you may want to exercise to lose weight BUT DON'T STARVE YOURSELF! If you are short this doesn't matter, wear high heels if you want but it won't matter really. Hold your self tall and confidently but don't act like a snob. Pull your shoulders back and push your chest forward but not overly so. You don't want to look like you are showing of your breasts. Hold your head high and proud. Walk and talk musically and elegantly.
 Don't change your personality entirely. Keep your own self in there somewhere but don't become angry quickly, be calm, have dignity, be kind to all animals, the environment and other people and stand up for what you believe in and what is right. Elves are loyal to their allies (i.e. your friends).

