 To inform yourself about the risk and seriousness of eating disorders, it can be helpful to perform a cursory internet search about these conditions. Only a doctor or mental health provider can officially diagnose your eating disorder, but learning more can help you understand how life-threatening these conditions can be, and motivate you to get help. Learn about the most common types of eating disorders.Anorexia nervosa is characterized by an obsessive preoccupation with body size and weight. An individual with this condition may fear gaining weight and believe she (or he) is overweight even when she’s severely underweight. Individuals may refuse to eat and eat very restrictive diets. Some people with anorexia may purge (vomit) or take laxatives to lose weight.

Bulimia nervosa involves periods of binge eating—that is, uncontrollably consuming large amounts of food—and then compensating for overeating by purging, taking laxatives or diuretics, exercising excessively, fasting, or a combination of these methods. This condition can be hard to spot because many people with bulimia maintain an average weight.

Binge eating disorder is characterized by eating large amounts of food even when a person is not hungry. People with bulimia may eat in secret and be unable to control themselves during a binge. Although similar, individuals suffering from binge eating disorder (BED) do not engage in compensatory behaviors like purging or exercising excessively. People with BED may be overweight or obese.
 Once you learn more about eating disorders, you may notice several symptoms that describe your own behavior. Paying attention to your symptoms as well as your thoughts and feelings can be helpful when you seek professional help. You can log your symptoms in a journal to help you and your doctor better understand your eating disorder.Try to write in your journal daily, as this can help you spot the connections between your thought patterns and behaviors, which can be useful for your recovery treatment.For example, you might log an episode of binge-eating. Then, think back to what happened right before the episode. What were your thoughts? Feelings? Who were you around? What were you talking about? Then, log how you felt afterwards. What thoughts and feelings came over you?

, It may be practical to think about when and how your symptoms began to appear. Pinpointing such details can help your doctor diagnose your condition and any co-existing conditions like anxiety or depression. Thinking about causes can also help when you start to make lifestyle changes during treatment.


The exact cause of eating disorders is unknown. Still, researchers have found that many people have parents or siblings with eating disorders, and may have been raised with strong social or cultural ideals of thinness. They may also have low self-esteem and a perfectionist personality, and be subjected to images of thinness from peers or the media.