 Give yourself plenty of time to recover immediately after the surgery. You'll still be under the influence of anesthetic and your mouth will be quite sensitive.
 Your mouth will bleed quite a bit after extraction. Change your gauze regularly so it can soak up the blood.
 This will help your blood clot form. Try to bite down on gauze for roughly 45 minutes to an hour.If heavy bleeding continues after you use the gauze a few times, contact your oral surgeon.
 It's important that a blood clot forms to protect your extraction site. Otherwise, you could wind up with a dry socket, which can be extremely painful. When you brush your teeth, be extremely careful around the extraction site. You don't want to dislodge the blood clot and cause dry socket.
Also, do not use straws, smoke, or do anything else that causes sucking, since this can also dislodge the blood clot.
 These could restart bleeding or possibly cause dry socket. Don't even blow your nose, as the change in air pressure could disrupt the healing process at the extraction site.


It's also important to keep your head elevated to help with the healing process. Sleep with your head above your heart, either by using stacked pillows or wedge pillows.
 After the first 24 hours, you'll need to clean out the tooth socket with salt water. Don't do this during the first day, since you can dislodge the blood clot.


Use 1/4 teaspoon of salt in an 8 oz glass of water. You can do this two to three times daily to help keep your mouth clean., Some swelling will happen, depending on the severity of your surgery. Apply ice for 20 minutes at a time directly to your face above the affected area.Swelling will likely not be at its worst until two to three days after surgery. Continue to apply ice to the affected area as long as it's needed.
Don't worry if you see any bruises in the swollen area. This is absolutely normal and they will go away in a few days.
 Your oral surgeon will prescribe you pain medication. Follow their directions and take only as many as is suggested. The worst pain will be in the first 6 hours; it should be significantly less after that.


If the pain medication causes nausea, tell your oral surgeon. They may be able to prescribe something different or have an over-the-counter suggestion.
 It may be useful to stick to a liquid diet at first, so to avoid irritating the your extraction site. Find meals that are easy to chew and do not tax your teeth.Stay away from hot and foods, since they can also irritate the extraction site. Stick to foods that are room temperature.
Small foods, such as rice, nuts, seeds, and popcorn can become lodged in the extraction site as well, so do not eat them while recovering., Smoking can cause dry socket, which can be extremely painful. Take a few days off from smoking until your oral surgeon says that you will not cause any damage to the extraction site.
 If anything unusual occurs, make sure to talk to your oral surgeon immediately. This is especially true if you any of the below problems:


Excessive bleeding
Swelling after three to four days
Persistent numbness
Issues with pain medication

