 Due to sponsorship law, paperwork considerations, and cultural expectations, it is rarely possible for you to arrive in Dubai without employment and find a job locally.Investigate job portals online to give yourself a better idea of where you could best focus your job search, but be on alert for illegitimate web based companies that might take advantage of your lack of knowledge of UAE Law.
 UAE law makes a careful distinction between part-time work and freelancing. If you are considering freelancing in Dubai, you will be considered a single person company working for yourself, which is allowed as long as you have an appropriate freelance license.Licenses are distributed by relevant government agencies in accordance to your industry/location. Freelancing in a free trade zone of Dubai has different requirements than that of Dubai proper., These may or may not differ greatly from the temp opportunities in your own country. If you're interested in temp work in Dubai, you should look into the following positions:


Office administration/secretarial
Retail work (during tourist season)
Bar/nightclub staff
Market research
Nursing
Courier services (with international companies)
Chauffeur/driving services, Though many experts today believe cold-calling to be a relic from the past, this method of job hunting is still alive and well in Dubai.Some analysts claim that as many as 24% of candidates get their job through cold-calling in Dubai.Do your homework first; understanding the corporate vision or already having a contact in the company you want to work for will open doors.


Look into recent accomplishments or business ventures of the company in which you are interested. Lead with this in your call, and then work your way to inquiring about a position.
As an example:
"Good morning, I've been reading about your company's work in investment planning. I found the article in Khaleej Times about your company very interesting, especially about the new ventures you are planning. I recently graduated from UK University in investment planning, and the article lead me to believe there might be openings with your company. If it isn't inconvenient, is there perhaps someone I could speak with in regard to that?"

, Many companies advertise new job postings or openings for positions in the "Appointments" section of such reputable periodicals as the Khaleej Times and Gulf News. Make contact with the information provided, be firm, yet polite, do not try to schedule a meeting on Friday (a day of prayer and rest), and come armed with your business cards and a well constructed CV/resumé.