 A quick splash of cold water in the morning will not do the job. Choose an appropriate cleanser that will purify your pores. If your skin is prone to greasiness, invest in a quality sebum control product to reduce oil. Always remember that makeup will not stay or even reach its full potential if it is placed on a dirty canvas.;
, A standard cleanser will not remove dead skin as a gentle exfoliator will.
 Research and purchase a natural lotion if possible, so as to avoid weakening and tiring your skin with excessive chemicals.
 Primer is the makeup artist's secret weapon. A high quality primer smooths the skin's surface, adds radiance and keeps foundation in place throughout the day. However, primer is very miniaturizing, so unless you have exceptionally dry or tolerant skin, forgo the second step if you are planning to apply it.
 Choose the best match for your skin not only in shade but in type as well. A perfect fit will ensure your foundation is effective. Test how your skin absorbs the product. Does your skin need a creamier foundation or will a thinner one suffice? Always wear foundation and concealer only where strictly necessary and never more than needed. This will prevent sliding and a tired, midday face.
 A liquid liner, if done well, can add a subtle--or not so subtle--drama to the eyes. For maximum staying power, choose a waterproof liquid liner. If you must keep your pencil, choose a waterproof, waxy type. It will last longer but will not have the same crisp intensity as a liquid liner.
 Always wait for a coat to dry before applying another and do not load your lashes with unnecessary product. If you choose to use a waterproof formula daily, choose one that contains a moisturizer as these mascaras are generally extremely drying. Be sure to remove every last scrap of mascara and to apply a lash lotion before bed.
 A coarse, inferior shadow will soon fade and deteriorate. Always apply foundation or primer beneath shadow to keep the colour intense. It is best, when possible, to refresh eyeshadow as the eyelids are among the oiliest parts of the body.
 You must work swiftly to blend the stain for once it is applied only washing will remove it.
 Choose a creamy, quality pencil and fill in the entire mouth. Apply your chosen lip colour, blot gently and them reapply. If you don't have the time needed, choose a lip stain. Like a cheek stain, you can rely on it to carry you through the entire day.
 Be sure that you are not allergic to any of the ingredients. This trick is best avoided by those will sensitive skin or pores that are easily clogged. Always remember--close your eyes!

,