 Capricorns have a suspicious nature.If you press him too hard for information, you will likely have a difficult time earning his trust. You will want to avoid prying about his past or other areas that are too personal if you haven't yet won his trust.;
, The first thing you have to learn in order to love a Capricorn man is to be patient. A Capricorn man will not give his love to just anyone. He will trust gradually as you show him that you are just as dedicated to commitment., If you have a date at a specific time, don't be late. A Capricorn man likes to make firm plans and seeks out dependable partners that will see things through.Breaking plans or changing things at the last minute without discussing it will likely frustrate him.
 This will help you to get beyond a Capricorn man's formal exterior and engage the quirky, charming man inside. Capricorn men often very reserved, witty and have a dry sense of humor, so spark up quiet, intelligent conversations.


Choose outings that make a good environment for conversations. Capricorns prefer quiet dinners out or at home. Avoid bringing him to a loud bar or party. He will just get bored or annoyed.
 A Capricorn man is very sensual, but his drive for social status and success will ultimately determine if he thinks of you as a potential partner. Avoid wearing clothes that are too tight or revealing. Dress in mature, conservative clothes. Pick out something you would wear to dinner with his parents.


You don't need to be a stunner to get his attention. Capricorns prefer intellect over beauty.
If you have glasses, wear them. They can make you seem more intellectual.
 You are likely to find a Capricorn man at places where he can climb the ladder and better his social status. This means you aren't likely to find a Capricorn at usual dating spots like bars or night clubs. His idea of an exciting night out is very likely the company holiday party. Look for a Capricorn man at work-related events or networking conventions, or social events like a charity drive.

