 Try to figure out which aspects of your life your parents are bothering you in. You won't be able to get them to leave you alone completely, but you could figure out what area of your life is most important to be your time not theirs.


Keep track of your time with your parents for about a week. Write down specific events or conversations that are especially bothering you.
 Relationships are a two-way street. If you are acting rude towards your parents, they could feel inclined, out of concern, to become more involved with you. If you continue to get into a conversation or argument you dislike, then recall your language and tone. Is this different than your normal speaking voice?Even if you consider yourself to be a friendly person, recognize if this behavior is causing your parents to interact with you more than you'd like.
 Your parents could be going through a hard time at work or even experiencing a rough patch in their relationship. Try asking your parents how their day was.Inquiring about what they are going through could help lead them to admit they're recent over-involvement with you.


If you are only experiencing annoyances with one parent, try asking their friend or your other parent/guardian about the parent in question. They may have good advise on what is bothering them.
 If you have an older sibling, then find out if they went through the same thing. Ask your friends about their relationships and inquire if you're problems are common among your group of friends. Meet with a trusted mentor (teacher, adviser, babysitter, etc) and ask them about your parents being overbearing.


If you are still unsure about your dilemma, consult with a guidance councilor or ask your parents for a therapist.
 If this feeling is a recent development, then try waiting a week or two to see if their actions persist. Issues can fluctuate into an overwhelming period of time, and sometimes during this time people need help or the company of others. Remember your parents are also human beings and deserve your patience.

