 ACV has antibacterial properties that are beneficial to dogs' skin, ears, and digestive systems. It also alters dogs' internal pH level, helping to repel fleas. Regularly feeding your dog ACV helps to promote good health, both inside and outside.Keeping a good pH level is important. Pests like fleas, ticks, bacteria, parasites, ringworm, fungi, staphylococcus, streptococcus, pneumococcus, and mange are less likely to bother dogs with slightly more acidic urine and an acidic skin/fur coat outer layer. Apple cider vinegar can promote these qualities.Opponents of ACV use argue that there is no proven scientific data that shows that ACV effectively repels fleas. They argue that any benefits derived from bathing in ACV are likely to be a result of regular flea combing and treating the environment, rather than the ACV directly.
 It can sting when applied to broken skin or sores. Don’t use on broken skin. If you are planning on using ACV to fend off fleas, then be aware that if the fleas have irritated your dog’s skin enough, it will probably burn.


Bladder stones can form after prolonged ACV use. ACV is acidic and raises the level of acid in your dog's urine. Highly acidic urine in dogs leads to oxalate bladder stones. This is because oxalate crystals precipitate out of ACV solution. Potentially, the bladder stone could block the urethra (the tube through which the dog urinates), limiting your dog's ability to urinate. This is an emergency situation, which will require surgery to remedy.It is certainly NOT advisable to give ACV to any animal with a history of bladder stones of the oxalate variety. In theory, you could monitor the dog's urinary pH using dipsticks. The ideal pH should be around 6.2 - 6.4, so if the dipstick indicates a pH more acidic than this (below 6.2) then it would be best to discontinue using ACV until the pH recovered. , There are manufactured forms of apple cider vinegar and organic versions. Choose the latter. The best apple cider vinegar to use is fermented and unfiltered, also referred to as "raw." Raw ACV contains a cloudy substance called "the mother," which contains healthy enzymes and minerals.