 Brush the exposed surface of the avocado with enough acidic juice to coat lightly.


Cutting open an avocado causes the cellular walls inside the fruit to break apart, and a process known as oxidation will be triggered as a result. Oxidation is the process responsible for turning certain fruits brown.






An acidic agent will slow oxidation down.






Aside from lemon juice and lime juice, other acidic agents include orange juice, vinegar, and tomato juice.
 Fit the two halves back together as best as possible, securing the seedless half over the seed still lodged in the other half.


The idea is to limit exposure as much as possible. If both halves of the avocado are still intact at this point, fitting them back together will effectively cover up all of the exposed flesh. You cannot repair the broken cell membranes, so oxidation will still occur, but this step will help slow it down by reducing the amount of oxygen the flesh is exposed to.
 Tightly wrap the avocado in plastic wrap to create an airtight seal.


Alternatively, you could also place the avocado in an airtight container, vacuum-sealed plastic bag, or resealable plastic bag. All you really need to do at this point is to find a way to restrict or halt airflow to the fruit.






By creating an airtight seal, you are limiting the amount of oxygen that the surface of the avocado flesh will be exposed to, thereby slowing down the oxidation process.
 Place the wrapped avocado in the refrigerator for a few days, or until ripe.


Keep the avocado in a fruit shelf or in the back of your refrigerator, where temperatures tend to be their coldest.
Do not keep the avocado out on the counter or in the pantry at room temperature. Once the fruit is cut, it must be refrigerated to preserve its quality and edibility.
 Since the avocado is in the refrigerator, it will take a little longer to ripen than a whole avocado kept out at room temperature.


Cut, unripe avocados are more difficult to preserve. Depending on how far along the avocado was in its ripening process, it could take anywhere from a couple of days to a week to ripen. Occasionally, the flesh may even begin to oxidize before it fully ripens.






When ripe, the avocado should give slightly once you apply a little pressure with your fingers. Mushy avocados are over-ripe, however.







