 As with in-store purchases, you must first verify the refund policy set by the company that issued the prepaid credit card. For most prepaid credit cards, including all Visa and MasterCard prepaid credit cards, you can simply return the item as though you’d made the purchase with a regular credit card.This also includes confirming that you can receive a refund based on the refund policy for the website where you purchased the item or service.
 Either by phone or through the website, contact the company’s customer service department if you wish to receive a refund due to poor service, being overcharged for the service, or another refund that’s not related to an actual return.


For example, say you purchased a basic tier of cloud storage and the company charged you for the expanded storage package. Since you don’t have an actual item to return, you’ll have to contact customer service (they may forward you to a billing department) to initiate the refund. Have any documentation ready—such as the email you received when you completed the purchase—to prove you were incorrectly charged.
You may also have to contact the company’s customer service department relating to tangible items that you purchased if you have questions about returning the item outside the return window, for instance.
 Many larger retailers have online return centers through which you can set up your return if you want a refund on an actual item. Login to the account from which you made the purchase, find the return option for the appropriate item, and process it as a return. The retailer may even include a printable return shipping label for the item.


For smaller online retailers, you’ll likely have to call and speak to a customer service representative who can set up the return for you. In this case, you’ll likely need to have the card available to confirm the number on it.The person may email you a printable return shipping label, or you may simply be given a return address to which you must send the item.
It’s entirely up to the company whether or not they pay all (or even a portion) of the return shipping costs. You may or may not be responsible for these. If you are responsible, then the company will remove the amount from your refund before issuing it.
 Once you have set up the return, repackaged the item (if necessary), and affixed the new shipping label, you can simply drop it off for return. Most major online retailers will provide return labels for UPS or FedEx. Ensure that you get the receipt when you drop off the package. It will include a tracking number for the return, so you can provide proof of the returned item., Most online companies will send you an email with the refunded amount once they receive the item (if applicable) or process the refund in their system. The company that issued your prepaid credit card will provide either a website or a phone number that you can use to check the balance on the card.Check the balance on your card to make sure that you receive the refund within seven business days of the company confirming that they received the item., If you haven’t received your refund within seven business days, contact the retailer to ensure that they have issued the refund. If they have refunded your purchase amount, then contact the company that issued the prepaid credit card to find out why the funds haven’t been dispersed.


Take notes every time you speak to someone when looking into why the money hasn’t been refunded.
Keep records of all the emails you received as well, including the email you can show the card issuer proving that the retailer received the return shipment and issued the refund.

