 Click on the crown template above or browse for a different template online. Search for “princess crown template” or “crown template.” After you have found the perfect template, download the document or pdf. Print the template at home, your local library, or send it to a print shop.If you are searching for a template for a princess crown, look for templates with softer shapes and curves. The more delicate, the better.
If you are looking for a template for a royal crown, look for templates with jagged shapes.;
, Find a pair of scissors. Follow the lines and carefully cut out the template. If the template has two parts, line up the edges and staple or glue them together.








If you are doing this project with kids, assist and supervise with this step.
 Cardstock, cardboard, or even poster paper are great options! Set the paper “wrong side” up, the side that won’t be showing when you wear it. Lay the template on the piece of paper you will be using. Use a pencil to lightly trace the template onto the paper. Once complete, remove the template and cut out the crown.








If you want to use thinner paper, such as scrapbook paper or wrapping paper, glue it down onto a stiffer paper (such as cardstock) first.
If you want your crown to be a special color (such as silver or gold), paint it first using spray paint or acrylic paint. Let the paint dry, then trace it, then cut it out.
 Measure the length of the crown. Cut out a strip of cardboard or fabric that is the length of the crown and 1 to 1.5 inches wide. Line up the bottom edge of the strip with the bottom edge of the crown. Adhere this strip to the “wrong side” of the crown with glue. The cardboard or fabric will reinforce the crown and prevent it from ripping. Allow the glue to dry.
 You can decorate your crown any way you choose! Use markers, crayons, or colored pencils to make cool designs. Bedazzle your crown with your gems and sequins! Sprinkle glitter on the crown. Let your creativity flow! Allow your decorations to dry.








To create a princess crown, use silver or gold glitter glue, and pink or purple gem stones.
To create a royal crown, use gold glitter glue, and blue, red, green, or purple gem stones.
To make a crown fit for an ice queen, use lots of silver or iridescent glitter glue. Use lots of blue and silver gem stones.
If you want to make a creepy crown, consider using black glitter glue, and glueing on some plastic spiders and black or purple gem stones.
 Circle the cut out crown around the wearer’s head. The edges of the crown should overlap. Make a pencil mark where the two edges overlap. Remove the crown from the wearer’s head. Line up the edges at the pencil mark and staple or glue them together. Let the glue dry before wearing your crown!