 Establish whether this is going to be a large party or a smaller gathering. Knowing the size of the party in advance will help you create a more accurate budget and get the right amount of food and non-alcoholic beverages.;
, Write down a list of the people you are going to ask to come. Be sure to invite people who you know will be comfortable not drinking. The goal of the party might be to have guests not even notice that there isn't alcohol being served. This will be hard to do if you invite guests that you know rely on alcohol to have a good time or guests that keep bringing up the fact that there is no alcohol.
 Although you don’t need to send invitations until you have decided on a theme and a date, you may want to decide the format in advance. Be sure to let people know there won't be alcohol at the party.


Invite people through Facebook. You can create a Facebook event in a matter of minutes. If you’re short on time and the party is coming up, social media is a great way to spread the word.
Send paper invites. Depending on the ages of the people you are inviting to the party, paper invitations may be a better choice. For example, if your guests are older adults, they may not use social media. Paper invites require slightly more time, and they can add to your total party costs.
 The best themes for your party align with your guests’ interests. Think about the ages and genders of your invitees. Since this will be a party without alcohol, some themes like wine and cheese or others based around alcoholic beverages won’t be appropriate. However, a theme will be important and need to be prominent for it to be a fabulous party.Focus on an upcoming holiday. Seasonal themes, such as a Halloween costume party or an ugly sweater Christmas party, can be popular with your guests.
Base the party on food. Your theme can be as simple as a potluck where everyone brings a food item to share, or it can be something more creative like a make-your-own-pizza party or cookie decorating.
Use a pop culture theme. If the invitees are all interested in a certain TV show or movie, such as Game of Thrones, this can set your theme. Be sure the theme is something that will appeal to the entire guest list so no one is left out.
Host a costume party. There are limitless themes in this area. You can hold a party based on the styles of a particular decade, for instance. If guests are expected to dress up to add to the theme, be sure to inform them in advance.
 The theme serves as a guideline for a lot of the details of the party. Some themes may not require a great deal of decorations, but they always add something. For example, a Halloween party can always benefit from spooky decorations to set the mood.
 The food you serve at the party can work with the theme, but it’s also important to decide if you will be serving a meal or hors d’oeuvres. The guest list will help you determine how much food you need. The food will be especially important since there won't be alcohol.


Have alternative foods for guests. Be aware of any allergies or dietary restrictions guests may have so you can work around this.
Choose foods that fit the theme. If you’re holding a party based on a movie or other specific theme, you can include food items that are reminiscent of it. For example, if you’re hosting a Harry Potter party, offer cookies with glasses or lightning bolts.
 Parties with alcohol often don’t have many planned activities, but you will want to schedule something for a fun party without alcohol. It helps steer the party in the right direction.


If you're throwing a party with a lot of people who know each other, you may not need to do much to have a fun time without alcohol. It can be simple entertainment, such as watching the movie that gave the party its theme. , There are a number of fun games intended for parties, such as Apples to Apples, Cards Against Humanity, or Catchphrase. These also serve as icebreakers for guests who may not know each other, which can help guests mingle at a party where alcohol isn't served. Choose a classic. Charades and other party games have been around for a long time, but they can still make your party a hit. Rather being general, charades can align with your theme.
Make up your own game. If you can't find a game that fits your theme, create your own game. This can be bonding experience for guests. Write down the rules for the game so they will be easy to follow. You can even put a non-alcoholic spin on a drinking game, like Sprite pong instead of beer pong.
 If there is going to be down time during the party, such as when guests are eating dinner, a themed playlist can help set the mood. You can either choose your own songs or use a streaming service like Pandora or Spotify to pick a playlist that fits the theme.
 Fortunately, you won’t have to worry about providing alcohol for your guests, but other party expenses can add up. It’s important to make a budget before sending out invitations because you may need to adjust your plans to keep costs down.


Get quotes from caterers. If you decide to utilize a catering service, contact a few different companies in the area to get an idea of price before making your selection.
 Without alcohol, food will likely be the bulk of your party expenses. You may want to consider catering if you can afford it, which could cover a dinner or appetizers. You can easily avoid hiring a caterer and have a fabulous party.
 Depending on the theme of your party, you may want to offer favors for guests. For example, if you were hosting an 80s dance party, you could give guests neon bracelets and other accessories. It’s important to factor the cost of these items into your total budget.
 Party decorations help set the theme, but you don’t need to go overboard. If you are trying to cut back on expenses, you may want to select inexpensive decorations, make your own, or purchase items that can be reused in the future.
 Just because there won’t be alcohol at the party doesn’t mean you have to stick to offering your guests nothing besides water or soda. Many cocktail recipes can be adjusted to leave out the alcohol. Pinterest is a great source of ideas and recipes for non-alcoholic drinks.


Search by theme. If you're trying to get drink ideas, try searching based on your theme. You may find recipes you hadn't thought to use.
 The non-alcoholic beverages you serve can enhance the theme of your party. For example, if you are hosting a tropical party, you can use tiki glasses and paper umbrellas.
 If your party has a seasonal theme, there may be a beverage that fits right in. For example, if it's a fall harvest party, you could serve warm apple cider. Peppermint hot chocolate would be perfect for a Christmas or winter party.
 Make sure your house is tidy before your guests start arriving. Pay close attention to the areas where people will be, like the kitchen, living room, and bathroom. As you're cleaning, set up decorations, leaving yourself enough time to be thorough.
 Purchase all the food, snacks, and refreshments you were planning to have at your party. Depending on what you will be offering, you may need to cook some things, such as cookies or other baked goods, in advance to save time. Be sure to leave yourself enough time for everything that will need to be done ahead of time.


Write a schedule. Parties often have many different aspects. Write a list of everything you will need to do and choose times to accomplish each item.
Ask a friend for help. Setting up for a party can be a lot of work, so you can ask a friend or family member for assistance so everything looks perfect when guests start to arrive.
 After the hard work of organizing an event, enjoy yourself. Circulate and talk to each of your guests. Have fun with the activities you’ve planned for the party.

