 Remember that the goal is to talk to your teen about sex. This means that you should have a discussion, not give a lecture. Pick a time that is convenient for both of you to talk.Many parents find that the car is a good place to have an important conversation with their teen. You can concentrate on talking with minimal distractions.
Find a teachable moment. A good way to start a conversation is to have it occur organically. Bring up the topic when there is a natural opening.For example, maybe you are watching tv together and the story line involves teenage sex. You can turn to your teen and say, "Is that something you've been thinking about?"
Or maybe you have a relative who recently had a baby. You can ask your teen if they have any questions about pregnancy.
 You and your teen might have very different opinions about sex. It is okay to voice your beliefs. However, it is also important to demonstrate that you are open-minded.You can tell your teen that you will not judge them. Try saying, "I'm not here to judge you, I'm just here to listen."
You can also try to look at things from a different perspective. Think of your teen as an individual, and help them make their own choices.
You can try saying, "I've never thought of that before. What makes you feel that way?"

, A good conversation will occur when both you and your teen are active participants. Give your teen plenty of opportunities to express their feelings and ask questions. Show your teen that you are listening.Pay attention. It's easy to become distracted by trying to fix dinner or answer an e-mail, but give your teen your full attention.
Maintain eye contact. This will help your teen know that you are listening carefully.
Demonstrate that you are listening by paraphrasing. Try saying, "I hear you saying that you feel pressured to have sex. That must be pretty confusing."

, Talking about sex with your teen can be delicate. You want to keep your teen safe. Remember that the best way to do that is by being honest.Maybe you want to tell your teen to wait until marriage for sex. A natural question from them might be, "Did you wait?"
Give a truthful response. You can say, "No, I didn't, but I wish that I would have."
Don't try to scare your teen with made up facts. For example, don't tell them inaccurate facts about how STDs are transmitted. Remember that accurate information is the best way to keep them safe.
 Keeping the lines of communication open. Let your teen know that they can come talk to you about sex at anytime. This initial conversation does not have to answer all of the questions.You can try saying, "I know that's a lot of information to handle. Let me know if any questions occur to you later."
You can also say something like, "I know things change, so feel free to come to me anytime you find yourself in a new situation."
Try checking in a few days after the initial talk. You can say, "Thanks for your honesty the other day. Is there anything else that you thought of that you want to know?"

