 While you are just trying to show your ex that you still care about him, there is a chance that he might interpret your friendliness as a sign that you want to get back together. You should be wary of this, treat the situation with tact, but be clear about where you draw the line.If he asks you to help him with something, or to do something together, don't feel obliged to say yes if you are uncomfortable.


Be clear in your response, but show that you understand his feelings. You could say something like "I still care about you, but we're not together any more and I can't do that for you".
Explain yourself by saying things like, "I know this is difficult", "I know this is an awkward situation".
Talking like this while affirming your position will show that you are acknowledging and validating his feelings.
 You may still miss each other. It's natural to feel this way, but don't let your emotions take over. When you let your emotions take over, you may find yourself saying or doing things that you will regret and will only make things harder in the long-run.Think about the happy moments that you've had with each other, but realise that they are in the past.


Respecting each other means respecting the decision you made to break up.
It can often take a long time for people who were in a relationship to become friends again.It's normal to feel sorry for yourself and have doubts after a break up, but remember that you broke up for a reason., While you might be making a big effort to be kind and friendly to your ex so he can get over you and be happy, it's important that you don't neglect yourself. Start thinking about the future and looking forward rather than back. Take some time off to set some realistic goals and give yourself the right amount of time to start accomplishing them. Visit some of your closest friends or family member and discuss your future plans with them.Don't forget to try and have fun with friends too. Your don't have to stop everything in order to avoid upsetting your ex. Just be sensitive and considerate.
If you keep thinking of the past you might find it harder to take the new opportunities that arise.