 Floor boards, carpeting, marble bench tops, Smeg appliances??? Such things are irrelevant when it comes to ego loss and becoming one with the void. A garden however is something that even the most ascetic of students can not do without. For a pretty flower belongs to no one. It can neither be owned nor possessed yet a well thought out garden can help the mind to settle and focus on the almighty in a way that not even a Ferrari is capable of. #One cannot describe something one doesn't know or you only have vague knowledge about. Therefore begin by discovering more about Taoism, learn both forms of Taoism, the philosophy of Tao and the Religion of Tao. Start point: The Philosophy of Tao came first and is based on Lao-Tzu's teachings in the Tao Te Ching, next came the Religion of Tao which is based on the legend that Lao-Tzu visited a hermit and told him the world was going to end, those who followed Lao-TZu would go on to better lives.;
, Research the main tenets of Taoism, they are like the ten commandments, being a set of moral laws or maxims that say how a man should act. Starting point: The main tenets are do not murder, do not steal, do not lie, do not consume intoxicants or become involved in sexual misconduct. This requires a certain discipline. An example of such dedication is in how a good spiritual practitioner, if stabbed in the thorax, will calmly remove the knife, clean it, and then try to return it to its proper owner.
 Read a verse, write it down and then try to translate it into simpler language without destroying the original meaning. For example


Tao called Tao is not Tao: Tao means Way
Meaning:The true way is humble and subtle so few see it, those who boast they know the way do not know the way. The sage follows a path, he does not call it way, but it is.
 Understand that Taoist concepts are often paradoxes which are almost impossible to understand.


Tao or The way or path
WU-WEI or action without action
TE or Usually translated as integrity and the cultivating of the Tao
PU or the state of free from prejudice, susceptible to change like Tabula Rasa.
 You should also learn how these are worshipped and why. All the deities have different powers, worshipped in different ways.
 Meditate and while meditating think about what Taoism means or means to you, with intense meditation you'll spark of your brain. Write down what you think and you will have unlocked what Taoism, which is supposedly following the natural, means.

