 Lean protein is an essential nutrient in your diet. It provides the basis for the majority of your body's processes and functions.Choosing healthy, lean sources of protein at each meal can help meet your body's needs each day.


In general, one serving of protein is about 3-4 ounces. This is the size of your palm or a deck of cards.Most of your protein choices should be lean. These contain higher amounts of protein and less fat which can help support a healthy weight. Choose items like: poultry, eggs, lean beef, seafood, legumes, pork, tofu or low-fat dairy products.
It's appropriate to eat higher fat protein sources on occasion. However, these types of foods should not be the main source of your protein.
 Both fruits and vegetables are low in calories and incredibly nutrient rich.Eating adequate servings of these foods can help you reach a variety of your nutrient goals each day.


One serving of fruits is 1/2 cup or one small piece of fruit.One serving of vegetables is one cup or two cups of leafy green vegetables.Make half of your plate a fruit or vegetable to help you meet your daily goals.
Choose a variety of fruits and vegetables that are deep in color. These contain more nutrients compared to paler vegetables. For example, choose spinach over iceberg lettuce or choose butternut squash over yellow summer squash.
Also choose a wide variety of fruits and vegetables each day and week. You will limit the your nutrition if you only eat one or two types of fruits and vegetables.
 When you're eating foods like bread, rice or pasta, it's beneficial to eat 100% whole grains instead of refined grains.


Whole grains are less processed and contain the entire grain — bran, endosperm and germ. These foods are typically higher in fiber, protein and other essential nutrients.Choose items like: brown rice, quinoa, whole grain oats or 100% whole wheat bread.
Refined grains are those that are more processed and generally do not contain the nutrient containing parts of the grain. Refined grains are lower in fiber, protein and other nutrients. Items like white bread, plain pasta or white rice are refined grains.
One serving of grains is about 1 ounce. That could be one slice of bread or about 1/2 cup of pasta or rice. Include three to four servings of these foods each day.
 These types of foods generally contain more sugar, fat, sodium and overall calories.To help promote a healthy diet and weight, it's important to reduce the intake of these types of foods.


Limit foods like: candy, cakes, cookies, pastries, frozen meals, processed meats and chips or crackers.
Try to eat mostly whole, minimally processed foods like raw fruits and vegetables, frozen or canned fruits and vegetables without sauces or seasonings, fresh or frozen protein without added sauces or seasonings, whole grains and low-fat dairy products.
 Adequate hydration is an essential component to a healthy eating plan. Adequate hydration helps your body function normally.Everyone needs a different amount of hydrating fluids each day. New guidelines suggest this method to find out how many ounces to drink each day: divide your weight in half, and that will give you the number of ounces of fluids you should consume.If you weigh 150 lbs. you should drink 75 oz, or a little over nine cups. Try to drink this much as your initial goal. You may change this amount as you continue to work on your diet.
Choose fluids that are sugar-free and decaffeinated (these hydrate you the best). Items like water, flavored water, decaf coffee and tea are appropriate types of beverages.Reduce or cut out sweetened beverages. The consumption of sweetened beverages may lead to weight gain. Cut out sodas, juices, sweet teas and alcohol.
 Vitamin and mineral supplements may help you maintain your healthy eating pattern. These supplements can add extra nutrition to your diet. This may be especially helpful for people with food allergies, diet restrictions or are picky eaters.Consider taking a multivitamin. This is a general supplement that contains a wide variety of vitamins and minerals. These are a great, all-purpose type of supplement.
Consider an additional iron supplement. Some people, especially females who are menstruating, may need additional iron.
Vitamin B12 is typically found in animal foods and those who are vegetarian or vegan may need an additional B12 supplement.Vitamin and mineral supplements are not to be relied upon heavily or used in place of real, whole foods. They are meant to be a supplement to a healthy, well-balanced diet.
Always check with your doctor prior to starting any vitamin or mineral supplement. Not all supplements are safe and appropriate for everyone.

