 Just like with any other lip color, it’s important to start with a smooth base. Dry, flaky lips will make the lip powder look patchy and uneven. To exfoliate your lips, you can purchase a lip exfoliator at a beauty supply store.If you’d rather go the DIY route, you can whip up an easy batch of homemade lip exfoliator with some sugar (brown or white) and a bit of honey, coconut oil, or olive oil.Dab your exfoliator onto your lips, and gently scrub them with a clean toothbrush or your finger. Let it sit on your lips for a bit, and then rub it off with a damp towel.;
, After exfoliating your lips, it’s good to moisturize them with a thin coat of your favorite lip balm. This will also keep your lips looking smooth and nourished through your lip powder. Make sure to only apply a small amount, so that your lips are hydrated but not overly slick. If you do want to apply a generous amount, make sure to dab the excess balm off right before you’re ready to apply your lip powder., It can be a bit tricky to achieve crisp borders with lip powder, but using a reverse lip liner can help you. A reverse lip liner is applied to the outer perimeter of your lips. When you go in with the lip powder, the reverse lip liner will act as barrier to prevent the color from budging outside of the lines. You can find reverse lip liners at beauty supply stores or online., The first thing you need to do is select the best color for you, which depends both on your natural lip color and the occasion. If you have light colored lips, look for colors like red and coral. If you have bright red lips naturally, try rocking bright pinks and oranges. Dark-lipped people look great in deep wine colors, as well as bright red.Typically, lighter shades work best during the day time, and the dark, bolder colors can come out to play at night.
 Most lip powders will come with a doe foot applicator, the same applicators that typically come with lip glosses. Because this product is obviously a bit different than liquid or cream products you’ve used, you may want to swatch a bit on your hand before applying it to your lips. The “powder” is actually a hydrogel that turns into a creamy texture when it makes contact with skin, so get a feel for it., Once you’ve loaded the applicator with product, it’s easiest to start applying in the middle. If there is any extra product, you will blend it outwards.Carefully fill in the middle of your lip, using the very tip of the applicator to create a stark border, meeting the reverse lip liner you’ve already applied.
 The best way to apply lip product is to work in small sections at a time. The trickiest place to apply lipstick is the outer corners of your lips. Get close to your mirror, and take time to apply it carefully all the way into the corner., Powdered lip product, like many lip stains and liquid lipsticks, can appear a bit patchy and uneven after one coat. If this is the case, apply a second coat just like you applied the first, focusing on areas that look light. If you are headed somewhere, throw the product into your pocket or purse for touch-ups.