 Before you get your family together to tell them about your bipolar depression, figure out exactly what you want to say. This will make you more prepared, which will help you feel less stressed and worried while you are telling them.


Try making a list of all the points you want cover when you talk with them. Even if you don't use all the points when you talk with them, you will feel more prepared and ready to discuss your disorder.For example, put together a list of when your symptoms first started, why you sought out for treatment, how long you've been in treatment, etc.;
, When you are telling your family about your disorder, you may not want to tell every member of your family. You may be comfortable telling your whole immediate family, such as your mom, dad, and siblings, but you may want to hold off telling others.


You can start off small and then gradually tell the rest of your family. If you are not close with parts of your immediate family, you may not be comfortable telling all of them either.
You can tell whomever you want. There is no right or wrong answer when deciding who to tell.
Mental illness is a very personal part of you life, so you may not feel comfortable telling everyone until you have told those closest to you first., You need to be ready to accept any way your family may react to the news of your bipolar depression. Your family may react with love and support. However, there may be some family members who will not be the most supportive about your bipolar depression. They may try to convince you that your mental illness is not real or valid or that you are fine and don't need help.


Unfortunately, this is still a common stigma attached to bipolar depression and many other mental illnesses.For example, your family may tell you, "You're fine. You just need to snap out of his funk and you'll be fine." or "This is just an excuse to act in whatever way you want whenever you want. Just get a grip and act normal."
If this happens, look to friends or other family members who will hopefully be more accepting.

