 Start with a lead rope that is about 14' long. If you can't find one of these, go ahead and make one. It's very simple to. All you need to do is go to your local Tractor Supply Co. and get the necessary materials, such as a rope cut to the right length, a large clasp, which should be able to fit around your rope when it's folded in two (brass or aluminum will do, but brass is the stronger of the two), and a snap. Just slip the snap on at the end, put the two pieces of rope together, put the clasp on and pound it down with a hammer. Voila! Your very own lead rope.;
, Take the lead rope and begin swinging it very gently towards your horses feet. Let it wrap around them so as to desensitize them to the feeling. Gradually work your way up to their back, letting it wrap around the side. It is best to train your horse in a round pen, but a smaller enclosed area like a paddock will also do. Continue this exercise for a couple of days, alternating with lunging. This will create a cycle for the horse: Sensitizing, and then desensitizing.
 After a few days, switch to a whip with a long tassel at the end. This will create noise that most horses do not like. Repeat the same things that you did in step two.
 Your lunging and desensitizing work may have paid off, depending on how long you have spent training your horse to do so. It has been at least two weeks, and now you are ready for the next part in this. Tie your horse in a quick release knot to the side of the roundpen. Your horse should be comfortable with the whip and the lead rope. Thrust your saddle blanket to the very side of your horse, not even on it's back. Rub the blanket around the side, on the buttocks, down the legs (carefully), and near the neck. Continue this for a few more days.
 Now gradually begin edging the blanket higher and higher towards his back, but then take it off. Continue the swinging and throwing motion, and take it off. You should get to the apex of his spine, but again, take it off. This should be done for a couple of days, as well.
 Finally, you should be able to leave the blanket up there for short periods of time. If the horse gives you any lip, smack him lightly. Never use lunging as a punishment the horse will associate a work out with a punishment and that will cause problems later.
 Mr. Ed should be comfortable after all of this to have the blanket put on him anywhere -- from cross-ties to the middle of the pasture -- for a longer length of time. Taking him to an enclosed area (not the cross-ties, though), slip the rope over the side of the roundpen, but DO NOT TIE IT, in any way, shape, or form. If he has not been comfortable with the saddle in the past, he won't be right now, either. He'll just be more used to having things on his back. Take the saddle and do the same things you did with the saddle blanket. Slowly rub it along his side, then work upwards, once more. Gently rest it on his spine, in the normal position behind his withers. If he does anything questionable, get out of the way immediately. Stay out of his way. Continue this same exercise, until you get it set up on him.
 Keep at it, but don't do the cinch just yet. That's a whole different story. Separately, aside from training him to tolerate the saddle on his back, you will need him to accept the cinch. To do this, you must have your 14' lead rope, once again. Swing it on his back, around his hooves, and especially underneath the girth. Mr. Ed should already be acquainted with the lead rope, so this should be no sweat.
 Rest the long rope over his back, around where the cinch and girth should be. Carefully grab it from underneath, and wrap it up to meet so you have, in essence, tied a loop around your horse. Gradually tighten it, but not too tight, at first. Each time you do this, increase the tightness.
 Now back to the saddle. Once your horse is comfortable with the saddle atop his back, and the rope around his girth, bring the SADDLE'S girth around, just like you were with the rope. Take your cinch, and tighten it to the lowest setting. Do this quickly, but gently, then lunge. Mr. Ed may buck, kick, or flail around, so be careful while lunging. Once he is comfortable at a trot with it, make him face you, and praise him.
 Everyday from now until YOU are comfortable, repeat this last exercise. Praise him every time. Tighten the cinch every time, as well, until the saddle would securely stay up on his back and still hold a person up there. As soon as you feel the most comfortable, make sure that you go straight to the next step of mounting, so as he doesn't forget anything he's learned.
 You have successfully trained your horse to hold a saddle.

