 The home recording staple is the four-track (sometimes called digital multitrack recorders). You can still buy an analog four track that records onto a regular cassette tape, but these are harder to find in working condition. You can also invest in a higher quality reel to reel tape recorder.


One of the most popular brands for home recording multitrack systems is Tascam.Four track recorders are machines designed to record four tracks on either a memory card or tape. With the four track, you can record four live takes at once, or layer up to four tracks on top of one another.
You can alternatively purchase an eight track recorder for more multitrack recording possibilities.
 You will need a microphone for a multitrack recorder. The best type of microphone to get for a variety of purposes is a condenser microphone. You can alternatively get a couple of high or low quality dynamic microphones. Choosing a microphone is a complex process that depends on your recording goals and budget.


Multiple microphones will be better to record multiple tracks with your recorder. You can add more parts with more musicians by using multiple microphones.
 Read the manual or start experimenting with your recorder. Think of how the effects on the recorder can be used in your songs and remember any notable qualities of the recorder. Several multitrack recorder have the capability to bounce tracks. Bouncing tracks combines two or more recorded tracks into one track.


Make a few silly demos while you are starting to understand how to use the device. You never know what you may like and what to add to the album.
Bouncing tracks reduces the sound quality, so be wary bouncing too many tracks.
 The best way to start recording a song is to first record an idea in your head. An example of an idea is a drum beat or a funky bass line you keep thinking about. These are launching points for songs. Once you record the foundation of your idea, you’ll be inspired to add different layers to your track.


Choose a song to begin with and have the whole band record at the same time. It does not matter if it sounds bad as long as there is a steady beat and a feel for the song., If you are using a tape recorder, you need to plan out the design of the song in advance. Digital recording is much more forgiving than analog recording. The best way to utilize a tape recorder is with multiple microphones and a mixer. With a mixer you can perform a live set and mix it into one track. Then you can use the remaining tracks for overdubs.


For example, set up multiple microphones to record the guitar, bass, and drums. Send those mics through the mixer and into one track of your four track. Then you can spend three additional tracks on vocals, lead guitar, and any other layers you want to add.

