 The capital switchboard is a number you can call where an operator will direct you to congressmen and women and senators. Call 202-224-3121 and then explain to the operator who you're trying to reach.Let them know who your congressperson or senator is. They will direct you to their office.
You usually have to let the operator know why you're calling. For example, say something like, "I'm calling about the recent vote regarding gun rights.";
, You can find the number of your representative online through the House of Representatives website. All you have to do is enter your zip code into the search bar. You will be directed to a list of numbers for the representatives in your area.If you want to contact your representative, but do not know who they are, you can find that information at the following URL: http://clerk.house.gov/member_info/mcapdir.aspx


, In general, offices found in D.C. tend to be very busy and staffers may not be familiar with your area specifically. Look for district found in the state of your congressional representative. It is easier to get through to these and the staffer may be more familiar with local issues that concern you.The district office number should be listed alongside the D.C. office on the House of Representatives website.
 Understand it sometimes takes awhile to get through when calling your congressional representative, so choose a time when you're free to call. You should also check to make sure you're calling during business hours. If you're calling the D.C office, adjust for the time zone if necessary., Staffers are very busy, so it's important to communicate your message quickly and effectively. Make sure you have all your information ready to go when you call. It can be helpful to jot down some notes before calling.If you're calling about a particular vote or bill for example, write down the bill number or name.
If you have any questions you want to ask, write them down before calling.
 If you're calling about an issue that concerns many voters, chances are the office is getting a lot of phone calls. You may be on hold for long periods when calling the office. Have patience and stay on the line. You should get through eventually, or will eventually be able to leave a message., Calling your representative's office often can help them understand what issues matter to voters. Make a habit of calling each time you have a concern or question. The more active you are in the democratic process, the more likely you are to make an impact.
 Calling is a great way to make your voice heard. However, staffers get hundreds of calls each day. You should also try writing letters or emails, as written communication can be effective as well.In general, it's more effective to type and send a letter than to write an email.
 Always be respectful on the phone with staffers. They are not personally responsible for the decisions your congressional representative makes. State your issue in a calm fashion and thank them for their time before hanging up.