 Many people often refer to giving someone “a pat on the back” as a way to say, “Good job,” or “Well done!” This phrase holds some truth: you can show your praise and congratulations for something to celebrate with a simple pat on the back.Avoid hitting or slapping the person on the back with too much force, which may signal anger or irritation at the person. A gentle pat or even a quick grip of the shoulder can go a long way in demonstrating your happiness for the person.;
, Touch is a key way to bond with others.In familial, platonic, or romantic relationships, touch is a great way to let the person know you love them. You can do this with bear hugs and kisses on the cheek or lips. Some other ways to show your love through touch include:Giving a back rub
Embracing
Kissing
StrokingHolding hands and interlocking fingers

, If you’re hoping to have a romantic relationship with a person, flirting is one of the most important behaviors. It helps you woo the person to like you in the same way. Many people flirt through talking or dates, but you can also express romantic interest through touch. Keep in mind that some gestures are very intimate and may cross the line. In some cases, a simple question of “Is this ok?” can minimize the risk of awkward situations. You can show your attraction by touching a person in some of the following ways:Stroking hair, for example by saying, “You have beautiful hair. May I touch it?”
Putting a hand on the person’s leg, for example by saying, “If this makes you uncomfortable, just tell me and I’ll stop.”
Poking or patting the person in a playful manner
Touching the upper armTapping the person on the elbow with the back of your hand
Hugging with one arm, also called one-armed side hugs

, Greetings are something almost every person does in their lifetime. They can convey warmth and hospitality and ease potential tension in new situations. There are many different ways to warmly welcome a person across the world, from kissing on the cheeks to a good handshake. Some individuals may perceive certain greetings as intimate. In some cases, more intimate gestures such as rubbing noses may be cultural. Use your best judgment when greeting someone by touch. You may want to use more intimate greetings with personal relationships and more formal ones for professional situations. You can show your happiness at seeing someone by:Rubbing nosesKissing on the cheeks
Shaking hands
Hugging

, Many people do kind things for others. You may even have been on the receiving end of a kind gesture. Showing gratitude for a person’s efforts is an important way to let the person know you appreciate them. Saying, “Thank you,” is the most common way to show gratitude, but you can also convey it with a simple touch of a person’s forearm. Other ways to show appreciation through touch include:Shaking a person’s handSqueezing the person’s arm gently
Hugging, You may have a friend or loved one going through a difficult time. In these situations, a person may not want to talk. One of the best ways to show your compassion is to offer your hand or give a light touch. Let a person know you’re sympathetic by:Touching an arm gentlyOffering your handStroking the person’s backPlacing your hand lightly on the back or one shoulder.
 You may find yourself in a situation that requires complete attention to you. If you notice someone isn’t paying attention and won’t listen to you, touch can get the other person to engage with the situation again. Some common ways to get a person’s attention with touch include:Tapping or patting someone gently or the back or shoulder
Grabbing or squeezing the person’s arm lightly
Push the person lightly, Power dynamics are a common part of interpersonal communication.They are often demonstrated through tone of voice and eye contact. However, you can also show that you’re in charge of something with a simple touch such as a shake of the hand. You may also use slightly more pressure to express your dominance.The following are ways to demonstrate power through touch:


Hand shake with an elbow grab
Long hand shake
Patting the person on the back
Patting the back of the arm

, Most people experience surprise at some point in their lives. It could be happy surprise such as finding out you’re pregnant or something unexpected such as the loss of something you love. In these situations, touch can provide you or another individual comfort or added happiness. Some ways to reveal your surprise through touch include:Hugging
Placing a hand on a person’s shoulder
Grabbing another person’s hand or arm lightly

, Every person feels fear and many people are reluctant to disclose this emotion to others. However, touch is a way to disclose fear without actually having to verbalize it to someone else. The most powerful way to express your fear is by touching another person’s arm.Trembling when you touch a person in fear can further underscore your message., Anger is a common human emotion. Most people will express anger by yelling and non-verbal cues such as eye contact. Another non-verbal way to express anger is through touch. However, touching someone when you’re angry is inadvisable. This could cause harm or injury and may result in unpleasant consequences for you. Apply minimal pressure when touching a person to convey anger and combine it with other cues such as tone of voice and body language. This might minimize the risk of anything escalating into a more serious situation such as a fight. Some ways people express anger through touch include:Squeezing an person’s arms or shoulders
Hitting or punching
Shaking the person

