 The ease in adding dairy products like milk and cheese to a wide variety of foods makes them great options for enhancing calorie (and nutrient) content.Smoothies and milkshakes are easy ways to help kids drink their calories, and the addition of fresh fruit can further boost the nutrition content.
Cheese can be melted into or sprinkled on top of just about anything, from eggs to salads to steamed veggies.
Try adding milk to canned soups instead of water, and serve sour cream, cream cheese, or yogurt-based dips with fruits or veggies.
You can adapt if your child has an allergy or intolerance, or if you prefer not serving milk products. Soy and almond milks also provide substantial calories and nutrients, and silken tofu can be used in smoothies, for example.
 So long as allergies are not an issue, peanut butter is almost always a welcome addition to a kid’s meal, and provides substantial calories and protein.Slather peanut butter on whole grain breads, bananas, apples, celery, multigrain crackers, and pretzels.
You can also blend it into smoothies and shakes, and use it as a layer of “glue” between two pancakes or French toast squares.
If peanut allergies are an issue, almond butter can be a good alternative. Flaxseeds and flaxseed oil also provide ample calories and nutrients., Simple additions and substitutions can boost nutritious calorie counts in kid-approved foods. Try, for instance:Cooking pasta and rice in chicken broth instead of water.
Serving dried fruit, which children may eat more of because of the lack of water content to fill them up.
Adding flaxseed oil, with its mild flavor, to everything from salad dressings to peanut butter and banana smoothies.
Adding cooked beef or chicken to things like pasta, pizza, soup, stew, scrambled eggs, and macaroni and cheese., The internet if full of recipes suited to increasing weight in children the right way. For instance, an online pamphlet from the UC-Davis Medical Center (http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/cancer/pedresource/pedres_docs/HowHelpChildGainWeight.pdf) includes several kid-friendly recipes, such as fruit dip and a “super shake.”


It also explains how to make high-calorie milk by adding two tablespoons of dry powdered milk to each cup of whole or low-fat milk.
Another helpful article has a recipe for “energy balls,” a treat with dried fruits, nuts, and other goodies that can be stored for long periods and served quickly to hungry kids.