 Remember the acronym "AIDA" as you compose the message – Attention, Interest, Desire, Action.Your subject line needs to get their “attention” so that they’ll open the email. Once they’ve opened it, spark their “interest” so they’ll want to continue reading it. Create “desire” by providing them with a motivating offer. Finally, they need to be moved to “action” – which can be clicking on a link, calling your business, buying something from your website, and so on.


For example, a dance class instructor who teaches couples could effectively market via email by offering a promotion for a free one hour introductory class. This offer would create desire, which could be further solidified by including a positive testimonial from a current student.
Since the primary targets are couples, a subject line like, “Do you want to take your relationship to the next level?” would be an effective way to get the attention of a prospect., A good subject line can diminish that possibility. It's best to write a subject line of less than 40 characters. 20 to 30 is probably optimal.


Tell your recipients what’s new in terms of products, services and relevant business information.
Using the words “how to” is a great way to get your email opened; connect your solution to the recipients' needs.
Make a compelling offer that will interest the recipient. Offers are usually discounts or special pricing.
For example, a good subject line that a POS software company could use when marketing to restaurant owners would be, "Our new security feature will eliminate internal theft" or "How to eliminate internal theft."

, Avoid obvious sales pitches. Instead of immediately pitching your product, make the email about your readers. Instead of long-winded descriptions of your products and all the amazing services you provide, write about problems that might be afflicting your readers, then introduce solutions that include your products and services.Just as the subject line should prompt them to open the email, your intro needs to do one thing – get them to read the rest of the email.
To capture interest, try telling a story, building mystery, and/or including a relevant and compelling image in the email body.
For example, instead of announcing a new feature by describing it in technological terms, you could instead talk about the benefits of the feature that will directly and positively affect a prospective customer. Focusing on a customer's needs will get their attention.
You could make key statements using bulletpoints, which would succinctly convey information while also emphasizing it.
 Make sure the email is easy for the recipient to scan through quickly. Break the content up into short paragraphs. Stay on point and be clear.Include relevant images to break up the text.


If you have an offer that requires a good deal of information, provide a “Read more” link. If they’re interested, they can click that link and be taken to a web page that provides additional information.
Start with the most important information at the top of the email.
 However, action does not necessarily mean getting them to buy something immediately. The goal could be getting them to reply to the email or even just getting them to click a link that brings them to your website. While people do manage to sell in their emails and drop people straight onto a credit card page, you will have more success getting people interested in reading more about your offer.


Make sure the action goal is something that you can track – like a click, reply or a phone call – through platforms like Google Analytics.
It’s important to monitor the effectiveness of your email marketing campaigns, and the only way you can do that is by providing a call-to-action that you can track.

