 Some people may not understand that an anxiety disorder is very different than normal anxiety. Your friends may think you just have normal anxiety like they do if you tell them you have an anxiety disorder. You need to try and explain the way you feel as best as you can.For example, you can tell your friends, "My anxiety feels different than what you feel before a big presentation, before starting a new job, or before you take a test."
You may explain your anxiety to your friends by saying, "The anxiety that I feel is so much worse than what you feel. Imagine the worst anxiety you have ever felt, then multiply that feeling by 10. That's how I feel sometimes."
If at first your friends equate your anxiety with the anxiety they feel, this doesn’t mean your friends are not understanding, but people who don’t go through the intense anxiety associated with an anxiety disorder may have a difficult time understanding you.
Just remember, you should not feel anxiety if you can’t make your friends understand exactly how you feel. They may never truly understand what you go through, but they may be aware of how it affects you differently.
 One thing you might want to explain to your friends is the symptoms that go along with your anxiety disorder. This way, if you start acting anxious or responding differently, your friends will be aware of what is happening. If they can identify when you have an anxiety attack, they can help you.The symptoms of anxiety disorders include:Restlessness or feeling on edge
Fatigue
Difficulty concentrating
Feeling irritable
Having tense muscles
Extreme, uncontrollable sense of worry
Insomnia or being unable to stay asleep
Feelings of intense fear
Feeling like you have no control
Feeling anxious about being around others or being very self-conscious around others
Difficulty talking to others
Constantly feeling like others judge you
Feeling intense worry when you know you have to attend social events
Isolating yourself and avoiding places where people are
Difficulty making friends and maintaining friendships
Sweating more than normal
Feeling shaky or trembling, or feeling nauseous or sick

, Part of explaining your anxiety disorder to your friends involves teaching them how to help you if you face severe anxiety when they are around. This helps give them the tools they need to support you.For example, you may say, "If I have an anxiety attack, don't panic or call 911. Don't tell me to calm down. Just be there for me, talk to me, and listen to what I have to say."
Your friends can help you take baby steps to get out and overcome anxiety. They shouldn’t push you to do something that you don’t want to do, but they should encourage you to live life and do things.
Your friends shouldn’t panic if you have an anxiety attack. They should remain calm and reassure you as you work through the anxiety.
Your friends should refrain from telling you to get over it or calm down or not to worry about it. Your anxiety disorder makes you unable sometimes to do those things. Having friends who tell you that kind of thing makes it worse.

