 Do not ingest any caffeine after 12:00 pm the day before your event.Caffeine increases your stress response and your perception of stress. If you are already feeling stressed about your event, drinking caffeine will make your body have a stronger response to stress.You may feel more relaxed if you do not drink or eat any caffeine (e.g. chocolate, some teas, sodas, coffee).;
, Light exercise such as walking, yoga, or gardening can help you feel more relaxed.Exercise will increase the feel-good endorphins in your brain, reduce stress, and help you sleep better.Make sure you do some form of exercise that you actually enjoy. Exercise should not feel like a burden but should help you unwind before your event.
 Music can help you to calm down and relax before an event.Avoid music with a fast tempo or hard rock music. Music will help distract you from the event and decrease stress hormones. Turn your music up loudly so that you get lost in it.If you are not into music, try another creative hobby to distract your mind such as writing, sketching, or doodling.
 A warm bath or shower will help you to relax and can help you get a good night's sleep before your event.Add chamomile, lavender, or mandarin, or Frankincense oil to your bath for added benefits.As you soak in the bath, try not to think about your event. Close your eyes and breath deeply.


Soak in the bath for 15-20 minutes for the best results.
 A good support system can help you manage your excitement.Your family and friends know you well and want the best for you. If you do not want to talk about the event, they can help you take your mind off of it. If you feel nervous or stressed about the event, let them know how you feel. They will most likely offer you some encouraging words.
 Believe that the best possible outcome for the event will happen. If you have a negative thought about the event, counter that thought with something positive and affirming instead.Find a way to put a positive spin on the situation. Instead of saying, "It's too difficult," say, "I can make this work."


Surround yourself with positive people before your event as well. Negative people can make you feel more stressed and cause you to doubt yourself.

