 As soon as the food reaches your table, make some notes on the appearance. Is it clean and beautiful or messy and tired? Remember, a food review is about the experience, not just the taste, so you need to capture all of these details.


If you are at a restaurant that allows it, try and snap a quick picture with your phone. This will make it much easier to write about the appearance later.
 Savor the first few bites, sampling everything on the plate before writing anything else down. Eat slowly and enjoy the meal before trying to get too critical.


Make sure you eat the dish the way it was intended first-- don't pick out any ingredients or try things separately until later.
 Use adjectives and clear language when making your notes. "I liked the use of rosemary" is not as helpful as "the rosemary crust was light and herbal and perfect complemented the soft, fluffy potatoes." That said, this is just the time to take notes, so don't worry about getting the language perfect.


Writing down specific details now about why you liked/disliked a dish will make your writing much, much easier later.
 This is where you start to get into the specifics of a good food review. Try each part of the meal separately, checking for the following criteria:



Texture. How does the food feel in your mouth? Again, be specific, as there is a variety of textures, all of which can be good or bad.

Spices: Are the spices consistent throughout the meal? Can you tell what some of the spices are?

Complexity: A hard one to describe, complexity is a measure of the variety of flavors in a food. A good cook doesn't just go for "lemon-flavored" or "garlic & pepper," they go for a nuanced, unique taste to their food. Do the individual parts of the dish come together to make something new or better than the sum of their parts?

, If you're with other people, make sure you taste their dishes as well and make a couple of quick notes. This is the best way to get a full idea of the menu and the restaurants strengths and weaknesses.


Be sure to write down the exact name of each dish for later reference. Your reader will want to know what to order or avoid.
 A good review is rooted in fact, so make sure you're armed with facts. Of course, all food reviewing is inherently subjective, but that doesn't mean should only comment on what you liked and didn't like. It might be easiest to make your notes after you finish the course or as you eat, depending on your company. Either way, you should not rely on your memory to remember everything -- true food critics write notes., If you're curious what was in a sauce, how something was prepared, or where certain high-profile foods (meats, expensive cheeses, etc.) came from, feel free to ask. At high-class restaurants the waitstaff is trained to know about the food they serve, so they should be happy to give you an answer.