 One of the main signs of respiratory problems for your bulldog is excessive panting. This means your dog will pant more than is normal or in situations where he shouldn’t be panting. He may be taking rapid shallow breaths.You may see his tongue hanging out, and he may have drool or saliva hanging from the jowls.;
, Your bulldog may exhibit other breathing issues in addition to panting. He may start coughing a lot. He also may start hacking, like he can’t get enough air or has something stuck in his throat.Your bulldog also may start to choke due to the coughing or lack of air.
Your bulldog may also snort or make snoring sounds when breathing.
 Because of the bulldog’s breathing problems, he may be unable to perform the same kind of physical activities that other dogs can. Heavy or excessive exercise may cause him to pant excessively. He may also just be unable to perform any physical activity at all.Your dog may show more physical limitations in hot, humid weather.
 Your dog may exhibit symptoms of discomfort due to his trouble breathing. Your dog may have a tense or worried expression on his face. He may also hold his head low with the neck straight. He also may refuse food.Your dog may also be reluctant to move or walk.
Your dog may also sit with the elbows held away from the body.
 Your dog’s trouble breathing may lead to some more serious symptoms. Your dog may have a blue tinge to the normally pink membranes in the mouth. This is evidence that he is having trouble getting oxygen.Due to this distress, your dog may collapse with heavy breathing.
 Bulldogs are a breed considered brachycephalic. This means that the dog has a shortened head, and therefore, nasal passage. This causes bulldogs to have their signature smushed in face. However, this also leads to a life of respiratory problems.The respiratory problems that affect the bulldog is referred to bracycephalic respiratory syndrome. This refers to the general respiratory problems that bulldogs have due to their upper airway abnormalities.
Almost every bulldog suffers from some symptoms of bracycephalic respiratory syndrome. This means that monitoring for the following symptoms is especially important to protect your dog.

