 Astrology is interesting and can be really fun, but it's important you remember that the person is an individual with traits that may or may not match those of their sign. Pisces are thought to be dreamers, compassionate, artistic, intuitive, romantic, spiritual, melancholy, tolerant, and forgiving.Do a little investigating to see if your love interest has the traits of a typical Pisces.


Check out the person's social media for hints — see what the person's interest are, what music they like, their style, if there are any particular causes they support (it would be very "Pisces" to support ecological organizations), and so on. This can help you figure out if the person has the qualities of a Pisces and, more importantly, if this is someone with whom you share interests and values.
A typical Pisces will also likely spend a lot of time near the water; they could be a swimmer or just love going to the beach.
Music is very important to a typical Pisces. Notice if the Pisces is always posting online or talking about new bands, going to concerts and festivals, and so on.
Don't try to fit into a mold or be someone who you aren't because you think it's what a Pisces wants. Most people respond to honesty and authenticity — no matter what their sign is.;
, Pisces are thought to be idealistic dreamers and will likely be willing to get deep into personal conversation with you. Talk about future plans and idealistic goals, regardless of how unrealistic or grand they are.
 If your love interest is a typical Pisces, they will likely be very interested in the spiritual, mystical, and otherworldly. If you are interested in spirituality, philosophy, and religion, you will likely have a lot to discuss. Again, a Pisces won't shy from very personal and deep conversation, so think about your own spirituality so that you feel comfortable talking about it in a conversation.


Be careful talking about spiritual concerns too soon. If this individual is not particularly spiritual (regardless of their sign), then this may be uncomfortable or off-putting. Better to follow conventionally appropriate conversation topics when in doubt.
 Pisces are artistic in general, but they may be particularly interested in music. Talk about what kind of music you like and ask what your Pisces is into. Offer to make the person a mix of music they may not have heard before, or ask if they want to hang out and listen to records (this may appeal to the hippie-ish nature of a typical Pisces).
 Pisces are gentle, sensitive, and kind. Someone who is insensitive, harsh, or manipulative is likely not a good match for a classic Pisces. You will pique the interest of a Pisces if you are involved in social causes, volunteer, and show compassion for animals, your fellow man, and the earth. If you're someone who is mostly focused on yourself and your own well-being, that's fine, but you may not be a great match for a Pisces.

