 To start working on your codependent behavior, you need to focus on yourself. Part of the problem with codependency is that you try to fix everyone else and put everyone else’s needs before your own. To recover from codependency, you must start thinking of yourself and working on making yourself better.Think about what is good for you, not everyone else. You probably will have to start consciously thinking about your choices. Instead of doing what is automatic, which is your codependent behavior, think about things before you react, speak, or take action. Think about what you need to do for you and your overall well-being.
Work on liking yourself. Tell yourself that you are worth it and that you matter. Your opinions matter. You deserve to be happy.
Respect yourself. You can’t move past codependent behavior if you don’t start to respect and like yourself and believe that you matter., You may need to start investing more time in your physical health, such as by following a healthy diet, exercising regularly, improving your hygiene, and getting enough sleep. Think about how well you take care of yourself currently and identify ways that you can improve your self-care habits.



Focus on eating more healthy foods, such as fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.

Exercise for at least 30 minutes every day, such as by taking a walk, riding your bike around town, or doing a workout video.

Get more sleep, such as by going to bed earlier each night. Aim for seven to nine hours of sleep every night.

Care for your hygiene, such as by taking a shower or bath every day, brushing your teeth, and combing your hair.
 One of the most important things you should do when you start to recover from codependency is to learn how to be assertive. If you are codependent, you have ignored your wants and needs in favor of others. You may not even know what you want. Learning to speak up for what you want is a major step in the right direction.This may take a lot of courage and be difficult at first. Your therapist can help you figure out how to identify what you want and finally tell people your needs.
Remind yourself that you have the right to your opinions and ideas. Remember that you can stand up for what you want. That does not mean that people will not like you.
 Having poor boundaries is a common problem with people who are codependent. Your boundaries may be too loose, and you may feel responsible for other people’s feelings and put your needs last. Or, your boundaries may be too rigid, and it may be difficult for anyone to get to know you.That is why setting and maintaining healthy boundaries is important for overcoming a codependent relationship.


Keep in mind that setting and maintaining your boundaries is a process. You will need to start by defining your boundaries for yourself, such as by taking a look at what you value and what you want to maintain in your life.For example, if you value your time alone, then you might set a boundary to allow yourself a certain amount of time alone.
Then, you might let people know about the boundary, such as by saying, “I like to spend Friday evenings alone to give myself a chance to process the week and relax, so I am not available on Friday evenings unless there is an emergency.”
Then, you might also need to remind people of the boundary if they infringe on it. For example, if a friend texts you and asks you to go to a movie, then you might respond, “No. Friday nights are my chill at home alone night, remember? Can we do something tomorrow night instead?”

, Relaxation is a helpful technique to deal with any depression and anxiety that accompanies your codependency. Learning to relax can also help reduce stress and build a closer relationship with yourself. You can find the right relaxation technique for yourself, like yoga, meditation, or reading a book.You can try this relaxation technique. Sit in a quiet place in a comfortable position. Close your eyes. Focus on each muscle from your toes to your scalp, relaxing each one before moving on to the next. Breathe through your nose without trying to control your breath. Let it come naturally. Continue for up to 20 minutes.
 It is important to identify the ways that you value yourself beyond what you have accomplished or what you can provide other people.Think about your intrinsic values. What is it that makes you who you are? What is special about you? What traits do you possess that you value in yourself?


Try making a list of everything that you value about yourself and read it often to help build your self-worth. You may also consider trying a self-compassion meditation to help you develop your self-worth.It is also important to learn how to silence your inner critic.
Work on learning how to love yourself as well.

