 Any kind of premium texting service can put extra charges on your bill. You may accidentally sign up for one of these through "free" giveaways and other sweepstakes, and they can run up charges on your phone bill.Say no to any suspicious looking sweepstakes, especially things like texting quiz games or horoscopes.If you get a text asking for a consent to continue sending you texts, say "no" unless you asked for the service.
Also, avoid clicking on in-game ads in apps, which can sometimes lead to you signing up for things you don't want.;
, Similarly, apps can run up charges. While some apps are free when you download them, you can make purchases in the game to make the game go faster or to make it more interesting. If you're not paying attention, you may be charged for something when you didn't realized it cost money.One option is to avoid games that have in-app purchases. However, that can be difficult, as many apps today have this option. Usually, it will say in the app store whether it has in-app purchases or not.It's also important to preview games. If you plan on giving games to your kids, play them first to see what purchases and ads you run into.Disable in-app purchases. You may be able to disable in-app purchases in settings on your phone. If you can't, talk to your phone company about what options you have., Look at your phone bill each month. Crammers are third-party vendors that add charges to your phone bill, sometimes without you realizing it.This practice is illegal, but it usually happens because your phone company allowed the crammer to place the charge on your bill. Because telephone bills are so long and confusing, the charges often go unnoticed, and you end up paying for things you shouldn't.Cramming charges can be buried in your phone bill, so you need to look very closely.They can even be labelled in ways that are deceiving, such as "calling charge," "mobile fees," "voicemail," "member fee," or "web hosting.", If you see any charges you don't think should be there, call your phone company. They can at least look at the charge to see where they're coming from, and they may be able to stop them.You can also contact the third party if you know where the charge is coming from.Have third-party charges blocked. If you are noticing cramming charges, tell your phone company to block any third-party vendors.