 Daydreaming or fantasizing is fine, but your fantasy should not take over your life. If you find yourself wanting to get out of social situations, or avoiding real relationships, then you have taken your love to an unhealthy place.If you are unable to stop fantasizing on your own, consider therapy or antidepressants to help break free. Discuss this option with a doctor if you are concerned about your ability to function.
 In the end, you fell for a character, someone who does not exist. Make sure that is clear in your mind, even if it means stating it over and over again.Try to look for your character’s flaws or negative aspects. If he doesn’t have any, that itself is a flaw. No one is perfect, and you wouldn’t be okay with a real relationship where nothing was wrong with your partner.Sometimes it helps to have other people say these things to you to make them more real. Discuss your desire to cut yourself off from this fictional world with your friends. They can help you of things that are real, and what isn’t.
 Especially in visual fiction, many characters are portraying stereotypes of people. A good way to get over your character is to remember that he is just a representation of reality. Real people aren’t necessarily as perfect, or romantic, or witty, or uncomplicated (or whatever adjective you choose) as your fictional character.


This step is also important when considering how you react to characters you don’t like. Certain types of people are depicted in specific ways to get a reaction from you. For example, teacher characters can be shown as cranky old people who want their students to fail. While some of these people exist, that hardly represents them, and shouldn’t affect the way you interact with real teachers, especially those who are younger and friendly., This is good advice for ending relationships with real people too. If you want to stop thinking about and caring about someone, cut her out of your life. This will give you room to grow, and be able to live your life without her.Don’t read the books, watch the shows or movies, or do anything involving that character. This also means avoiding websites that talk about this fictional world. You wouldn’t want to stalk an ex on Facebook, so don’t give yourself a similar opportunity here.

