


Don’t feel obligated to invite people you don’t know very well. You want to feel comfortable, and it’s okay to only invite your close friends to your party.
Sometimes fewer people is better. Think about the amount of space you have and how many people can comfortably fit. Also, take into account whether you’ll be driving anywhere and whether or not you want to have a sleepover.
Anywhere between 5 and 15 people is normal for a teenage birthday party, but the number is ultimately up to you. You might only be comfortable with having your two best friends over, or you might have 20 people you really want to invite. Ask your parents what they are comfortable accommodating.
 Also, how long the party will last will determine how much food you need and how many guests you want to invite.


Try to have your party on a weekend so that more people will be able to come. If your party is a sleepover, think about when you want your guests to arrive and when you’d like them to leave the next day.
Consider your activities. For example, if you want to have a bonfire, you want your party to occur in the evening when it’s getting dark.
 For a winter party, your theme might just be a winter wonderland. You could plan to decorate with snowflakes and have cozy, comfort foods. Other possible wintertime themes could be:


A camping and bonfire theme
A movie-based theme (e.g. Harry Potter)
A combined birthday and holiday party
A sports watching party (e.g. hockey)

, You can use programs like Microsoft Word or PowerPoint to make your own invitations, hand write your invitations, or buy premade invitations.


Either mail your invitations, or give them to your friends in person.
Make sure the invitations include the date and time of the party, the location of the party, and how the guest can RSVP. Also include if the guests needs to bring anything. For example, if it’s a sleepover, let them know if they should bring a blanket or pillow.
If you don’t want to send physical invitations, you can use Facebook to make an event for your party.All your friends can RSVP through the event page and ask you questions about the party.



Pick a few colors to based your decorations around. For example, if your party has a seasonal winter theme, silver, white, and blue are good colors to decorate with.
Get a tablecloth for the table you’ll put food on, and get some balloons for the main party room. You can also add streamers or tinsel.
Make a birthday banner with some ribbon, cardstock, and a marker.Before the party, it can be fun to invite over one or two of your close friends to help you decorate and set up.

