 You do not want to work with warm or room temperature dough. You can use store-bought dough, including pie crusts or biscuits dough in a pinch, or you can make your own puff pastry dough at home for the best results., Usually you use flour to keep dough from sticking to the surface, but a flour coating will make the palmiers heavy and unappetizing. Instead, mix 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of cinnamon and 6 tablespoons of sugar in a bowl, then use roughly half on your counter top., You want a big, rectangular piece of dough to make your pastries with. The back side of the pastry will be coated in cinnamon sugar after you've rolled it out., Use a brush to lightly coat the top of the pastry sheet in egg, as this helps it stick together and provides richness to the finished cookie. Leave a little bit of egg wash for later., Coat the top with the remaining mixture, which should stick naturally to the egg wash., Keep the roll as tight as possible for the most attractive final results. You do not, however, want to press or mash the pastry. A nice tight roll, like you making a scroll, is the goal., The finished pastry will look like a classic scroll, with two tight rolls meeting in the middle. Lightly press them together and coat the top with any remaining egg wash., The dough needs to be chilled right before it goes into the oven, so do not skip this step. The tighter you can get it while still keeping your two rolls circular the better your cookies will look in the end., Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper or a silicone liner to prevent the cookies from sticking to the pan when they come out. Because the sugar in the ears will caramelize and harden as they cook, you cannot skip the parchment paper.
 You want to cut perpendicular to the roll, so you get identical slices with each cut. Cut down the pastry roll to make small, individual cookies, each with the definitive double rolls, and place the final pastry, cut side down, on your parchment paper. As soon as you're done, get the pasties in the oven.

You may want to cut off the ends first if they are uneven or misshapen, though they will still taste great.
 Keep your eye on the cookies as they bake and flip them once they turn golden brown. The final side should take much less time, usually only 2-3 minutes. Remove, transfer to a wire baking rack to cool, and enjoy!, There is a variety of changes you can make to elephant ears, as they are a simple recipe with a lot of customization, but some to try include:

Skip the sugar and sprinkle lightly with salt, pepper, and Parmesan cheese for a savory recipe.
Dip half the ear in melted chocolate soon after removing from the oven and let the chocolate harden on the outside.
Add a pinch of orange zest, cardamom, chai spice, and/or vanilla extract to the cinnamon sugar mix for a spiced ear.

