 There are several important requirements to take into account before applying. You will need to meet all of the following eligibility requirements in order to get a federal firearms license:


You are at least 21 years old.
You have never renounced your U.S. citizenship.
You are not an illegal alien.
You are a resident in the state where you intend to start your business or have an existing business location.
You have never broken any federal firearms laws, such as buying or selling guns without proper licensure.
You have not been convicted of a crime that required imprisonment for more than 1 year.
You have never had a restraining order filed against you for harassment of a spouse, intimate partner, or child.
If you use controlled substances, you must obtain them legally, and you must not be addicted to them.
You have never been committed to a mental institution.
You were not dishonorably discharged from the Armed Forces.;
, The Federal Firearms License does not allow you to carry a firearm. It is a business license, and is not intended for personal use. It does not allow you to conduct business that goes against local and state laws.
 If you only plan to sell firearms at a gun show, you do not need a federal license. If you are purchasing guns for a personal collection, you do not need a federal license. If your business is non-profit, you do not need a federal license. If you only sell ammunition, you do not need a license.
 Your license will be denied if your place of business can't be proven or it doesn't comply with local laws and regulations. You must be able to legally sell firearms from your listed address. The business cannot be a P.O. box. You must make the majority of your sales to non-family members., Obtain ATF Form 7 by contacting your local ATF office or by calling the ATF Distribution Center at (202) 648-6420. ATF Form 7 is available online at the ATF website. Once the form is downloaded, it can be opened and completed on your computer, then saved and/or printed. Forms and applications can be downloaded here.


If you are collecting and trading antique firearms, you will need ATF Form 7CR.
 Make sure to fill it out completely and disclose all information requested on the application. Do not withhold any information or make any false statements.
 You will need to be fingerprinted by a local law enforcement agency and include them with your application. You will need the standard FBI fingerprint form, FD-258.
 You are required to passport-sized photograph with your application. It must be taken from the front and you cannot be wearing anything that covers your head. The photo must have been taken within 6 months of sending the application. On the back of the photo, write your full name.


Every person listed on the application must include a photograph and fingerprint sheet.
 You can either pay by check or with a credit/debit card. The fee varies depending on what you plan to use the license for:


Collectors and manufacturers of ammunition - $30
Manufacturers and importers of firearms - $150
Pawnbrokers and dealers of firearms - $200
Manufacturers, importers, and dealers of destructive devices - $3,000

, Send your completed application, fingerprints, photograph, and fees to the following address: The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, & Explosives, P.O. Box 409567, Atlanta, GA 30384-9567.
 After submitting your application to the ATF, you will need to submit a copy to your local Chief Law Enforcement Office (CLEO). This is typically the Chief of Police or the Sheriff.
 Before receiving a license, you will most likely have to undergo a physical inspection of your business to ensure that it meets the standards of the ATF. That means that you will need to have accurate records of all of your sales and purchases.You can be inspected at any time during your listed hours by an ATF officer once you have a license.

