 Warm up 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of coconut oil or olive oil in a little dish. You can do this in the microwave or on the stove, but be careful not to let it get too hot. It should be warm and comfortable to the touch.If you want a fancier spa, try one of the following mixtures instead:1 teaspoon of each of the following: almond oil, coconut oil, olive oil, and sesame oil.
3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of coconut oil, 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of olive oil, and 4 to 5 drops of vitamin E oil.;
, Spread the rest of the oil through your hair, from the roots to the ends.This will help improve the circulation in your scalp., Dip a clean towel in warm water. Wring out the excess water so that it's damp. Wrap the towel around your head and hair. Secure it with a clip, if needed., The heat will trap the oil and open up the hair follicles. It will help the oil penetrate your hair and scalp and nourish it.If you have very dry hair, wait 15 to 20 minutes instead., Use enough mild shampoo to get the oil out. You can add conditioner if your hair is very dry, but the mask in the next step will be nourishing enough on their own., You can use any type of hair mask you want. A store-bought one will work just fine, but a homemade one would be even better You can use your own recipe, or you can try one of the ones from the section below.Double the recipe if you have long or thick hair.
 If you need to, divide your hair into sections first. Use a wide-toothed comb to help distribute the mask through your hair. This step can get messy, so it would be a good idea to drape a towel or a hair dyeing cape around your shoulders., If you have very long hair, pull it up into a loose bun first, then secure it with a clip. Covering your hair with a shower cap will not only keep you clean, but it will also help trap the heat from your scalp and make the mask more effective., How long you wait depends on the type of mask you are using, so be sure to follow the instructions closely., Wash the mask out using a mild shampoo and lukewarm water. Follow up with conditioner, then rinse the conditioner out. If the mask recipe has a different set of cleansing instructions, then follow those instead.Leave the conditioner on for a few minutes before washing it out. This will help soften your hair further., Let it air dry and skip the hair dryer. Hair dryers can damage hair., In a blender, mix together a banana with 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of olive oil. Massage the mask into your hair and scalp, then leave it on for 30 minutes. Rinse the mask out with shampoo., Mix together 2 tablespoons (30 grams) of plain yogurt and 1 tablespoon (22.5 grams) of honey. Apply the mask to your hair and scalp, then wait 15 to 20 minutes. Wash the mask out with shampoo. Apply some conditioner to the ends afterwards, if needed., Mix together 1 cup (225 grams) of plain pumpkin puree and 1 to 2 tablespoons (22.5 to 45 grams) of honey. Apply the mask to your hair and scalp, and leave it on for 15 to 20 minutes. Rinse it off when you are done.You may not end up using all of this mask.
Use the leftovers as a face mask.
Do not use the "pumpkin pie" kind of puree. It is not the same thing.
 Pour ½ cup (175 grams) of honey into a small dish. Stir in 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of olive oil and 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 grams) of avocado or egg yolks. Apply the mask to your hair, wait 20 minutes, then rinse it out with warm water., Place half of a peeled and pitted avocado into a blender. Add one of the optional ingredients from the list below, then blend the mask until it is smooth. Apply the mask to your hair and leave it in for 15 minutes. Rinse the mask out with shampoo. Repeat this mask once a month for best results.2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) argan oil, sour cream, or egg yolks for moisture
10 drops rosemary essential oil for a dry scalp
1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) apple cider vinegar for removing build up

, Pour ½ cup (120 milliliters) worth of egg whites, egg yolks, or whole eggs into a cup. Whisk the eggs until the color is consistent, then apply it to your hair. Leave it on for 20 minutes, then wash it out with cool water. Here is what you should use (and how often) based on your hair type:Normal hair: about 2 whole eggs, monthly
Oily hair: about 4 egg whites, twice a month
Dry hair: about 6 egg yolks, monthly

