 Just as with villagers, to direct a military unit to a specific location or target, left-click the soldier to select it first.


Find the location you want to set the unit. If the location is not within the current field of view, scroll using the Up, Down, Left, and Right arrow keys or the mouse until it is in view.
Right-click the location you want them to go to. Red marks will flash on the area you clicked, indicating that you have issued the command successfully and that the soldier is on their way.
It is also possible to direct a unit to a specific location without scrolling the screen to get it into the field of view. To do this, select your unit and then right-click the area of the map that you want them to go to. The map is shown in the bottom left corner of the screen in AoE3 or in the bottom right corner of the screen in AoE2.
 If you want your military unit to attack a specific target, such as a building or an enemy soldier, select the unit and then right-click the target.
 Select the units by double-clicking one of the units. This selects all units of that particular type that are in the current field of view. For example, if you double-click a Crossbowman, all Crossbowmen in the current field of view will be selected. You can also select by using the left-mouse button to drag the mouse over all the units you want to select. This will select all the units you have dragged the mouse over regardless of whether they are military units or not.


Right-click the location or the enemy unit where you want your military units to move or attack. Red marks will flash on the area you clicked, indicating that you have successfully issued the command.
Sending out many military units to attack a target instead of just one or a few increases your chances of successfully eliminating the target.
 You can designate a rendezvous point for military that have not finished being created out of the training buildings (e.g., Barracks and Stables) in preparation for a coordinated attack on your enemies.


To do this, left-click the training building to select it then right-click on the location or enemy unit where you want your military units to gather after they are created. A small red flag will appear on the area you clicked.
Now the military units will immediately move to the area you selected after they are created. If you right-clicked an enemy unit, the military units will travel to it and attack immediately after they are created.

