 Recline your driver and passenger seats as far back as possible. You may be able to recline a seat further by tilting the front edge up (if your car has this adjustment) and by sliding it forward so that it is blocked by the back seat bottom as little as possible.If you cannot recline your driver’s seat, opt to use only passenger side.
Clear out everything on your back seats as well as the floor of your car. This will help maximize the amount of recline you get from your seat.;
, Use what you have to create a soft, cushioned surface for you to lie down on. A yoga mat, towels, or blankets work best if you have them available. If not, you can use a jacket or spare clothing.If you do not have anything to use as padding while you sleep, that is alright. You won’t do any excessive damage to your car by sleeping directly on the seat.
 If you have a pillow available, place it at the head of your seat. Travel pillows and inflatable pillows work well for these types of situations, and can often be found affordably at department stores, home good stores, truck stops, and travel stores.


If you do not have a pillow ready, roll up a towel, jacket, shirt, or other piece of clothing and use it to support your neck and head while you sleep.
 Your car isn’t climate-controlled or insulated in the same way as your home or a hotel. Keep yourself protected from low temperatures at night by covering yourself with a blanket.If you do not have a blanket available, try to use excess clothes such as a warm jacket as a cover.
If you are facing cold temperatures, layer on clothes and cover yourself. Wear a jacket as necessary for warmth and keep on accessories such as gloves and hats.
 For added privacy and additional insulation, cover your car windows. If you have additional clothing or towels available, this will work well. Otherwise, use papers, maps, bags, or anything else you have available.If you can, prop or tape the items to your window. If they will not stay that way, roll the edge of the item up in the window.
If you have a windshield cover, put it up for additional privacy while you sleep.
Do remember to crack a window if there’s more than one person in the car, though. This ensures enough air for both of you.

