 When the body does not absorb or make sufficient carnitine, doctors will prescribe oral L-carnitine.Carnitine levels may be low because of many reasons. Genetic disorders are the most common, but medical procedures such as hemodialysis also drain the body of L-carnitine temporarily. Vegetarians or anyone who is on a strict diet may also have low carnitine levels.;
, Patients with serious kidney disease often have low red blood cell counts. Taking L-carnitine supplements is proven to be an effective way to increase red blood cell counts in these patients.


Kidneys are responsible for synthesizing carnitine in the body. Kidney disease decreases carnitine and lowers red blood cell count.
 If you struggle with complications related to heart disease and heart failure, your doctor may prescribe L-carnitine, especially if you have chest pain or have had a heart attack. There is strong evidence that suggests L-carnitine supplements mitigate symptoms.


Patients with stable angina may benefit from L-carnitine supplements when it is taken with propionyl-L-carnitine. Both may reduce symptoms and improve the ability to exercise without chest pain.Heart attack victims benefit from L-carnitine supplements when taken with conventional medications. It may reduce the risk of a second heart attack, chest pain, abnormal heart rhythms or heart failure.
Patients who have experienced heart failure may benefit from L-carnitine. This supplement may improve exercise capacity.
 Studies suggest that a low dose of L-carnitine can help infants born prematurely and with a low birth weight by... The supplement can help infants get more benefit from the nutrition supplied to them at the hospital.
 Patients on anti-seizure medications containing valproic acid may be able to minimize and prevent side effects from that medication.


However, L-carnitine has been linked to an increased risk of seizures in patients prone to seizures, so using the supplement to combat side effects associated with anti-seizure medication can be dangerous and should only be done under doctor's supervision.
L-carnitine may mitigate side effects associated with AZT (an HIV/AIDS medication), doxorubicin (chemotherapy medication), and isotretinoin (acne medication). Research is needed to verify these claims before L-carnitine can be recommended in these cases.
 If you suffer hyperthyroidism, your thyroid gland produces excess hormone and you may have symptoms of nervousness, weakness, tremors and rapid heartbeat. Research indicates that L-carnitine reduces these symptoms.


Research also suggests that carnitine might block the action of thyroid hormone, which is why the effect of excess thyroid hormone is reduced when it is taken.
 L-carnitine supplements may help correct male infertility problems caused by inflammation of the prostrate, seminal vesicles and epididymis.


Low sperm count has been linked to low levels of carnitine. L-carnitine supplements may increase sperm count and mobility.
Propionyl-L-carnitine may help men suffering erectile dysfunction, especially if they are also using conventional medication for this condition.
 L-carnitine has been used to treat many conditions in the past, but medical studies have either ruled the supplement to be ineffective or results were inconclusive for those conditions.


Studies suggest that L-carnitine does not improve athletic ability. There is no evidence that L-carnitine improves athletic performance or endurance.
L-carnitine is often marketed as a weight loss supplement, but there is no evidence to back weight loss claims.
While the verdict may change favorably in the future, there is insufficient evidence to support claims that L-carnitine can improve:

Fatigue due to celiac disease, age, cancer, hepatitis C, or memory disorders.
Leg pain caused by poor circulation (peripheral vascular disease). Some studies suggest propionyl-L-carnitine may reduce symptoms of PVD, but evidence is still inconclusive.
Symptoms of attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder.
Rett syndrome.
Eating disorders.
Diabetes. Preliminary studies indicate that acetyl-L-carnitine may reduce pain associated with diabetic neuropathy, but evidence remains inconclusive.
High cholesterol.
Blood disorders.
Leg ulcers.
Lyme disease.
Autism.
 Patients who lack a natural source of L-carnitine in the body are usually instructed to take two to three doses each day, with each dose containing 990 mg. They may take the supplement in tablet form or as an oral solution.
 If you are taking Depacon, Depakene, Depakote, VPA, or any other anti-seizure medication containing valproic acid, you should take a 50 to 100 mg of L-carnitine over the course of three to four doses each day. At most, you should receive no more than 3 grams of the amino acid per day.
 L-carnitine prescribed for the treatment of chest pain and congestive heart failure should be taken twice a day, and each dose should total 1 gram.


Doctors who prescribe L-carnitine for patients who have already suffered a heart attack may instruct them to take a total of 2 to 6 grams throughout the course of a single day.
 Patients taking L-carnitine for hyperthyroidism should take 1 to 2 grams of the supplement two times a day.
 As a treatment against male infertility, L-carnitine should be taken once a day at a dose of 2 grams. Patients should also take a single daily dose of 1 gram L-acetyl-carnitine in conjunction with standard L-carnitine.
 If you take L-carnitine for any other reason, you will need to work with your doctor to find the right dose. In most cases, the usual dose for adults will be between 1 to 3 grams each day.


Never give L-carnitine to a child without your doctor's direct supervision.
Infants with a low birth weight may receive L-carnitine intravenously or orally while at the hospital, but this treatment will usually stop before the child is sent home with the parents.
 Most side effects are mild to moderate in degree and typically include nausea, vomiting, stomach upset, heartburn, diarrhea, and seizures.


High doses of L-carnitine can also cause your urine, breath, and sweat to have a pungent fish-like odor.
 While L-carnitine can be helpful for patients suffering from hyperthyroidism, those suffering with hypothyroidism or an under-active thyroid gland should be especially careful when taking L-carnitine. The supplement is potentially capable of making hypothyroidism worse.
 There is no evidence suggesting that L-carnitine can induce seizures in healthy individuals, but for those who have experienced seizures in the past, the supplement may make a recurring seizure more likely.


If you need the supplement to combat the side effects of your anti-seizure medication, talk with your doctor to verify that L-carnitine is really the safest way to go.
 There is no evidence suggesting that small doses of L-carnitine are unsafe for a mother to use while she is breast-feeding her baby, but proceed with caution nonetheless.


There is not enough information on the effect of L-carnitine on a growing fetus, so pregnant women should stay away from the supplement during pregnancy.
 While most individuals can take L-carnitine safely, certain medical issues may make the supplement somewhat risky.


Patients who are most at risk are those suffering from peripheral vascular disease, high blood pressure, cirrhosis, diabetes, and kidney disease. While L-carnitine can be used to help some of these conditions, you should only attempt to do so under strict medical supervision.
 Patients on certain medications should avoid L-carnitine to reduce the risk of harmful drug interactions.


Acenocoumarol and warfarin slow blood clotting, and L-carnitine may enhance the effectiveness of these drugs and cause blood clotting to slow too quickly.
Thyroid hormone works less effectively when L-carnitine is present in the body.
D-carnitine supplements can interfere with L-carnitine. This is true of L-carnitine produced naturally and that which is ingested via a supplemental form.

