 Start with a square of origami paper, inner side facing up, and a length of pencil lead. Both are available at stationary stores. Lay your pencil lead flat on the paper and measure out the length. Use scissors to trim away any excess paper that extends beyond the length of the lead.


When measuring out the length of your pencil, make sure that one end of the lead is flat against one edge of the paper. Measure out the length using the other end.
Origami paper works best, since it's pretty and easy to manipulate. Newspaper or other waste paper is harder to wrap round the pencil, but friendlier to the environment.In terms of hardness, make sure that your pencil lead is HB. A lead that is 2B or above might be too soft and could snap as you work with it.
You can use standard graphite leads or colored graphite leads.;
, Use a wide, flat paintbrush to apply an even coating of Mod Podge to the inner side of the paper. Apply a generous amount, coating the entire piece of paper.


Temporarily set the lead aside as you apply the adhesive.
You can use glossy or matte Mod Podge; either option is appropriate.
If you cannot find Mod Podge, look for any combination glue/sealer in your craft store.
The adhesive will ensure that the lead sticks to your paper as you work with it. It also makes the paper more flexible, and as a result, the paper will be easier to roll.
 Line up one end of the lead with the perfectly straight side of your paper. The lead should be about ½ inch (13 mm) up from the bottom of the paper.


If the lead has a blunt end and a pointed end, line up the blunt end of the lead with the straight edge of the paper.
 Bring the bottom edge of the paper up and over the lead. Stick this flap of paper on top of the lead and onto the paper just above it, sealing the lead in place.


The lead must be tight and secure. Using your thumbnail, carefully press along the length of the wrapped lead from the top, forcing it further into the fold of the paper and flattening the paper flap in the process.
Use your paintbrush to coat the decorative side of the paper flap with Mod Podge or white glue after it has been secured in place.
 Use your fingers to gently roll the lead upward and into the paper. Continue rolling until you reach the opposite end of the paper.


Apply a firm amount of pressure as you roll the lead. You need to make sure that there are no gaps in between each layer of paper.
Be careful, however, since applying too much pressure can cause the lead to snap.
Keep the lead as straight as possible as you roll it up.
Let the wrapped lead pencil dry before continuing past this step. The drying process can take an hour or so, but you can help speed things up by letting it dry in the sun.
 As soon as the pencil is completely dry, use a sharp craft knife to shave away some of the paper layers at the pointed end of the lead. Shave the paper away gradually, bringing it to a slanted point.


You might be able to use a standard handheld pencil sharpener instead of the craft knife as long as the sharpener has a sharp blade and the pencil has sturdy, gap-free layers. Apply light pressure to avoid snapping the lead in the process.
 Your pencil is now ready to use and should write as well as any standard, store-bought version does.

