 You! Stop it. You know how it works. Instead of thinking thoughts that are helpful and rational you end up thinking things like, "I'm a complete failure -- I'll never amount to anything regardless of what I do, so why bother trying?" Here's some news for you: Those thoughts are not facts. They are feelings. And feelings can change.


When you catch yourself thinking something negative, either force yourself to immediately stop it in its tracks or add on something to make it better. "I'm a complete failure" turns into, "I'm a complete failure at this one thing today. Tomorrow is another story." Take yourself out of the black and white. Nothing is 100%. When they said, "This too shall pass," this is what they were talking about.
 Between naps and box sets of the Golden Girls, it's easy to lose track of who you once were. In order to snap out of the rut, you gotta do things that you may not want to do -- and keeping up your old (pre-rock bottom) life is one of them. If you used to play music, force yourself to play music. If you used to love cooking, cook. It may be the last thing you want to do, but rediscovering what once brought you joy could be just the catalyst for change you need.


In addition to keeping up old habits (the good ones), new ones work just as well! Staying active (both physically and mentally) will force you out of this lackluster, lethargic thought-path you've been squeezed into. Are there any opportunities at your school or workplace? Is a friend trying something out that seems interesting to you? What could be a valuable way to spend your free time? In other words, what could distract you?

, That damn villain called lethargy strikes daily. Morning rolls around and the only reason to get out of bed is to go to the bathroom. This is where the to-do list comes in handy. On it, write all the little things you want to accomplish for the day. It doesn't have to be world-changing, it just has to get you out of bed and being productive.


It all depends on where you are in the process. It could be something like "send in 5 applications, "go for a 2 mile (3.2 km) run," or "talk to a new person." Think of a few things you'd like to see come to life in the near future -- what are small things you could do every day to achieve them?

, Another trick to get out of your world and more wrapped up in the world of others (which can be a much less scary and intimidating place) is to help others. Not only will you make them feel good, but making them feel good will make you feel good. Instant gratification.


Seek out the little opportunities in addition to the bigger ones. Offering to walk an elderly neighbor's dog, helping a pregnant woman with her groceries, help someone in your family -- all these little deeds add up. You'll gain a sense of purpose, possibly make friends, and just make the world better. That's three wins in one.
 It's very possible that the crowd you're around is to blame for this rocky place you're up against. Hate to break it to you, but those around us can be total drains on our potential. Is it possible the relationships you have are making you a little worse for the wear? If the answer is even a maybe, it'll be best for you to put your efforts elsewhere.


Sometimes it's necessary to end toxic friendships. We grow as people and our friends don't meet these new identities we find. It's totally normal. If any of your friends (or significant others) don't fill you with joy, maybe it's time for them to go.
 Obviously this is easier said than done, but if your present circumstances are highly dictated by location (no job opportunities, no friends to speak of), you may want to consider moving -- if it's financially feasible. It doesn't have to be a big move, but a change of scenery could do you some serious good. What better way to rejuvenate you than to rejuvenate all of your senses?


With a move, soon enough you'll forget all about your former life. Who were you once, anyway? If bad memories are associated with where you are currently, give this idea serious thought. Is there anywhere you could go but still maintain your support network? Sit down with yourself and ask if this process (arduous though it may be) would be worthwhile. It's like getting handed a whole new world.

