 To do any seated yoga variation, you must be sitting in a solid, stable chair that allows you to place both of your feet firmly on the floor. Chairs with wheels or with a lot of cushioning in the seat typically aren't the best choices.Sit forward on the edge of your chair and make sure your back is neutral, not arched. You should be sitting on your "sit bones" – two points you'll be able to feel on your buttocks – not on your tailbone.
Roll your shoulders back so that your shoulder blades are tucked in and flowing straight down your back alongside your spine.;
, Before you get started with the seated figure four, it's a good idea to do some neck stretches and twists to gently open up your neck and back. These are especially important if you're stiff from sitting hunched over a computer for an extended period of time.Simple neck and shoulder rolls will help loosen you up and improve your mobility. While not technically yoga poses or exercises, they can help warm you up for the seated figure four as well as other seated yoga poses.
Do neck and shoulder rolls both clockwise and counter-clockwise. Then come to a seat at the edge of your chair with your feet firmly on the floor and twist to the left and right to loosen your spine. Keep your hips squared forward, and only twist as far as you can without pain or discomfort.
 To move into the seated figure four, plant your left foot solidly on the floor, then lift your right leg and bend it at the knee so it's crossed over your left leg. You want to place your right ankle on your left thigh, just above your knee.Flex your right foot and try to keep your knee and leg as flat as possible. You should feel a slight stretch in the muscles of your outer hip.
Press your palms together in front of your chest to complete the pose.
 Breathing is at the center of yoga practice. Turn your focus to your breath and inhale deeply through your nose, expanding your belly. Think of filling your lungs with air from the bottom up.When your lungs are completely full, pause for a moment before exhaling slowly out of your mouth. Open your throat so you are making a whispered "ha" sound in the back of your throat as you exhale. With practice, you'll be able to make this sound while exhaling through your nose.
When you've completely exhaled, pause before inhaling again. These pauses between inhaling and exhaling help your breathing become more intentional.
Hold the pose for 10 to 20 breaths, or as long as you can do so comfortably. Since this is a gentle pose, you can hold it as long as you want – just keep in mind that you need to switch and do the other side.
 If you want to intensify the stretch in your glutes and outer thighs, you can do so by hinging your torso forward from the waist. Try to keep your back as flat and neutral as possible, and don't crunch your shoulders.Think about folding your chest or heart toward your thighs. You can rest your torso on your thighs if it's comfortable for you to fold that deeply, but don't go any further than you can without pain or discomfort.
 Any time you're doing one-sided yoga poses, you need to make sure you're doing the same pose on both sides to prevent imbalances. Lower your right foot to the floor, then lift your left foot and repeat the same movements.