 Recognizing that you might be too possessive with your partner is one of the first steps in becoming less possessive.You’ve also got to be honest with yourself about why you are feeling and acting this way. Being honest with yourself will allow you to address whatever issues you have that are making you be so possessive of your partner.


Ask yourself if you are so possessive because of something from your past. For example, did your ex-partner from a previous relationship leave you for someone else?
Determine if there is something your partner is doing that makes you feel possessive. For instance, does your partner flirt a lot with others?
Be honest about any self-esteem or self-confidence issues you are having. For example, do you feel unattractive or like your partner is too good to be with you?

, Sometimes you may act possessively because you feel insecure. You may feel that you don’t deserve your partner. If you think you might be acting possessive because of personal insecurities or self-doubt, build your self-confidence so that you can be less possessive of your partner.Keep a journal or make a list of all the great qualities about you. List everything from your great eyes to your sense of humor to your love of anime.
Use positive self-talk. For example, look in the mirror and tell yourself, “I’m a great catch and Kelsey is lucky to have me, just like I’m lucky to have Kelsey.”
Write it down when your partner gives you a compliment or does something to show you that they care.
 It’s a lot easier to get jealous and start acting possessively when you are tired, stressed, hungry, or just don’t feel well.You just don’t have the mental or physical energy to combat jealous thoughts and possessive behavior. You can be less possessive of your partner if you take the time to make sure you are taking care of your health.


Eat balanced meals and healthy snacks to make sure that your body is getting the nutrients and energy you need.
Get regular physical activity. This can help reduce your stress level overall which will help you stay calm when you start feeling jealous and possessive.
Try to get 6 – 8 hours of sleep each night. Set up a regular bedtime routine so that you can get the rest you need.
 When possessiveness becomes extreme, you end up hurting your relationship and causing your partner (and yourself) emotional, mental, or even physical pain. If your partner or others says you need to be less possessive, take it as a warning and consider seeking professional help.


A counselor or therapist can help you determine why you are so possessive and help you become less possessive of your partner.If you are involved in a religious community, you can talk to your religious leader about what is going on. You might say, “Could we speak later about some problems I’m having in my relationship? I feel I’, being too possessive.”
A marriage, family, or relationship counselor can help you and your partner address any relationship issues that you all are having, as well.

