 When talking to a baby, your actions are as important as your words. Reinforce what you are saying with appropriate facial gestures. A smile is especially important. Babies understand that it is a positive facial expression.Your baby will likely spontaneously start to smile, especially when she sees people that she recognizes. You can encourage this behavior by smiling at her.
Try playing visual games such as peek-a-boo. When you reveal your face, offer a big smile.
 It's important to remember that everything is new to a baby. She also can't properly vocalize her needs or emotions. It's important to practice patience when talking to any baby and to be kind.Try different remedies. If the baby is fussy, you can try feeding her, changing her, or cuddling her.
Even babies need space. Sometimes your baby might seem to be fussing for no apparent reason. It could be that she is over-stimulated. Be patient, and let her have silence for a while.
 Tone of voice resonates with babies, just as it does with adults. When talking to a baby, the most important thing is to keep your tone warm and happy. This helps reinforce all of the positive things you are saying to her.Research shows that babies respond to the female voice. This is why many people instinctively make their voice sound high-pitched when talking to a baby. This is a perfectly fine way to talk to your baby.
Make your tone cheerful no matter what you are saying. It's fine to say "Oh, darn! I spilled the milk!" as long as you say it in an upbeat tone.
 Don't be afraid to shower a baby with kisses. Research tells us that babies who receive a lot of physical affection grow up to have less anxiety. Physical affection can have amazing positive benefits for a baby.In addition to kissing a baby, you can offer gentle hugs and cuddles.
Tickling a baby's tummy or feet is another way to show physical affection.
 Your baby can tell when you are paying attention to her. Demonstrate that you are engaged by showing that you are actively listening. Make eye contact with her when she is verbalizing.Try not to interrupt when your baby is "talking". Letting her babble is a great way to encourage the development of her language skills.

