 Most computing devices, mobile or otherwise, come with a built-in browser (for example, Macs come with Safari pre-installed) which is optimized for that particular device. In addition to this, there are a few device-specific browsers which cannot be used on other types of devices:


Mac computers, Windows computers older than Windows 10 and all mobile devices outside of Windows Phone 10 in general cannot use Microsoft Edge (the exception being mobile Windows platforms). Internet Explorer was once available for Mac but has become so old that Mac is no longer supporting it's super-early version on the Mac.
Windows computers and Android devices cannot use Safari. However, there is a Safari for Windows software available from Apple that's available if you look harder after downloading it from the web here.
iOS devices (e.g., iPhones, iPods, and iPads) cannot use the built-in Android browser.;
, Since most browsers stop working on outdated operating systems, you'll need to know your device's operating system number to determine whether or not your device is eligible for a new browser. To find the operating system number:



Mac - Click the Apple icon in the top-left corner of the screen, click About This Mac, and look at the "Version" number below the OS name at the top of the window.

Windows - Click the "Start" icon in the bottom-left corner of the screen, type in "msinfo32", and look at the "Version" number near the top of the page.

iPhone - Open Settings, tap General, tap About, and look at the number next to "Version".

Android - Open Settings, tap About phone or About tablet at the bottom of the page, and look for the number next to "Android version".
 Based on your devices' operating systems, look at the following browsers and determine which ones will work for you:



Internet Explorer - Internet Explorer is a discontinued browser for Windows computers that you can still find on older versions of Windows. While IE is slower and less secure than other browser on this list, it may be your only option if you're using an outdated operating system (e.g., Windows XP), since most modern browsers have moved on to support only newer operating systems.

Microsoft Edge - Comes pre-installed on Windows 10 computers. Interfaces with Cortana, which is Microsoft's virtual assistant. Edge is a much quicker and simpler alternative to Internet Explorer, although the lack of add-ons and rich customization options can be a deal breaker.

Safari - Comes pre-installed on Macs and iOS devices. Safari interfaces perfectly with features such as Siri and Spotlight search, and you can synchronize your bookmarks between your Mac and your iPhone, iPad, or iPod.

Chrome - Requires iOS 9.0 or later (iPhone), MacOS X 10.9 or later, or Windows 7 64-bit or later. Android operating systems vary. Google Chrome is an incredibly fast browser with numerous add-ons that can help you personalize your browsing experience. You can also log into Google Chrome with a Google account to synchronize your bookmarks and settings across multiple devices.

Firefox - Requires iOS 9.0 or later (iPhone), Android 4.0.3 or later, MacOS X 10.9 or later, or Window 7 or later. Firefox functions similarly to Chrome, though much of Firefox's emphasis is on privacy. Like Chrome, you can sign into Firefox to synchronize your browser across any device. If you don't adore Google but want a similar experience to Chrome, you should use Firefox.

Opera - Requires iOS 7.0 or later (iPhone), Mac OS X 10.9 or later, or Windows 7 or later. Opera is great for lower-end computers with less memory than is optimal for Chrome or Firefox, since Opera can compress pages to load them quickly without consuming enough memory to slow down your computer. It is also available for lower versions of iOS and Android OS than are Firefox and Chrome.
 Since you now know which browsers are compatible with your device(s), compare their features:


If you want to prioritize speed and/or you rely on Google for most of your browsing needs, use Google Chrome.
If privacy is your foremost concern, Firefox is a good browser choice.
If you're trying to minimize the impact that your browser has on your computer's running speed, try Opera.
 Keep in mind that you can always download multiple browsers for testing purposes. Now that you've decided on a browser (or multiple browsers), it's time to download and install your browser.
 Naturally, this site will vary:


For Google Chrome, go to https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/desktop/index.html.
For Firefox, go to https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/desktop/.
For Opera, go to http://www.opera.com/download.
 The button you'll click to download your selected browser will also vary from browser to browser, both in appearance and location:



Chrome - Click the blue Download Chrome button below the banner that's at the top of the page.

Firefox - Click the green Download button in the middle of the page.

Opera - Click the green Download now button on the left side of the page.
 Doing so will prompt the browser's setup file to begin downloading to your computer.


You may first have to select a download location, depending on your current browser.
 Most browser setup files only take a few minutes to download, though this process may vary depending on your Internet connection speed.
 If the file downloaded to your desktop, you'll see it represented by your selected browser's icon there; otherwise, you may first have to open your computer's "Downloads" folder, which can be accomplished by typing "Downloads" into Spotlight (Mac) or the Start menu (Windows) and then clicking the top option.
 Typically, this process will consist of verifying that you have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use, clicking Next a few times, and waiting for your browser to install to your desktop.


By default, all browsers will install a desktop shortcut that resembles the browser's logo.
Make sure you read each page of the setup process so that you don't inadvertently install a program you don't want.
Some browsers will install a toolbar or an antivirus program by default which, while supposedly helpful, you may not want; you can uncheck these options to prevent them from being installed.
 It should be on your desktop once the installation completes. Doing so will open your new browser.
 It's a blue app with a white "A" made from writing utensils on it. You'll likely find this app on the Home Screen.


This process will work the same way for an iPad or an iPod touch as well.
 This magnifying glass-shaped icon is at the bottom of the screen.
 It's at the top of the screen.
 As you type, you'll see search suggestions appear below the "Search" bar.
 Doing so will search the App Store for the corresponding browser.
 You may have to scroll down to view the browser you wish to install.
 It's the blue button to the right of your browser.
 This green button will appear in the same place as was GET. Doing so will prompt your browser to begin downloading, though you may first need to enter your Apple ID password.


If you have Touch ID enabled on your iPhone, you may be prompted to scan your fingerprint instead of entering an Apple ID password.
 This app is white with a multicolored triangle on it. You'll find Play Store in the App Drawer, which is accessible by tapping the grid of dots at the bottom of the Home Screen.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen.
 This will search the Play Store for your browser.


For example, you might type "Google Chrome" or "Firefox" into the search bar.
 Doing so will take you to the browser's app page.
 This will be in the top-right side of the screen.
 It's at the bottom of the pop-up menu. Doing so will prompt your browser to begin downloading to your Android.
 Once it does, you can tap OPEN on the right side of the screen to directly open your browser.

