 It is important that you validate your child’s fears. For example, if your child expresses that they have anxiety about going to school do not dismiss them. Instead, you should say “I understand you are anxious about going to school. How can I help?” This way your child will feel as though their fears are legitimate., If you child is uncomfortable speaking openly about their fears you can try creating a “worry box.” Your child can write down their fears or anxieties and place them in the box and then you can talk about them at the end of the day or week. This will provide your child with an easier way to communicate their anxieties and may encourage them to open up about specific fears.For example, your child may be afraid of the dark, afraid of sleeping at a friends house, afraid of failing a test, afraid of heights, afraid of public speaking, afraid of being teased at school, or afraid of a monster under the bed. All of these fears can cause anxiety and may be embarrassing to talk openly about.
 Often when children are afraid of a certain situation they will try to avoid their fear. This is not a good strategy because it allows the child to maintain their fear. Instead, if you encourage your child to face their fears they will learn that anxiety will reduce overtime through exposure.For example, if your child is afraid of dogs do not cross the street to avoid passing a dog. This only reinforces the fear and teaches the child that dogs should be feared. Instead, you should teach your child how to behave respectfully around animals.
 Often parents will unknowingly put extra pressure on their children to achieve success in school and sports. As a result this can often cause anxiety in children. Teach your child that it is okay to be imperfect while at the same time encourage them to always work hard. You can do this by embracing their mistakes and imperfections.For example, if your child fails a test do not make them feel bad about it, likely they already do. Instead, say “It is okay. Sometimes in life we will fail and the best thing to do is learn from our mistakes.”

, Feelings of isolation can foster low self esteem among children. Listening to your child can help them feel like they have a support network. If your child opens up to you about their fears you need to actively listen to them and validate their concerns. An excellent technique to demonstrate that you are listening and to encourage your child to continue talking is reflection. Reflecting is when you repeat or paraphrase what the speaker has said in order to ensure that you are hearing them correctly and fully understand what they are trying to communicate.For example, if your child says "mom I am scared to give a presentation at school tomorrow," you can reflect by saying "I am hearing that you are afraid to give your presentation tomorrow. Public speaking is a very common fear, but it can be managed if you are fully prepared. Do you want to practice a few times by presenting to me?"

