 Know your attack range and experiment with timing.;
,, If you can catch your opponent off-guard, it is an easy kill for you.
, This way you will not appear on their radars.
, A well timed shotgun blast can trump a sword lunge, and waiting for the cursor to go red can take a few seconds. Two swipes will almost always take care of a player, unless they have an overshield. Always go for close range whenever you have the sword, and once you've reached close range, start attacking immediately. If your cursor turns red before you reach close range, then lunge, but if you're already in close range, don't waste time waiting for a lunge. You attack faster right after the first sword hit, so just a quick double tap will do it. If they run away after the first swipe and you can't get to them, throw a grenade behind them and you should get the kill. Also, jump-lunging is a must. It throws off your opponents aim and it's a fast attack. To effectively jump lunge, you'll have to be fairly well at keeping your cursor on a player. Keep them in the cursor and jump at them, then when it goes red (usually at the peak of your jump) lunge. It's a rewarding tactic to use because it reduces the amount of damage you take during the fight so it betters your chances of staying alive for long periods of time.
 Use any weapon and move into close range, then when switch to the sword, you may be able to get a lunge in. Also, if they're weakened up before you get the sword out, one swipe might be all you need.
 The tower where the sniper rifle is located in Lockout is a great place to get kills, just remember to stay on the stairways on the outer edge and never to go up to the top, a talented sniper will aim for the barrels and will get you with the explosions.
, Remembers to use grenades. Almost any weapon you can find will be better than an SMG against the sword, except for Plasma Rifles and Needlers. If you have a plasma pistol, fire off a fully charged blast, and then try to hit them with a grenade. Fire Battle Rifles at their head. If you can get the shotgun, line them up with you, and then wait for them to lunge, and fire while they are in mid lunge. This trick may require several tries to master. The key here is not to jump the gun, once fire you don't get many second chances.
 So don't brag, and maybe your friends won't Noob Combo, Vehicle Whore, or Rocket Whore against you in future games.
 Try to avoid them at all costs.
, Most of the time when you lunge when you are in front of them, you will die.

