 Stir 1–2 tbsp (15–30 mL) of chia seeds into a cup (240 mL) of warm milk or any milk substitute. Let stand for 10–15 minutes until the mixture forms a gel, whisking occasionally to break up seed clumps, then eat cold or heat again before eating.The mixture alone is quite bland, so you may enjoy eating with sliced fruit, dried fruit, nuts, or honey. Add extra flavor with a pinch of cinnamon or sea salt if desired.


2 tbsp (30 mL) will make a thick porridge. Use less if you prefer a thinner mixture.
Stir in any liquid or powdered flavoring while the mixture is gelling to add more flavor. Try cocoa powder, malt powder, or fruit juice.
 Pulse the seeds in a food processor, blender, or coffee grinder until a fine powder forms. Use it in place of all-purpose flour by substituting it completely or mixing it with other flour.


If using it in a thick dough, you can substitute the chia flour in equal parts.
If using it in a thinner batter or dough, mix one part chia seed flour with three parts regular or gluten-free flour.
 Instead of grinding the chia seeds down into flour, you can add them whole to a variety of flour-based baked goods. Add 3 to 4 Tbsp (45 to 60 ml) chia seeds to your favorite whole-grain bread, muffin, oatmeal cookie, whole-grain cracker, pancake, or cake batters.
 If you have picky eaters in your household, you can sneak chia seeds into your diet by mixing them into one-dish meals. Add 1/4 cup (60 ml) chia seeds to a lasagna or casserole prepared in a standard casserole dish, or follow these suggestions:


Ground meat mixtures for homemade meatballs or burgers can be thickened with 1 or 2 tbsp (15 to 30 ml) chia seeds for each 1 lb (450 g) of ground meat, instead of breadcrumbs.
Mix 2 Tbsp (30 ml) chia seeds into scrambled eggs, omelets, and other egg-based dishes.
Add a dash of chia seeds to your favorite stir-fries.
 Mix 1 tbsp (15 ml) chia seeds with 3 to 4 tbsp (45 to 60 ml) water and let sit for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally, until it forms a thick gel. Mix it with up to 9 tbsp (130 mL) water if you prefer thinner gels.This gel can be refrigerated for up to two weeks before eating. Forming this gel in advance saves time and ensures that there are no dry, crunchy seeds when you add it to another food.


You can use this gel as a substitute for eggs in baked goods. 5 tbsp (75 mL) of gel is roughly equal to one egg.You cannot use this as an egg substitute in omelets or other recipes where the egg is not mixed with other ingredients.
 Add 2 to 4 Tbsp (30 to 60 ml) of chia seeds to any bowl of soup, stew, sauce, or gravy. Let sit for 10 to 30 minutes or until it thickens. Stir occasionally to break up clumps of chia seeds.

