 Law school is a huge commitment of time, money and effort. Be sure to pick the one that best suits your career goals.


Look at specialties. If you want to practice family law or criminal law, for example, it makes sense to apply to schools who specialize in those fields. Do some online research to check out a school's area of expertise.
Consider your chance of acceptance. Top-tier schools receive thousands of applicants and accept very few. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't aim high, but you need to be realistic as well. Pick one or two "reach" schools (ones you may not get into) as well as schools whose average LSAT and GPA rates are in line with your own.

Graduating from a top-tier school does open doors for you in the professional world, but it's not the only factor. Don't be overly influenced by a school's ranking.


Talk to graduates. Nobody can give you the low-down about a school the way alumni can. Seek out people who attended the schools you're interested in for insight into the school's academic and social environment.
Consider cost. Law school is expensive, so cost can clearly be a factor when you're deciding where to apply. If a school you're interested in seems out of reach financially, check into scholarship opportunities they may offer. In general, state schools are less expensive than private schools so put those at the top of your list if cost is a major consideration.
Be aware that you'll be paying back your law school loans for years after graduation. Do you best not to overburden yourself with student loans--it could cause you considerable stress or even limit your career options.
Look into location. Law school is tough enough without being isolated from family or living in a city that doesn't suit you. Consider how far away you can be from your support group, how easily you make friends and whether you're a city-lover or more of a small-town-dweller when looking at schools.

Also consider location for after law school. Some schools have strong regional placement, such that attending means that most of the jobs you will find are within 50 or 150 miles. Other schools have more national or international placement. If you're set on a particular area for after graduation, you may pick a very different school than if you're looking to explore different destinations.
 How many schools you apply to depends on a number of factors including LSAT scores, desired location and budget.


Let your LSAT score guide you. One recommendation is to apply to two to four schools where your LSAT is at the 25th percentile; three to five schools where your LSAT is in the mid-range of accepted applicants and two schools where your LSAT is at the 75th percentile. Don't be afraid to ask for a fee waiver. Law schools will often provide you with one to get you started, whether for merit, economic need, or other reasons - it doesn't hurt to ask.
If you're unable to move to attend law school, apply to the schools in your area where you would be competitive, plus a "reach" and a "safety" school. If you can or want to move, do the same in the area where you hope to relocate. , Now you'll turn to the CAS associated with your LSAC account to complete your application process. As mentioned above, there are several must-dos:


Make sure there is a reportable LSAT score in your LSAC file
Provide information about the schools you attended to LSAC
Make sure all required transcripts are sent to LSAC
Be sure all required letters of recommendation and evaluations are sent to LSAC

, There are a number of costs associated with applying for law school, so it's good for you to know upfront the money you'll have to invest in this process.


CAS charges an overall fee plus an additional fee for each school to which you apply.
Law school application fees range from $40 to $100.
Don't forget the cost of travel. You may choose to visit law schools as part of your decision-making process. Those trips will come with costs for gas, airfare, lodging and food, all of which should be factored into your budget.

Some schools offer stipends for travel.
 It takes several hours to complete a law school application, so plan to set aside time to focus on this task. You do not want to rush through this process as what you write and how well you write it will be examined closely as part of the application process.


The basic information of the application is pretty straight forward. Have all the information you may need to refer to on-hand to streamline the process.
Invest time in your essay or personal statement. Your personal statement or essay can allow you to stand out from the crowd and deserves your time, thoughtful consideration and multiple revisions. Among other things, the admissions officers will want to fully understand what attracted you to law and your particular field of interest. Ask people who know you well and can give constructive feedback to read your statement or essay. Ask them to judge whether or not it is successful in communicating your character and a clear sense of purpose.
If you're very interested in a particular school, give more information about the specific programs, faculty, or other factors that are drawing you.
 Submit a request for your transcripts to the registrar's office at your undergraduate university. Make your request three to four months ahead of your application date.
 Admissions committees want to hear about you from others who know you well. Get letters of recommendation from people who can offer positive impressions of you and predict your success as a lawyer.


Each school has a different requirement for the number of recommendations they want. Plan on at least two and as many as four.
Ask professors who know you well or community or group leaders with whom you worked. If possible, provide them with a copy of your personal statement so that their comments can support what you've shared about yourself and reflect your career aspirations.
 While law schools often list their application due dates as occurring sometime between January and April, most schools use a rolling admissions process that heavily favors those people who submit their applications as early as possible.


Aim to submit all of your applications by late November or early December, if not earlier.
Give yourself about a year to complete all of the necessary steps. It's not the end of the world if you start a bit later, but being prepared and getting your application in early will give you an advantage over procrastinating peers.
 It can take anywhere from days to weeks to hear whether or not you've been accepted to law school. Do your best to stay calm and focus on the fact that you did your absolute best.


While it's difficult to wait, you can use that time to reflect on why you wanted to attend law school in the first place. Those thoughts can keep your spirits up while you wait or help fortify you if you don't get the response you hoped for.
If you don't get accepted to the school you wanted, there are things you can do to make yourself a desirable candidate in the future. Consider retaking the LSAT's (you can take them three times in a two-year period), working for a year or two before reapplying, attending graduate school, or even transferring into the school with good grades from your first year at another institution.

