 Add 2 ½ cups (353 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking powder, and ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt to a medium bowl. Use a whisk to mix the ingredients together until they are fully combined, and set aside., Add 1 cup (226 g) of softened, unsalted butter, ½ cup (105 g) of granulated sugar, and ½ cup (60 g) of powdered sugar to the bowl of a stand mixer. Beat the mixture on medium speed until it is light and fluffy.If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can use an electric hand mixer.
You can also mix the cookie dough together by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
 When the butter and sugars mixture is light and fluffy, add 1 large egg,1 ½ teaspoon (7 ½ ml) of vanilla extract, and ¼ teaspoon (1 ml) of almond extract to the bowl. Continue to beat the mixture on medium speed until all of the ingredients are fully incorporated.It may be necessary to scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula periodically as you’re mixing to ensure that the ingredients are completely blended.
 After the egg, vanilla, and almond extract are mixed in, reduce the speed of the mixer to low. Slowly add the flour mixture to the bowl and blend until it is fully incorporated and a dough forms..It’s a good idea to add a little of the flour mixture at a time and wait for it to be incorporated before adding another batch.
 Once the dough has come together, split it into two even pieces. Use clean hands to smooth each piece into a 6-inch (15-cm) disc.If you find that the dough is sticking to your hands, dust them lightly with flour.
 Take each dough disc, and cover it tightly with plastic wrap. Place them in the refrigerator, and allow them to chill for approximately 1 ½ hours or until the dough is firm.You can chill the dough overnight. However, leave it out on the counter for 5 to 10 minutes before making the cookies to soften it.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cookies, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, line a baking sheet with parchment paper so the cookies won’t stick.You can line the baking sheet with a silicone baking mat is you prefer.
 Remove one of the dough discs from the refrigerator and place it on a floured surface. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough out so it’s between ⅛- and ¼-inch ( 3- and 6-cm) thick.Dust the rolling pin with some flour to ensure that the dough doesn’t stick as you roll it out.
 Once the dough is rolled out to the proper thickness, use mini animal-shaped cookie cutters to cut out the cookies. To mimic the look of store-bought circus animal cookies, it’s best to use approximately 1 ½-inch (4-cm) large cookie cutters.You can also dust the cookie cutters lightly in flour to make sure that it’s easy to remove them from the dough.
 When you’ve cut the dough into the proper shapes, use a spatula to place them on the lined baking sheet. Arrange the cookies so they are approximately 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart., Place the baking sheet in the preheated oven. Allow the cookies to bake for 7 to 11 minutes, or until they are set and lightly golden.Because the cookies are thin, they can burn easily. Be sure to keep an eye on them, particularly towards the end of the baking time.
 When the cookies are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Let the cookies cool on the sheet for approximately 3 to 5 minutes. Next, transfer them to a wire cooling rack to allow them to cool completely.It should take 15 to 20 minutes for the cookies to cool completely.
 When you’ve finished making cookies with the first dough disc, remove the second dough disc from the refrigerator. Repeat the process of rolling out, cutting, and baking the cookies until you’ve used all of the dough.It’s important to keep the dough that you’re not working with in the refrigerator. It’s more difficult to cut and handle if it’s warm and soft.
 To make the icing, add 1 ½ cups (170 g) of powdered sugar, ¼ teaspoon (1 ml) of vanilla extract, and 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of half and half to a medium bowl. Whisk the mixture together until it is smooth and isn’t runny or too thick.If the icing is too thick, you may need to mix in more half and half. Add a little at a time to get the right medium consistency.
 After you’ve mixed up the icing, pour half of it into another bowl so you have two separate bowls. Add several drops of red food coloring to one and mix well to create pink icing.While traditional circus animal cookies are usually covered with pink and white icing, you can use whatever shades of food coloring that you like to tint the icing.
 Use a small offset spatula to spread the white and pink frosting over the cookies as you’d like. While the icing is still wet, add a pinch or two of rainbow nonpareil sprinkles to each cookie.If you prefer to have the cookies covered on both sides with frosting, you can dunk them into the icing and lift them out with a fork, making sure to let the excess drain off into the bowl.
 As soon as you’ve finished icing the cookies, set them down on a wire cooling rack. Allow the cookies to set for 4 to 6 hours so the icing sets completely.If you need the cookies to be ready more quickly, stick them in the freezer for a half hour or so to set.
Make sure that you have the cooling racks set over a baking sheet, parchment paper, or another protective covering in case any excess icing drips off.
Store the cookies in an airtight container in the refrigerator. They should keep for 3 to 5 days.

