 When you visit a website to check flight prices, the information is transmitted to the airline website in the form of a cookie. If a particular flight is repeatedly searched, sites will increase the price of the flight to scare you into booking a flight. Use private browsing to avoid a hike in price.If using Google Chrome or Safari, enable incognito by hitting Command (Control if using a PC), Shift, “N.”
For Firefox or Explorer, active private browsing by hitting Command (Control if using a PC), Shift, “P.”
Start with a clean slate for each flight search by closing out the incognito window. Your cookies reset each time your incognito window is closed.
 The best window for booking a flight is 6-8 weeks before your departure. If booking during peak seasons, purchase your flight about 3 months in advance. Avoid booking too early because airlines will often lower fares based on lack of demand. Likewise, avoid purchasing tickets too late because fares typically rise as the departure date approaches.International flights differ slightly. They typically open up for sale about 335 days prior to departure and the price remains relatively the same for a few months. The price slowly begins to increase until about the 90 day mark when prices jump rapidly.Research has found that Tuesday around midnight is the cheapest time to purchase your ticket, with the average savings being about 6%. However, it’s only applicable to 1.6% of the US market.
The “always book at midnight” advice is a myth. Prices actually increase on days that fall later in the week.
Avoid booking later at night and later in the week when the price of tickets has been known to increase. This spike in cost is most likely due to airlines’ sales weeks ending right before the weekend.
 Sign up for an airline rewards program that allows you to collect points and rewards as you travel. You can cash in your rewards for free flights, free upgrades, and free companion tickets. Even if you don’t fly often, you can earn rewards by shopping at partner stores, watching for special offers, or getting a credit card which offers rewards.US based airlines usually partner with other international carriers. For example, a flight on Singapore Airlines could earn you rewards with United Airlines because they are partners.
Airlines partner with major companies to offer rewards based on dollars spent. Amazon, Apple, Best Buy, and Target offer anywhere from 2-4 points per dollar spent and even offer bonuses for monthly totals.
Newsletters often advertise special offers that aren’t noted on an airline’s website. For example, you may earn points just by installing a search tool bar or double points by flying a particular route.
Some credit cards offer travel rewards already. If not, try applying for a travel rewards credit card. Instead of paying cash for bills and other expenses, charge everything to the card to receive rewards for paying bills as usual.
 Take advantage of discounts offered by clubs or organizations of which you may be a member. For example, there are many discounts codes for students. Never be afraid to ask an agent if discounts are available or to use search engines to find promotional (promo) codes.Mailing lists are a great way to get “members only” benefits. Because cheap flight deals are usually only advertised for 24 hours, mailing lists help to ensure that you will be aware of all specials.

