 Uneven surfaces can make any wheelchair get off balance. Even when someone is pushing a wheelchair, an uneven surface can cause harm. Users and caregivers alike need to stick to slopes that only go up to a gradient of 20% and are dry, solid, and straight.


Avoid inclines, slopes, staircases, and curbs. Basically you want to make sure your wheelchair stays on flat ground.;
, Sand can build up on tires and cause a wheelchair to get off balance. Even a thin layer of sand on a concrete sidewalk can cause problems. If you see sand ahead, either try to avoid it or make sure someone nearby can help you clean the wheels as soon as you pass over it.Try to go around a sandy patch of sidewalk.
Electric wheelchairs can actually tip over from the imbalance that sand creates.
 You should always check the weather before you leave the house in a wheelchair. Try to avoid going out if there is any sort of precipitation—rain, snow, sleet, and so on—because any of these will make surfaces slick.Puddles and flat areas covered in water are bad for any wheelchair. The water can get the entire chair wet, causing it to slide or spin and eventually tip over. If you see a puddle or it is raining heavily, either go around the puddle or wait until the rain is over.If it’s raining and you want to go out to run an errand, have someone help you by carrying both you and the wheelchair to the car and inside the building at your destination.
If you have no one to assist you, use your wheelchair very slowly and carefully.
Be especially careful to inspect ramps in wet weather. You don’t want to slide or tip when going up or down an incline.
 Avoid potholes when you operate your wheelchair outdoors. Holes in the ground, floor, or a ramp can make you lose your balance and tip over. Try to go around any holes that you see. If there is a hole ahead of you, ask someone to help you steer around it.
If you’re alone and you need to go over a surface with a hole in it, proceed very slowly and try to steer around it.
 Even if the weather is good, you should carefully inspect ramps before going up or down. Make sure there are no uneven or slippery surfaces. You should also inspect the ramp for other obstacles like plants.Ask for help in avoiding obstacles on a ramp.
For example, ask someone nearby to pull up obtrusive weeds or push grass out of the way.
Ask other for help in sweeping sand off of a ramp.
If you are pushing a wheelchair up a ramp, first check to see that the ramp is clear of obstacles. Then slowly advance, watching carefully to ensure that you don’t tip the chair over.
If you’re moving a wheelchair you’re sitting in up a ramp, lean forward for momentum after engaging the anti-tippers (if your chair is equipped with any)., Not all wheelchairs are created equally. If you need to ride your wheelchair over grass, dirt, gravel, and so on, it might be better to have an all-terrain wheelchair. These chairs have wheels that are thicker than average and can stand up to adverse surface conditions.If your wheelchair tires are thin and less suited to terrain, avoid off-road conditions as much as possible. Take precautions when you absolutely have to traverse over these surfaces.
Ask someone to push your chair so that you don't slip.
Clean off your tires as soon as you are over the surface.
 At night, you need to make yourself visible. Attach flashing lights, reflectors, or flags to maintain a high profile. You will need these additions to your chair to avoid accidents in parking lots or along sidewalks.You may be able to find these kinds of lights in the bicycle section of a big box store.
 You should take care of your wheelchair on a weekly basis. You may want to take it in to a repair shop to have it serviced once a year. For example, a sign that you need new casters is a vibration from side to side when your chair is going fast. This is called “shimmy.” A very bad shimmy can cause a wheelchair to tip over.New casters can cost anywhere from $35 to $100.
Wipe down the wheels when you get home from being out in the rain. This prevents rust on metal parts.Check the air pressure if you have air tires each time you go out. Replace cracked or worn-out tires as soon as you see them.
Check your brakes and for loose bolts once a month.
 Don’t hang heavy bags on the back of your wheelchair. Not only will this upset your center of gravity when you’re in the chair, but it may cause the chair to tip over when you are getting in or out.Instead, hold heavy bags in your lap or ask someone to assist you.
 Be sure to consider yourself as a pedestrian and follow basic traffic laws. Follow all painted crosswalks, pedestrian traffic light laws, and so on. Most cities in the United States have their own laws about how wheelchairs are allowed, but most places allow wheelchairs on the sidewalk.Do not ride your wheelchair on roadways.
 If you are going on a trip longer than a few days, you should make sure that your electric wheelchair is fully charged before you leave. Also take time to measure the range of your battery before leaving the house.
 Making sure your chair doesn’t move while you’re getting in or out of it is important. You don’t want to roll. Also make sure that electric chairs are turned off when getting in or out. This prevents the chair getting away from you., When beginning to use a wheelchair, it is important to find your center of gravity so that you don’t have accidents. Move around in the chair to get a feel for where you have the most balance.Bend, reach for items, and get in and out of the chair in order to find your center of gravity.
 To avoid tipping over in your wheelchair, try not to lean far forward or backward. In order to obtain an object that is out of reach, roll your chair as close as you can. Then reach for the object as far as you can without changing where you’re sitting in the chair., Take precautions to avoid tipping your wheelchair over. For one thing, avoid going fast. Make sure you lock the brakes when you are entering or exiting the chair. Also avoid hitting large bumps with only one wheel.Maintain a slow speed on tight corners and rough surfaces.

