 No one wants to hear some one complain especially if its the same stories told over and over again. This will contribute to your flaws in their eyes and one step towards them falling out of love with you.;
, If they call you, start doing something else. Be as nice as possible and say things like "Oh sorry, one minute I want to watch this video. It's 5 minutes long" - this will make them feel bored and bring them one step closer to falling out of love with you. They probably won't even call again. But if they really love you, there is a high chance they will call you.
 No one likes a childish attitude. Be a bit rude but with a twist. For example, compliment every one, but ignore her/him.
 Make no sense when you speak. When it comes to topics like Human rights or debates, make no sense and be stubborn. No one likes a person with these qualities. Soon he/she will be falling out of love with you.
 Having a 'black heart' is not attractive. So without gossiping in too much detail, say things like 'he/she deserves it' this will hopefully make her/him fall out of love.
 Say that you are busy and you can't really talk. The less you make yourself available, then he/she will realise they should find some one else.
 If you do reply to a whole paragraph make sure you reply in 2 words showing you're not really interested. -This way you are not rude as to ignore the messages. This will make her/him realise that you are not interested and so fall out of love with you.
 If they call you to tell you about their problems make sure you don't sympathise with them. This will make them feel that you are wired. As normal people with sympathies in such situations. This should make them fall out of love with you.
 If they ever ask you to come out tell them you can't. You can say things like You are grounded or you are busy. This way they realise you will never leave your house and thus eventually give up on you- making them fall out of love with you.
 Maybe you can eat with your mouth open or wear dirty clothes. This will make them feel 'eww' about you and thus make them fall out of love.
 No one likes a push over, so force them to do things.

