 If your fabric has any creases or wrinkles, iron them out before proceeding further.


Make sure that you pay attention to the make of the fabric before you iron it. Heavier fabrics need a stronger heat setting while light or delicate fabrics need very low heat, if they can tolerate heated ironing at all.
 With the fabric right-side-up, glide the embroidery hoop over it until you find a section you would like to frame and display. Open the hoop and slide that section of fabric inside before closing the hoop again.


Pull the fabric taut before closing the embroidery hoop. The fabric should appear smooth but not stretched.
If you are working with a fabric that has a small, continuous pattern, you only need to center the hoop in the middle of the fabric since the display will look identical no matter which section of fabric you place in the hoop. For larger or uneven patterns, you may need to spend more time choosing a portion of fabric to center and display.
Note that the fabric must be at least 2 inches (5 cm) wider than the embroidery hoop in all directions. Get an even larger piece of fabric if you need to play around with the the positioning since you will need at least 2 inches (5 cm) of overhang on each side of the hoop.
 Turn the fabric and hoop over so that the wrong-side of the fabric faces up. Apply craft glue to the backside of the inner ring of the embroidery hoop.


You could also use hot glue or fabric glue.
Apply a small yet continuous line all around the hoop, placing it just next to the fabric.
 Fold the excess fabric over the line of glue, pressing it in securely. Let the glue dry.


The fabric should be stuck to embroidery hoop ring all the way around. If there are any places that are not secure after the glue dries, reapply more glue to those places and try again.
 Cut away the excess fabric so that no ends are visible from the front of the hoop.


Make sure that you trim away enough fabric to prevent frayed edges from peeking over the sides of the embroidery hoop. If this is impossible, line the cut edges of the fabric with anti-fray adhesive to prevent the fabric from unraveling.
 This completes the process. You can hang the embroidery hoop framed fabric on its own or create several more coordinating pieces to display together.

