 Believe it or not, a lot of flame wars aren't started by the trolls themselves, but by people that fall in to their traps. Flamers set traps, waiting for someone to fall into it. This is usually how most flame wars start, and it's usually only because the person is desperate for attention.;
, On most sites where one can happen, a flame war can get you and the other guy banned. Try to get out of the war early, or show no hostility. If you're not hostile, chances are you won't get in trouble. They're likely going to call you a wimp or coward or something along those lines. Just ignore it. Remember at all times that they're just doing it for attention.
 Sometimes a flame war is inevitable and unavoidable, but that doesn't mean you can't end it. No matter how much it seems as if it's their fault or seems like it makes you weak, calmly and nicely apologize, and let it be. Don't provoke them further, it just shows you are gullible enough to stoop to their level and that you are no better than them.
 Whether you can or cannot end it, being non-hostile helps. It might even change them. If you end it and they pursue afterwards, it'll just make them look bad in the eyes of other and eventually others will take a stand.
 If you cannot stop them, ignore them. They can't do flame forever, and they'll eventually get tired of you not replying to their pleas for attention. If you can, try to put them on an ignore list if the place has one.
 Some people are such jerks, that even after you've done everything above, they'll still try to come after you. They aren't going to rest because they want to win and be seen as someone with power so they can command everyone else around. Even if you ignore them, some people are hardheaded to the point no matter what you try they will keep finding ways to keep on antagonizing you. Making multiple accounts, getting others involved, attempting to frame you: these are all things they would probably attempt. But chances are that if they try any of this it's against the site's rules, and if the site has moderators, tell the moderators what's going on.
 Stand up for others, help new people, and be noble and respectable. Chances are if you do you'll get flamed a bit more, but other people will take notice and sometimes take a stand for you.
 Sometimes your only option left is to take a stand for yourself. If no one else will help you, and you've tried being a pacifist, this is your last choice. Don't go insane style on them, just be stern and strict. Be sharp and sophisticated. Their only reason left would be because they think your easy to walk over.

