 Go slowly and convince your puppy that a bath is a good thing. He may not adjust to the water as quickly as you might've thought. Your pup might not enjoy the bath the first few 20 times, but don't give up! You can do this. Make your pup think of water as a game and not as it's enemy. Give him treats and lots of praise — make sure he thinks of it as a fun place. Give him free reign to sniff and investigate to his heart's content.


Take a few days to let him get used to the area. He should be completely comfortable in the bathing area before his first bath.
If the puppy is very small, choose the kitchen sink as a bathing location. It will be more comfortable for both of you.;
, Run the water while he's not in the tub or sink to get him acclimated to the sound. Splash a little water on him to show him it's nothing to fear. Once he's comfortable enough, fill the tub or sink with a little water and play with him in it. Use plenty of treats and praise, and never rush a puppy who seems hesitant or fearful.
 Using human shampoo will dry out his skin and leave him vulnerable to bacteria, parasites, and viruses. Buy a nice mild Oatmeal shampoo specially formulated for dogs at the pet store instead.
 You can also use a non-skid mat. A puppy who thinks he may fall will be fearful and uncooperative.
 Instead, dress in comfortable clothes that need to be washed anyway. Expect them to get wet and dirty, as there may be wet cuddles and frequent shakes from the puppy. Pull hair into a high bun or ponytail. Remove all makeup and chemicals from the face to make sure your cute puppy doesn't splash all the makeup onto the counter or even dirty the water and dye your pup's fresh coat.


Your bathroom may also get wet, so be prepared for that as well.
 You don't want to get pulled away by something that needs your attention in the middle of the bath. Make sure other pets or children are supervised, that nothing's cooking in the oven or stove, and you're not expecting an important call or visit.
 Before you bring the puppy into the bathing area, make sure you've lined up all your tools. You'll need your dog shampoo, a cup or jug to help with rinsing, and lots of towels. You should also keep treats on hand to help your puppy connect the bath with a positive experience. Also keep a hairdryer if your pooch needs an extra drying process because of it's thick coat. , Using a dog comb, gently tease out mats and tangles, making sure not to tug on his fur and cause pain. Be patient and remember to give lots of praise. Your puppy needs to get used to grooming!

, He should have recently gone to the bathroom, so he doesn’t feel bladder or bowel pressure. The temperature in the house should be warm enough to keep him from feeling too cold when soaked. The bathwater itself should be lukewarm — less than what you would find comfortable in your own bath.Test the water the way you would a baby bath, using your wrist or elbow. If it feels warm enough for your own bath, it's too hot for a puppy!
The water level should reach about half the dog's height to prevent any chance of drowning.
 The very idea of bathing an anxious, excitable puppy may stress you out. If you're stressed, your puppy will pick up on your emotions! The calmer you stay (as the puppy's "pack leader"), the calmer he'll be. Put on some calming, quiet music to soothe yourself and lead by example. Make sure to use a happy, calm voice to reassure the puppy that you are there and all is well.


Waiting until any children are out of the house might be a good idea. Giggling and screeching may stress the puppy out.
At the very least, don't let anyone tease him during bath time, or he'll learn that bathing is something to be feared.

