 Write down a to-do list of all the things you have promised to accomplish in addition to this project. Get the tasks out of your head and onto a piece of paper to free up some mental space for your new project.


Keep a personal and professional list, so that you can keep work tasks at the office and avoid wasting time at work.Schedule a time to accomplish each thing on your calendar. Perhaps baking cupcakes for a school’s bake sale is distracting you, so schedule some time when you will do it, so that you can free up your time now without breaking commitments.
Use technology. Smart phones can sync with your work computer and your spouse’s calendar if you want them to.;
, Better yet, purchase a crisp new notebook to serve as a project journal. If you are digitally inclined, open a new document and save it under the project name.
 Think of all the benefits that you will get once you complete the task.


For example, if you want to get in shape, you might write “Lower blood pressure, live longer, lose weight, train for a marathon and get more energy.”
Also, if you need to construct a new website for your business, you could write “Improve marketing strategy, garner younger clients, increase client retention, do market research and develop brand” as great potential benefits to completing the project.
If you can’t come up with a list of reasons why the project will be rewarding, perhaps the risk or cost is too high. If this is the case, you need to reassess the project to make its cost more reasonable before you get started., If you are completing a work goal, ask co-workers to help. If you have a friend with a similar personal goal, ask the person to get started on a goal with you.


This is your chance to get moral support. Fitness goals, activity goals and even financial savings goals are more likely to succeed if you aren’t working alone.
 While you are still thinking about large goals, divvy up the time it will take according to the month. Write a goal for each month underneath the name of the month.
 Garner support from your boss, parents, partner, kids or friends. You will become more motivated to achieve it if other people are checking on your progress. , If you don’t know how to get into shape, read some fitness blogs about training. If you have never planned an event before, search online for an event planner, so that you can see how other people break the task down.


There are thousands of experts on the Internet and at your local library. Use these resources to get a head start. You don’t have to start from scratch if someone has already made a planner for you.
 Personalize to-do lists that you found to fit your desires and schedule.
 Aim small and do more as your motivation increases. Psychologically, it is better to tick off more boxes than let a box go unchecked for weeks.


Try to stay motivated for 10 minutes at a time. Power working, instead of working in hour-long blocks can increase your drive and productivity., Devote 15 minutes to the project each day. Once you complete the 15 minutes, place a large “x” on a calendar day.With each day, week and month you accomplish your 15 minutes, it will be harder to break the chain.
Just 15 minutes a day is enough to develop a good habit over the course of a few weeks or months.
 There are several dozen desktop app and device apps that make it more fun to check a box on a to-do list. Try apps like Evernote, Pocket, Clear, CheckMark or MindNode., While it’s true that a job well done is its own reward, a project with several rewards is even better. Let yourself buy a pair of shoes you’ve been eyeing, go out to a fancy dinner or have a party to celebrate.
 Envision how good it will feel to have the experience. Athletes picture the finish line to improve their chances of success., If you are stuck, then start a brainstorming session with a friend or a colleague. Someone else’s perspective and enthusiasm can improve your results and motivation.
 Watch a YouTube clip, listen to your favorite song or read a few pages in your favorite book before you start each day. Try to associate the project with positive motivation in your life.
 If you didn’t get much sleep last night, take a 20-minute nap. If you are feeling full or sluggish, go on a 15-minute walk around the building to sharpen your thoughts.

