 Traditionally, ordained Christian ministers have felt a strong pull to become spiritual leaders. They are members of a particular Christian sect or church and believe that they are meant to serve their communities in the name of god. Services performed by ordained Christian ministers include:


Performing baptisms.






Officiating weddings and funerals.






Providing spiritual counseling.






Working as chaplains.






Working as missionaries.






Founding new churches.





;
, Traditionally-ordained ministers obtain their licenses through bible or seminary schools, which are effectively graduate programs. Like most graduate programs, entrance into theological programs requires a college degree.
 Depending on the program, candidates will take courses in theology, philosophy, and other courses meant to provide preparation for a life devoted to religious service. A Master of Divinity degree is awarded at the end of the program.


Becoming ordained as a minister through school was the most common path before online ordination became possible.
Receiving ordination through school can take several years, and it can be quite expensive. In some cases, a church or religious community will sponsor a member who feels called to ministry.
 At the completion of the theological program, an ordained minister license will be granted. This grants you the legal ability to perform marriage ceremonies and other services that fall under the purview of ordained ministers.
 Churches perform their own ordination ceremonies after an application process has been completed. In most cases candidates will be expected to attend additional classes and undergo a presentation and interview process before ordination is granted by church officials.


Ordination with a particular church typically means that the church will employ you for your services.
In addition to conducting religious ceremonies, ministers affiliated with churches usually actively serve their communities by visiting the sick, holding educational programs, leading church trips and so on.

