 Except in this case. Because the game was developed in 2005, the friendly AI aren't helpful and will barely follow you. So get used to fighting alone.;
, When clearing a building use a sub-machine gun. Because they are fast firing and aren't cumbersome to aim or reload. A Thompson or MP40 is preferable. Also do this prone, so you are very hard to hit, because the enemy will not see you.
 Because you get such a limited number of smoke grenades and you'll often have to move into open space where the enemy has a clear shot. Your going to have to decide when to use them or not. The best guide of deploying smoke grenades is when your commanding officer tells you to, or if your approaching a heavily armored vehicle.
 Frag grenades will often be in abundance, so don't worry about them being in short supply. Also enemies can throw these at you and since this isn't Call of Duty 4, you can't throw these back.
 Some weapons are better than others in certain situations. For example, the Mosin Nagant, Kar98K, Lee Enfield are bolt action and require cycling after firing, so are inadvisable in CQB situations. Sub-machine guns are a better all around choice. The Thompson only has a 20 round magazine, but those 20 pack a punch. The British STEN is less powerful and less preferable, so swap it for something else when available. The MP40 behaves extraordinarily like an assault rifle and the ammunition is in vast supply, because it is used by the majority of Germans. Pistols are rarely ever seen but are a good choice for CQB situations. Light Machine guns such as the BAR or the Bren LMG are less preferable, partially because of the high recoil and the fact you'll never get to stay in the open long enough to fire it. The MP44 is a good all around weapon, as it is an assault rifle. There are also semiautomatic rifles such as the Gewher43, the M1 Garand, which are good substitutes for rifles such as the Kar98k because they self-load their ammunition.
 Use them whenever you get one. These weapons are useful to eliminate large amount of enemies without them seeing you.
 Mounted machine guns are mostly inadvisable unless you are laying down the first shot. Only then are they useful.
 This is probably one of the most frustrating difficulties of any game. If you aren't careful you'll find yourself breaking your own controller with out conscious thought.

