 The symptoms of DPD generally develop in childhood, but someone who has this disorder may not realize it until he or she begins to develop adult relationships.Someone who has one or two of these symptoms may not have DPD, but if someone has five or more of the symptoms, that person likely has DPD. These symptoms include:


Difficulty making everyday life decisions on your own without the input of others
Problems making life decisions by yourself or wanting others to make those decisions for you
Expressing agreement with others when you do not actually agree because you want to make them happy and keep their support
Difficulty beginning projects on your own because of lack of self-confidence
Going to extreme lengths or enduring unpleasant events in order to make others happy, which can range from small inconveniences to physical and emotional abuse
Inability or difficulty being alone
Inability to function on your own, especially after the end of a relationship
Fear of abandonment that stems from your dependence on others, There are no specific risk factors for DPD. This condition is exhibited in equal amounts of men and women.However, there are some warning signs that may point to an underlying personality disorder.


People with DPD are more prone to suffer from substance abuse, either alcohol or drugs.If you have a history or are currently suffering from physical, sexual, or emotional abuse, you may also be at risk for DPD or other personality disorders.These do not always go hand in hand, but if you have some of the symptoms and some of the warning signs, you should talk to your doctor.
 When someone has DPD, that person may also have another mood disorder. It is common to suffer from depression or anxiety in addition to DPD. These conditions may be caused by DPD or they may make DPD symptoms worse.


If you think you may have additional symptoms not related to your DPD, talk to your doctor.Although some of the treatment methods for these conditions coincide with those for DPD, your doctor and psychologist need to be aware of any other mental disorders that you have so you can be treated for all of them at once.
 Before someone can be properly treated for DPD, that person needs to have a proper diagnosis from a mental health professional. A general physician may suspect that someone has DPD or a personality disorder in general, but the person should be properly checked out by a psychologist or psychiatrist to be sure.


Your psychologist or psychiatrist will go through an evaluation of your symptoms and behaviors in order to properly diagnose your condition.