 Achieving your dream might require you to gain new skills or knowledge. Be sure that you don’t define your dream so narrowly that you get "tunnel vision" and ignore the things you need to learn in order to make your dream a reality. Create one or more "learning goals" – learning new skills or new information. Achieving your learning goals can be a crucial step to working toward your dream.For example, If your ultimate goal is to buy a beach house, then you might need to learn about the real estate market in seaside areas near you as well as learn more about how to invest money so that you can save more quickly for a down payment on your beach house.
 Do some research to find out how other people have achieved the same dream. You can try using the internet to look for articles or biographies of people you admire who have achieved their dream. You might even want to talk with people in real life.For example, if your dream is to become an architect, try to speak with someone at an architecture school. If you don’t live nearby and can’t meet them in person, try to talk with someone on the phone.
 Achieving a dream can be complicated and you might need to complete a number of different "projects" as you go forward. Figure out what the different "projects" are that will move you toward your dream. Remember that you need to have all the ingredients and tools you need in order to be successful in achieving your dream.If your dream is to become a black belt in karate or play the piano, then you might need to start by saving money for lessons, finding an excellent teacher, and finding the uniform or instrument you need.
 Create a plan for each of the projects by defining all of the steps you will need to follow in order to complete the project. Write down all the steps in order, and keep your project task lists somewhere convenient.For example, if your project involves buying something big, figure out how much money you will need to save. Similarly, if you are interested in learning a new skill that requires a teacher, ask ask friends (or the internet) about good teachers in your area and what kind of equipment you will need for the new activity.
 Start taking action on each part of your dream. If you can, work on all of your projects simultaneously – for example, try to do something for each project each week. Even if you are moving in small steps toward your goal, you are still heading in the right direction. And keeping yourself moving forward is one of the best ways to stay motivated toward achieving your goal.Going for your dream means taking action on many small steps over a long period of time. If you can only spend 15 minutes one week on your dream, remember that the most important thing is to keep moving forward down your "to do" list of project tasks.
 As you are taking action on the different projects that lead you to your dream, be sure that you always know what to do next. Being unsure of your next step is one common way that people get stalled in their progress toward a goal. So each week revisit your project lists to see what tasks are coming up and be sure that you will be ready for each one., Working toward your dream sometimes needs to be done in the midst of a life where you have lots of other things to do – taking care of children or working late, for example. In order to achieve your dream, you need to make sure you carve out the time that is necessary to move forward on your goals. Try to create time in your week that is purposefully devoted to your dream, and make that time a priority.


If you are a very busy person, finding time to act on a long-term goal can be challenging. If you are too tired when you are finished with everything else for the day, then try working on your dream in the morning before you get busy with other activities.
 Learn from your mistakes and keep on going. Achieving a dream takes persistence. Know that you will encounter obstacles and failures. Use these as opportunities to learn. What can you do differently from now on? Get yourself back on track and keep moving forward. , Seek out the people who have achieved their dreams and talk with them or read their stories. Find out what they learned from their journey, and what they like best about achieving their dream.You can find out about other successful dreamers by reading their biographies, watching documentary films, or reading about people on the internet.

