 Bearings are the round pieces of metal inside of each of your wheels. To remove the bearings from the wheels, unscrew your wheel from the axle completely. Then, fit the wheel over the end of the axle and use it as leverage to pop the bearing out of the center of your wheel. It may take a few tries before you can completely dislodge the bearing from the wheel.If your wheels make a lot of noise or don't spin well, there’s a good chance they need to be cleaned.
 There will be a plastic or metal shield that usually goes over your bearings. To remove the rubber bearing shields, take a flathead screwdriver or pin and wedge it under the rubber. Push downward on the screwdriver to pop the shield out of the bearing.You may damage the shield slightly while doing this, so be careful.
 Once you get all your shields separated from the bearings, you’ll want to soak them in a solvent or solution, like acetone, that will remove dirt and grease from them. Place your bearings in a bottle or jar with the solution and secure the lid. Shake the bottle for two minutes, or until all the dirt has been removed from your bearings.You can also use a citrus based cleaner with an orange oil or lemon juice to clean your bearings.
 Remove the bearings from the solvent and place them on a dry paper towel or rag. Set a hairdryer on high and place it over the bearings until all of the moisture has been dissolved.Be careful when handling the hot bearings because they can burn you.
 The proper lubricant will keep your wheels turning correctly when you skateboard. Use oil or grease that’s specifically meant to help lubricate the bearings on a skateboard. Place a drop or two of the lubricant with a dropper into the bearing. You can then roll the bearing on its side to distribute the grease throughout it.Oil will make your wheels turn faster but also makes your bearings less resistant to dirt and debris.
Synthetic grease will increase the longevity of your bearings and requires less maintenance, but will make your wheels spin slower than if you used oil.
 Place the metal or rubber bearing back in place and snap it on. Make sure that it is secure and that there aren’t any holes or dirt and dust may be able to enter your bearing. Your bearing shield will be different depending on what kind of bearings you have.
 Once you’ve put your bearing back together, it’s ready to go back onto your wheels. From there, you should be able to reattach the wheels to your longboard's axle.


You should conduct regular maintenance on your bearings, especially if they are noisy or they are not spinning properly.

