 When you become a quiet person, you don't turn into a mute. Only speak when spoken to or when it's necessary and think before you speak.


Quiet people still talk, they just hold in redundant or insignificant contributions. Quiet people are seen as intellectual, informative, wise, and erudite. Take your time with your responses and think of something helpful or insightful that will contribute to the conversation in a positive way.;
, For example, if you get mad at someone, have what you are going to say "pictured" in your head. Hold it there for 3-5 seconds. Is what you were going to say really worth your time? If not just think them to the person. If a answer is really needed, think and answer in a smart way.
 Interrupting is just rude and gets on everyone's nerves. If you have something to say and someone else is talking, go ahead and think about what you want to say until the others are done talking. This is a good way to involve thinking things through in your every day life.
 A hobby will keep your mind occupied instead of your mouth. Some examples of perfect hobbies for this are: reading, drawing, music and dancing. Any hobby will work, but it will only work if you keep your mind focused on it, just make sure you can remain quiet too.
 That way you are maintaining a quiet persona and showing you have a polite and kind appeal.
 Manners are an important way to help us stop and think about the context of our behavior. Think about whether or not being noisy is being considerate of others' needs. Places such as libraries, theaters, exam rooms, etc. are obvious places where we should keep our voices down. Think about other less obvious situations, such as a restaurant, when someone else is talking, in the car, etc. and see if you can be quieter than normal. When you use your manners, you show respect and benevolence to the other party.
 Don't button yourself up all the time just because you're quiet. Get out and exercise to release your energy. Find places where you feel comfortable and do your favorite activities. Go for a run, walk your dog, write a song, or just relax and enjoy a movie. The point is to continue to be yourself and enjoy who you are on the inside, no matter how much you talk or how informative you are. This will help create balance in your life between the moments of keeping quiet and the moments of letting yourself be loud. If there is an imbalance, you can get angry, anxious, and irritated.
 If you can't help but blurt things out when you are in school, just begin to work on that. Don't try to quit talking all the time though, just quit little by little.
 Being more quiet doesn't just come to you overnight, it takes a long time to really establish it. Don't get frustrated if you have to cut back really slowly. As long as you keep at it, you will achieve your goal of being quieter.
 A lot of people think quiet people are people that have problems in life or shy. If they misunderstand you, tell them that you're just a normal and quiet person. If someone is bullying you, being quiet is not the way to be! Go tell someone.
, Some people assume that being quiet is a trend and makes you cooler, but it's not. Those people are posers and don't understand the purpose of being quiet. People become quiet people for a variety of reasons, but if you want to quiet down just to be popular, then this isn't the lifestyle for you., How many times have you found yourself in the midst of a conversation with a colleague, friend, or romantic partner only to look over and notice a glazed look in their eyes and that they’re not really listening to the words you are speaking? If you’re anything like me, a heck of a lot. In a world that rarely stops talking, its rare to find someone listening with quiet intensity to every word you speak. Enter, quiet people.
 In such a fast-paced world, it’s rare to find a reflective, keen observer. Quiet people, however, with less time spent chatting, have more energy to invest towards observing situations and people. Ask a quiet person their thoughts on a situation or person and you may be surprised to receive an extremely reflective and thorough answer. Less talking translates to more reflecting and observing.
 Ever had the experience of engaging in a work discussion with colleagues? The quiet man or woman in the group, who hardly ever speaks suddenly interjects. What’s the response? The whole room listens. With less time spent talking, quiet people have the time to really think before they speak. In this way, they not only offend few, but also take the time to make sure that what they are saying has true substance. Because they are so selective with words, when they speak, it seems like the whole world stops to listen to what they have to say.
 With their quiet, relaxed temperament, quiet people are often viewed as fantastic confidants. They are often the ears that others run to for advice, respected for their good listening skills, calm temperament, and cautious words.
 Many quiet people are also introverts, who become charged from alone time. Free from the distractions that often come from being around people all day long, quiet people are able to accomplish a lot with their quiet focus. It is not uncommon to observe a quiet co-worker, alone in his or her office for hours at a time eschewing a quiet focus.
 With their lack of loud words and exaggerated actions, quiet people rarely offend others in their presence. It’s rare to see a quiet friend speak rashly, or a quiet co-worker reprimand a boss. Because they don’t intimidate others in their presence, they often make others feel at ease.
 Ever had the experience of approaching a calm, quiet co-worker over a stressful project? Before you knew it, your entire attitude probably changed as their relaxed temperament rubbed off on you. Quiet people tend to have a calming effect on others.
 In a fast-paced world, the quiet ones are often forgotten. But more often than not, they are the writers, artists, musicians, and creative thinkers who find their greatest inspiration from one thing and one thing only: solitude.