 A suit, shirt, and tie can make even the fittest man look boxy and shapeless. A few easy tricks can show off your physique in the office without resorting to a pricey tailored suit:


Remove your jacket and hang it on the back of your chair. That's one less bulky garment between your build and your coworkers' eyes.
Long day at the office? Roll up the sleeves of your button down shirt to show off a bit while you get work done.
Men's' jeans and slacks of come in different cuts and styles. Find a pair that is your size but will show everyone your muscular thighs. Ditch the straight leg and relaxed fits for a boot cut or tapered leg.
 When you go out with friends or on a date, it's best to strike a balance between comfort and a fit snug enough to get attention. Avoid clothes that are so tight they look painted on. Not only are they less comfortable, but it could also look like you're trying too hard to get noticed.


Wear a tee shirt that's a size lower than what you usually wear. If you're a large, go for a medium. V-neck tees are also a good way to show off your chest definition.
Tank tops are a good way to put your arms, shoulders, and chest on display. Even in colder weather, wear a tank top under an open button-down shirt to show off a little chest definition.
If you've really been hitting leg days hard, show off with a short bathing suit at the beach. Board shorts are popular but don't show off anything above the knee. Try some shorter, square cut trunks instead.
Does cold weather gear make you feel bulky in the worst way? Keep the heavy winter coat around for the dead of winter, but in cool autumn weather just layer your upper body with some long sleeve tees or thermals.
 You may have the muscles, but other features can distract from your bulk if left unchecked. Make other features complement, not compete. Do your best to keep your image clean cut.


Intensify your level of hygiene, especially if you work out all the time. Shower every day and shave as often as you need to.
Some scruff is okay, but keep beards neat and trimmed. Unkempt facial hair will draw attention away from your build.
Get a haircut. Hairstyles come and go, but short or trimmed hair is usually a look more associated with athletic guys.
Get some new eyewear. Instead of staring at your guns, people might be starting at your thick Coke bottle glasses. Contact lenses or Lasik eye surgery are options if you're tired of glasses.
A well-placed tattoo on a bicep or shoulder is a feature that will help draw eyes toward your arms.
 Body language speaks volumes. Don't shrink your body by slouching. Stand up straight and pull your shoulders back. Look people in the eye when you talk to them. When combined, these small actions let others know that you are someone worth noticing!

