 For this step you should use the closed position, where the lead will put his right hand below his partner's shoulder blade on her back, with his left hand raised off to the side so his partner can put her hand in it.Holding a partner in the closed position can limit confusion while executing this step, as you can apply slight pressure with your fingertips to indicate direction of movement.
Classic technique requires you to keep your thumbs pointed, not curled to grip your partner.This will help you maintain proper posture.
 Familiarizing yourself with the step and becoming comfortable with it will allow you to lead with confidence, which usually translates on the dance floor as graceful dancing. Your feet and those of your partner will trace a box patter on the floor, each step occupying one of the four corners of the box, beginning with the lower left hand corner of the box. Lead and follow steps are:


Lead:

Left foot forward to second corner
Right foot to the right to third corner
Left foot joins right at third corner
Right foot back to fourth corner
Left foot to the left, returning to starting corner
Right foot joins left


Follow:

Right foot back to second corner
Left foot to the left to the third corner
Right foot joins left at third corner
Left foot forward to fourth corner
Right foot to the right, returning to starting corner
Left foot joins right., Make sure you have enough room. This step, unlike the simple sway-step slow dance, requires space for you and your partner to perform the steps. Choose your dancing spot wisely, and impress your friends with your new moves.This step, sometimes called a box-waltz, is suited for music written to a three beat time signature. Count in your head one-two-three, and if your count fits that of the music evenly, the music is likely in a time signature you can box-step to., New dancers can get caught up in the moment and lose track of others on the dance floor. This can cause accidental injury to yourself, your partner, or others. Try to remain aware of those around you, and always treat your partner with courtesy.

