 Combine 3 cups (360 g) of all-purpose flour, ¾ cup (170 g) of cubed butter that’s been thoroughly chilled, ⅓ cup (65 g) of cubed shortening that’s been thoroughly chilled, ¼ cup (65 g) of white sugar, and a pinch of sea salt in a food processor. Pulse the mixture until it resembles coarse sand.If you are short on time, you can use a prepared pie crust that you buy at the store. However, make sure that it is unbaked.;
, When the flour and butter mixture is the right texture, start to slowly add extremely cold water to dough. You only want to add enough water to make the dough come together, so add a teaspoon or so at a time and pulse the food processor until the dough begins to form.The water that you add should be ice cold so you may want to chill it in the refrigerator with ice cubes in it. When you add it to the flour and butter mixture, though, be careful not to add any of the ice.
 Once the dough comes together, remove it from the food processor and place it a floured work surface. With clean hands, gently shape the dough into a flat disk., When you’ve shaped the dough properly, cover it completely with plastic wrap. Place the dough in the refrigerator, and allow it to chill for at least an hour.After you’ve wrapped the dough in the plastic wrap, press it down again to ensure that it’s flat.
 After the dough has been properly chilled, remove it from the refrigerator and unwrap it. Place it on a floured surface, and use a rolling pin to roll it out until it’s approximately ¼-inch (6-mm) thick.If you don’t have a rolling pin, use a wine bottle or other heavy glass bottle to roll out the dough.
 When you’ve rolled the dough out to the proper thickness, transfer it to a pie pan. Press the dough into the pan, and use a fork to prick the bottom and sides so it doesn’t get soggy as it bakes.It helps to use your rolling pin to transfer the crust to the pie pan. Drape the rolled out dough over the pin so you can easily turn it into the pan.
You can crimp the edge of the pie crust to give it a more decorative look if you prefer. The easiest way to do it is press the tines of a fork all the way around the edge of the crust, though you can also pinch the dough with your fingers.
If you’re not going to bake your pie right away, make sure to refrigerate the crust until you’re ready to fill it and put it in the oven.
Instead of making a pie, you can use the dough to create several individual tarts.
 In a large bowl, mix together 2 cups (400 g) of packed dark brown sugar, 4 large eggs, 2 teaspoons (9 g) of melted butter, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla, and a pinch of fine sea salt. Stir until all of the ingredients are thoroughly combined and the mixture is smooth.You can use a stand mixer or a hand mixer to save time when combining the filling ingredients.
 When the sugar mixture is smooth, pour 1 16-ounce can (370 ml) of condensed milk into the filling. Mix until it’s fully combined.Make sure that you’re not using sweetened condensed milk, which has sugar added that can make the pie filling too sweet. Unsweetened condensed milk may be sold as evaporated milk.
 Once you’ve mixed the condensed milk into the filling, add 1 cup (237 ml) of dark maple syrup. Blend it into the other ingredients until the filling is completely smooth.Dark maple syrup has a rich, deep taste. You can substitute medium or amber maple syrup, which tend to have a lighter flavor, if you prefer.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the pie, it’s important to preheat it. Set your oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Pay attention to your oven so you know when it’s preheated. It may flash an indicator light or beep to let you know.
 As you’re waiting for the oven to preheat, pour the pie filling into the pie crust. Use a spatula to gently smooth the filling to ensure that there are no gaps along the edges.If you’re a fan of nuts, you can sprinkle a cup (125 g) of toasted and coarsely chopped walnuts in the bottom of the pie before adding the filling., Place the pie in the preheated oven, and allow it to bake for 45 to 55 minutes. The center of the pie should be golden brown and bubbly, but firm to the touch.Don’t poke too hard at the pie to test its firmness. Touch it lightly.
 Remove the pie from the oven, and place it on a wire cooling rack. Allow it to cool for at least 10 minutes before cutting and serving the pie.You can serve the pie warm or at room temperature.
If you want to garnish the pie, consider dusting it lightly with powdered sugar.

