 Although you might have to read emails and reports for your job, not many people read regularly for fun. Reading requires you to be active and alert, so pick up a good book and get started.If you are trying to get in the habit of reading more often, start with a goal of reading one new book each month or every few weeks. Then, you can gradually increase your goal.
Joining or starting a book club is a great way to get in the habit of reading more often. You will also boost your brain power and alertness by discussing the books with your book group.
 To train yourself to be more alert while having a good time, try playing games. Word searches, chess, crossword puzzles, and sudoku can help help you retain information and concentrate., Try setting up challenges that force your brain to be alert and on point. Here are a few simple ideas:Count items in your environment such as stop signs, coffee shops, or a type of tree. You can do this on your way to work or school, and while you are walking, driving, or riding a bike.
Watch a digital clock that displays the seconds. Occasionally, the clock will skip a second. It’s your job to identify when that happens. To increase the level of difficulty, add distractions to the mix by turning on a radio or television in the background.
 When you find yourself feeling foggy and less alert, try to force yourself out of your slump by thinking quickly. Here are a few easy ideas to start with:Increase your reading pace to feel more alert.
Start a conversation about a stimulating topic such as politics.
Work with classmates or colleagues to plan and brainstorm about a specific topic, and enjoy the surge of adrenaline.
Learn about something new and interesting to increase your level of alertness.
 Practicing mindful meditation can help you improve your concentration and focus so you can become more alert.While there are many mindfulness meditation exercises you can do, here is a quick example that will help you feel more focused and aware:Find a quiet location free from as many distractions as possible. Then, pick a position where you are comfortable, but alert.
Slowly take a deep breath in, paying attention to how your breath feels when it enters your body. Next, exhale slowly while concentrating on what it feels like when your breath leaves your body.
It’s normal to feel distracted, but try to focus only on your breathing. Noticing when your mind drifts and you become distracted is an important step in training yourself to be more alert. When this happens, don’t feel bad. Instead, just calmly refocus on your breath.

