 Whatever has brought the issue of your loved one’s unwillingness to change to your attention may require more than conversation to address properly. Look into how to help your loved one deal with any of the issues you think your loved one may be having in their individual lives.Part of being there is having something to say when someone comes to you for help. (Or when they don’t.)
Know the first step that a loved will need to take so you can recommend it.
Talk to a health care professional. You may benefit both in terms of knowledge about your loved one’s scenario, and in terms of your own mental health, by seeing a mental health professional yourself.
 If you’re able to have an honest conversation with a loved one who is struggling with personal issues, you’ll likely have an opportunity to help. Try to find some information about where your loved one can go for help. The best way to do this may be advising your loved one to see a general practitioner and ask for a referral to a therapist.Your loved one may be more likely to agree to seeing a general practitioner than to seeing a psychiatrist or psychologist. General practitioners may then be able to convince your loved one to see a mental health care professional.
When advising your loved one to get help, emphasize statements your loved one has made or behavior that may bring harm to your loved one or to others. For example, you might say, “I am concerned about what you said about feeling angry all of the time. I think that you might need to talk to someone about that to feel better.”
If you don’t know where to look for help or information, contact organizations such as the National Alliance on Mental Illness., If your loved one resists your recommendation to see a professional or otherwise get help, you might consider asking him or her to do so for the sake of your relationship.Ask other friends and loved ones to do the same.
In dangerous scenarios in which your loved one’s behavior is detrimentally affecting his or her own and others’ health and safety, this may be the only way to convince your loved one to address the need to change.
Try something like, “I know you’re struggling with ______ right now, and I want to let you know I support you. I want our relationship to stay healthy and positive, and it would mean a lot to me if you got help dealing with _____.”

, Set boundaries for relationships in which there is risk to yourself or others, including your loved one. Take the time to reflect on what you are willing to participate in, help with, or, frankly, put up with in your life.Articulate the boundaries you set for yourself to your loved one. For example, you might say something like, “I can’t be around you when you have been drinking. If I come home and you are drunk, then I will have to leave.”
If a loved one consistently knowingly defies or asks you to defy boundaries you’ve clearly articulated, you need to consider ending the relationship.
If a loved one is consistently hurting you or others, you need to act. Ideally, your loved one will be willing to willing to change his or her behavior. If not, you may need to distance yourself from your loved one, and potentially stop seeing the person.

