 Safe assets are those that do not expose you to potential legal liability. For example, you are unlikely to be sued because you own cash, bonds, or shares in mutual funds.These are all safe assets.;
, Dangerous assets are those that could subject you to legal liability. They include real estate and automobiles.Someone could get injured on your real estate, and you could injure someone with your car.
 Offshore asset protection isn’t cheap. In particular, you could pay considerable fees managing your assets in the offshore accounts and trusts. For this reason, you should weigh how much money you have.For example, a foreign trust generally costs $20,000 to create. Accounting fees and administration typically costs an additional $7,000 a year., Not all creditors are the same. For example, if you injure someone in a car accident, then that person is a private plaintiff in a lawsuit. Assets held in an offshore account are typically shielded from private plaintiffs.


Offshore trusts offer less protection against a government authority, such as the IRS or a state taxing authority.Using offshore protection vehicles probably won’t shield your money from these government authorities.
 One protection vehicle is an offshore bank account. You can park cash in these accounts and put them out of the reach of creditors from your home country. Often, you can open up an offshore banking account in the name of a private offshore company.Bank accounts have minimum deposit amounts, depending on the country. They can range from $450 to a quarter of a million dollars.For example, opening a bank account in Switzerland requires a higher minimum deposit.
You can work with your attorney to identify the best places to open a bank account. Often, you can have the bank account in a different country from where you have other asset protection vehicles.
 With an offshore company, you title all of your property to the company. Because you own the corporation or the LLC, you still control the assets. However, because the assets are no longer in your name, it is harder for creditors to find them.An LLC also offers additional protection. As the name implies, an LLC limits the liability of its owners. If the LLC is sued, then the individual owners cannot be liable for the injuries caused by the LLC.
 In a trust, you transfer title to assets to the trust. You are called the “settlor” and the person who manages the trust is the “trustee.” The trustee manages the trust property for the benefit of beneficiaries. You can create a trust so that you are both the settlor and a beneficiary.A well-drafted offshore trust will contain a “duress provision.” This provision states that the trustee will ignore any request by the beneficiary to remove assets from the trust when the beneficiary is compelled by a court order.
This means that a U.S. judge can’t order you to remove assets from a trust to satisfy a judgment creditor who won a lawsuit against you.
 A transfer clause in a trust gives the trustee the power to move the trust to a different country in certain situations. For example, you might have a trust in the Cook Islands. If someone files a lawsuit in the Cook Islands, then your trustee could move the trust to a different country. The creditor would then have to file a new lawsuit in the new country.Transfer clauses make it very difficult for creditors to win lawsuits against you in the country where the trust is located. Before the lawsuit can get too far, the trust has been moved.
 Using offshore trusts is legal so long as you create them before you become liable to a potential creditor.You cannot create trusts or other asset protection vehicles to defraud someone or commit a crime.


For example, imagine that you are a doctor. You want to put your assets in an offshore trust and an offshore bank account. After moving the property offshore, you commit malpractice and injure a patient. Your assets are protected if the patient wins a lawsuit against you.
Now imagine that you injure a patient first, and then quickly try to move assets out of the country to protect them. In this situation, offshore asset protection probably will not protect you., You should get referrals to an attorney, especially one with experience in the Fraudulent Transfer Act as well as the creation of offshore asset protection vehicles.If you know someone who is using offshore asset protection, you can ask him or her for a referral to their attorney.
However, you might not have any leads. In this situation, you can get a referral to a business attorney. Be sure to call and ask if they have experience with offshore asset protection.
 There are a few countries which are quite popular for offshore asset protection—Cook Islands, Belize, Nevis, and Cayman Islands. Each has different laws which are friendly to debtors. You and your lawyer should discuss which country has the friendliest laws.


For example, in Nevis, a person has to hire a local attorney and put up $25,000 to start a lawsuit.These hurdles can scare off many people from suing you.
In the Cook Islands and Belize, a person who sues you must prove their case for fraud beyond a reasonable doubt, which is much higher than the standard in the United States.
 Many U.S. states are trying to compete with foreign countries for the asset protection market. They have adopted rules that make domestic asset protection much more attractive.You should talk with your lawyer about whether you can accomplish your asset protection goals using domestic asset protection trusts.
Also compare costs with offshore asset protection trusts. For example, a domestic trust is generally cheaper. You can set up a domestic trust for $10,000 and pay roughly $5,000 a year in fees for accounting and trust administration., Offshore protection is not risk-free. For example, a judge could still hold you in contempt of court for not turning over assets you own. According to some media reports, judges are doing this more often.With contempt, a judge can put you in jail for refusing to obey the court’s orders. For this reason, having assets in a trust might not offer 100% protection.
Talk about the danger of contempt with your lawyer. Generally, a judge will order contempt if they find you made the transfer fraudulently after injuring someone or accruing a debt.
 Part of a comprehensive asset protection plan involves making sure that assets are not grouped together in the same trust or LLC. For example, if you have cash and real estate in the same trust, then someone suing you for an injury sustained on the real estate could get access to both the cash and your real estate.You can protect yourself by separating dangerous assets from safe assets. For example, you should put cash and bonds into a bank account but transfer dangerous assets like automobiles into a trust or an LLC.
You should also separate dangerous assets from each other. For example, you could transfer them to individual LLCs.
 Generally, offshore asset protection does not offer tax advantages. You still must disclose your income from the trust to the IRS, though you don’t have to pay taxes to the foreign country where the trust has been set up.To fully understand the tax consequences, you want to involve your accountant or another tax professional.
Make sure that your accountant has experience in this area of the law. Not every accountant understands how tax rules apply to offshore assets.

