 Chances are, you’ll be surprised at how many interesting sights and activities your local nature and cultural scene can offer. Become a tourist in your own neighborhood by finding and visiting local attractions.


Once you’ve consulted official guides, feel free to browse independent sources like personal blogs and forums. Talk to people as you go about your day as well. Ask people if they know about any interesting events that are coming up.
You can also download a variety of mobile apps which take your geographical location into consideration and search for activities and events in the area.Be sure to check out your local newspaper for events as well.;
, If there’s a natural attraction or historical landmark within a couple hundred miles, you can take a mini-vacation and visit for a day. This will add some refreshing variety to your routine while helping you appreciate your local landscape more thoroughly.


If you have a car, you can search for day trip destinations accessible from your location using various interactive tools and websites.If you’re stuck with public transportation, check out your options with local bus and train lines that offer same-day return service.
 Taking a nature hike or bike ride along a scenic trail has many benefits, including stress relief.It’s not only useful for mental health, though: stretching your legs in nature can also make you feel liberated from the close confines of your small town.


No nature hike nearby? Not a problem! Walking around your neighborhood or town still has many health benefits, and it still gets you out of the house and makes you feel like you’re exploring the area., Making your local exploration agenda into a competitive game can be a great way to visit new places, talk to new people, and learn little-known factoids about your community.Depending on how elaborate you want the game to be, the preparations can be a bit demanding, so have your friends take turns doing the planning.


You can do this the old-fashioned way by typing up a list of tasks and printing them for all your friends, or you can use specially designed apps or web-based services to facilitate the fun., Touring the town’s bar scene can be an insightful (and fun!) way to learn about local history and culture. Your town might already have an agency that runs guided pub crawls, or you might be able to find a suggested itinerary from knowledgeable locals online.Just keep the agenda manageable by paying attention to walking distance between bars and scheduling meal or snack breaks.


If your town doesn’t already have a service offering guided pub crawls, make your own! Ask a tourist board official what the oldest bars in the area are and if there are any spots of note that you should include.
The bars you visit will most likely be glad to host you—after all, you’re bringing them good business—but give them a heads-up if you have a big throng so they can be prepared., One of the best ways to learn about a local culture is to explore its music scene, so check out newspaper, library, and community calendar listings to find shows in your area. Even if you can’t find a ticketed event, you can pop into a small coffee shop gig or jam session


Be open-minded about your options! Just because classical music isn’t your thing, don’t shun the local orchestra’s Mozart concert or touring violinist. Live music affords a unique experience and benefits which reach far beyond the actual music, so consider that concert even if it’s not on heavy rotation in your Pandora., While the brick-and-mortar library might seem like a thing of the past, these institutional dinosaurs are actually invaluable information resources and centers of community.Your library will store a wealth of travel books and information, but it will also house rare historical archives and local records that can shed a whole new light on your small town perspective. Ask a librarian to help you find the most interesting stuff and keep track of your historical journey.
Information isn’t the only thing your library has to offer. Libraries offer free classes, host local artists and exhibits, put on free concerts, and hold other community events, so ask for a copy of their calendar and other public services to make sure you’re taking full advantage of your library’s offerings. If there is a college in your town or nearby, then they may also offer these types of activities.
 Whether you’re traveling abroad or traipsing your familiar streets, eating at local establishments is one of the best ways of experiencing a culture.And just because there’s no Michelin-starred chef in your neighborhood, doesn’t mean that your town’s culinary scene lacks flavor. Make a point to try new restaurants and cafes in your area, including hole-in-the-wall hideaways and restaurants serving exotic cuisines.


Check out Yelp! or the newspaper’s Culture section to find restaurants you don’t know about and feel free to ask friends or family for personal recommendations.

