 Boys who are players will try to trigger impulsiveness in you because this works out to their advantage; they want you to violate your boundaries on physical intimacy fast.


He stokes your impulsiveness by making you think there’s an instant emotional connection, perhaps even saying that you might be soulmates or sending you songs that are romantic or imply the same.
He’s trying to get you to cross your boundaries so that he can get what he is after, which is physical intimacy.
He will lose interest fast in a girl who reasserts her boundaries, who seems very cautious, and who requires patience because he’s not really interested in a relationship.
 The best way to sort out for sure whether a guy is a player or not is to make him wait a significant time for any physical intimacy with you.


If he’s not a player, but is just really into you, he will be OK with this. In fact, he will value and respect you more because you are not “easy.”
If he’s a player, he will be annoyed by this. He will try to cajole you into breaking your boundaries anyway, and, when this doesn’t work, he will dump you. Be aware there are some players who can wait a long time to get what they want and will dump you the second they do.
When he does dump you, he won’t look back and will move onto the next conquest. He will turn from excessively flattering and warm to cold and distant overnight. He might disappear and stop returning texts and calls. It’s true that a lot of boys are interested in physical intimacy even though they are not players. However, the difference is: Is he open to developing emotional intimacy too?

, A player will have a reason to either keep you secret or just to downplay your relationship to others so that he can keep playing the field with other girls.


The reason is sadly that he wants to keep his options open to mess around with lots of girls, and if he tells people he has a girlfriend, other girls might stay away.
It’s important to see whether he tells other people about you, and whether he downplays the state of the relationship to them if he does.
In other words, does he say things to you that indicate you’re exclusive or he’s into you romantically, but around other people he acts like he barely knows you or you’re just a friend? If he’s downplaying you, he’s probably a player.
 Other people around him, who have known him longer, will have had time to see his patterns. Check out his other relationships, and maybe talk to some of those people.


For example, does he have a lot of friends, boys and girls, who think very highly of him? If they don’t, they’ve probably observed his bad behavior one time too many. If his male friends are also known players, that’s obviously a bad sign too.
Is he mostly friends with girls? That’s a bad sign. It means that guys have figured out he’s not a very good person, and he doesn’t like the male competition. A player will barely mention his family to you, either, because he’s not really trying to bring you into all aspects of his life.
Is he still connected to his ex in a way that goes beyond being nice (talking, texting, making plans with her?) He’s probably not available emotionally to you if he is. Do girls like him or do they seem desperate around him, like they think they have a connection with him (or did) and are now angry at him or vying to get his intention? If it’s the latter, he probably did to them what he’s about to do to you.
 It’s good if a boy cares if he looks nice. That’s not the point. But if he’s over the top about it, there’s a greater chance he’s a player.


For example, a player will spend a lot of time working out and will brag about and show off his muscles. He puts a high premium on physical appearance.This will extend to how he dresses. He will likely be seen in nice clothes, including flashing expensive labels to show off.
His car will also be flashy. There’s nothing subtle about this guy. He uses his body, his clothes, and his car to draw girls.
 The way a guy presents himself on social media can give you a sense of whether he is a player or not. If he is a player, he will use social media to try to attract girls.


Check his relationship status. There are some boys who are in a relationship but will pretend they are not on social media. Do you think you’re his girlfriend, but he pretends on Facebook that he’s got no attachments? Do you think he’s single, only to discover that on Facebook he’s indicated he’s in a relationship with someone else? Players will have lots of people on their friend list, including many attractive girls. They use social media to show people how attractive they are. Their comments on Instagram and Facebook will be flirty in nature; girls will be flirting with them, and they will flirt back. If he's only interested in an online relationship with you, he's probably hiding something.
Their photos and videos on social media sites will be designed to showcase their physical attractiveness. They will post pictures without their shirt for example. Other girls post comments that are overtly flirting to him, and he seems not to mind or dissuade them from doing it.

