 Explore the acoustic hits of the 90's. Flippers LOVE Green Day. In fact, the flipper theme song would probably be "Time of Your Life" but to be a true flipper, always call it "Good Riddance" and be super-annoyed by people that don't know the real meaning behind it. Also, listen to Jewel, Enya, Nora Roberts, the Indigo Girls, and Dashboard Confessional. Emo, rock, ska and punk are very acceptable, but nothing too hardcore. NEVER listen to hip-hop, country, rap, or anything popular. (Actually, you can listen to whatever you want, but this is what is what's recommended.);
, Also, don't eat junk food, it's just as bad.
 A flipper's goal in life is to not cause pain and suffering. However you don't have to be vegetarian if you don't want to or if your parents don't let you.
 Because, hey, why not? It's a super cool skill to know and may come in handy a few time in life, eh?

,, Flippers HATE the Hollywood culture. Reality television, unless it has to do with science, is also pointless.
 Flippers love learning. Make friends with all of your teachers. Flippers know that although this sounds geeky, it'll pay off in letters of recommendation.
 Make sure you really absorb the information and you don't rush through it.
 Flippers have unmatched creativity that spills out everywhere. (flippers love drawing on shirts with sharpies, and the designs don't wash out!)

, Flippers usually only drink water (flavored is good.) Milk and orange juice are fine, too.
 Rollerblade everywhere possible.
, Go to anti-war, disability rights, animal rights protests.



Remember, you're just a kid!

, Flippers want to be lean and athletic. Wear sports bras all the time and play down your chest. Flippers love swimming, running, yoga, pilates, and martial arts. These help you slim down, not get bigger.
 Reduce calories but eat tons of fruits and vegetables.
 Plastic-rimmed glasses are VERY flipperish!

, The signature flipper hair color is red for uniqueness and oddity.
 Flippers are careful with their skin.
 Flippers are musicians, and prefer sentimental, acoustic music.
 Paint them bright colors.
 Don't try to change your features with your makeup like contouring your cheeks (evening skin tone is fine.)

, Flippers love going camping and hiking.
, Decide that you are too smart to be an object for guys.
,, Flippers don't go shopping that much, and spend most of their time in the bookstores.
 Most colors are fine, but flippers don't usually wear brown.
 You should also have a few rings.
 Flippers don't make spectacles of themselves. Don't look people in the eye until you've talked to them for about a minute. Flippers don't people watch; they stare into space.
, When starting off a conversation, just smile and nod like you've heard something similar before. Look at people like they're interesting animals, this will freak them out. Never divulge too much information. Speak moderately and methodically, and try not to have an annoying accent like valspeak.
 If you've got a problem, like you're late, don't let it shake you, just get there and apologize. A true flipper can be held at gunpoint and go, "You really need to relax, man!"

, When you start dating someone, don't be clingy.
 Don't try to be a Barbie, and don't be a people-pleaser. Flippers are generous and helpful towards their friends and families, but they'll stand up to them.
 Gone With the Wind is a good starting point, since it is from 1936 but the language is quite simple to understand in today's world.

