 Do you want something to brighten up your room, or match the curtains? Or are you hoping to make money from the recovering art market? Or are you attracted to art as a fascinating long-term commitment?;
, If you are looking for something you like, then it's easy: go with your gut feelings.
 In other words, you can buy art from a West London heavyweight dealer and be assured of its quality, but end up spending more money. Or you can go to an East London gallery that showcases young artists, and spend less money but with more risk. Whichever you choose, you must be prepared.
 So, one-off originals are more valuable than multiple prints. Paintings, drawings and collages are normally one-offs, but sculptures are often produced in editions of nine.
 One way to make sure of this is that the artwork you like is signed and numbered. This is also true of photographs. Of course, photos can be reproduced very easily, so seek verification.
 Is the artist dead? Then make sure that the photo is vintage, ie, authorized by him or her. If the photo is modern, then does it come with the original negative to ensure that it isn't a copy? Also, in today's age of digital photography, some studios make a point of producing hand-printed, signed originals.
 Art, they say, is an intellectual pursuit. Your collection should be embraced as an educational process.
 Learn about the different artists (how they have progressed over time, for instance) and feel your passion grow.
 A good way to do this is to start with drawings. Buy posters and postcards and put them on the walls of your home or desk. This will train your eye, and help you realize the aspects of art you love, and those you find forgettable.
 Collectors have many different methods for choosing the works they wish to buy. A prolific and globally-renowned collector like David Geffen, the very wealthy record label executive, often cites the "wow" factor (in other words, he buys art which makes him think "wow!").
 Getting to know what you are like as a collector requires that you do so. Also, museums, galleries and auctioneers are making themselves increasingly accessible to collectors, so join their mailing lists.
 Always remember: there is no "right way to discuss art," so don't be shy when you meet connoisseurs. Also, don't worry that you "know nothing about art". You know what you know, and must feel free and confident to talk about it in your own language.
 In terms of money, remember that collecting is an evolutionary process. Look at some of the greatest collections in the world: they started with initial purchases or just a few thousand dollars, and were then built upwards. Good art dealers appreciate this, and will work with you to build your collection up.
 It is vital that you take your time.
 This will generally be a dealer who makes themselves available, and will work with you to learn and slowly build up your significant collection. The best dealers are like counselors, and should be worthy of your trust.
 Especially those who sell art as a commodity. Art collecting revolves around passion and belief. Relying on saleability as your ultimate goal simply won't work.
,, While price should never be your main driving factor, look at the amounts works have been selling for at auctions or at past shows.
 Or, can they can resell it if you later want to buy something else, or something better, by an artist?

, It helps to have contacts. Introduce yourself to the representatives in your field of interest. Ideally, you should know the people at the auction house as well as you know your favorite dealer.
 Especially if you are there mainly for investment reasons. Talking to people can be key: be prepared to question the artist's dealer, or even the artist, about the work itself.
, The costs of restoration and framing can be costly, and insurance is vital. Works on paper should be kept away from sunlight. If the works are going to be on a wall, it needs to be glazed according to museum standards with acid-free matting and ultraviolet light-resistance glass. If the work is more than 10 years old, then you should have an art conservator look at it before it is framed.
 If you maintain and look after your art, you may one day be asked to loan them to an artist or museum. Over the art's lifetime, you may find yourself dealing with museums and other institutions as a custodian of the historic artwork, rather than simply as an owner.
 Otherwise you may buy something that doesn't possess the depth a work of art should evoke. Or pass on something and later you realize that you should have bought it. It is better to take chances - but ensure that those chances are born of a genuine passion.
 In other words, you will potentially be surrounded by things that you don't like and don't want to live with.
 It can also help to become a member of an art dealers' association.
