 Reflections are necessary for sound to be heard. When you make a noise, the sound reflects off a nearby wall and hits your eardrum. In reality, a room with poor reflections will result in poor acoustic sound quality, so fixing the problem of reflections will drastically improve acoustic quality in your room.


Clap your hands. If you hear a fluttery echo, then you definitely have an issue with reflections.;
, Reflections are caused by bouncing sound waves, and sound waves bounce off of hard surfaces. Avoid surfaces made of wood, concrete, glass, or leather. Soft materials, like cloth, will dissipate sounds and reduce reflections.
 Filling your room with large objects will force the sound waves to bounce in many different directions, effectively reducing reflections. Consider furniture pieces like bookshelves and couches, as well as décor like heavy rugs and window curtains.
 Not only are foam panels great for dissipating sound waves, they are very light and portable. Mount them on the walls and ceiling when your room requires acoustic tuning and remove them when you're done.
 Depending on the size of your room, sound waves of a specific frequency will cancel themselves out. This means you won't be able to hear those sounds no matter what you do, even if people outside of your room hear them just fine.


Measure your room. Reverberations can be difficult to detect, so room measurement is the easiest way to go about it. If either the width or the length of your room are less than 13 feet (4 meters), then you probably have an issue with acoustic tuning reverberations.
 The corners of a room tend to amplify the effects of low frequency reverberation, so place dampening baffles in the corners of your room for effective tuning.
 Resonators are effective at reducing reverberations because they capture and trap specific sound frequencies. However, because resonators are only effective at trapping specific frequencies, you'll need to do some tuning every time your room composition changes.
 There are companies devoted to acoustic tuning that create products specifically designed to improve acoustics in any room. Absorbers are engineered to improve acoustics as much as possible while remaining easy to use and install, so they are perfect for effective tuning.
 For the acoustic tuner who has the available resources, stretching the length of the walls and enlarging the available space will lessen the effects of both reflections and reverberations.

