 Make sure that the copy that you have is the final version of your last will and testament. Also gather any other existing codicils to your will. Then, identify the problems existing in the will and make note of them.


Common reasons why people decide to make an amendment to a will include:executor of the will has passed or is no longer desirable.
beneficiaries need to be changed or others need to be added.
special needs of your family have changed – for instance, the guardian(s) of minor children have passed or must be replaced.
financial circumstances – assets and liabilities – of your life have changed.
funeral and burial arrangements have changed.
there are significant tax consequences that are not covered by our will that must be addressed to protect the beneficiaries.
 Before you begin writing your codicil, you will need to give it an appropriate title to indicate the document’s purpose. An appropriate title for a codicil would be: Codicil to the Last Will and Testament of ., The first paragraph of the document should state:“I , , being of sound mind, declare that this Codicil to the Last Will and Testament of is effective on this date and shall hereby amend my Last Will and Testament dated as follows:”
Include the date of your original will in your codicil. Including this date will show that you are aware of the original document and help prevent those who interpret your will from thinking that you may have created this document without knowledge of the original will. , Make sure that you specify the article number and state in detail what the changes will be.If you want to amend something, you could write: “Article 1 shall be amended to state ”
If you want to delete an article, you could write: “Article 1 shall be deleted in its entirety.”
If you want to add an article, you could write: “Article 8 is hereby added as follows: ”

, To accomplish this, you could write: “If any statement in this Codicil to the Last Will and Testament of contradicts my Last Will and Testament dated , this Codicil shall control.”, You should write, “In all other respects I reaffirm and republish my will dated ”, Use the same style and structure in your codicil that you used in your original will. Keeping with the same style will help your codicil to match up with your will and reduce any potential confusion.


If you used an attorney for the original will, consider hiring the same attorney to draft the codicil. This will assure consistency.
Likewise, if you used specific software to draft your will, consider using the same software to draft your codicil.
 For example, if you want to change appointed guardians for beneficiaries, change funeral arrangements, or reallocate some of your assets in the event of your passing, say so using direct, clear terms.
 To make certain that you have written your codicil in a way that cannot be mistaken by others, ask someone you trust to read it. If you are not comfortable with writing in a professional legal tone or you have concerns about grammar, you should also have someone who is skilled in these areas proofread your codicil.


You might also consider having an attorney read over your codicil. In that case, you will need to provide the attorney with a copy of your existing will as well.
 You should execute the codicil in the same manner as the will.Sign your will in the presence of two witnesses.


If you are satisfied that the codicil to your last will and testament expresses your desires and needs to meet your post-death wishes, make certain that you sign the codicil in the presence of competent witnesses who have no personal or financial interest in your will.
If your state requires three witnesses to execute a will, then use three for the codicil.
 An affidavit will greatly speed up the probate process. To execute the affidavit, sign the will in front of the notary and get the will notarized. Append the following language to the end of the will:


“I, , declare to the officer taking my acknowledgement of this instrument, and to the subscribing witnesses, that I signed this instrument as my codicil.”Then sign your name beneath this language.
Insert the following language for the witnesses. “We, and , have been sworn by the officer signing below, and declare to that officer on our oaths that the testator declared the instrument to be the testator’s codicil and signed it in our presence, and that we each signed the instrument as witnesses in the presence of the testator and of each other.”Then have the two witnesses sign beneath this.
Then include this language for the notary: “Acknowledged and subscribed before me by the testator, , who is personally known to me or who has produced , and sworn to and subscribed before me by the witnesses, , who is personally known to me or who has produced as identification, and , who is personally known to me or who has produced as identification, and subscribed by me in the presence of the testator and the subscribing witnesses, all on .”Then have the notary sign and affix official stamp or seal.
 To ensure the safety of your codicil, you should keep it in the same place as your will. For example, if your original will is kept in the attorney’s office, then it makes good sense to keep any codicils there as well.