 One of the easiest ways to keep from getting sick on a plane is to make sure that your immune system is working optimally before you board. Eating a healthy diet will boost your immune system and make sure that your body is ready to combat the germs waiting on the plane. Make sure that you are eating lots of whole grains as well as fruits and vegetables.Healthy foods include things like apples, oranges, bananas, grapes, carrots, broccoli, spinach, avocados, as well as rice and other whole grains.
Avoid saturated fats and try to eat leans proteins like fish and nuts.;
, In order to boost your immune system, make sure that you drink enough water. On average, a man should drink about 13 cups (3 liters) and a woman should drink about 9 cups (2.2 liters) of water.Maintaining proper hydration will ensure that your immune system is strong and prevent the cold or flu.
 A number of different vitamins and minerals may help boost your immune system, although it has not been proven that they can keep you from becoming sick. Take a daily multivitamin to ensure that you are getting all of the vitamins and minerals you need.


Be sure to talk with your doctor about taking any supplements.
 A flu shot is one of the best preventive measures that you can take to keep from getting sick. The shot will boost your body’s production of antibodies that protect against the various strains of influenza virus. In order for the vaccine to protect you on a flight, you should get it at least two weeks before you travel.Talk with your doctor about getting a flu shot, especially if you have an allergy to eggs or any of the ingredients in the vaccine or if you have ever had Guillain-Barre Syndrome., To keep your immune system strong, you should regularly get at least eight hours of sleep a night. It is not enough to get a good night’s sleep just before you fly. You need to develop a habit of consistently sleeping eight hours. This will ensure that your immune system is operating optimally before you fly.If you want to sleep better, make sure that you establish a regular bedtime and stick to it. You should also try to get up at the same time every day.
Avoid drinking caffeinated beverages like coffee, tea, or pop before bed.
Limit your screen time before bed. Try not to watch TV or look at your phone right before you go to bed.
Get plenty of physical activity each day. Getting at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise will help you sleep better at night.

