 Try going to bed early for a few nights before school starts so you have your energy and can get up in the morning. Try getting up early too for a few mornings. Start doing this about 3-4 days before school starts.;
, Would you hang out with someone who smells bad? Take showers, brush your teeth, wear deodorant, etc.
 Before you go to bed, pick out an outfit for school tomorrow to save time.


Look at magazines and websites like Polyvore for outfit ideas and inspiration.
It's also a good idea to decide how you'll do your hair and pack your lunch, etc.
 Instead get cute bags like from Von Maur, Eddie Bauer, Coach, or if you don't have the money for that get a big Aeropostale bag.


Fill your bag with your must have supplies. Textbooks, blotting sheets, lip gloss, tissues, pens, tampons/pads, & snacks (Luna bars are great!) are some good things to start off with.
 It makes your face look clean and gives it a glow. But don't overdo it, or else you will look like a clown. Massie always wears makeup! But make sure you wash your face 2 times a day (morning and night) because makeup can cause acne!


Be sure to buy the correct makeup for your skin type. If your skin is oily, you don't need "hydrating" makeup!
Not allowed to wear makeup? Use tinted lip balm and Vaseline on your eyelashes. The Vaseline helps condition your lashes (to help them grow longer) and acts as a clear mascara.
 Look on Youtube for tutorials & scour magazines for inspiration. You can try braids, buns, curls, etc.


Flat ironing your hair? Do it the night before so in the morning, you'll just have to do a quick touch-up.
Use a thermal spray to prevent excess heat damage.
Organic Virgin Coconut oil makes a great deep conditioner for curly, dry, or damaged hair.
 It just gets you off to a bad start and you will lose friends. Even though Massie is mean doesn't mean you should do it. You could get in lots of trouble! So when you walk down the hall say "Hi!" to your friends and even you enemy's because they could start liking you. When you see a friend looking sad go up to him or her and ask what's wrong. Just be as nice as you can. If you do that, you have a good chance of having lots of friends, like Massie.

