 You will need wax beads which are tiny wax balls, slightly larger than sand. These are available in a myriad of colors. You will also need a glass jar, wick and an essential oil of your choosing. The glass jar can be any size and any shape, based on your preferences. You can even use something you have at home like a mason jar or small glass bowl.


Wax beads and wicks can be purchased at the local craft store, along with an essential oil.
 With one hand, hold the wick in the center of the desired container and pour your wax beads around it. Do not fill the container completely. Leave about an inch of room at the top. The wick should also stand slightly above the beads. Use a spoon to flatten and smooth the top of the beads so they are evenly distributed in the container.If the wick is too long, simply cut it to size and save the remaining piece for a future project.
Avoid wicks with metal in them like lead, as this is a toxin. Instead, choose one made of soy or bees wax.
 An essential oil is a highly-concentrated scent produced using plants, leaves and flowers. The aromatherapy benefits are plentiful as they promote health, positivity, joy and more. Use a dropper to add a few drops of oil onto the beads. About 3-4 drops should be enough to create a nice, light scent.However, if you want a richer scent, add several more drops. Using a toothpick, slowly stir the beads to allow the oil to penetrate the entire container.


Every bottle of essential oil is a little different so read the instructions for best results. The bottle will offer insights into how concentrated your particular oil is. Keep in mind that because essential oils are natural, they are more potent than fragrance oils so a little goes a long way.
 While you can light your candle immediately, for best results, allow the scent to absorb throughout the container and settle. Waiting 24-48 hours is best. If the container has a lid, cover it during this time.
 When ready, light the wick and enjoy your scent.

