 Once you establish a trademark and begin using it, the best, cheapest and most obvious way to save it from abandonment is just to use it regularly. If you continue to use it consistently, the message will be clear that you intend it to remain protected., You are not required to use the trademark or advertise your product absolutely all the time. You are entitled to allow called periods of disuse, as long as these are limited. In the United States, you are considered to have abandoned your trademark use after a three-year period of disuse.A three-year period of disuse results in what is called a “rebuttable presumption of abandonment.” This means that the law will assume you have abandoned the trademark, but you may have the opportunity through legal action to challenge that presumption.
Many other countries apply the same three year period, including Australia, Japan, South Korea, Canada, China, Russia and many Latin American countries.
Some European countries, such as Ireland and Norway, extend this allowable period of disuse to five years.
 If you do intend to retain the use of your trademark through a period of disuse, you should keep evidence of anything you do that demonstrates that intent. Some possible reasons for temporary disuse, and the applicable evidence, could be any of the following:You are in the process of applying for certain regulations connected with your trademark, and your use is on hold pending the outcome. For this, you may produce any applications or other communication regarding the regulatory process.
You are developing a distribution plan for your product, and you do not want to use or market the trademark until the distribution plan is complete. Evidence for this may include communications with distributors, internal memoranda or notes from meetings.
You intend to develop a major advertising campaign using the trademark, and you are in the process of development. To prove this, you could show sample advertisements, designs, or other intermediate models.
 The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office requires all trademark holders to submit a Declaration of Use, also known as a Section 8 Declaration, at the end of five years following the registration of the trademark.This filing is due before the six year anniversary of the trademark registration.


To file a Declaration of Use statement, visit the website of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to connect to the form at http://teas.uspto.gov/postreg/sect08/. From that site, you can complete the form, including the registration number for your trademark, and upload a specimen of your trademark.
There is a filing fee of $100 for the Declaration of Use.
 When you select a trademark, try not to choose a name or label that can become confused with the product itself. Ironically, too much success with a name that is too closely identified with the product can result in the name’s becoming synonymous with the generic product. Aspirin and cellophane, for example, are names that were once trademarks but have since fallen into generic use.The strongest type of trademark is a fanciful, made-up word or phrase that has no objective connection to the product itself. Some good examples are Exxon (petroleum), Bic (pens), or Crayola (crayons).
You may choose a regular, common word, that has no ordinary connection to the type of product being described. Consider Apple (computers), Accord (automobile) or Giant (bicycles).
Choose a suggestive word, that does not directly describe the product but does suggest it. Examples are Coppertone (sun screen) or Timex (watches).
 When referring to your trademark in written text, make it stand out distinctively from the product itself. This will draw the reader’s attention to the fact that you intend the trademark to be separate from the item.For example, you might refer to “KLEENEX brand facial tissues” or “BAND-AID brand bandages,” rather than simply saying, “Hand me a Kleenex please” or “I need a band aid.”
The National Association of Realtors, for example, has registered a trademark in the word “Realtor.” Throughout the text on their websites, the word always appears as “REALTOR” in order to make it stand apart as a trademark.
 In printed use, you can show your intended use of the trademark as such, rather than as a generic term, by using special typographical symbols.To show that a trademark has been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, use the raised symbol of an R inside a circle: ®.
Consistently using the raised abbreviation TM for trademark or SM for service mark will indicate that you intend the word to be used as such.
 You may also develop advertising or marketing campaigns that highlight the difference between your trademark and the generic use of the word.Band-Aid has incorporated revised lyrics into their product jingles to highlight that the BAND-AID brand bandage is a specific item, and not just a generic adhesive bandage.
Xerox was on the verge of becoming a generic term for a photocopier, until the company embarked on an advertising campaign that directly told the public that their photocopy machine is called a Xerox copier, but that the word Xerox does not apply to all copiers or to all photocopies.
 As the holder and user of a trademark, you have the duty to police the marketplace and watch for unauthorized use of your mark or similar marks. Separate trademarks are supposed to be sufficiently distinct so they will not cause confusion among consumers. If you see another product or company using a symbol, name or design that you believe is close to yours, you need to take action. Letting it go unaddressed could be deemed to be permission.For example, the Disney corporation is diligent about preventing unauthorized use of its characters, their images or its many related products.
 There are numerous companies that will assist in regularly monitoring trademark applications and registries, to find applications that are too close to your own. You will pay a fee for the service, and in exchange the watch service will do the following:search newly-filed and recently-approved trademark applications
search domain name registrations
track changes in ownership of registrations
watch for unauthorized use on the Internet or on Internet auction sites
keep track of new trademarks filed by competitors.
 If you or your watch service identify another company using your trademark or something that is too similar, you need to take action. The first step would be a simple demand letter, notifying them of their impermissible use and asking them to stop.A simple demand letter may say something like, “Dear Sir or Madam, It has come to our attention that your use of the name ______ to describe your _____ product is unacceptably close to our registered trademark of ______. We demand that you cease the use of that name immediately or we may be forced to take legal action.”

, If a demand letter does not stop the unauthorized use, you may need to take legal action. You can use the resources on the website of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, at www.USPTO.gov, or contact a trademark attorney., In some cases, you may wish to permit someone to use your trademark, but you still want to protect its status as your trademark. In such a case, you might allow a license to the other party. A license is a legal agreement, whereby the other party will pay you a fee, in exchange for permission to use your trademark.Professional sports teams routinely engage in licensing. A team will protect the use of its name or logo, and yet still maximize visibility, by allowing clothing manufacturers, for example, to print shirts and hats with the team symbols.

