 If you search the internet for "healthy recipes," you will get thousands of hits. Try searching the internet using your favorite ingredient that is high in healthy fats.
 If you like avocados, you can make the recipe "Roasted Corn and Radish Salad with Avocado Herb Dressing." This recipe has 3.6g of monofat and 1.6g of poly fat!You will need 1/2 ripe peeled avocado, sliced; 1 teaspoon fresh lime juice, two ears yellow corn with husks, two heads Boston lettuce, 1/2 cup thinly sliced radishes, 1/2 cup dressing.
To make this, preheat your oven to 450°F (232°C).
Place the sliced avocado in a small bowl and add lime juice. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate. The acidity in the lime juice will keep the avocado from browning.
Trim the ends of the corn cobs, but leave them in their husks. Place the corn on a foil-lined baking sheet and bake for 20 minutes or until tender. Allow the corn to cool.
Once cool, remove the husks and silks from the corn, exposing the kernels. Use a sharp knife to cut the kernels from the cob — almost as though you are shaving them off the cob.
Chop the lettuce — you’ll need about four cups.
Combine avocado, corn, sliced radishes, and chopped lettuce in a large bowl. Toss with your favorite healthy dressing (try an avocado-herb dressing or cilantro-infused olive oil) and serve.
 If you like chicken breast and Brussels sprouts, you can make an easy dish using both! This recipe has a whopping 10.2g of monofat and 2g of polyfat.You will need two 8-ounce boneless chicken breast halves; 3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, divided; two broccoli stems; 2 tablespoons olive oil; 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice; 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper; 3 cups thinly sliced Brussels sprouts (from 12 medium); two celery stalks, thinly sliced; 1/4 cup toasted hazelnuts; 1/4 cup fresh flat-leaf parsley, coarsely chopped.
Place chicken in a small saucepan or pot. Cover the chicken with water and add 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Bring the water to a boil and then immediately remove it from the heat. Cover the pot and leave it for 15 minutes.
Drain the water from the pot and run cool water over the chicken. This should stop it from becoming overcooked. Place the chicken on a plate and set aside, allowing it to cool. Once the chicken has cooled, shred it into smaller pieces.
Peel the broccoli stems with a vegetable peeler, discarding the outer layer. Peel the stems into long strips.
Whisk oil, lemon juice, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon pepper in a large bowl. Add shredded chicken, broccoli strips, and remaining ingredients and toss with the dressing. Serve.
 Enjoy them to hold you over until mealtime or when you are on the go and too busy to sit down. Good options include cashews, almonds, walnuts, sunflower seeds, or pumpkin seeds.
 Vegetable fats are healthy fats, unless you are dealing with the coconut, which is high in saturated fat. Eat your favorite fatty vegetables in various ways, including raw, to get more healthy fat in your diet.

