 If not,let them know that they can have a market from those without the access to broadband for better connection speeds over rural areas.;
, You will also need a separate phone line for each modem.
, Just leave it at the default setting (connect to the internet).
 Setup your account manually; this works under both Windows and Linux.
,, Make sure that it's not a long distance number or toll charges will mount pretty quickly.
 Most any service provider uses PAP or CHAP authentication, though you may have to manually setup the primary and secondary IP addresses again depending on the type of service they are willing to provide.
, You can also put a check in the box to have windows create an icon to launch it from the desktop.
, Click finish. Now we are ready to edit the dialog for a specific setting.
 You will default to the general tabbed window of another dialog box, it is here that we want to change some settings.
 Setting up a local address should be in the range of 192.168.0.1 through 192.168.0.10. Although it is a very long subject, each network card should have its own IP address.
 Click on the networking tab in the dialog box and click on the settings button right below the "Type of Dial-up" settings. Another smaller dialog box will appear with three check boxes. Only two should be set and they are:

, Leave "enable LCP extension" alone unless required by your particular service.
 Some are best left as default unless you need to setup a separate DNS number such as a static IP address on your local internet service.
 This is the one with the two modems. With the phones connected to the modems going to their own jack,dial up your service for an attempted connect. It should login with one of the modems first and then it will negotiate a multi-link session. If everything is setup correctly at your ISP, and you have followed these steps both modems should connect. Now if you would like to test the speed, go to Google (Google is your friend) or which ever search engine you choose. Look for the phrase "test my connection speed". Several sites will give you the chance to test your download and upload stats in a couple of clicks, or if you’re a privacy nut, you can just find a single big file and download it. The download dialog may start out at the max speed that you can expect from this particular session.

