 The anime revolves around 17-year-old Kudo, Shinichi (Jimmy Kudo in the English dub), one of Japan's brightest detectives. The story begins when Shinichi and Mouri, Ran (his love interest) go on a date to an amusement park. While at the amusement park, Shinichi inevitably gets caught up in solving a criminal case, which involves a dangerous criminal organization known as the Black Organization. Shinichi gets caught spying on one of the members and is therefore knocked out and forced to swallow an experimental drug. Instead of dying, Shinichi is reverted to his old grade school self, unbeknownst to the Black Organization and his family and friends. Shinichi decides that he must keep his new identity a secret in order to protect his family and friends and only reveals his identity to certain people, including Agasa, Hiroshi. Ran comes close to identifying Shinichi in his old body so Shinichi comes up with the alias Edogawa, Conan, based off of two famous detective novelists. Agasa assists Conan by creating his signature gadgets: A voice changing bowtie and a watch that fires anesthetic needles. This is used by Conan in order to solve mysteries using Ran's father, Kogoro, Mouri, a thick-headed detective, so as to hopefully one day come across a case involving the Black Organization.
 You can go to http://funimation.com to watch, or just simply go to Youtube and search up either Detective Conan episode 1 (it will be in Japanese with English subtitles), or Case Closed episode 1 (English voice actors, different names than in Detective Conan, but it's pretty much the same!)

, You're gonna get confused throughout the show with how many people like each other, whether people like each other, and the many couplings fans make! Yep, they can get as bizarre as pairing bad guys with good guys! But I won't spoil anything for newbies! Although, the first romantic feelings that we come to know are between the two main protagonists, Shinichi and Ran! Although, like some other people we meet later on, they're pretty smart when it comes to seeing other people's romantic feelings, but pretty dumb when it comes to how they feel about each other!

, Magic Kaito occurs quite frequently throughout the series! One of the main favorites of the Detective Conan show, who is actually the main character of the "Magic Kaito" show/manga, is Kaito KID, the elusive thief though sometimes to be the modern day Arsene Lupin, just as Shinichi is referred to as the modern day Holmes! Other characters from the show, without giving away anything, that appear in Detective Conan, are police officer Ginzo Nakamori/ Mace Fuller, his daughter Aoko Nakamori (heehee), teenage detective Hakuba Saguru, two appearances by classmate Akako (she's got a BIG secret!), and one appearance by Aoko's friend Keiko. In OVA 1, most of the cast of Yaiba, including antagonists, appear, along with Conan, Ran, Kogoro, the Detective Boys, and...KAITO KIDDD!

, They are at http://funimation.com is the official American anime website, and the official Japanese one is in, well, Japanese!

, You can constantly find manga, anime box sets, movies, plush dolls, and MORE on the show online or at a local video or entertainment store that has anime!

, There's many sites out there made by fans that would love for you to stop by, and have bucket loads of new info you can find! Websites like detective conansite.webs.com have tons of info on the show (plus the first one listed of the two features videos, links, and their own manga scanlation team!)

, Manga websites have plenty for you to enjoy!

