 If they have invited you for a home-cooked meal, offer to do the dishes or help prepare the food. See if there is a side dish or dessert you could bring.


Offer to help with family projects. If your boyfriend’s family is outside raking leaves, ask if they need any help. If you are there for a family birthday party, blow up balloons or help set out the snacks.
 If his family invites you somewhere, offer to pay your own way. They might not take you up on it, but it is polite to extend the offer.


You could also offer to treat for a portion of the outing. You could say, “Thanks so much for taking me ice skating! Could I treat everyone to some hot chocolate?”
Be sure to thank them for inviting you and for treating you to the activity. You could say, “Thanks so much for such a fun evening, and thank you for treating me to dinner. I really appreciate it.”

, Don’t just monopolize your boyfriend. Get to know his siblings, too, or other extended family. It will make spending time with his family more fun if you have built relationships with the rest of his family.For example, if his little sister admires the necklace you made, tell her the next time you come over, you’ll bring your jewelry kit and help her make one.
Talk to his older relatives about their lives and memories. Find out from your boyfriend if anyone has interesting stories to tell, and then talk to them. You could say, “Jack told me that you worked for NASA in the 1980s. What did you do? What was that like?”, No PDA (Public Displays of Affection) in front of his family. Holding his hand is okay, but refrain from doing much beyond that. It’s disrespectful to his family.Make sure your boyfriend keeps his hands off you, too. Before you go into his parents’ house, you could say, “I don’t want to make your parents uncomfortable, so please don’t do anything more than hold my hand, okay?”

, Don’t expect to be invited everywhere. Understand that he gets to spend time with them without you, and don’t try to invite yourself to every activity. Let your boyfriend or his parents extend an invitation to you instead.While you may want to be included in his family’s holiday plans, respect their wishes if they choose to keep significant others out of their celebrations. Different families have different boundaries around what “family” means.

