 Some people may find fresh air soothes motion sickness. Simply opening a window or vent may help alleviate your symptoms. If symptoms persist, stop the car, if possible, and get out to breathe in fresh air. The air may help, and stopping the ride should help too. In warm weather, some people benefit from turning on air conditioning, while others do better turning it off and getting natural air.;
, Often, car sickness is caused by motion outside the car. For this reason, you may find relief when you block your view. Alternatively, special motion-blocking eyewear may accomplish the same result.


Simply closing your eyes may help, especially if you can fall asleep.
You can also try sunglasses or sleep masks to block your view enough to curtail the symptoms of car/motion sickness.
Dry eyes or fatigued eyes can also contribute to motion sickness. Using eye drops or splashing water on your face can help. Taking out contact lenses and using glasses instead may be beneficial.
 Some people benefit from ginger products to alleviate motion sickness. You can try ginger chews, ginger ale, ginger cookies, and many other ginger products. If you are prone to motion sickness, keep one or more of these products on hand to take if you should become sick., Some data has shown that eating something dry, such as soda crackers, may help alleviate the symptoms of motion sickness. This is because the dry food may soak up excess acid in the stomach.
 Putting pressure on a particular point of your body may help treat the symptoms of motion sickness. Specifically, Nei Guan—acupressure point P6, on the underside of the wrist—may be pressed to help with an upset stomach.Locate by finding the area in which a wristwatch would lie. Find the mid-point on your wrist, which is a small "valley" in which you can feel your tendons. Pressing your fingertip there should offer relief in about 10 seconds.
If you have a wristwatch or tight wristband, you can make a pressure band to help with motion sickness. Make a small wad or paper or paper-like substance (like a gum wrapper) about the size of a pea. Wedge this in the wristband as described in the pressure point above.

