 Authentic recipes call for white, long grain rice. It is possible to make horchata with different kinds of rice; just know that you will get a different flavor with different varieties of rice.


Indian Basmati rice is a white, long grain rice. Your horchata will have a more "rice-like" flavor, so you may want to add a little extra cinnamon to counter this effect.Long grain brown rice will have a nutty flavor. It will not taste like authentic horchata, but it could be a tasty spin on this classic beverage.If you can find Mexican cinnamon (Canela), this will lend a more authentic flavor to your horchata. Canela is slightly milder than American cinnamon.;
, You can use a blender, coffee bean or grain mill to grind the rice. Try to get the rice to the consistency of a coarse polenta.This will allow the rice to better absorb the water and cinnamon.You can try to blend the rice with a food processor, but the rice may just whirl around and not actually break up.You can also grind the rice by hand using a metate, or corn grinding stone.If you can't get the rice that fine, just break it up as much as possible., Cover the mixture and allow it to come to room temperature., The more time you allow the mixture to soak, the more flavorful it will be. If you have the time, it is highly recommended you give it a day to soak.Don't refrigerate the mix. Let it sit out at room temperature., If you do not have a blender or food processor, you will need to soak the rice in water for two days, or until the water becomes milky. The horchata may be grittier with this method, so be sure you strain it well and mix it up before drinking.If you have a hand-held or burr mixer, you can mix the horchata right in the bowl.
 This may take between 1 and 4 minutes, depending on your blender. Try to get the mixture as smooth as you possibly can., Pour just a little at a time, and use a spoon or spatula to stir the mixture as it goes through. If you have trouble straining the mixture because of a build up of rice gunk in the strainer, you can discard this as you go.Gather the cheesecloth at the top and twist to squeeze out any remaining liquid., You can substitute different sweeteners, like simple syrup, honey, or agave.
,