 It is in your best interest to reach out to an attorney as soon as you have been contacted by a Compliance or Investigative Agent. You shouldn’t call or write to anyone at the Ohio Nursing Board without meeting with an attorney first.In no circumstances should you sign or agree to sign a consent agreement without meeting with an attorney.;
, Maybe the easiest way to find a nursing board defense attorney is to ask other nurses if they would recommend their attorney. Nurses might not want to discuss their experiences in front of the nursing board. However, if you know someone who has appeared before the board, then you can ask them if they would recommend their attorney.


Also ask what they liked about their attorney. People have different needs, and you shouldn’t automatically hire someone simply because another nurse recommended the attorney., You can find attorneys online, using a general Internet search. Type in “Ohio nursing board” and “attorney.” You can then click through and look at each attorney’s website. If you want to narrow your search results, then add your county or city to the search.
 You can find an attorney at the state’s bar association, which is an organization made up of attorneys. Visit the website.Click on “Find a lawyer” in the upper left-hand corner.


You can search the member directory by name, city, or zip code.
You can also search by keyword. Type “nursing” or “nursing board.” Be sure to read through the biographies at the website so that you can check that the lawyer has experience before the nursing board.
 Your employer might have offered employees an EAP. Sometimes, you can get a referral to a lawyer by going through this program.You should check with Human Resources to see if you have an EAP you can contact.
 Another good source of referrals is other lawyers. Lawyers know the reputations of other lawyers, so they should know who is a solid lawyer.You might have used a lawyer to buy a house or write a will.


You can call up any lawyer you have used before and ask him or her to refer you to a lawyer who practices before the Ohio Nursing Board.
 Once you have a list of referrals, you should be ready to do some research. You can begin by reading each lawyer’s website. Almost all lawyers have websites now, and you can find them by typing the lawyer’s name into a search engine. As you read the website, look for the following:


The lawyer’s experience before the Ohio Nursing Board. Does the lawyer focus exclusively on appearing before professional boards, or is that only one part of their practice?
The size of the lawyer’s law firm. The lawyer might be a solo practitioner or work with other attorneys. Sometimes the size can matter. For example, if you have a complicated issue, then a larger firm might be ideal because more people can work on your case.
How professional the website looks. Check for spelling, grammar, and visual presentation. A sloppy website might signal that the attorney is not particularly careful.
 Ohio has a board that investigates complaints against lawyers. You can check to see if the lawyer has ever been disciplined for an ethical lapse. Begin by performing an Attorney Information Search at the Supreme Court of Ohio & The Ohio Judicial System website.You should enter the attorney’s first and last name. Click on “Search.”
Then click on the name of the attorney.
You can then press the “Discipline or Sanction History” button. See if the lawyer has been disciplined.
 Many websites now have reviews for lawyers. You can visit websites such as Google, Yahoo, Avvo, and others.Alternately, you can find online reviews simply by typing in the lawyer’s name into a search engine.


Take reviews with a grain of salt. It is very easy to criticize someone online, especially anonymously.
However, you should check if there are common themes that run across multiple reviews. For example, clients might have been surprised by the higher-than-expected bills. This would suggest that the lawyer doesn’t explain their fee structure very clearly.
 Narrow your list down to three attorneys and call them to schedule a consultation. You won’t have time for more than that. Consultations usually last 15-30 minutes.


You should also ask how much the lawyer charges for consultations. Although some lawyers offer them for free, others might charge a fee.Also check what you need to bring to the consultation.
 You don’t want to be late. Lawyers are very busy, and they might only have set aside 15 minutes to meet with you. If you are running late, then call up the lawyer’s secretary and explain where you are.


You might need to reschedule. Try to block out half a day, if possible, where you don’t have any other engagements or commitments.
 You should let the attorney guide the discussion during the consultation. He or she knows what information they need. Remember to always be honest.Towards the end of the consultation, there should also be some time for questions. Make sure to ask the following:


The possible resolution to your case. Also ask what the lawyer considers to be a good resolution.How the lawyer would defend you. Would you need to find people to write character reference letters for you? Do you need expert witnesses?
What to expect of the investigative process. What happens next? How long does it generally take?

, There are other questions you should ask to find helpful information. Don’t ask a question if you can find the answer on the lawyer’s website (such as where they went to law school). However, you might want to ask the following:


How much of their practice is devoted to appearing before professional boards, such as the Ohio Nursing Board?
Do they have any special qualifications (other than being a lawyer) that make them uniquely qualified to represent you? For example, the lawyer might also be a nurse.How do they communicate? Do they prefer the telephone or email?
Who do you contact in an emergency?Sometimes, the attorney has staff who are more available and can get in touch with the attorney.
 Another important area to cover is fees. Attorneys generally charge by the hour, but you should get as much information about fees as possible. For example, ask the following:Are there any alternative billing arrangements other than the hourly fee? For example, some lawyers might represent you on a fixed-fee agreement. In this situation, you pay a set amount of money regardless of how much work the lawyer does.
Does the lawyer have assistants, such as paralegals, file clerks, etc.? Do they bill as well? How much do they cost?
Are you charged for photocopying, mailing charges, etc.?
Does the lawyer want some money upfront before agreeing to represent you? If so, how much?
How often are you billed? Every month?
What methods of payment does the attorney accept? For example, does he or she accept credit cards or cash?

, After meeting with each attorney, you should take a few moments to gather your thoughts and write them down. You will want to compare candidates, and you might not remember the details of your meeting a week or two down the road.
 There is no one way to pick a lawyer. Each person has different needs. You should set aside a block of time to go over your notes and compare each lawyer. You will probably want to consider the following:How easily you understood the lawyer. The best attorney-client relationships are those where you feel informed. This can’t happen if you don’t understand what the lawyer is saying.
How the staff treated you. All staff should treat you with respect. Also consider how discrete they were. You want a lawyer and their staff to keep your client confidences.
The fee. You shouldn’t hire a lawyer if you can’t afford their fee. Did it seem reasonable? Do you have the money to pay?
Your comfort level around the lawyer. You want someone you will feel comfortable talking to.
If no lawyer meets the criteria, then you might need to get more referrals.
 Once you choose a lawyer, call him or her up. Tell them you want to hire them. They will tell you what steps to take next. They will also send you an “engagement letter” or “fee agreement” for you to read.


This is your contract with the lawyer. You should read it closely. The letter will lay out in detail how you will pay and what work the lawyer will do for you.
Make sure you understand everything in the letter.If you need clarification, call the lawyer.
Also double check that the letter doesn’t contradict anything the lawyer told you during the consultation. For example, the hourly fee might be different in the letter. You shouldn’t sign the letter until you agree with everything in it.

