 In relationships with friends, family, or partners, you need to understand their perspective on things. They may be oblivious to what they're doing to you, or they may know all the tricks to get what they want.


See if they are asking for help from a place of genuine need, or selfish desire.
Be willing to ask them what's their reason for asking you to do something. Say something like, "Is there a reason you keep asking me to do this for you?"
Figure out why did they chose you in particular? Do they see and appreciate what you do, and continue to do for others? Or do they say that you're just always someone who says 'yes'?

, When you better understand your partner, friend, or family member's motives, how does this make you feel? Do you feel used and disrespected?Think about what they're asking is something that you genuinely want to do.
If you are doing something for others out of fear of rejection, being judged, or disrespected in some way, this may be an unhealthy relationship for you. Don't put yourself in a situation where you're doing things out of fear.
 Make sure that your partner or close friend doesn't walk all over you. If they are constantly asking you do things for them, or making excuses why they can't help you, you need to discuss with them about setting limits.Realize that some people are just manipulative and selfish. They just looking for ways to get what they want, without having to change or giving anything in return.
Avoid depending on people who you know you can't trust or don't stay true to their word.
Talk openly and honestly with them about limits to their behavior. Be calm and assertive. Don't shy away from conflict. Consider asking them, "What do you think might be your own responsibilities might be in this situation?"
Be confident that the more you set limits, then the better off you will be. It may be tough at first, but will get easier the more of you do it.
 Sometimes the best way to resolve a situation is to find a win-win for both parties. Instead of just going along and agree to help your friend or partner without asking anything in return, learn to ask for something back, or a way that both of you can benefit.Most people will understand that asking for something in return is normal, and possibly expected.
For example, let's say that your friend wants to borrow some of your clothes for a party this weekend, you could ask to borrow something of hers in return, or say for another favor like help with some chores or a ride to the party.

