 Dysuria, or a burning sensation while peeing, is an initial symptom of having a UTI. When a bacteria enters the urinary tract it causes inflammation to the urine passageway making it painful to urinate and have the burning sensation that is usually felt in your urethra.An average adult urinates 4 to 7 times depending on the liquid consumed and if you are having an infection, pain and burning sensation maybe felt each time you urinate.;
, When an infection occurs, the affected area also becomes inflamed, increasing its size. The bladder is also affected by inflammation. Its walls are becoming thicker, decreasing its storage capacity. It fills a lot faster, thus the frequent need to urinate.


A UTI makes you have an urge to urinate more often even if you’ve just urinated. Take note that the amount of urine is very small -- sometimes just having drops of urine come out.
This frequent urination is also experienced even if you are sleeping at night, forcing you to wake up just to urinate.
 After you urinate, pay attention to whether or not you're sure you're done. A UTI will be slightly confusing -- odds are you'll try to urinate again and only a few drops will come out.Again, since some parts of the urinary tract are inflamed, this gives you a sensation that you want to urinate again and again. You'll feel this urge mere seconds after urinating. It might not be strong, but it'll be there.
 A normal urine is usually clear and a little yellowish and not that smelly. Infected urine is cloudy and contains a strong or foul bad odor. If the color appears to be red, bright pink or cola colored, that's a sign of blood present in the urine -- a common sign of a UTI. Its main cause is inflamed parts of the urinary tract that also affects the blood vessels.Discoloration in the urine is not usually a sign of infection; foods that we eat may cause this change as well. Some medications can also change the color of urine and can also be a sign of other health problems just like urine that is colored dark yellow (which is a sign of dehydration). The point is that any change in you urine calls for medical attention. Go to your doctor for a right diagnosis., If left untreated, the infection will travel through the urinary tract, reaching the kidneys. The infection will become larger, causing fever. In this case, immediate medical attention is necessary.


Fever is a sign of a UTI that has progressed and gone on untreated. If you catch your UTI at the first sign, fever won't be present.
 Lower abdominal pain is usually present when you have a UTI, especially if you have a bladder infection, too. The bladder is located in the lower part of the abdomen. The pain is due to inflammation of the bladder and also due to urinary frequency and urgency forcing your bladder to urinate (which stresses and puts pressure on it). This gives a bloating feeling as well.This lower abdominal pain is also connected with pelvic pain for women and rectal pain for men. These parts are affected due to its location and the muscle force created as you are urinating over and over again. It’s tolerable but quite uncomfortable.
 Seek for medical attention immediately when these symptoms are present. High fever may be connected, too, with other severe diseases since this high fever is also accompanied with nausea and vomiting.


Fatigue, another symptom, is classified as feeling tired, exhausted, sleepy and stressful. This physically weakens your muscles and lessens your ability to move -- also accompanied with headache and high fever. The worst case scenario for having fatigue is that it can affect your concentration on different things and force about mental changes or confusion.
 Women are more vulnerable to urinary tract infections due to their anatomy. The urethra is a lot shorter and closer to the anal region, making it easy for the bacteria to travel from the stool inside the urinary tract. That being said, postmenopausal and pregnant women are at even higher risk. Here's why:After menopause, a loss of estrogen takes place which changes the normal bacteria in the vagina that can increase the risk of having a UTI.
As for pregnancy, it causes hormonal changes that affect the urinary tract which can cause infection. And also, the uterus grows during pregnancy that compresses the bladder making it hard to empty the bladder completely. Retained urine in the bladder is a source of infection too.
 Women who have an active sex life are prone to develop this condition. Frequent intercourse will increase the chances of contracting a urinary tract infection.


Pressure on the urinary tract during sex can move bacteria from the colon to the bladder. The colon or the large intestines are where the bacteria live. is why many claim it's important to urinate after sex.
If you have recurring UTIs and sex seems to be the issue, you can get on an antibiotic to take immediately after. See your doctor to discuss this issue., Certain birth control methods, such as using the diaphragm, can increase the risk of infection. Germs and bacteria can attach to the surface of the diaphragm, facilitating the access to the urinary tract.


Spermicides and condoms can create skin irritation that increases the risk of having bacteria enter the bladder. Diaphragms create pressure in the bladder making it again hard to urinate, too.
 Children born with an abnormally shaped urinary tract will be prone to infection. Urine will not leave the body as usual, creating a great culture environment for bacteria., Anything that obstructs emptying the bladder can be a great risk factor of having UTI. Presence of kidney stones, an enlarged prostate and certain forms of cancer can make it difficult to urinate.Kidney stones are actually crystals that forms in the kidney until it goes down the ureters blocking the passage way of urine making it difficult to urinate and painful as well.
On the other hand, enlarge prostate affects the urethra. The prostate and the urethra are close to each other so when the prostate becomes enlarge, it puts pressure on the urethra making the exit hole for the urine smaller, making it hard to urinate.
 A suppressed immune system will not be able to fight against pathogens. Diabetes or other diseases in which the immune system becomes weak will increase the chances of infection.
 Not consuming the right amount of fluids (2 liters per day) will cause low urination frequency. The amount of bacteria inside the urinary tract will increase, making it easier to get infected. The urine that you do have stays in your system because so little accumulates.


Drinking plenty of water is not only advisable when you have a UTI, but it's smart when you don't, too!

, When you visit your doctor, they'll do a culture test, which will tell them which antibiotic is best for you -- your type of infection and the severity will clue them in on what'll be the best course of action. And if this is a recurring problem, let them know; you can get a preventative antibiotic for the future, too.


A common antibiotic prescribed when suffering from this condition is levofloxacin. The maximum dosage is of 750 milligrams per day, for a duration of five days.

Finish all the antibiotics given even if you feel better to ensure that the infection is gone. Infection may return and maybe even harder to treat if you do not finish the entire course of the medicine.
 Increasing your fluid intake by consuming a lot of fluids will help you stay hydrated (remember this bullet point above?). The high fluid intake will increase the urine secretion that will help you flush out the pathogen.


Drink tea, water, and lemonade. Have them as many times per day, anytime you wish. You should avoid alcohol, caffeine and sugary drinks, because they will have the opposite effect, dehydrating your body.
 Cranberry juice will prevent the infection from recurring. A daily intake of fifty to one hundred and fifty milliliters of 100% cranberry juice will have great effects in combating the disease. It will prevent any further development of bacterial culture by inhibiting bacterial adhesion to the urinary tract.


You must drink the kind that has a low sugar concentration. If the juice is not sweet enough, use an alternative sweetener, like sucralose or aspartame. You must not drink any sugar free juice, because it will be too acidic.
 Heat will increase blood flow, decreasing pain and irritation caused by the infection. Apply a heat pad on your pelvic area each day. Keep the heat level low, and do not exceed a 15 minutes time, to avoid any burns.
 The needed ingredients are half a teaspoon of baking soda and a cup of water. The baking soda will neutralize your urine’s acidity. Drink the mix only once per day, because it can disturb the bacterial flora in your intestines.
 Pineapple contains bromelain, an enzyme with great anti-inflammatory properties. Used together with antibiotics, pineapple makes a wonderful alternative treatment. Eating a cup of pineapple per day will be wonderful for you.
 This infection already involves the kidneys; in this case, complications are harder to treat and get worse. This condition makes your body so weak that you are needed to be brought in the hospital for proper treatment.


Antibiotics are given directly through your veins or intravenous insertion because the symptoms keep you from swallowing oral medications. Intravenous fluids are also given as you are already dehydrated due to severe vomiting because of the severe infection.
Complicated infections are usually treated for several weeks. Add to that, when you are feeling better already, a 14 day antibiotic treatment is also given to ensure that the infection is gone.

