 In order to work toward mending a relationship, you first need to understand what led to the separation.


Try making a list of everything that you think contributed to the problem. This will help you organize your thoughts and identify what may need to be done to mend the relationship. For instance, this might look like: anger, lack of time together, ignoring the problem, not responding quickly enough, walking away from conversations instead of dealing with them, and putting down the other person.
Try completing a relationship worksheet which identifies your/your partner’s situation or concern, thoughts, feelings, behaviors, and the ultimate outcome., Forgiveness is associated with higher chances of having a resolution to a conflict.This is due to the notion that forgiving another person may produce a more positive outlook and emotional state overall. Instead of dwelling on what the other person did wrong, you accept her faults and mistakes.


You do not necessarily need to forgive the person face-to-face initially. You can practice forgiveness by trying to understand where the other person is coming from (empathy). Remind yourself that mistakes are human.
 Engaging in pro-social behaviors can serve to mend broken relationships because positive actions may help the other person appreciate you and focus on the good aspects of the relationship.Examples of pro-social behaviors are: apologizing, offering to pay for something, giving a gift, doing favors, giving complements, and helping out.
Avoid insulting the person or engaging in anti-social behaviors such as: avoiding the person, yelling, hitting, throwing objects, etc.
 Some of the most important components of a healthy relationship are connection, intimacy, admiration, and support.Focus on reconnecting and spending quality time with your partner.


Set up a date with your partner where you can focus on reconnecting instead of focusing solely on discussing the problems within the relationship. This can take the pressure off and remind your partner of the positive connection within the relationship. Some examples of fun and intimate dates are: going out to a romantic dinner, having a picnic in the park, walking on the beach, going for a hike, or watching the sunset together.
Express your admiration for your partner by telling her what you appreciate about her.
Agree with your partner as much as possible if you can in order to reduce the likelihood of a conflict. If your partner brings up any issues, simply validate her feelings., Research shows that stressful situations increase negative thoughts about the relationship.Thus, in order to increase positivity about the relationship and encourage your partner to reconnect with you, you will want to reduce stress levels as much as possible.


Invite your partner to do something fun and relaxing such as cooking a meal together (as long as it's easy!), sitting in a hot tub, getting a couples massage, or sitting by a fire with a glass of wine.
Try to reduce the amount of stress in the situation by having dim lighting as opposed to bright lights, lighting aromatherapy candles or having other positive smells, playing soothing music, and controlling the room temperature.
Avoid potentially stressful situations such as: driving in traffic (or at all), loud situations such as going to a club/bar or concert, and any activities involving very hot or cold temperatures.

