 Change old profile and banner photos, as well as your description. Always include your updated website.


People should be able to establish who you are by spending just a few seconds on your profile. Make it as easy as possible to decide to follow your account.
A generic description and avatar will make people believe you are a spam account.
Remember to change your color scheme to match your pictures.;
, These will be invaluable to you as you tweet. Always include a relevant hashtag so that your tweet is searchable.
 Instead of simply retweeting, make sure to put your own spin, question or response to an influencer’s tweet to show you are part of the conversation., Some studies have shown up to 16 tweets per day can be optimal for Twitter. If you have less than a hundred tweets, you should increase your frequency until you build a more convincing number.


One study has shown that accounts that have fewer than 1,000 tweets are unlikely to have more than 100 followers. The more you tweet, the more followers you will have, so don’t delay.
 Look at which tweets and retweets perform the best and try to repeat your success. You can also see which times of day are best for tweeting.
 This helps you organize your information, but it also tells people that they are on your radar. They may retweet you in turn or add you to their relevant lists.


Retweet other’s tweets between five and 10 times per day.
 Research and follow anyone who you would ideally like to follow you one day. They won’t start following you overnight, but you can start retweeting their wise words to build your credibility.
 They will get a notification and they will be more likely to interact with you and follow you. Get to know the influencers followers and follow them.
 First, export your LinkedIn contacts with a CSV file and upload them into your email contacts. Next, go to your Home timeline in the “Who to follow” section and click on “Find people you know.”Follow the prompts to log into your email on Twitter and agree to allow access. Click the “Follow all” option.
Chances are the followers you added will quickly follow you back., As you start to build your account, Twitter will suggest people that are more likely to be of interest to you. In turn, if you follow them and interact with them, they are more likely to follow you.


There is likely a correlation between the number of people you follow from an industry and the likelihood that Twitter will recommend you to them in their “Who to Follow” section., Make sure there is an easy, one-button, option for people to share your blog to Twitter.
, Many blog platforms, such as Word Press, allow simple social media embedding., Research those that are relevant to your industry, such as travel, fashion, wedding or marketing, and answer the questions in thoughtful ways. Don’t forget to include the chat hashtag and start conversations with others who are involved in the chat.
 These two items are regularly retweeted, so be sure to use them in addition to links and retweets.
 When applicable, become part of the popular conversation using those hashtags to draw in people from other areas and industries.

