 The goal of the game is to be the last player alive. Players roll the dice to move around the board, trying to get close enough to other players in order to attack them; run away from other players who are trying to attack them; and reach the Cornucopia, which has items to help protect themselves and to make their attacks deadlier. There is no end space, so players continue moving around the board until only one player is alive. That player is crowned the winner of the Hunger Games., Players begin at any of the "Start" spaces. To move, players roll one dice and move the number of spaces indicated by the dice., Once a player rolls, if they're within 3 spaces of another player, they can launch an attack against them. However, the attacks aren't always successful. To attack, roll one of the dice - if the number rolled is higher than 3, you hit. If you hit, roll the dice again to indicate the damage. The damage chart is as follows:

1: Hand
2: Foot
2: Arm
3: Leg
4: Shoulder
5: Chest
6: Heart

, At the beginning of the game, nominate one player as the Director. This person will keep track of damage as well as Cornucopia items on the tracking sheets as explained above, and let players know when they have been hit enough times to die. Note that some damages are more severe than others, so players need to be hit in that place a different amount of times before they die:

1: Hand/Foot - 4 hits = death
2: Leg - 4 hits = death
3: Arm - 4 hits = death
4: Shoulder - 3 hits = death
5: Chest - 2 hits = death
6: Heart - 1 hit = death

, While players are moving around the board, they're trying to get to the Cornucopia, as as it gives you items to help you in the game. When you get to Cornucopia, roll the dice to indicate what item you'll collect. The Director will then check this item off on your Cornucopia tracking sheet. Note that you can only get each item from the Cornucopia once, so if you roll a 1 for example, and you already have the item corresponding to it, you get nothing. None of the items from the Cornucopia expire, so they can be used multiple times throughout the game. Items in the Cornucopia are:

1: Armor - gives you the ability to block any heart and chest hits. If your opponent rolls a 5 (Chest) or a 6 (Heart), no damage will be counted against you.
2: Medical Kit - gives you the ability to lessen the severity of any damage against you by -1. For example, if your opponent attacks you and rolls a 5 for damage (Chest), armor lessens this severity by -1, so the damage is actually a 4 (Shoulder).
3: Food & Water - gives you ability to move 1 extra space after each roll.
4: Gun - gives you the ability to increase the severity of any damage against your opponent by +1. For example, if you attack your opponent and roll a 5 for damage (Chest), arrows increase this severity by +1, so the damage is actually a 6 (Heart).
5: Arrows - gives you the ability to make 2 hits per attack. For example, if you roll a 3 (Arm), your opponent will get hit 2 times in the arm rather than once.
6: Sword - gives you the ability to counterattack. If you have a sword, you can attack your opponent immediately after they attack you.
 You can keep the suggested rules as is, or you can adjust them to make your game unique. Once you've decided on your rules, write them down so players can reference them during the game. Once you play, you may have to make alterations to the rules depending on how smoothly gameplay went.