 You can get a hidden camera or small recording device at most spy shops or online. Place it in an area your boyfriend frequently hangs out in or spends a lot of time in, especially when he is talking on the phone or surfing the web.


You can also download an app called Night Recorder on your phone that will record the sounds in any room you leave your phone in, including any sneaky calls or sex sounds that are not yours., Keyloggers spy software, like SpyPal, are available for download online and can be installed in a computer without the person knowing they are running in the background.These types of programs can record information like passwords, emails typed, pages visited, or even record a video of the screen as your boyfriend uses the computer. Keep in mind, however, that many of these types of spyware are highly illegal, so be very careful when downloading them. Also, a watchful boyfriend can find a key logger or screen recorder, so download a high-end logger that keeps its files hidden and under password. Some of these can still be found, but with great difficulty. However, some spyware can be made completely invisible both to the user and to the operating system. You probably won't need this last option unless your boyfriend is a professional computer engineer or a professional hacker., If you’re looking to catch your partner red handed, place a GPS device on the underside of his car and track his movements so you can pounce on him if his pants end up around his ankles in a sleazy roadside motel.The “Find Your Phone” app can also be used to “Find Your Cheating Boyfriend”. If you have access to your boyfriend’s iCloud, you can log in and watch his phone move in real time right into the immediate proximity of someone else., You can then use the profile to log onto websites that promote cheating on spouses to see if your partner has a profile on the site or is using one of the sites to arrange hook ups.You could also bait your boyfriend by using the fake account to friend him on Facebook. You could then start flirting with him over a period of time and see how he responds to you. If he starts sending your fake profile naked pictures or inquire about a meet up at a hotel, he is clearly not being monogamous with you.
 While this may be the most elaborate option, as it requires some planning and setup on your end, it is another way to catch your boyfriend red handed. Provide an excuse like a hair appointment or a meet up with a friend and then watch from across the street or in your car down the block to see if your boyfriend uses your absence as an opportunity to meet up with someone.


Keep in mind this is also the riskiest option as it involves lying convincingly to your partner and then staking out his movements until he slips up.
 Private investigators are licensed to do surveillance and are knowledgeable about the best and most legal tactic to uncover evidence of infidelity.If you are in a long term relationship where your finances are tied or if you are married, so your finances are legally bound, it’s a good idea to hire a PI.
Look for a PI that specializes in infidelity investigations.

