 Determining if you're an alto or soprano or somewhere in the middle(sopralto) will help you find a song. Choose a song that best suits your voice. And if you DO choose a song that is too high or too low for you to be very good at it- just edit! The judges won't care if it's the EXACT way the original singer does it. If you sound good is what matters the most.;
, This is optional, but it would be nice if you chose an outfit, makeup, etc. that looks nice. If you're performing with a group- matching outfits attract the judges attention.
 You can sing your song a Capella(without music) but having music is nice too. You can burn a karaoke version of your song on a CD and have it played while you sing. Or even better maybe you or a friend can play a musical instrument and play the music for the song.
 It'll be very important to practice in front of people, like your family or friends. Ask them for constructive criticism on how to prepare. Don't let them tell you you're already great, ask them how you can improve until you get it perfect!

, It's the day of the talent show. Avoid drinking milk.(Bad for singing) Do some vocal warm-ups like singing the scales up and down. Practice you're song again a couple times(Not to many! Don't want to strain your throat!).
 Wave to the audience or introduce yourself before you start. If you find out you have stage fright then there are a couple techniques you can do. For me personally, imagining the crowd in their underwear doesn't work. Find a friend or family member in the audience and focus on their face, instead of all the strangers watching you. If there is someone out there smiling or wishing you good luck that's great too! Focusing on a loved one makes me feel more comfortable. While you sing, dance or you hand motions. Even if it's a slow song, it wouldn't be a bad idea to walk around the stage a bit. And most of all, enjoy it! No one wants you to feel pressured or uncomfortable about performing.
 If it had been your friends who helped you practice, or your mom who bought your outfit. Thank the crowd for watching. It's common courtesy and many people will appreciate it.

