 Kittens go through specific phases of development. Learning about these may help you figure out why your kitten is crying and the best way to console her. The stages of a kitten’s development are:


Birth to 2 weeks: the kitten orients towards sound and her eyes open, separation from her mother or littermates may lead to behavioral issues.
Two to seven weeks: your kitten begins socializing and playing and may wean at around 6-7 weeks, though she may continue to suckle for comfort.
Seven to 14 weeks: your kitten increasingly socializes and increases her physical coordination. Kittens shouldn’t be separated from their mothers or littermates before 12 weeks to minimize the risk of developing problematic behaviors.In addition, kittens who are gently handled for 15-40 minutes daily for their first seven weeks are more likely to develop larger brains.;
, Kittens may cry from a lot of different reasons, from being separated too early to being hungry. Recognizing the reasons for why kittens cry may help you identify her specific cries and give her the comfort she needs.Your kitten might cry because:


She’s been separated from her mother or littermates too early.She wants comfort or attention.
She is hungry.
She is cold.She has a disease that can cause her to feel unusually hungry or restless., Although you mind find that your kitten is crying or mewing too much, she may just be expressing herself. Recognizing that all kittens and cats meow as a normal part of their behavior may help you get used to her crying on occasion.Determine for yourself when the crying is excessive or because of a need and to if you need to stop it.Be aware that some cat breeds, such as Siamese, are more prone to a lot of meowing., If you’re not sure about what is causing your kitten’s crying or you’re worried about her health, schedule an appointment with your vet. She can help figure out why your kitten is crying and suggest the best way to get her to stop.


Tell your vet when the meowing started and if anything helps or makes it worse. Consider telling your vet how long your kitten was with her mother and littermates.
Bring your kitten’s medical records with you if you have them.
Answer any questions your vet has honestly so that your kitten gets the treatment she may need.
 Most kittens like the comfort of being held and stroked by their human parent. It can mimic the comfort her mother gives and has the benefit of socializing her and helping her develop optimally.Handle your kitten gently.Pick her up using both hands so that she is supported and won’t fall.
Avoid picking her up by the neck to minimize the risk of injuring her.
Hold your kitten in your arm like a baby—she may not want to be on her back, but can also lie in your arm by snuggling her nose into the crook of your elbow.
Put a blanket in your arm for your kitten to snuggle into. Avoid putting a blanket over her, which might scare her.
 Either when you pick her up or if she is next to you, stroke or pet your kitten gently. This may calm her and stop her crying and can help form a strong bond between you.Focus on petting your kitten’s head and neck and under her chin. Avoid her tail or any other area that seems sensitive.
Make sure to not pet her with too much force.
Brush your kitten twice a week or more often if she likes that., Interaction is an important part of a kitten’s development and bonding experience with you. Talk to your kitten if she cries and whenever you interact with her, which lets her know that you’re communicating with her, too.Talk to your kitten when you pet and hold her, or feed her, or whenever she approaches you.Keep your tone soft and don’t yell, which can scare her.Say things that include her name and praise her. For example, “do you want me to pick you up, Sam? Aw, you like that a lot don’t you? You’re such a good and sweet kitten.”

, Play is another important part of a kitten’s development and bonding experience with you. Crying may signal she wants attention and playing is a good way to provide it.Have a supply of age-appropriate toys for your kitten like balls and larger toy mice she can’t swallow. Keep a scratching pad on hand, too.Toss a ball back and forth to your kitten.
Wrap a toy around a string and let her chase it. Make sure to watch her and store the toy where she can’t reach it when you’re not playing. Kittens can eat strings which can cause major intestinal issues or even death., Giving your kitten a cozy place to sleep can help comfort and calm her, which could help with her crying. You can purchase a cat bed or line a box with a soft towel or blanket.Consider lining the bed with an item you’ve used like a sweatshirt or even blanket. This will help her get used to your scent., Kittens need nutritious food to support their growing bodies and promote their health. Giving your kitten enough to eat may help her stop crying.Moisten your kitten’s canned food with milk replacer up to 10 weeks. It should be about the consistency of oatmealThis is especially useful is she was weaned early or orphaned.
Avoid regular milk because this might upset your kitten’s stomach.Put your kitten’s food in ceramic or metal bowls. Some kittens may be sensitive to plastic.Have a separate bowl of fresh water available for your kitten.
Make sure your kitten’s food and water are fresh and that the bowls are clean.
 Cats and kittens are very sensitive about cleanliness, especially of their litter boxes.Keep your kitten’s litter box clean and available to her, which may also stop her from crying.


Make sure the litter box is small enough so that she can easily get in and out of it.Use low-dust unscented litter.
Scoop any material out as soon as you can. Do it daily to encourage her to use it.Place the litter box away from her food. Kittens don’t like their food near their litter., If your vet determines that your kitten is crying because she is sick, give her any medications and treatments your vet prescribed. These can help her heal and may stop excessive crying or meowing.


Make sure your kitten gets her full course of medication.
Ask you vet any questions you have about administering the medication with as little trauma to your kitten as possible

, Unless you know for certain that your kitten wants something from you she can’t have, avoid ignoring her needs. She may not have access to her little or may be out of water.Likewise, don’t scold your kitten for crying too much. It is not only not likely to stop her crying, but may make her fear you.