 These will have many escort ads for you to search through. You can tell you are on a good site if the majority of the ads there are posted monthly. Sites to avoid would be sites like Backpage.com where escorts post ads daily instead of monthly. One reason behind this is that daily ads are very cheap which attracts lower class escorts., Agencies can be nice because you can expect a certain level of consistency from the escorts. If you find an agency that you like, then the booker can make recommendations to you according to your taste. The downside to agencies is that you will have to pay a bit more because you will pay a large agency fee which is rolled into the price., Some categories include; mature, brunette, blond, busty, VIP, and so forth. You can also classify by age, physical feature, and/or height. This is also the d=time to decide whether or not you want a meet-up, a date, or an all night affair., Keep in mind that you get what you pay for. If you only have $100-$200 to spend, you should consider saving up some more money. Once you click on a girl that you like, scroll down and look at her price. If she is nowhere within your budget then you might not want to waste your time reading her ad.Do not attempt to negotiate the price with an escort. If her price is not listed then she is usually more pricey.
If you found an escort that you really like and she is in your price range, make sure that there will be no added fees or "tips" once you arrive.
 Escorts who use fake photos will never tell you that it is not really them. Many girls using fake pics will blur out their face, but many beautiful escorts using real photos will blur their face as well for privacy reasons. Other clients will leave comments about her and let you know if she is the girl in the photo.Use a photo searching service. This will allow you to see if her pictures are stolen from an adult website or professional photo shoot (such as Playboy).
 This will allow you to see how long she has been working in the industry, and how she has been rated by clients. If she has only been doing this for a few weeks or months then you are taking a higher risk. Google her contact phone number and email to see if they are real, and legitimate as well.There are plenty of review sites online which rate escorts on appearance, personality, and openness. Some great review sites include TheEroticReview.com and TopKitten.com.
 Once you have decided on an escort, make sure that you have some idea of what will happen during your time together. If you discuss her services over the phone, make sure you know the correct code-words for the services you want.


Crude and graphic words may cause her to hang-up on you and ignore your calls. You may also be talking to her manager on the phone, so keep in mind the female who answers may not be the girl you're meeting.
 A cheap motel in a bad neighborhood may not be a great idea. Make sure the parking lot is not visible from the street if you are close to your home or office.
 When you arrive at an in-call location, look around. If you see anything suspicious (lots of people walking around, doing maintenance or clean-up, watching you), or get a weird feeling, just walk away. Remember that most hotels do their housekeeping early in the day, and maintenance is rarely done at night. Be safe and smart.
 Do this before you arrive at the location. You don't want a nefarious person seeing you do this. Only take your cell phone, cash and keys with you. If you have a spare wallet, use that one. You never know if the escort will rip you off and steal your valuables.
 When you get inside her in-call location, show her you have the agreed upon amount, and place it clearly on a nightstand or table. This money is only for her time(not for any illegal services). Do not attempt to exchange sex for money. It is against the law., Ask her if she is at least 18, and make sure she has a license to practice escorting in the state that you are in. If she does not answer yes to both of those questions then you are breaking the law. It could be a police officer, or an underage trafficker., Some escorts may ask you to wash your hands, or even take a shower. Taking a shower could mean she might leave with your money while you're not looking, so you can say you just took one (you should anyway, before and after). It's less likely an established escort will run off with your money, so keep that in mind when you're picking a new girl with no reviews or online history. You may be able to take the cash into the bathroom with you, she may or may not get offended at this. Take your wallet, cell phone and keys into the bathroom., Once she sees your donation and knows you're serious, she should have no problem undressing for you, which is a legal adult activity. However, state laws vary as to what is deemed legal and illegal. Make sure you look up your state's escort and sex laws beforehand to make sure., Escorts are very careful about how they talk about money, sex, dating etc. They will use code words like "donations" or "girlfriend experience." Make sure that when you are talking you also use code words. Never come right out and ask for sex, or a sexual act. Use terms like "get comfortable" or "get to know you.", This is important, because you do not want the escort to steal your belongings while you are asleep. You also want to leave the in-call location, and move your car, so that no one you know finds out. Remember to leave at different times than your escort. You do not want to leave together.