 You'll need to measure your bust and the dimensions needed for the armholes of the vest.


To measure your bust, simply wrap a tape measure around the widest part of your chest. Keep the tape measure parallel to the ground as you wrap it around your torso.
Measure the armhole depth by measuring from the top of your shoulder to the bottom of your armpit. Add another 3 inches (7.6 cm) to this measurement to ensure that there will be enough space.
Determine how far apart the armholes will need to be by measuring across your back from arm to arm.;
, Draw a circle onto your fabric with a diameter equal to your bust measurement.


This circle makes up the entire outline of your vest.
Use a loose knit fabric to create a sweater-like vest
If you want to skip the binding steps and turn this into a no-sew project, use fleece. Fleece will also create a warmer, cozier product.
 Vertically center the armholes on your circle, spacing them apart according to the width of your back (as measured earlier).


Use a ruler or tape measure to find the exact center point of your pattern. Draw a straight vertical line from top to bottom, then a straight horizontal line from side to side. The point of intersection should be the center of your circle.
Half of your back width should extend to the right of this center mark and the other half should extend to the left.
Each armhole should rest perpendicular to this back width line and fall out at either end of this line. Half of the armhole line should extend above the back width and the other half should fall below.
 Use sharp scissors to cut out the circle. Also cut along the lines made for your armholes.


Do not cut along the back width line or any other line aside from those specifically mentioned.
 Sandwich the raw edge of the circle in the fold of double-fold bias tape. Pin the end in place, then gradually wrap the rest of the tape around the perimeter of the circle, pinning the tape down as you go. Top stitch the binding in place.


Turn over the raw ends of the bias tape. Fold 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) from either end under, tucking the raw end beneath the inner folds of the tape. Pin and sew normally.
Stitch the binding in place near the open end of the tape, catching tape from both the front and back of the circle.
You can use any stitch you find aesthetically pleasing as long as the stitch catches the binding and holds it in place.
 For each armhole, you will need to prepare two strips of double-fold bias tape. Each piece must be 2.5 inches (6.35 cm) longer than your armhole.


For one armhole, pin two strips right-sides together so that the short ends are aligned.

Draw a 1.25-inch (3.18 cm) line on the center of each end with the tape folded open.
Sew 1/16 inch (1.59 cm) around this line through both layer to form one end of the armhole, then cut down the center of the line.


Repeat these steps using the other two pieces for the other armhole.
Turn the bindings right-side out, turn under all raw edges by 1/2 inch (1.25 cm), and press in place with a hot iron.
 Sandwich the raw edges of your armhole in the center fold of the prepared binding. Pin, then sew in place.


Sew the binding near the open edge of the tape using an aesthetically pleasing stitch. Make sure that you catch the tape on both the top and bottom layers.
 Hold the circle against your back and slip your arms through the prepared armholes. Drape the excess fabric over your shoulders so that it hangs naturally in place.


This step completes the project.

