 Again, having bias is not a bad thing in the abstract -- if you didn't have a preference for certain ideas, policies, and political movements, how would you ever vote? All human beings have certain biases and preferences -- what is important is that you know what those personal biases are. If you are unsure, go online and try a few "Political Bias Quizzes" or "Where Do I Stand" websites, which offer multiple choices tests that give you a broad idea of where you stand politically.


What are your go-to news sources? What sorts of stories grab you the most, or feel the most important?
Do you normally lean towards Republicans, Democrats, or neither? Have you shifted over your life or stayed relatively consistent with one party?
How would you define yourself politically, or how would you like to be defined by other people?

, Especially in election season, facts and figures will get tossed around, contradicted, retracted, edited, and forgotten in a matter of days. Sites like Politfact.com or FactChecker.org are key places to detect when politicians are spinning a story or statistic to be more favorable than it really is.
 Neither political party or ideology has a monopoly on important, powerful thinkers. No matter your personal preference, you can always benefit by listening to the other side. It is also a great way to reveal your own biases, as MSNBC and Fox News may cover the same story in completely different ways.


Try aggregate news sites, like Google News, Real Clear Politics, or Politico, that tend to showcase many articles from many sites, instead of always checking into the same stations.
Watch another news channel here and there, even one you "hate." Chances are good you'll be exposed to some new stories you hadn't heard otherwise, even if you disagree with them.
 There was a study a few weeks ago that said driving dehydrated was worse than driving drunk.The problem? This study was funded completely by water and non-alcoholic beverage seller Coca-Cola, and they tested less than 20 writers. More obviously, a campaign staffer for Bernie Sanders is probably not the place to go for unbiased Democratic Primary news. Remember -- bias isn't all bad, it just needs to be balanced. Identifying the conflicts of interests can help your judge information more successfully. The Bernie staffer has valid points, but you need to remember that he/she has a vested interest in spinning them in a pro-Bernie way. Listen to a Hillary Clinton staffer, too, even if you disagree.
 If you see a number, fact, or attack on another politician or group, make sure the journalist or reporter backs it up. They should at least link to another article, and provide the studies and statistics they pull their facts from. Any blog post, essay, news piece, or speech that doesn't back up its facts should be considered highly suspicious and likely biased.


Follow up on studies that seem "too good to be true." Quite often the story a pundit tells based on a study is very different from the one the statisticians or scientists tried to tell.
Do all the sources come from sites with similar political leanings (likely biased) or do the citations come from a diverse pool of places (likely less biased)?

