 Chemically, whiskey is fermented grain alcohol that has been aged in wooden barrels. The grains are mashed and strained, and the type of aging, grain, and additives determines the flavor and type of whiskey. When shopping, there are a few different variations of whiskey that you can purchase:



Bourbon is a sweater whiskey distilled in the United States. They are often mellow and drinkable, especially in comparison to traditional whiskeys. It is similar to its cousin "Tennessee Whiskey," which is slightly sweeter.

Rye Whiskey is typically made with at least 51% rye in the grain mixture. This leads to a spicy, somewhat bread-like flavor overall. In Canada, rye whiskeys can have any percentage of rye.

Scotch is a single-malt (one distillery only) whisky with strong flavors. They often have a note of smokiness as well.Depending on the country of origin you spell the drink one of two ways. Scottish and Canadian blends have no "e," whereas American and Irish blends end in an "-ey.
 There is a lot of jargon around whiskey, but the most important one to understand is whether or not your whiskey is a blend or a malt. Neither is inherently better than the other, the difference is just in the distilling methods.



Blended Whiskeys, which make up 80% of the market, are mixtures of grains and malts from different distilleries. They are usually smoother and easier to drink.

Single Malt Whiskys, are made from malted barely at one distillery. They are often stronger flavored than blends, and often go by "malt" or "Scotch whisky" as well.Single Cask means that a single malt whiskey was mixed and aged in one barrel. It is usually the rarest and most expensive whiskey.", One of the most intimidating things about whiskey is that every bottle seems to boast a new distilling technique. Determining which styles you like, and what those styles do, can be head-spinning if you don't know the vocabulary:



(Not) Chill Filtered. When whiskey gets cold, it can get cloudy or murky, which many people find unappealing. To combat this, some distillers chill the whiskey and then remove all the cloudy particles that form. However, this can severely impact the taste of a good whiskey.

Barrel Proof/Natural Cask Strength. Most whiskey is watered down after it comes out of the barrel to make it more palpitate. However, some brands are releasing whiskey exactly how it comes out of the barrel, making it very strong and alcoholic.

Age: Age is generally an indicator of quality, and more expensive whiskeys are usually aged for longer. If the whiskey is a blend, the age must be the age of the youngest whiskey involved. Aging only refers to the time spent in a barrel, not in the bottle or on the shelf.

Finishing: When a whiskey is placed in a certain barrel for a short period of time to gain flavor. Some whiskeys spend time in rum barrels, or wine barrels, to give them a distinctive taste. This is an easy way to quickly make a "new" whiskey for a manufacturer.