 Most schools will send you a list of supplies to buy, but some won't. Some schools want you to wait to get your supplies til after school starts because they want your teachers to tell you what to get for their class. If that is the case, get your basic necessities. Pens, pencils, notebooks, loose leaf, etc.;
, Clothes help define who you are. They are a way to express yourself. When you are getting back to school clothes, get what you feel comfortable in. High School can present the image of having to look cool and wearing expensive clothes. Dress how you want. Check the paper and the internet for deals at your favorite stores. Find out if there is any teen consignment shops in your area. You can bring in your old clothes for money and get new clothes! Don't be afraid of anyone making fun of how you express yourself, wear what makes you happy and comfortable.
 High Schools are big, no doubt about it. Gather up your friends and find all of your classes a few days before school starts. Chances are the school will be open since teachers are getting ready for the new year. Walk around the school and walk your daily route around the building. If your new teachers are in their classrooms, go say hi. You will feel more comfortable on the first day. If you know your locker and combo, go try it out. You don't want to stand in the hallway feeling silly because you cannot open your locker.
 Find a group of people who you are comfortable being yourself with. Organize study groups, mall sessions, and sleepovers. Don't forget about your friends from middle school, though!


Don't worry about being popular. In the end, it's not that great. Be social and go with the flow. Find the group that fits who you are. Be nice to people. A hello and smile can go a long way.
 They have been there longer than you have and know more than you do about the school. Don't act cocky or like a show off. Remember that upperclassmen can also be great friends. If your locker is stuck or you get lost, ask an upperclassmen who looks friendly for help.
 High School is wrongly depicted in movies. There aren't crazy parties every weekends, drama isn't around every corner, and you actually have homework, tests, and projects.
 If someone spread a rumor about you would be upset. Don't do it to others. Just don't be a bully. Nothing is worse than people thinking you're a jerk. A bully is just some big, beefy, guy who smells bad. They can be anyone. If you are being harassed, don't be afraid to tell a teacher. Some things you have to get over, but if it is consistent, get help. You aren't being a snitch or a tattletale.
 A small travel size makeup bag is great for personal stuff. Keep tampons, pads, deodorant, makeup, and few dollars in there. Make sure the bag isn't see through though. Unfortunately there will be the immature guys in high school who will think tampons and pads are funny.
 Dating is an exciting part of High School, but don't let it take over your schoolwork. The majority of freshman boys are going to be immature. Girls mature faster than guys. Don't ever dumb yourself down for a boy. If you have to be stupid for him to like you, he's not worth it. Be yourself. Don't change your style for a guy. If you want a guy just do this. Look nice and be nice. Shower daily, be hygienic, and be friendly. Some people think you have to wear makeup to be pretty. If you don't want to wear makeup you don't have to. Take your time with guys. Miracles don't happen overnight. Also, do not get involved with high school seniors, if a senior flirts with you or asks you out just reject them. While girls usually tend to be more mature than the boys in their grade, a whole three years difference in maturity is problematic. Remember if you do get involved in a relationship that you have every right to say no to something that makes you uncomfortable and you should not feel pressured into doing anything you don't want to.
 You are in High School to learn. Be nice to the teachers and staff. Don't slack off then expect extra help after class. Don't smart off to the teachers either. Teachers talk about students to other teachers. Word about annoying students gets around quick. Teachers have the right to call home to your parents if your acting up. Do your homework and study. Missing one assignment can hurt your grade drastically so you have to really care about your grades, just don't let them define you. Have a work space at home to do all of your school stuff, and make sure any distracting electronics are out of sight; stay focused. DO NOT wait for the last minute to do any projects or other homework.

