 Once you're ready to take your book to agents, you need to research the market to find your niche. Find books in your field or genre to see where you fit in, and see how well these books are selling and who are big names in your field. If your book doesn't neatly fit in one genre, research multiple types of books that your book may be like.


Once you've researched the market, you should be able to find a way to neatly describe your book. Is it science fiction, literary, or historical? Is it a science fiction and a historical novel? Is it literary, or more of a young adult novel? Knowing what kind of book you have will help you contact the right agent.
 Now that you know what type of agent you're working with, it's time for you to find the perfect agent to represent you. The ideal agent will connect with your material, will be enthusiastic about your work, and will work with you to revise your book and sell it to a publisher. Make sure your agent sells books in your genre, or contacting that agent will be a waste of time. Here is how to find a good agent for you:


Read a reputable guide to Literary Agents.This book will tell you more about thousands of literary agents and will also say which genres they specialize in, how many new clients they take on each year, and how many recent sales they have made.
Check out Publisher's Marketplace. Though you'll have to pay $25 a month for full access to the site, you will gain insight into which agents made recent sales, what type of books they sold, and who is selling the most books.Check out Query Tracker. This site will help you see which agents respond to queries quickly, and which rarely respond or take months to respond. The statistics on this site are reported by other writers, so the data set isn't complete, but it can give you a good indication of how receptive some agents can be. The site can also tell you which agents specialize in what genres.Check out the websites of different agents. When you find an agent who sounds like a good fit, check out his or her website to get more information about submission policies and what genres and clients they represent.
Make sure the agent is accepting unsolicited submissions. Unless you have a connection, you'll have to submit to the agent this way.

Watch out for con-artists posting as agents. No reputable agent will ever ask for a reading fee to see your manuscript. The agent will only make money if he can sell your book. Check out Preditors & Editors to make sure the agent has a good rating., Once you've found your dream agent — or better yet, a handful of dream agents — it's time to prepare your query letter. Your query letter is your chance to introduce yourself to the agent, to get the agent hooked on your book, and to provide a very brief synopsis of the book. It can take a while to hear back from agents, so contact a few at a time (as long as they allow simultaneous submissions) and sit back and wait. The query letter should follow the following format: Paragraph one: an introduction of your book and your interest in the agent. Here is what should go in the first paragraph:

Start off with one or two sentences that gives the agent a "blurb" of what your book is about. It should be specific, original, and gripping.
Then, tell the agent what genre your book falls under, whether it's multi-cultural, young adult, or historical. It can fall into a number of categories. You should mention the word count in the first paragraph as well.
Tell the agent why you've chosen her. Does she represent a lot of books in your genre, or does she represent a few authors whose work is similar to yours? Do you have a personal connection to the agent? If so, mention it right away.



Paragraph two: a synopsis of your book. Here is what should go in the synopsis:

Describe what happens in your book and what themes are highlighted. Make the description as accurate and gripping as possible.
Show who the main characters are, what the stakes are, and why the book is important.
You can do this in one or two paragraphs at most.



Paragraph three: some brief information about yourself. Tell the agent if you've won any awards and how the book personally connects to your life.

Paragraph four: tell the agent that the full manuscript or sample chapters (if you're writing non-fiction) are available upon request and give your contact information. Thank the agent for taking the time to consider your work.
Follow directions carefully. If the agent also asks for an outline or sample chapters, send those along too.
 If the agent liked your query letter, he or she will ask you to send along some sample chapters or even the whole manuscript. If the agent falls in love with your work after that, you will receive what you've been dreaming about: an offer of representation! But before you sign with the agent, you have to make sure he really is the dream agent you've been seeking.


Talk to the agent over the phone. If you can, meet with the agent in person. If you live near Manhattan, this will be easier, since many literary agents are based in New York City. Get a sense of this person's character and how enthusiastic he is about your book.
Trust your gut. If something is telling you the agent sounds too busy, too eager to get off the phone, or not very excited about your work, don't sign with him. It's better to continue your agent search than to put your book in the hands of the wrong person.
Ask if you can talk to some of the agent's clients. A good agent will be glad to give you the names of a few of his clients, so you can chat with them and get a better sense of whether or not the agent is a good fit.
Double-check your research. Make sure the agent has made sales and has a solid client list before you get on board.
Read over your contract carefully. Once you see that the contract is pretty standard, and that the agent gets around a 15% of your domestic sales and 20% of your foreign sales, and you feel good about signing with the agent, then sign your contract, put it in the mail, and celebrate a job well done.
 Even if your agent is bowled over by your book, you will almost always have to revise the book once, twice, or even three times before it's ready to go to the market. You'll have to do things like trim down the word count, make your narrator more likable, and address any questions your agent may have.


Remember that the book is still yours and that you don't have to change it completely to suit the needs of the agent. Only make changes that you're comfortable with.
 Once your agent is happy with your manuscript, and you have prepared a package for the book, she will take it to the publishers. This is the most nerve-wracking part because your book's fate will be out of your hands. Your agent will pitch your book to a list of trusted editors at various publishers, and if you're lucky, you'll end up with a deal with an editor at a publishing house!


Sign the contract that includes you, your agent, and the publishing house.
 Now that your book has been sold, you'll sign with a publishing house and will continue to work to revise the book with an editor there. You'll work until the writing is exactly where it should be, and then other aspects of publishing will be decided, such as when and how the book will be released, and what the cover will look like.


But you can't just sit tight and wait for the publication date. There is more work to be done!

, Once the fact that your book will be published has sunk in, you'll need to work your butt off to market your book, whether it's through your publicist, your website, Facebook, informal readings, and word of mouth. Do what you have to do to get the word out there so your sales are high when the book does come out.


Don't ever stop advertising for your book — especially not after it is published. You can bask in your glory for a little while, but remember that promoting your book is just as important as writing it!

