 Fabrics most easily crease when they are still damp or warm. Be sure that your clothes are room temperature and completely dry before putting them on.Just as you don't want to put on clothes that are still warm from the dryer, try to avoid getting wet or sweaty during the day. This will cause your clothes to crease.;
, Before you wear your clothes, be sure to iron them inside-out, and along the seam lines. This will help minimize the amount of creases that form throughout the day. Be sure to read the clothing labels to determine the proper heat setting for your iron., Trousers that are too baggy have a tendency to bag and bunch, causing rumples and wrinkles to appear. Trousers that are too tight, on the other hand, have a tendency to pull and buckle which creates a different sort of wrinkle that will reappear every time you wear them. If you are not sure how your trousers should fit, get professional advice from a tailor., If you know that you have a long meeting that requires you to sit for several hours, do not choose fabrics like silk that crease quickly. Try to choose stiffer fabrics for days that you can't have any creases in your clothing, or will be doing activities that cause creasing., Cotton clothing will wrinkle more than clothes that have a mix of synthetic fabric in them. A shirt that has 50% polyester and 50% cotton may wrinkle less than a full cotton shirt. When buying clothes, look for tags that say they are wrinkle-resistant, or purchase higher quality clothing. Clothes made of wrinkle resistant fabric are available in a wide variety of colors, styles and cuts, and can be found in both formal and informal styles., The product label will give further instructions on how to spray your clothes. These sprays work to increase fabric crispness and support the fabric's ability to hold shape all day.
 These products are not as effective as ironing, but they do work to reshape fabrics back to their natural shape. These sprays can also prevent creases from forming throughout the day.

