 If you want to make a fort that will last a bit longer, you can build one out of wood using basic tools. It may take a bit longer, but you'll end up with a top-quality fort that will last for weeks, months, or maybe even years.
 If you have a small backyard or you don't have many supplies to use for building your fort, you can try building a blanket fort instead. Although most blanket forts are built inside on rainy days, you can build one outside in a grassy area or field.
 If you've got lots of empty boxes in your house, put them to use by building a fort! Although your fort probably won't end up like the one in 'Out of the Box!', you can make it feel like a real house with enough work. Combine several big boxes and cut out holes between them to make 'rooms'. You can even add windows and furniture inside your box fort if you want.
 If you are lucky enough to have a snow day, you can put all the white stuff to use by making a fort with it. Snow forts won't last too long, but they may be the coolest out of all the forts you can build. Pile up the snow, cut out doors and windows, and load it up with snowballs in case of an impending attack.
 This type of fort might be the hardest to make, but it will last a long time, and is really cool when finished. Building an underground fort involves digging a series of 'rooms' in the ground, and possibly even connecting them with tunnels. If you have lots of land and time to work, you should definitely try making an underground fort. But be careful!! Underground forts can collapse, so make sure you have a parent supervisor, and always make sure the soil is stable. Always build at least two exits in case of a collapse. Never build underground forts in sand. (DISCLAIMER: underground forts are crazy dangerous. More than a few people have died trying to make these. There's a lot more to building underground than digging sideways. Do a lot of research, be prepared to drop some cash, and make peace with your maker. You are seriously risking your life by building one of these.)

, Forest forts are lots of fun, because they're easy to camouflage and add lots of decoration to from nature. Head out into the woods with some tools, collect some branches and supplies, and build your fort in the woods!

