 When your British Shorthair cat is a kitten, it should be fed specially formulated kitten food. After it is about one year old, you can switch to feeding your cat regular cat food., Like all cats, British short hair cats require a balanced diet with the correct proportions of vitamins and minerals. Check the ingredients and nutrition facts label to ensure that the cat food you’re providing your cat is healthy. A healthy cat food will have meat, meat byproducts, or seafood listed among its first few ingredients, since these ingredients contain the amino acids and fatty acids that your cat needs.The healthier foods won’t have byproducts listed as the first ingredient.
Cat foods that are formulated with a healthy balance will bear the logo of the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) or another reputable body.
 Like people, different cats have different flavor preferences. Some will like dry food, though most prefer semi-moist or wet food. Cat foods of any consistency are available in different flavors like salmon or chicken. Buy a few different types of cat food and observe your cat’s eating habits to identify which cat food it prefers., Cats use water to stay hydrated, eliminate waste, and digest their food. Each day, empty your cat’s water bowl and refill it with clean, cool water.The best type of water (and food) bowls will be of ceramic or glass. Lightweight tin and plastic dishes are more prone to spillage.
 Unless otherwise directed by your vet, do not add mineral or vitamin supplements to your cat’s food. Doing so could cause health complications later., Since British Shorthair cats are relatively lazy, obesity is a serious health risk.To keep them healthy, feed them a volume of food that allows them to maintain a stable, healthy weight. The mature British Shorthair cat will weigh between nine and 18 pounds.Obese cats could suffer osteoarthritis, diabetes, and urinary problems.If your cat gets fat, reduce the portions you feed it and/or switch to a low-calorie food until its weight is back to normal. Thereafter, give your cat more exercise and fewer calories than it had previously so it can maintain its healthy weight.

