 You need lots of keratin rich and producing foods in your diet to get strong, long hair. It also strengthens your nails and gives you better skin. Try to eat most of these foods daily.


Fruits and Vegetables
Citrus fruits
Peppers
Brussels Sprouts
Cauliflower
Broccoli
Onions
Meat and Dairy
Lean meats
Animal kidney and liver
Poultry
Fish
Low-fat milk
Cheese
Yogurt
Other Foods
Eggs
Beans
Kale
Soybeans
Almonds
Walnuts
Gelatin
Whole Grains;
, At least 64 ounces a day is required, maximum of 80. This has to be actual water though, not sugary fruit juices. Try to also drink a glass of green tea a day, as this is high in helpful antioxidants. 3-4 litres of water is required for women.
 You can use a store bought mask for 30 minutes, no matter how long the bottle says to keep it on. You can also use an egg all over your hair for 30 minutes, a mixture of coconut and almond oil for a half an hour, or a mixture of olive oil, cinnamon, and honey for a half hour.
 Wear a clear spray sunscreen on your hair part daily. Use a swim cap whenever you go swimming. Wear your hair in a braid or ponytail whenever you are going outside.
 Use a blow dryer max once a week and never a flat iron or curling iron. Heat damage makes your hair limp, brittle, and damaged. If you ever have to, use a heat protectant spray or cream.
 Sleep 9 hours or more a day, eat healthy, exercise, and have zero stress. If you have trouble falling asleep, read an extremely boring book and drink warm milk with honey.


Remember to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, protein, and dairy to stay healthy. Avoid sugar.
Exercise daily. Do a strength workout 3 days a week and a cardio workout 3 days a week.
Stay stress free. Remove at least 15 minutes out of your day to meditate and clear your mind. Take 8 deep breaths when you wake up and 8 before bed to de-stress. Also, take a few deep breaths before an important, stressful event.
Have a spa day once a week and get a massage if possible. Massage your face every night to relax and clear your skin and massage your head to circulate blood in your head.
 Use a keratin conditioner afterwards.
Towel dry your hair by gently squeezing your hair with a towel.
Apply a straightening balm to your hair.
Since you wash your hair at night, when it is still slightly damp, separate your hair into four sections. Then, take one section and comb it with a fine toothed comb. Then, use a bobby pins to secure your hair tight wrapped around your head. Do this with the other 3 sections. Use a wig cap or hair net to secure it. In the morning, remove the pins and brush your hair with a flat paddle brush.

