 The easiest and most exhilarating way to learn the game is by playing it. Go to the nearest Games Workshop, a hobby store specifically dedicated for Warhammer, and meet some of the store associates. They will be happy to show you how the game works and maybe even introduce you to someone who would challenge you to a match.;
, Once you have a starter set and a basic understanding of how the game works, buy a heavy unit that goes with your army. Make sure it looks cool. Half of the fun in getting a new set is building and customizing it!

, Players usually choose a color scheme for their army. This gives an army a unique and distinctive look. Make heavy units look battle-tested by adding bullet holes in the armor, or by painting rust or mud stains on the model.
 The most important units in Warhammer are the expensive ones. This is because they are so effective in battle. Templates are plastic cut-outs that cover a small surface area on the gaming table. They represent shell explosions and flame thrower attacks. Any model underneath the template is hit, and likely destroyed.
 Find out which infantry units with which it works best. Tanks and other vehicles are great at protecting smaller units. Once the enemy gets up close and personal, the standard units will most likely be protecting the tank. To make battles even, each model has been assigned a point value. The entire Imperial Guard Grunt Squad on the left is worth far less then the Earth Shaker Battle Tank on the right, yet both are needed for an effective attack.
 Yes, this happens before any actual fighting, but this is the most crucial step.
 The map may include some rough terrain or even tank traps. You must plan ahead and avoid such areas, or send smaller units into those areas for cover.
 If the enemies do not have time to take cover, they are sitting ducks.
 Some tanks can double as unit transports. Since they can travel faster than ordinary ground units, they can venture ahead and send a strike team to break up the enemy lines before your main force catches up.
 Light armored vehicles are faster at this, but lack the firepower that heavy units possess. If the flank is successful, then slip past the main body of the army, and take out the enemy support squads, snipers, artillery and HQ units.
 This will cause an effective diversion because it draws enemy fire away from the weaker, yet necessary, units. This tactic protects them. Even if an enemy unit has a line of sight and wants to target your weak squad, it will have to take a leadership test. Think about it: If a unit is not trained enough to listen to its leader, it will instinctively shoot the deadly, skull-crushing creature that steadily approaches.
 Get monstrous creatures, a type of heavy unit, into close combat ASAP. They cannot move quite as fast as an agile vehicle, but they can do something even better. When engaged in a close quarters battle, the heavily armored beast towers over its enemy. If a blood thirsty, ground-shaking beast suffers less damage than the infantry unit it is fighting, then the unit must take a moral check. If it fails, then the torn unit is required to flee in the opposite direction however many inches the die value indicates.

