 This keeps your metabolism working and to maintain a nitrogen positive balance for muscle growth.;
, Muscle growth occurs when your nitrogen consumption level is greater than nitrogen output. The greater the nitrogen balance, the faster your workout recovery will be. This is the body's anabolic state. The opposite is true when you're in a negative nitrogen balance.
 A major part of building muscle is helping your body to eliminate waste, so it can focus on growth (like building new muscles). Water helps to get rid of fat (a form of waste), so drink up. The best form of water to drink is alkaline water, also known as Kangen water. It is the best source of water for fast recovery after an intense work out.
 You have to eat more whole organic food to build muscle. The average male needs to consume 2200 calories a day, female is roughly 1300. The closer you are to these numbers, you're maintaining your body weight. To increase muscle growth, you will need to add a minimum of 1000 calories, so 3200 calories for males (it may be more calories, depending on your size and how big you want to get).
 Weightlifting is the best way to build fast muscle. You should strive to do compound exercises like pull ups, dead lifts, squats, walking lunges etc. These types of exercises encourage your body to build your primary muscle groups, (lats for pull ups), but it also help to build the secondary muscle groups (biceps) as well as your core. What ever exercise you're performing, you should strive to do 8-12 reps max, meaning that you should not be able to lift more than 12 reps on each exercise.
 Muscle growth occurs on the negative rep (also known as the "down phase"). For example, when doing the Bicep curl, it's lowering the weight down that it's building the muscle. Take 3 seconds to lower the weight for beginners, 5 seconds for advance trainers. You should experience Delay Onset of Muscle Soreness happening in 2 days (which is the norm for muscle growth). This type of training will force your muscle to get torn down, then your body will repair it and grow new tissue to support the work load.
 There is no question about this, sleep is essential for recovery, repair and growth. 7 to 8 hours of sleep is optimal for muscle growth.

