 Sometimes when children are having emotional, mental, or social problems it’s not always evident at home. They may be able to function normally during family times, but show signs of a problem when faced with the stressors of school like peers, academics, etc. Also, some mental health issues like ADHD are most evident in structured settings like school. Staying in touch with how they're doing in school academically, behaviorally, and socially can help you recognize and address any problems early on.Be aware of falling grades, trouble completing homework, discipline issues, and other signs that there may be a learning or mental problem.
Pay attention if your child suddenly seems reluctant to go to school. This may indicate they there are social problems, like with a bully.
Communicate frequently with your child’s teachers and other school personnel. You can ask them to let you know if they see anything concerning.
 Children should get about 10 hours of sleep each day, but you know your child's specific sleeping habits. Some children, especially teens, may seem to be constantly napping, whereas other children seem to need little sleep at all. Sleeping a lot or only a little may not necessarily be a sign of concern. However, sudden or dramatic changes to your child’s sleep patterns may suggest that there is a mental health issue.


Ask your child about their dreams. Frequent nightmares, particularly in younger children, may be a sign that your child has some issues that need to be addressed.
Ask them how they slept. For children of any age, trouble falling asleep or staying asleep might suggest that there is a problem.
Pay attention to whether your child seems rested in the morning or if they seem to be tired and lacking energy.
 Unfortunately children may abuse alcohol and other substances like prescription medications and illegal drugs at younger ages than we would like to believe. Being aware of the signs of substance abuse can help prevent mental health problems because the two often occur together.


Be aware of how your child spends their money. For example, you might check to make sure their lunch money is being used at school for lunch and not other things.
Check with websites like https://www.ncadd.org/about-addiction/signs-and-symptoms/what-to-look-for-signs-and-symptoms for specific warning signs of substance abuse.
 Every child will throw a temper tantrum, yell, or become too physically aggressive at least once in their childhood. However, it may suggest a bigger problem if these behaviors become frequent or start to negatively impact your child.For example, if your child is bullying others at school or frequently picking fights with siblings, there may be something else that needs to be addressed.
Remember that adolescents and teens may be experiencing normal hormone changes that can account for some of their aggressiveness occasionally.
 You don't have to wait until something happens or an issue arises to get support. If you are concerned about your child’s mental health, you should talk to a professional as soon as possible.Physicians, therapists, and other similar professionals have the resources and experience to help you promote and address your child’s mental and emotional wellbeing.


Ask your child’s school counselor, pediatrician, or coach for recommendations for community resources. For example, you might say, “I have some concerns about my child’s mental health. Could you suggest places we can get help?”
See a family counselor to work through issues you all may be having and to address your concerns about your child’s mental health.
If you have immediate concerns about your child’s safety, you should contact a crisis hotline like the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 immediately.

