 Many secondhand supplies are quality. Thrift stores and garage sales often sell items that have only been used minimally. While you may want to err on the side of caution and buy new for things like cribs, other items can easily be purchased secondhand. Things like furniture, a changing table, and even some decorations can be secondhand.Be on the lookout for flyers for garage sales. You can also hit up established thrift stores in your area.
Always examine a secondhand item closely for damage before purchasing it. Some things can be easily fixed, however. A dresser with chipped paint, for example, can easily be repainted at home.;
, There are many websites specifically designed to swap items with others. You may be able to find the nursery items you're seeking here. Create an account on websites like Swap.com, FreeCycle, and ThredUp.com.Go through your home and look for items you no longer need or use. Chances are, there are many things you planned to give away, donate, or sell. These can be traded for baby or nursery supplies.
Make sure to pick high quality items of your home. People will not be happy with you if they don't receive good items in return for a trade. Choose items that have minimal damage and that you have not used much over the years. For example, try trading the extra chair at your dining room table no one ever uses.
 You can often find cheap deals online. This does not just mean secondhand items. Websites like Overstock.com sell name brand items for cheaper prices, for example. You can also sign up for e-mail lists for stores you love to wait for online sales. Sites like Craigslist and eBay often let you purchase items for cheap.Practice basic safety if you meet up with someone online to make a purchase. Meet in a public place and, if possible, bring someone else with you.
 Not everything you purchase needs to be a name brand. While you should invest in quality items for supplies like your child's crib or changing table, go for low-cost department store items for other nursery supplies. A low-cost lamp, dresser, or bookshelf will likely hold up fairly well. You can save some money by shopping at somewhere like Target or Walmart to get these kinds of items.