 You will need to make a bead of acrylic to form the flower’s petals. To make a bead, dip your brush into the acrylic liquid first and then into the acrylic powder. This will create an acrylic bead on the brush. Place the acrylic bead onto the nail or onto a non-stick work surface, such as a piece of aluminum foil.








Use a thin brush to create small flowers. This will allow you to get a smaller dot of acrylic on the brush and create finer details.Allow the bead to dry for a few seconds before you begin to shape it. The bead should look matte and not shiny before you begin to work with it.
You can use plain white acrylic powder or use color acrylic powder to create your flower. You can also use two different colors to form a gradient design. To do this, start by dipping your brush into acrylic liquid, then dip it into one color of acrylic powder and then another.Just try to get a small amount of the second color on the brush so that the second color will highlight the first one.
 Use the brush to press the bead into the form of a flower petal. Press the top of the bead, flatten it out, and then use the brush to push in the sides as desired until you have created a flower petal shape.








Shape one end of the petal so that it comes to a point. This will serve as the center part of the petal, which will meet up with the other petals you create.
Make at least three petals in the same fashion. If possible, create these additional petals alongside the first one so that you do not have to move them later.
Keep some paper towels handy to dry your brush between petals.This will help to ensure that the beads you form do not have too much liquid in them.
 Dip your brush in the acrylic liquid and then into the acrylic powder to create a bead. This will form the center part of the flower. Place the bead in the center of your petals to complete the flower.








Allow the bead to dry for a few seconds and then press the bead down a little to secure it in place.
 After you have placed the central bead, your flower is complete. You can apply it to your nail if you did not create it on the nail already. Dip your brush in acrylic liquid and then into acrylic powder. Place this dot on your nail and then place the flower you created on top of the dot and press down gently.Make sure that the flower has dried before you transfer it. This should only take a few minutes.

