 Options range from smartphone cameras to professional camcorders. Choose one that is appropriate for your channel. If your channel gets a lot of views, you might want to use a higher quality video recorder. Similarly, if your channel is not very popular, it might not be worth buying a professional camcorder.
 Editing is everything. Higher quality videos lead to higher viewership, so choose a good quality editing suite., Tripods, zoom lenses, and other equipment can improve the quality of your video, but are not necessities., The topic of your video is a very important factor determining your viewership. Choose a topic you are knowledgeable in., Date and time is very important. Choose a time which suits you., Venue generally depends on what kind of video you are shooting. If you are shooting a video on how to be a good gardener, the venue could be a garden. If you are shooting a video on how to cook, you could shoot the video in your kitchen., No one wants background sound interfering with their video. It can result in your channel losing viewership., Choose somebody trustworthy, and good with a camera., Seek help from the cameraman and friends or family on this crucial aspect of your video., Don't harbor any feeling of tension, or anxiety.,, Place the camera on a tripod, if you are using one, set up the lighting, and set up any other equipment you are using., This can enhance the quality of your video., Don't shoot your entire video in one sequence. Switch between scenes to make a high quality educational clip., Exhaustion can lower your videos quality., Imagine that the video you are shooting is like a book, with multiple sections and pages. Move step by step, filming the different sections of the video, like the things intro section, things you'll need section, and the steps section., Ask the viewer a question in the end of the video, and ask them to reply in the comments. This can bring back viewers., Take all your equipment back inside your studio, and begin the next phase, which is editing the video., Move it to your computer to being editing it with the video editor you chose.,, You should have good vision of your finished video in your head at this point, so work towards it., This can brand your videos and impress viewers. You can choose either an intro or an outro, or both., Remove any accidental bloopers or goof ups., Captions can help your viewers clearly understand what you are saying. You can either add your captions directly into the video, or upload them as a text file later, which has the added benefit of letting the viewer turn off the captions., You shot your video in sections, so arrange the sections in order., This prevents reuse of your video without credit., This is optional, but is a nice way to get your name out there., Remember to choose a YouTube recognizable format. This can take quite some time, so remember to be patient. After you are done, move on to the next section, which is uploading your video., If you don't have a channel yet, create one., Depending on the quality of your video and internet connection, this can take a long time., It is best to choose the shortest and most accurate way of describing your video's content., The first few lines of your video's description are the most important, as they are seen by every viewer. The rest of the lines can contain the not so important information, such as the credits, since they are hidden under the 'Show more' button. Your description should contain call to action text, and links to any sources or citations., Your thumbnail is what shows up next to your video's name in search results, and is what viewers see. It should be something that makes viewers eager to explore the rest of your video. Set something which is different, since your video will show up next to many others in searches., The category must be the most specific category possible, and it is what helps users discover your video while browsing YouTube., Tags are what link your video to others, so set ones that are relevant., Fine tune other details and publish your video, and then move on the next section., Act as your own critic, and see what areas you can improve on. This helps enhance the quality of your next video., This can help you earn money from your hard work., Social media can help boost your video's views, due to shares and re-shares. If your video is good enough, it might even go on to become the next big thing!, Make a note of how many people are viewing your video and from where, and other details. This can greatly help in creating your next video., This helps link your video to your website, and bring in more viewers., wikiHow allows editors to embed high quality, instructional videos on related articles. Embedding your video on wikiHow can greatly increase viewership., If your video gets popular, make another how to video!