 If you're writing for a college application or an internship, there will almost always be a short prompt for you to respond to. These are often quite short, which means you'll have some room to get creative.


Common prompts include things like, "Outline your qualifications for this position" or "In writing, explain how this position would affect your career goals." Sometimes, the prompt will be as short as, "Tell us something interesting about yourself."If there is no prompt, but you still feel the need to introduce your application with a letter, it's usually best to keep it as short as possible. Explain what you're applying for, why you're applying, and thank the contact for their consideration. That's it.
 College applications are a unique opportunity to make yourself stand out beyond the numbers of your resume and your transcript. Lots of applicants think the letter should make them sound "smart," but it's better to stand out and make yourself unique. What makes you the unique person you are? Don't worry if it sounds "smart," worry that it makes you memorable.


Often, college prompts will ask you to describe a time you struggled, or a time you overcame some obstacle. Write about something unique, a time that you actually failed and dealt with the consequences.
The board will get thousands–literally, thousands–of letters about someone's first mission trip, and letters about the time someone's sports team was beaten, then overcame the odds, and won again. Avoid these topics.
 Where do you want to go next? Employers and college admissions want to hire people who want to succeed and want to go places. If you're writing an application letter, it's important to stand out by describing that you're an ambitious person who'll achieve at a high level. Describe where you want to go.


Be specific. If you're writing to a college board, don't say, "I want to go to this college because I need a degree." That's obvious. What do you want to do with it? Why? If you're applying to a business, don't say, "I just need a job." That's obvious. Why this specific job?

, Your application letter is your one chance in an application to stand out. Listing off the number from your GPA and the boring list of achievements from your resume isn't the best way to do that. The purpose of the letter is to get a sense of who you are, not a list of accomplishments. Don't use the letter to describe the list of schools you've attended, your GPAs, and a list of extra-curricular activities, unless it relates to some anecdote in the letter., Lots of people carpet-bomb the same letter to a bunch of different places, because that's a lot easier than actually writing a separate letter to every place you're applying. Research a little bit about each place, and take some time to make each letter unique, even if you're going from a template.


If you're applying to schools, what do you like about the school? What faculty are you interested in? Why this school, instead of another?

