 Sodium in your diet can contribute significantly to water retention and bloating. Limiting the amount of salt you get in your diet may keep water retention and bloating at bay and help you feel better.Avoid adding extra salt when cooking. Also be sure to check for hidden sources of sodium in foods such as soy sauce as well as canned vegetables and soups.
Stay away from processed foods, which generally contain high sodium levels. Some examples of processed foods are deli meats and cheeses and dishes from fast food restaurants. Junk foods like potato chips are also often laden with bloat-causing sodium.;
, Eating three balanced, nutrient-rich meals daily can keep you regular and help control bloating. Vary your diet with choices from the five food groups, focusing on fruits, vegetables, and low-sodium or unsalted nuts. All of these can control bloating., Whole fruits and vegetables are high in water, which can help flush excess fluid from your system.Getting at least 1 ½ to 2 cups of fruit and 2 to 2 ½ cups of vegetables every day can help keep you healthy and treat any bloating you may have.Choose whole fruits and vegetables like blueberries, bananas, strawberries, carrots, broccoli, and spinach. Make sure to vary your choices so that you get a wide range of nutrients.
Remember that 100% fruit or vegetable juice counts towards your daily total. Check their sugar and sodium content to ensure you don’t make your bloating worse.
 Whole grains can keep your bowels regular, which can reduce bloating. Eat choices like whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta, oatmeal, cereal, or brown rice. Make sure to stay away from refined carbohydrates like white pasta and white rice, both of which may make you retain water.Aim to get at least three to five servings of whole grains every day.Consider trying different whole grains like amaranth, barley, buckwheat, bulgur, quinoa, and spelt., Eating dairy products and foods with probiotics can help relieve bloating (unless you are lactose intolerant, in which case you should avoid dairy). Many yogurts on the market contain these potentially bloat-blasting foods. In addition, you can find probiotics in yogurt, kefir, pickles, tempeh, kimchi, sauerkraut, buttermilk, and miso., In addition to your healthy diet, foods containing certain nutrients can reduce your bloating. Eat foods that have potassium, magnesium, and calcium to help further flush out excess water.


Eating foods high in potassium such as bananas, cantaloupe, mangoes, spinach, asparagus, and tomatoes can also help flush out your excess water.Get magnesium from almonds, avocados, and brown rice. Yogurt, cheese, and dark green vegetables such as spinach have calcium., The herb parsley is a natural diuretic, meaning that it can help flush excess water from your system. Either chew on some fresh chopped parsley or add it to dishes to treat your bloating., It may seem counterintuitive, but drinking water can help flush out excess water.Drink at least 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water to ensure you’re staying hydrated and not retaining water if you are a woman.Remember that 100% fruit juice, tea, sports drinks, and soda count towards your daily hydration total.
 Drinking any type of alcohol can cause your body to dehydrate. In turn, this causes your body to retain even more fluid and become bloated. If you’re experiencing bloating or frequently get it during your period, try drinking water instead of alcohol to prevent bloating.