 Splatter art can be quite sloppy due to the inability to control where the splatters of paint will land. You will want to find a workspace in which you can make a mess without worry, such as an art studio or classroom, basement, garage, or outside. If this is not possible, you can lay down newspaper or old towels around your workspace.
 Make sure that there is plenty of space for your canvas and supplies. Use a flat surface for your canvas if you do not want your splatters to drip. If you do want them to drip, wait until you have finished creating the splatters, since it would be too difficult to splatter on a tilted canvas.

You can use canvas, cardstock, or posterboard. These can all be purchased at local arts and crafts stores, such as Michael’s or JoAnn’s Fabrics.
 Acrylic paint is best for splatter painting since it is heavily pigmented and will show up well on any color paper or canvas. However, you can use watercolor or another type of paint that you enjoy using. Squeeze some paint onto a mixing palette, bowl, or cup and dip your brush into the paint as needed., To add plenty of paint splatters at one time, use two brushes at once. Dip both brushes into the paint, using the same color or different colors, depending on what you prefer. Quickly hover the brushes over your canvas after you have dipped them into the paint so that you can get all of the paint onto the canvas, rather than dripping it elsewhere. After most of the paint has splattered your canvas, dip the brushes into the paint and start again., You can use one brush to dip into the paint and a second brush to tap the brush with paint on it, thereby spraying the paint all over the canvas. With this method, you will be able to cover a large area and get large paint drops, if desired. The downside to this method is that you will not be able to control to control where the paint splatters very well., This technique can be very messy for your hands, since you are using your fingers to run along the bristles of the toothbrush. You can wear gloves to minimize the mess on your hands. The benefit to this method is that you can get smaller splatters that are localized to the area you are working on.Hold the toothbrush in one hand.
Dip the toothbrush into the paint.
Hold the brush so that the bristles face downward, facing the canvas.
Using your free hand, slowly run your finger along the bristles of the toothbrush, spraying paint onto the canvas.
 To try something fun and different with splatter painting, use a glue gun and crayons on your canvas, instead of paints. The glue gun will melt the crayons and the warm wax will fall onto the canvas, creating a unique version of splatter painting. This method is quite engaging and will require a bit of focus to make sure that crayons are properly feeding through the chamber of the glue gun.

Peel the crayons. Crayons that come with wrappers on them will need to be peeled first before using them in the glue gun. Soak the crayons in a container of water for about ten minutes, or until the wrappers are soft. Once the wrappers are soft, you can begin peeling!Plug in the glue gun in and wait for it to heat up to the desired temperature. You will want to use a medium to high heat for melting the crayons.
Hold the gun firmly in one hand.
Insert a crayon into the chamber.
As the crayon begins to melt, push it through the chamber while simultaneously guiding the dripping crayon around the canvas to create the desired drip effect.
 The use of a stencil for splatter painting will allow you to paint a certain area of your canvas, perhaps in a certain shape, while preventing the rest of the canvas from being painted. Your imagination is the limit for the stencil design you would like to use. For example, you could cut out a heart or star shape. Make sure that you cover the rest of the canvas that you do not want to be painted with paper if your stencil is not big enough to cover it.

Cut out the desired shape for your stencil. You can use construction paper or another kind of paper, as long as it is easy to fold and cut.
Once the canvas is ready, you can lay the stencil on the canvas and begin splatter painting. Be careful not to get the paint onto the areas of the canvas that you do not want to be painted. If you paint the canvas before you begin splatter painting, let the canvas dry completely before using the stencil so as not to smudge the base paint.
 After you have finished splattering your canvas with melted crayon or have used the stencil method, place it somewhere where it will not be disturbed and allow it to dry. Give it at least 24 hours for the wax to set before framing or hanging on a wall. Try to keep it out of direct sunlight to prevent the crayon from melting or the color from fading.

