 From an astronomical point of view, the summer solstice occurs sometime between June 20-21 in the Northern Hemisphere, and December 21-22 in the Southern Hemisphere. Find out exactly when it will take place based on the year and your location, and spend time outdoors to witness the summer solstice.;
, Spend time outdoors in the sun and give thanks for the light that guides our days. Make an altar of light by arranging candles, summer flowers, and tangerines in a beautiful outdoor space. Allow the tangerines to soak up the sun so you can enjoy them later., The summer solstice is a great time to honor the sun. You can make solstice sun tea by adding edible flowers and herbs to a jar filled with water, then leave it out in the sun to steep. You can also make a sun mandala with petals from orange and yellow flowers. Arrange the petals in decorative, circular patterns while maintaining a vision of peace and serenity., Collect flowers from your garden or get some from a garden shop. Choose flowers with thin stems and fragrant blossoms. To make the crown:Take your first flower and gently split the stem in half, about two-thirds of the way up the stem, to create a small hole. The hole should be just large enough to fit a stem through.
Take your second flower and stick the stem through the hole you just made. Then split that stem to create a small hole for the next flower stem to fit into.
Continue to add more flowers in the same fashion. To finish, create a larger hole that will fit a whole flower through and thread your first flower through the last stem. Trim the ends if needed.
 The summer solstice is the perfect time to start a garden. Prepare your soil to receive plants by tilling and mixing in compost or fertilizer. Select plants from your local garden shop, or ask your friends or neighbors for cuttings from their gardens. Then:Dig holes large enough for each plant, and be sure to leave enough space for the plants to grow.
Gently place the plants in the holes and fill in the space with dirt or fertilizer.
Water the newly-planted flowers gently, and enjoy your garden.
 Go to a local farm in order to appreciate how the sun gives life. Pack a picnic and enjoy the sights and smells. Another great activity to do at a farm is to pick sun-ripened berries. You could also volunteer to pull weeds or help the farmers with their chores., Salute the sun while you wade in the water. Visit a local river, lake, waterfall, or even the beach and enjoy the scenery. Float in the water, swim, or simply sit near it and watch for wildlife. Build a sandcastle, make a rock cairn, or gather wildflowers. Use your senses to explore the nature surrounding you, and take note of sights, smells, sounds, tastes, and touches.