 When you’re working on a high volume workload, you are likely under a lot of pressure. You may feel overwhelmed by the amount of work you have to conquer. Eventually the stress will make you want to quit, resulting in burnout. To prevent it, you need to reduce the stress.Symptoms of stress manifest in your mind, body, emotions, and behaviors. You can spot stress with symptoms like lack of memory, rapid heartbeat, change in eating habits, irritability, a sense of loneliness, and many more., To help prevent burnout, take mini breaks throughout the day. These can be technology breaks, such as stepping away from your desk so that no one can contact you for a brief moment. Breaks can also be switching to a different task for a short time. Breaks are good. Consider taking one every hour.
 Promising yourself you will take a break at a certain point in a project can help you maintain the motivation you need to finish the job. But you can think bigger than just daily rewards. Plan a vacation or weekend trip to give you something to look forward to.


You can also reward yourself by planning to do something creative at the end of the work day, or plan a weekly trip to the gym or out with friends., Try to leave work behind when you go home for the day. Set boundaries with your boss and coworkers so that they do not contact you when you are at home, or get a separate work phone and turn it off once you get to your house.


Practice relaxation techniques on your way home so that by the time you get to the door, you are much more calm.
You can try breathing techniques to slow your heart beat, or place aromatherapy in your car if you drive.
If you ride public transportation or carpool, try reading or listening to a book or magazine to help you forget about your work day.
 It can also be stressful to have to think about your physical safety and that of your coworkers while you are working on a high volume work load if your job requires physical labor. Set up safety precautions so that you can remove that stressor from your work environment.


Follow all the safety guidelines that your company recommends and poll your coworkers on a regular basis to make sure that they are also maintaining them.
If your company is a bit remiss in safety precautions, institute some yourself.

