 This outdoor fly repellant can be placed in the center of your patio table to repel flies throughout the day and evening. It's a simple mix of essential oils and a carrier oil that will help diffuse the scent into the air, naturally keeping flies away. Here's what you'll need:


A small tin with a lid. A small coffee can, mint tin or cough drop tin would work.
A clean piece of cloth or a dish sponge.
2 tablespoons vegetable oil.
2 tablespoons witch hazel (or vodka, if you don't have witch hazel).
100 drops essential oils.;
, Several essential oils have properties that keep flies away. They also work well on mosquitoes and other pests. Essential oils can be found at health food stores or ordered in bulk online. You can use 100 drops of the same oil, or a blend of any of the following:



Lavender oil - lavender is considered to be particularly effective against flies. It has many other household uses as well. Citronella oil - this ingredient is commonly used in candles meant to keep flies and other bugs away.

Eucalyptus oil - another great essential oil you can use around the house for all types of purposes.

Peppermint oil - this is likely more effective against mosquitoes. but also considered to work against horse flies.
 Pour all of the ingredients together into a bowl, and stir until combined. Diluting the essential oils will keep them from immediately evaporating and help them diffuse into the air.


All essential oils should be diluted before use; especially if you want to apply them directly to your skin.
Use an extra 1/2 teaspoon of vodka in the mixture will help preserve it for a second use.
 Place the cloth in the tin and pour the mixture inside so that it completely saturates the cloth or sponge. Place the cloth in the tin and shut the lid. Allow to sit for 24 hours.
 Whenever you need to use the tin, remove the lid and place on the entertaining table. Make as many as you wish to put around the entertaining area to deter flies.
 Once open to the air, the strength weakens and needs to be topped up. Sprinkle more essential oils inside, or make another blend.

