 Often, people sabotage themselves because they doubt instead of believe. This means they think they can’t do anything and cannot achieve their dreams. Thinking this way is self-defeating. Tell yourself that you can achieve your goals and then go for it.If you fail, try again. Don't doubt that you can do it. Tell yourself, "I failed at this attempt, and that's okay. But I believe that I can do this. I will never do it if I give up, so I will keep trying because I believe in myself."
It may be helpful to watch motivational videos online and read about others who have achieved success in a similar area to you. Evaluate the mindset of these people and try to model it. It will be difficult to start, but examples may help.;
, To believe in yourself, notice when you have negative self-talk and put an end to it. Whenever you tell yourself, "I can't," "What's the point?" or "I'll just fail," stop yourself. Add to that something positive, like "I can't...because I haven't tried" or "I can't...yet. But I will." This will put a positive spin on your thoughts and encourage you to work towards your success.


Try writing down your beliefs on paper, then write down another belief to challenge your negative thought. Look back on this list when you feel recurring negative thoughts creeping in.
You may also want to talk with others about your negative thoughts and ask them to weigh in honestly. They will help bring a more objective view to your doubt.
 Many people don’t try or go outside of their comfort zones because they are afraid of failing. Failure is a part of life. Often, people have to fail multiple times before they can succeed. You must actively try to get over your fear of failing.Not taking a chance because you are afraid you may fail is a way to sabotage yourself. You may fail a few times at first if you try, but you will never succeed if you never try.
For example, tell yourself, "Failure is not a bad thing. I will fail before I succeed. That is part of life."
Learn from your failure. What did you do wrong? What did you do right? How can you improve next time? Take an honest look at what happened so you can be better the next time you try.
 The way you view the world can help or hinder you. If you always see things in a negative way, that is going to affect your thinking and what you end up doing. Even if things are difficult right now, try changing to a more positive attitude. You are more likely to succeed when you have a positive attitude instead of being self-defeating.You can hurt your confidence by only thinking bad things are going to happen. Being positive and believing in yourself can help you take more chances and try harder.
For example, if you think, "I will never get this promotion," you will probably never get it. You've set yourself up for failure and won't see opportunities. Instead, change your perception. Say, "I am good at my job. Maybe I won't get the promotion this year, but I'm going to work hard and look for opportunities to better myself so I can try for the promotion."

