 Various conditions can develop in the vagina. One symptom of many conditions is vaginal burning. Some of these conditions are serious and others are minor. The following conditions can affect the vagina and cause burning:Vaginitis or inflammation of the vagina. Vaginitis is often accompanied by symptoms of burning, itching, and discharge, often with a changed odor. Vaginitis is commonly caused by yeast or bacterial infections.
Infections caused by bacteria, like gonorrhea
Fungus, like yeast infections such as Candida

Viruses, like genital warts caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) and genital herpes caused by herpes simplex virus
Parasites causing trichomoniasis and chlamydia
Cancer of the vagina
Vaginal prolapse;
, Vaginal burning is commonly caused by infections, irritation from a tampon or douching, using vaginal hygiene products, diabetes, urinary tract infections, and by normal changes in hormonal levels. Determine if your vaginal burning may be from tampon usage, a recent douching, or use of other vaginal hygiene products.If you think the cause may be medical, the specific cause can be determined by a pelvic exam, microscopic examination of any vaginal discharge and vaginal swabs, taking a culture of vaginal organisms to determine the cause of an infection, or taking a Pap smear.
In rarer cases, you may need a colposcopy to closely examine the vaginal walls or cervix, or a vaginal biopsy.
 If you have previously had a vaginal yeast infection and are certain that what you are experiencing is another yeast infection, you can use over-the-counter treatments that are available in most drug stores to treat the yeast infection.


If there is no relief within three to five days, make an appointment with your doctor or OB/GYN. Some untreated infections can cause serious consequences, including pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) and sterility., Any vaginal burning that you don’t think is just a yeast infection should be evaluated by a physician. Your doctor can give you an exam to determine what is causing the burning and catch issues that may develop into more serious conditions if left untreated.Vaginal bacterial infections can be treated medically with either topical or oral antimicrobials. These are usually used once or twice a day for five to seven days.
Yeast infections can be treated with prescription oral antifungal medication if over-the-counter treatments don’t work.
Trichomoniasis is always treated with oral medication.

