 Transfer paper prints are usually translucent, so the shirt's color will show through. For best results, use a white shirt. If you must have a colored shirt, be aware that the image may not be as bright. You can also use transfer paper meant for dark shirts, but it will have a white background. You will have to trim around the image, or the white will show up.Baggy t-shirts were very popular in the 80s.If you want something more modern that is simply vintage inspired, you can use a fitted shirt instead.
If you want something that looks vintage, consider using an old shirt. The more faded, the better.
 Logos from 1980s cartoons work the best. Look for something that is larger than your hand, and has the title of the show as well as some of the characters. Make sure that you get the right generation, however; many of the original cartoons got reboots. For example, the new My Little Ponies look very different from the original ones. This will defeat the whole vintage look.

Some of the most popular ones were: Thundercats, Mighty Mouse, and Rainbow Brite.Care Bears, My Little Pony, and Popples were also popular.
You can also use other popular films and shows, such as: Back to the Future, Dark Crystal, Ghostbusters, Labyrinth, Star Wars: Return of the Jedi, etc.
You can also use logos from bands and other things that were popular in the 80s, such as MTV or the Cabbage Patch dolls.
 Copy the image from your web browser, then paste into an image editing program. Use the mirror or flip option to reverse the image. If your image has words on it, they will be backwards.

If the image is too big, you can shrink it. If the image is too small, you can try to enlarge it, but be aware that you may loose some quality.
If you are using dark transfer paper, you typically don't have to reverse the image., Craft stores and fabric stores sell many different types of transfer paper, so make sure that you get the right kind for your shirt. If you have a white shirt, you can use any type of transfer paper. If you have a colored shirt, you will need to get one designed for colored shirts.

Remember to print on the coated side of the transfer paper.Some transfer papers are made specifically for certain types of printers, so double-check before buying it. It needs to match your printer.
 Some types of transfer paper, like the kind used for dark shirts, have a white background. If you don't trim this background off, it will show up on the finished product. Use a small pair of scissors to carefully trim around the image., Make sure that the image is centered. The top of the image should reach just past the armhole. If you are using dark transfer paper, you will typically have to place it image-side-up; double-check the instructions., Different types of image transfer papers have different requirements, so read the directions carefully., The image should be transferred onto the shirt. Don't worry if it doesn't look perfect. This will help give it a vintage feel.