 If you speak English and are looking to rent a vacation home or purchase a home outside the US, you can apply for House Hunters International. Send an email to househunterscasting@leopardusa.com. Include details about you and your moving plans.Include your full name, phone number, current location, potential new location, and an estimated moving date.
Make sure to attach a photo of your family to the email.
 House Hunters Renovation is a spin-off of House Hunters. The spin-off looks for soon-to-be-homeowners of fixer-uppers in specific cities. Navigate to http://pietown.tv/casting/house-hunters-renovation to see if they’re casting in your area. If so, click the link to “submit an application.”


If they are not currently casting in your area, check back in the future or contact the production company via http://pietown.tv/contact to inquire if they plan to cast in your area.
 This spin-off focuses on buildings or structures that aren’t residential but will be converted into a residential structure. Send Pietown an email at casting@pietown.tv with the subject line “HH Outside the Box Casting” to apply.For instance, if you purchased a former church, fire house, school, or other structure that wasn’t intended for residential use, but you want to make it into your new home, you may be considered for this show.
Include in your email as much information as you can about your motivation and plans for the project. Also include your contact information.
 If you have a great idea for a show but it doesn’t quite fit into one of the House Hunters show categories, you can submit it to Pie Town Productions as a new show idea. Navigate to http://pietown.tv/pitch-us-submission-form. Fill in the required fields of your full name, email address, and log line. Attach a photo of your family no larger than 10mb.A log line is a description of your plot, and a summary of the elements that will make the show interesting to audiences.You must read and agree to the terms and conditions in order to submit your application. For instance, you must be at least 18 years old and be submitting an original idea. Make sure to review the terms in full before you submit your idea.

