 Passover lasts for eight days. It begins at sundown in early spring, known as the month of Nissan in the Hebrew calendar. The start date of Passover will change every year based on when Nissan occurs in the Hebrew calendar. Consult a Hebrew calendar for the exact dates for Passover in your year.If you are going to a Passover celebration hosted by someone who is Jewish, ask them for the exact dates for Passover.;
, Passover is divided into two parts. The first two days and the last two days of Passover are considered holidays, where no work is done. This includes driving, writing, or using electrical devices. However, you can cook and carry items outdoors when needed. The middle four days during Passover are called Chol Hamoed and you can do work during these days.It can be an adjustment to not do work during the first two days and last two days of Passover. Do any work you need to get done before Passover begins or save it for the middle four days of Passover so you do not break with tradition.
 Any leavening products, called chametz in Hebrew, should be removed before the beginning of Passover. This is to honor the unleavened bread that the Israelites ate when they left Egypt. It is part of the Passover tradition to avoid consuming or owning any food or drink that contains wheat products. Clean your home of any of these products to prepare for Passover.This means any wheat, barley, rye, oats, or spelt products. You should also remove any bread, cake, cookies, cereal, pizza, pasta, and alcoholic beverages.
This does not include products like baking powder or baking soda.

Chametz is considered the 'anthesis' (the flowering period of a plant) of matzah and a representation of egotism. Getting rid of chametz is a key part of celebrating Passover and embracing selflessness.
 Another key aspect of Passover is cleaning the home before Passover begins. Do a thorough cleaning of every nook and cranny of your home, from room to room. Dust, mop, sweep, and wipe each surface in your home. Often the weeks leading to Passover are spent cleaning the home to prepare., During Passover, you cannot eat certain meats such as pork, shellfish, lobster, shrimp, crab, rabbit, and any seafood without fins or scales, such as swordfish and sturgeon. You cannot eat any products made with these ingredients.It is also tradition to not eat meat in combination with dairy during Passover. So you do not have cheese, butter, or cream sauce on beef or chicken.
Fish and eggs are allowed during Passover as long as they are served with dairy or with meat.
When you shop for Passover foods, look for the labels saying: "Kosher for Passover," "May be used for Passover," and "Kosher for Passover and all year round."

