 You probably have a pretty good idea of where campus security guards normally sit stationary. You should also know where on campus is secluded. You need to figure out which class to skip and where to go during the period, and what to do afterwards.;
, These include the base ball field/diamond, or the bathroom.
 They might just happen to be doing PE out near where you're hiding; then security will be called and you'll be caught. A bathroom will probably be the best place to hide.
 If you choose to hide in the bathroom, there are a few good ones you can use. If you're a girl, you can say that you started your period and that you are trying to clean up. You can also say you're trying to see if your mom can bring you a change of underwear and a tampon, but only if you know that the security/teacher won't care that you used your phone during class time. You can also state that you have a stomachache, and that you'll be out soon. Saying that you plan on going to the nurse when you finish is also a good idea; that way, you can either go in for real and pretend to call a parent, or have them call a number you know won't answer, then go back to class, when you're really going back to the bathroom. If you do that, don't go to the same one. Go into a different stall or go to second nearest one. You can also fake going in then go back to a bathroom; though again, not the same one.
 It's harder to see your feet from the door, and you can hide your backpack/bag in the corner.
 Never play music or even try to use your phone at all without it muted. If you must listen to music, put head/earphones in with low volume. Even with earphones, if the surroundings are quiet enough and the audio is loud enough, others can hear you.
 If security comes by, or another student comes in, turn your music off and wait for them to leave. Usually, students moving around during class will have a security escort.
 You may trust your friend not to rat you out, but someone might read over their shoulder and tell, or their parents might see it and tell your parents. Their teacher may be suspicious if a student is texting another so frantically. In most places, teachers cannot look at a student's phone, but be cautious anyway; your friend might rat you out because the teacher said they will take their phone if they don't spill the beans.
 About a minute before the bell rings for passing period, slip out of the stall and stand in front of the mirror. Once the bell rings, let students start to flood the bathroom and slip out so security or teachers won't notice you.
 If you brag, someone might get irritated or angry and tell on you.

