 Before you begin to use this breathing method you will want to make sure you are comfortable, relaxed, and ready to focus. This technique will allow you to increase the oxygen in your body and can produce unusual sensations. Get ready and make sure you won't be distracted before using this technique.This technique is done most easily when sitting or laying down.
Make sure your phone is turned off or put away.
Create a space that will allow you to focus on this exercise.
Before you perform this technique you should consult your doctor to make sure you are healthy enough to do so.
You should not do this breathing exercise if you have certain medical conditions such as asthma.;
, In order to bring more oxygen into your body you will need to inhale properly. As you inhale make sure you are breathing in deeply, using your diaphragm to draw in a full and complete breath. Full inhalations are critical to this breathing technique.Use your solar plexus or diaphragm to draw in a full breath.
Your inhalation should take around only one second.
Try to pull in as much air as you can on your inhalation.
 Once you have taken a deep breath, inhaling using your diaphragm, you will need to exhale quickly and with some force. Make sure your lungs are mostly empty as you push all the air from them. Nearly emptying your lungs will allow you to quickly inhale once again, drawing and retaining oxygen..Tighten up your stomach on your exhalation to push air out of your lungs.
Your exhalation should last about one second.
Make your exhalations strong, pushing air out of your lungs.
Don't exhale fully. Try to leave some air in your lungs.
 In order to begin feeling the effects of this breathing technique you will need to take around thirty breaths. Fully inhale and exhale, counting both movements as one full breath, until you have reached the full count of thirty breaths.You will begin to feel tingling in your body.
Your mental state may begin to change.
You may see swirling colors or images.
If you feel dizzy or any pain stop immediately.
 After the final inhalation exhale fully and hold your breath. Because you have been inhaling a great deal of oxygen you will find that you can now hold your breath for a much longer time than normal. As you hold your breath, examine your body and mind for any new sensations you might be feeling.Hold your breath until you naturally feel the impulse to breathe again.
Don't force the holding of your breath.
Inhale when you feel you need to do so, holding a full inhalation for 15 seconds before breathing normal again.
 As you become more comfortable with this technique you can start to add more rounds. Increasing the amount you practice the technique will allow you to experience the sensations it produces more often and more strongly.Practice at least once a day.
Add more rounds of this breathing exercise to experience more pronounced effects.
Work slowly and patiently over time, increasing to around four rounds.