 Say, "I'm sorry, but this meat is uncooked." Be polite and speak in an even tone. The best way to handle rudeness is to bite your tongue and respond in a calm, cool manner., If the waiter’s rudeness came out of something they said, they may have said something on impulse or made a mistake. It's less likely they will be rude a second time. Say, “excuse me, it sounds like you just said something under your breath. Would you mind repeating what you said?”

, Say, “I wasn’t sure what you meant by that last statement. Could you please try saying it a different way?” Let them know that you understand they are busy, but that you have concerns, too. Your waiter may lack proper communication skills or may have miscommunicated what they meant in that moment.
 If your waiter isn’t giving you their undivided attention, they may not be able to communicate effectively. Sometimes waiters are too busy to realize when you need something. Wave your hand to get their attention. Say "excuse me, could I please have more mayonnaise?"


To truly communicate a message means both parties must participate. Listeners must actively refocus on what the talker is saying and speakers must watch to see if the listener is understanding., While you can’t choose how your waiter responds to you, you can choose how you respond to them. Choose to be a better listener. By listening to your waiter, you are doing your part to effectively communicate.
 If the waiter is rude to you because they hadn’t checked on you in over 10 minutes, observe them from afar. Look for how many tables they seem to be juggling. Note whether they are standing in the corner looking bored, or if they are they constantly on their feet the whole time. Step back, observe your surroundings, and put the situation into perspective.


If your waiter is visibly ignoring you, let them know that you haven’t been attended to. This should be enough to remind them that they haven't done their job properly. If they are a good waiter they will attempt to make it up to you.
 If the waiter said something they regret, they may realize what they did and apologize. It may be enough to have the person apologize so that you can both move forward.

