 Even though you may be married or have been together for a long time, you can and should still date your partner.Date nights are a great way to reconnect with your significant other and liven up your relationship.If you have a busy schedule, it may be necessary to plan your dates together to set aside time just for you two.


Mark date nights on a household calendar to avoid scheduling conflicts.
Have date nights at home by cooking a romantic dinner or settling in for a movie night.
Take turns planning the date night activities so both partners have an opportunity to surprise the other with a romantic evening.;
, You both may have more commitments now. Spontaneity may be more difficult, but just as important. Being spontaneous does not have to require a great deal of time or energy. Seize spontaneous moments to add some excitement to your relationship.Try the following:


Have a dance party in the kitchen.
Rent a convertible and go for a long drive on a summer night.
Build a blanket fort in the living room and watch your favorite movie together.
 Receiving something unexpectedly is also exciting and reminds your partner you think about him when he is not around.Gifts don't have to be expensive to have a romantic meaning.


Make or create something just for him.
Leave notes for your partner for him to find along his day, in his gym bag, or around the house.
Get him something he needs or has been wanting and won't buy for himself, just because.
You can also surprise your partner by planning a special night just for the two of you and taking care of all of the logistics.
 Think about your partner's strengths and what you love about her. Is she incredibly witty? Does she have knack for numbers and always make sure your finances are in perfect order? It can be easy to get used to your partner's strengths but remembering why you respect her, what you admire about her, and what makes her different and special is a way to rekindle those feelings of love and romance. Even if those things have changed over the years, just being intentional about remembering can keep romance alive., Remember all the attention you paid to your appearance when you were dating and the care you would take in getting ready to see your partner. As time goes on and other life factors occur, it sometimes becomes less of a priority to keep up our appearances. You become busy and your focus shifts towards care for your children or living space. Take the time to make yourself feel pampered and attractive again, for yourself and for your partner. Enjoy the excitement it can bring into your relationship and date nights.


Do exercise or physical activity to improve how you feel about your physical appearance.
Go to the salon to get a new haircut or style.
Use make up, perfume, or cologne.
Buy a new outfit that makes you feel attractive.
Go get a massage or spend time at a spa.
 Part of the fun of rekindling your romance is trying new things and getting the chance to pick up old habits. Part of that can be creating a romantic environment around the activities you do together.


If you schedule a date night, get flowers and pretend to pick up your partner for your date.
If you are having a date night at home, put on romantic music, light some candles, and have soft lighting.

