 You can find several free Steve head patterns online. Once you find one you like, save it to a USB drive.


You should be able to find a pattern by searching "free Minecraft Steve head pattern" with your favorite search engine. If you are unable to find a pattern, a standard high-resolution image could also work.
Free patterns can also be found at:

http://www.stevelange.net/2011/10/24/making-your-own-minecraft-steve-head-from-pdfs/
http://pixelpapercraft.com/papercraft/5089d9d4332bcac60100004f/life-size-steve-head
http://fpsxgames.com/download/printable-minecraft-steve-mask.pdf



, Take the pattern to the nearest copy shop and print it out onto heavy poster paper.


You could technically print the pattern using a home printer, but the quality probably won't be as good and you will likely need to piece together the images along each side, creating awkward seams. For these reasons, professional printing is strongly recommended.
Make sure that the printer prints the images to a length of 11 inches (8 cm), or to the length of your chosen box edge.
 After printing off the pattern images, use a paper trimmer to cut away any white margins.


If you use scissors instead of a paper trimmer, work slowly try to keep your edges as clean and straight as possible.
 Turn your box to the open side and fold the flaps inward to keep them out of the way. If the flaps will not stay down, use packing tape to secure them.This tutorial calls for an 11-inch (28-cm) cubical box. You can use a different size, but the box must remain a cube and must be scaled to match the length and width of your pattern images.
If the seams of the box appear weak, cover them with packing tape, as well.
 Coat the back of the top hair image with glue from a glue stick, then carefully press the hair onto the outer top side of the box.Spray adhesive can be used, as well.
If the hair overlaps the edge of the box, you can use clear packing tape to reinforce the edge of the paper. This tape will likely be hidden by the side pieces of the pattern.
 Apply glue or spray adhesive to each of the side pieces and attach them to the sides of the box.


Work with one side at a time until all four sides are covered.
Make sure that the pieces line up in the proper order. The face should be at the front, the back should be on the opposite side, the left side should be on the left, and the right side should be on the right.
Allow the glue to dry before continuing to the next step.
 Carefully cut out the eyes using a ruler and a craft knife or utility knife.


Locate the eye squares at the face side of the head and evenly cut through both the paper and cardboard layers.
Line the ruler up along each side and use it to guide the blade as you cut.
 If any of the colors did not print well, you can use acrylic paint or poster paint to touch them up.


You may need to blend colors to achieve the right shade.
Note that this probably won't be necessary if you use an actual pattern image and print with high-quality ink. If you enlarged a smaller image or used a low-quality printer, however, you may need to follow this step.
 Take a piece of clear packing tape and form a loop with the sticky-side out. Attach one side of the loop to the cap and the other side to the center of the box top from the inside.


The cap should make it easier for the wearer to keep the Steve head stable when worn.
By using tape instead of glue, you should be able to remove the cap and use it later for another purpose.
Make sure that the front of the cap points to the face-side of the head.
 Your Minecraft Steve head should be finished and ready to wear at this point.

