 Having a surprise party is great, but having one in public where you won't have to spend a bunch of time afterward cleaning up? Way better for a dude. Either plan the party at a friend's house, or plan the party at a local pub or restaurant that he likes.
 Again, this can't be overstated: Guys like to eat and drink. If you're going to throw a surprise party, get the dude-food in hand. Figure out what he likes best and provide those drinks and refreshments.


If your guy's a meat and potatoes kind of guy, plan a backyard barbecue. Get a friend of his who is good on the grill to make up some brats or ribs, and make sure to get enough for everyone.
If your guy prefers healthy food, plan out a trip to a local spot he hasn't tried yet. Make reservations for all of his friends, buy him a full tasting menu and plan the meet-up.
 It's not usually necessary to waste a bunch of time and effort in making big decorations for a guy's party. If it makes you happy, go for it. If it seems like a big drag on your time and energy, then forget about it. He may not get how much time and effort it took you to create all the elaborate decorations, anyway.
 Pretend like you might have forgotten that it's his birthday, or plan a surprise party for him on a random day. You can wish him a happy birthday to avoid letting his mood sink too low, but do not give away any hints to suggest that you have a roomful of his favorite people, food and gifts waiting for him back home.


Alternatively, you can also plan a surprise party for an occasion that does not usually get a party. A promotion, for instance, is an exciting life event that is not always celebrated formally, but you can surprise him by planning a party to celebrate his accomplishment.
 Demonstrating that you like your guy's friends? That's huge. Surprise your boyfriend by inviting his friends over to watch a game or to play cards with him.


Alternatively, you can ask his friends to meet you and him at a restaurant or sports event, then surprise him by waiting until you get there to reveal that you asked them along.
 If your boyfriend has a strong relationship with his parents, reach out to them and include them in your plan. It'll be pretty impressive and demonstrate that you're in this relationship for the long haul.


It doesn't have to be a big party. Invite them over one evening during the week for dinner, or ask if he'd like to have dinner over there some night. It might be a relief for him that you're willing and interested.

