


Read, and periodically review, the owner's manual to make use of your camera's features such as ASA, macro, forced flash, auto, night etc.






Move around or about. Also try pictures from a low or high vantage point.






Take shots with normal, wide angle and telephoto. Use wide angle to include the desired elements into the frame. Use telephoto to simplify a picture. "Telephoto" is commonly used to access the subject otherwise not possible - such as in an event where you are not allowed to get closer. Telephoto is also used to make a person look thinner.






Review the basics themes of composition before a photo shoot: c and s curves, contrast, diagonal and horizontal line uses, subject matter, patterns, the way the eyes move throughout the picture when viewing it, aesthetics, texture, framing, taking an interesting photo and texture. Also mentally review the technical aspects of photography. Make a checklist of equipment for your photo shoot.






After a photo shoot transfer the pictures to your computer and delete them from your camera. Delete those few pictures that were technically very bad, otherwise save most of your picture and back them up on on a portable hard drive or online.






Edit your photos and look for "gems" within a photo. It is important to take a technically good photo and a camera with good resolution, so you can crop and develop those gems. Spend as much time and energy in editing as in composing pictures with your camera.





;
, In this photo the subject matter is the phone booth and the contrast between the colors emphasizes this. Through the initial composition, from choosing the best picture from the many pictures you took and from editing later (cropping, exposure, color adjustments etc), keep the subject matter the center of interest in the photo.
 To sharply contrast the subject matter, with the rest of the picture, use opposing colors. For example pink or red will stand out with green. Use the reactions, of the different colors, to people to tell your story.



Using the previous picture, the subject matter is the phone booth, there is a diagonal line that draws attention to the secondary subject matter - the figure walking in from the distance. If picture was taken later and the figure looming larger in the picture, the phone booth would no longer stand out.
In this DaVinci painting we first notice the eyes and dark halo, next we move down to the mouth and necklace, and after briefly noticing the "v" of her blouse we move to the very detailed, little background.
 A diagonal line implies action and makes the photo alive. In the photo with the car, a diagonal line is used and it goes from the upper left corner to the lower right corner. The diagonal line separates the black and white colors, goes through the model's left forearm and right foot. In the dance club photo, there are many diagonal lines.
 Seashores often have a C curve, so feature them in your photos. Look for C curves in the bodies of humans and animals in reclining positions, too. C curves are more relaxing to look at than a straight diagonal.
 S curves guides our eyes through the photo. In the DaVinci painting the little curving background to the subject's left also guides our eyes.
 However, the two photos, with the first symmetrical and the second asymmetrical, are great examples of an interesting photo and a boring photo. Symmetry is a western concept and asymmetry an Asian concept. Asian asymmetry is sometimes extreme. Western symmetry is not extreme and example would be in the DaVinci painting where the subject matter is not placed exactly in the center.
 Your point and shoot cameras may be able to do selective focus. Simplify, with some degree for error, through the viewfinder to minimize loss of clarity. Simplifying a photo is one of the main elements of composition and deserves an article in itself.


When you find a subject for some pictures, move around the subject to simplify your picture. Moving around also might give you new and interesting backgrounds and light interplays. With an SLR camera with selective areas of focus, to emphasize a certain part of the photo, make the other areas blurry by choosing the correct f-stop.
With point-and-shoot cameras, move around to avoid the distracting backgrounds and later do what you can with Windows Paint, Windows Live or some other photo editing program. An SLR camera has a threads at the end of the lens to put on a lens hood, buy a lens hood. With a point and shoot camera, shield the lens from the sun by using whatever items are available: an umbrella, a hat, any small shade, etc.
 Placing the model to the side is more interesting, but there has to be balance. The balance from this picture is the somewhat blank area that she is facing. This picture has too much orange, probably from incandescent lighting, and this could have been corrected with editing.
 For example, in the photo of the model with the red shirt and the car. The black (dark) tones to white tones have a ratio of about 2:1. Black and white provides the strongest contrast. With colors what you are trying to accomplish is interest, so have a variation of colors to make it interesting. An example of lack of contrast is the previous picture of the lady with the headset giving a talk - her skin tone and the wall color are the same. Lack of contrast is boring.



The golden mean is a ratio that is abundant in nature and is about .6. Following the golden mean, place your subject .6 or .4 horizontally and .6 or .4 vertically. The relationship between these numbers (1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34 etc) is the golden mean and about .6. If you add two consecutive numbers, the sum will be the next number. However, if something looks good, do not measure and change it. The golden mean is a dominant concept, so there are other proportions in nature, i.e. no proportion is right or wrong. note: the ratio of the numbers, of the golden mean, are all between .6 - .62: 3/5, 5/8, 8/13, 13/21.
In the picture of the gulch, the golden mean ratio is observed horizontally and vertically.
 With a thin tree directly behind someone, it looks like the tree is growing out of his or her head. Even lines on a wall can be distracting if the lines come out of the subject's head or shoulder. This also applies to other subject matter: notice any distracting objects behind them. In the pebble beach photo, the stacked stones are directly below the horizon. A straight line is more interesting if there is a break in the line and in the example a lower camera angle would have made the stacked stones appear higher. Apply this awareness to other parts of the picture besides the subject matter. You can make a part of a photo interesting or not, based on how that part fits into the scheme of things. Furthermore, the stone is dark and would have made a nice silhouette in front of the light toned sky.
 If you do not have a good photo editing program, stand far away and crop it later to decrease the definition.
 Having them say "cheese" is not the best because a true smile has the wrinkles at the mouth and at the eyes. It is not possible to smile at the mouth and eyes together consciously (this interesting topic on smiling and laughing is from Wikipedia). Several things cause people smile or laugh: comfort, amusement, happiness, relief and anxiety. Smiling and laughter is also contagious, so the savvy photographer could select certain animated persons in the group to "start the smile". To make people smile or laugh is a great skill.
 Two heads are better than one. The subject will be able to fit in better with a background that the subject feels comfortable with. In the picture with the model crouching next to the Mercedes, the black, white and red makes a simple and powerful picture. Black, white and grey are neutral colors and red is a primary color that is warm and bold. However, your model probably does not know a fraction of what you know about composition and light, so persuade the model to consider your options.
 Later, further enhance the colors with an editing program. For examples of vibrant colors look beyond photographs and at the art of fine artists such as Gauguin and later Picasso. With a point and shoot camera, find a small shade to take your pictures from so the sunlight doesn't create unwanted streaks in your photo. If no shade is available, use your hat or a small umbrella to act as a lens hood. A photo does not have to represent reality exactly, colors can be manipulated to make the photo more appealing.
 When taking pictures outdoors, choose the day and time of the day for when the wind is minimal, so that the trees and other plants that you might use for a frame, will not be moving with the wind. If the frame you use is underexposed, try to correct it with a photo editing program or use a flash even during the day.
, Use pattern as a theme for you composition. The overwhelming scene of a canopy of big trees at the base of a cliff is great, but what makes the picture more interesting is the light colored clearings. In the top clearing a lone tree is nicely silhouetted.
 For example, a seascape will have a C curve and a horizontal line. In the photo of the orange, pink and yellow flower there are several composition themes that were created: a contrast of colors for the main subject, a diagonal line which is dynamic, asymmetry, tight cropping and interesting background of great depth.
 The rules of composition are the same and are just general rules. Quantifying generally is about 70%, so tap into the other 30% and uncover some fantastic results. Think beyond the normal. Apply this to photo-editing also.


A photo is still interesting if it has a number of composition concepts, yet one of the concepts is not followed. For example, you have a great picture with many of the elements of composition used except that the horizon (the horizontal line) is exactly in the center. From the initial composing of the photo, and editing later, if you cannot move the horizontal line from the center, do not keep trying to alter it. A photographer is not like a fine artist and can manipulate a photo just so much.

