 It's a good idea to stick to a daily routine, as this will help your child to adjust to a certain pattern and will make implementing a strict bedtime a lot easier.


A well-timed lunch followed by an afternoon nap, fixed and regular study hours, evening games and a timely dinner will make the life of your children much more systematic and meaningful. This complete list of activities should end up in a firm bedtime and a peaceful sleep.
This discipline in terms of routine will help your toddler to sleep soundly while also enjoying all the moments of health and happiness while they are awake.;
, Create a schedule of regular evening outdoor activities. Take your child out for a healthy walk, make him/her learn swimming in the kid’s swimming pool, instill in them the desire to learn new outdoor activities and games.


Spending too much time inside watching TV or playing games on their play station will not only cause weakness and less agility, but will also prevent the toddler from getting a good night's, because staring at screens will make them too stimulated to sleep.
 Like your daily activity plan, it is also important to institute a bedtime routine.


Activities such as drinking a warm glass of milk, brushing teeth, having a warm bath or reading a bedtime story and topping it off with a simple prayer, creates a peaceful transition from waking to sleep.
Also,if you can maintain a consistent bedtime routine, your child’s wake up and bedtime schedule will become regular thanks to their body’s biological clock.
 The food that we give our children does not just affect their health, but also contributes to a restful sleep.


Proper timing of the meals along with the healthiness of the food is very important, not only for the health of the kids but also for a sound and quiet sleep. Avoid giving your child sweets or anything with high sugar content just before you plan to bring them to bed. Remember that when sugar spikes, it will lead to difficulty in sleeping as the child will experience a sugar rush and become full of energy.
A balanced diet and timely consumption of the evening meal is highly recommended. Make sure the child is getting plenty of vegetables and fruits, along with healthy proteins and carbohydrates.
 You, as parents, have to understand the sleep requirements of toddlers aside from their other needs in life. You must take into account the amount of time they require for sleep in order to get up and feel rested in the morning.


You must work as a team to support each other with the purpose of creating a quiet environment that's conducing for your child going to sleep at a reasonable hour. Remember, your toddler will always follow your example.
It is not realistic to expect him to sleep soundly while you are watching a famous TV show or enjoying a newly released blockbuster movie. The toddler is bound to resist the need to sleep as his mind will be consistently hovering over what is happening outside his room.
 Minimize your presence by leaving the room before the toddler dozes off, but don’t lie in the child’s bed or interact with the kid. Move farther away from the bed each night as the toddler falls asleep to gradually reduce dependence on you.


Establish a sense of security by reassuring the toddler of another presence in the room such as a nearby goldfish a night light, or a favorite teddy bear.
Keep your promise as when you commit to come back to the room in a while to check on the toddler. Allot longer intervals, starting with a 5-10 minute waiting period.
 If your toddler sneaks out of the room, accompany him or her back without much interaction. Being firm is important.


Give the toddler a "bedtime pass" that will allow them to leave their room just once a night to ask for anything they need or. For some, the pass can be a replacement for crying or calling out to get attention.
Reward good behavior, such as giving the child his favorite cereal or picking a favorite outfit the following morning, and ignore the undesirable ones like crying or slipping out of the room.

