 Cover surfaces like trim, windows, and floors with drop cloth. The drop cloth is suitable for painting since it absorbs paint easily and allows for smooth painting.At this point it is safest to clear the floor of any potential tripping hazard that could catch on the sprayer hose.
 Wooden sticks are commonly provided with purchased paint and work well with mixing. To strain, a simple and effective method is using scrap window screen.This will remove any foreign particles or lumps and guarantee a smooth coat.


Use a Two-Part Epoxy Primer as they are waterproof, resist corrosion, and offer the best level of adhesion for metal and industrial painting., Hanging your pieces gives you closer to a 360ยบ access while painting. This will also work well for bottled spray paint. If however you do not have access to a stand, simply spray the pieces over an ample piece of drop cloth.
 Allow them to dry, and add a second coat.If using bottled spray paint, apply the primer as evenly as possible all around the metal part.
 Store your primer in a cool, dry, and well-ventilated area. Also check to ensure the seal on your container is air-tight. Primer will not expire if properly stored, but it will evaporate if not securely sealed. Also keep in mind that primer is flammable and should be kept away from open flames, points of ignition, and temperatures over 100ยบF.
 Make sure to remove your compressed air source and air regulator before you begin cleaning. It is important that a spray gun is thoroughly cleansed before you switch to a new substance, so follow the related wikiHow's instructions closely before moving on.
 More often than not, paint stores will be glad to provide a wooden paddle for stirring. Be sure to ask for one with your purchase. As with the primer, using scratch window screen is an effective and simple way to filter out any lumps or foreign particles from your paint., There are a few keys to keep in mind while painting. Maintain a distance of about 6 inches between the tip of the spray gun and the material surface. Using a sweeping motion that goes side to side while painting. If the spray gun is not in motion, then do not pull the trigger. This can lead to uneven, blotchy painting.Allow the paint to dry completely; this often takes 20 minutes to an hour for each coat.
 The clear-coat finish will also protect the chrome against rust and dust. Follow the same tips you did in the previous step.
 You can then buff the chrome exterior using a buffing cloth and buffing compound to give it a glossy shine.

