 Many couples have a tendency to sweep problems under the rug because they fear conflict. In truth, conflict is a normal and necessary aspect that allows a relationship to grow. You and your partner are going to have disagreements. That’s fine. However, your entire relationship shouldn’t be marked by arguments.A healthy relationship should involve primarily positive interactions. If either partner is always complaining or nagging, your relationship could be in jeopardy. Know when to lay off on the nitpicking.
Approach your partner with issues that compromise your values or the health of the relationship. Ask yourself, “Will this matter in a month, a year, or five years?” If not, let it slide.
 Follow the 48-hour rule when resolving conflict. Anger can corrode communication and lead to words being exchanged that you later wish you had kept to yourself. Take time apart to cool off before rehashing an argument.When you feel angry, give yourself a day or two before discussing the problem with your partner. Use the time to care for yourself emotionally. Spend time with friends (without venting about your partner). Journal. It may even help to jot down your thoughts about the disagreement.When you’re feeling calm, bring up the issue in a courteous tone. Again, use “I” statements like “I was really disappointed that you flaked on my performance the other night. It was a big deal to me. And I’d hoped you’d be there.”

, You shouldn’t be keeping score of wins and losses because if your partner loses, so does the relationship. Don’t develop a need to be right or always get your way. Learn the art of compromise. Stand up for what you believe in, but within reason.


When you and your partner are on different sides of an issue, decide who cares about the issue the most. If it’s not that important to you and your values aren’t violated, be willing to give in for the sake of your relationship.
Always remember that it's important that both people are willing to make a sacrifice. If you find yourself always giving in to your loved one's needs, big or small, it's time to have a talk., If you want to avoid having big serious talks all the time, remember that if something small ticks you off, you can tell your significant other without making a big deal about it. That way, you can avoid being passive-aggressive or having built up tension.Choose a time when you both are free to sit down each week and discuss the health of your relationship. It might be a good idea to jot down some feedback, both positive and negative.
For example, you might compliment your partner and offer some constructive criticism. Say, “It was so thoughtful of you to pick my mom up from the airport on Monday. Thanks again for that. I did want to point out that you’re still having problems getting your chores done. Is there something I can do to help you improve in that area?

, The worst thing you can do is view your partner through a distorted lens. Acknowledge and accept who they really are rather than your idea of them. Respect their unique background and experiences as different than your own. Keeping in mind that you have different histories and therefore different perspective can go a long way towards resolving conflict.Also, give them the benefit of the doubt always. It’s easy once you’ve known someone for a while to start assuming what they did or didn’t do. Avoid this tactic and give your partner the liberty to evolve with time like anyone else.
 In order to make your relationship work, you have to drop old hurts and let the past stay in the past. Whether you are hung up on your partner’s past relationships or dwelling on old arguments, this type of behavior can lead to a split. Once an issue has been resolved, take down the rearview mirror and don’t bring it up again., You and your partner may have trouble getting over disagreements. Conflict resolution is a learned skill; it doesn’t come naturally. If communication and conflict resolution are shortcomings in your relationship, have the courage to get help.


Professional counseling may be just what the two of you need to build healthier communication patterns and make your relationship work.