 If a toddler is having a tantrum, it is because they didn’t get something they want or because something happened that they didn’t want to happen. If your child hasn’t mastered communication, they might throw a tantrum out of frustration. For kids who can communicate, a tantrum is their way of trying to gain control over a situation where they aren’t getting the result that they wanted.Keeping this in mind can help keep you from taking a tantrum as a sign that you are doing something wrong. As a parent, it is your responsibility to know what is good for your child and what isn’t. Thus, if they are throwing a tantrum because they aren’t getting what they want all the time, you can remind yourself that you are simply looking out for their best interest, even if they don’t agree.
 A child who is tired, bored, hungry, overstimulated or any combination of these is primed to throw a temper tantrum. This is just the same as adults. You are probably more likely to snap at your partner when you are very hungry or very tired. Thus, try not to maintain a schedule that makes it likely that your child will be in a bad mood.For example, don’t plan a big shopping trip, which is probably very boring for your child, if they haven’t had lunch or a nap. The second your child doesn’t get what they want they are almost definitely going to throw a tantrum.
 Children who are more sensitive are more likely to throw major tantrums. This is because they feel their emotions very deeply, and thus, feel angrier when they don’t get what they want. However, if you teach your child to use their emotions in a healthy way, this sensitivity can work to your toddler’s advantage later on.Keep in mind that many of the things your child does, they do as a means to figure out how the world works. They throw a tantrum out of frustration or anger, but also to see if it will get them what they want out of the situation.
 If your child is throwing tantrums more and more frequently, more intensely, or for longer periods, you should contact your doctor to see if there may be a more serious cause. You can also talk to your doctor about healthy ways to deal with the tantrums.Though tantrums aren’t typically caused by something serious, your child may throw extreme/frequent tantrums if they cannot see or hear properly, or if they have a learning disability.
If you are feeling that you cannot control your own anger, you should also contact your doctor. Don’t feel embarrassed. Instead, feel proud of yourself for accepting your limitations and finding a way to deal with your own emotions more effectively.

