 The requirements sought by the Chinese team give a solid guide on what's needed; following their suggestions, you'll need to be someone who:Has patience (tracking the unknown is a slow and painful process);
Is physically fit

Has a basic background in biology; and
Is capable of taking photographs.
While the Chinese team is reportedly looking for an age range of 25-40the organizer of the Chinese team, Wang Shancai, is 75,so as long as you're fit, healthy, keen and well equipped, you should be set.;
, There have been 2,000 – 6,000 reported sightings of Bigfoot in North America alone,with over 400 sightings in China's Shennongjia forest region.Before you set out, it pays to find a location that has already had multiple sightings. Some of the areas where Bigfoot (or Sasquatch) has been sighted include China, the USA, and Canada.Pay attention to the times, dates, and weather from these sightings to determine the best time to hold your search.
Consider whether this is a location that you're happy to head off to and spend time exploring.
 Most likely you're going back country, so you'll need all the gear required for back country hiking or skiing, depending on the time of year you're searching.


Have adequate warm clothing and layered clothing. Wear sturdy shoes and protect yourself against the elements by covering up adequately with clothes, hats, sunscreen, etc. Avoid wearing anything scented, as this might attract the Bigfoot, or wild animals.
Bring insect repellent if you are searching in spring, summer, or early fall. Insect bites are distracting, and could cause an allergic reaction.
Bring an ointment that could alleviate the itching that occurs after insect bites.
Take adequate sustenance in the form of food and drink to maintain your energy and ensure adequate hydration.
Ensure that you have somewhere to sleep, whether it's a cabin, a tent, or the local motel.
If camping or staying in cabins, take all your camping gear, cooking gear, etc.
Have first aid equipment, communications gear, compass or GPS navigation equipment.
Any suitable items to protect yourself from wild animals such as bear canisters, bear spray, etc., as you're more likely to encounter them than anything unusual.
Take flashlights and headlamps. Bigfoot is said to be nocturnal and to have excellent night vision.In addition, you may like to consider bringing some type of spotlight in case you need to shine it at Bigfoot to confuse him and scare him off.
Have at least one decent camera; you might like to consider a small camera and a larger camera, and maybe a video camera, depending on how convenient these items are. All should be of excellent quality, with telephoto capacity and fast shutter speeds. The quieter that they operate, the better. If you're searching at night, be sure the camera can manage night photography.
 This may include setting up a camera, or bait station. If you plan to stay there and catch a glimpse in person, consider setting up a base camp.
 Sightings of Bigfoot have built up various pictures of what to look for, as follows:Taller than a human ranging between 6–10 feet (2–3 m) tall, covered in hair from head to toe. The hair ranges from black or dark brown, to gray or reddish.
Walks upright.
Weighs a lot, anything in excess of 500 pounds (230 kg) (enough to hurtle heavy things at you if provoked).
Large eyes, pronounced brow ridge, and a large, low-set forehead.
Malodorous, strong odor.
Signs to watch for include very large footprints (up to 24" (60cm) long and 8" (20cm) wide), hair caught on bushes, excrement, and a sleeping nest.
 To pass the time, there are some things you might do:


Make notes about your location, preferably a video record, showing how it looked prior to your wait.
Read more about Bigfoot sightings and lore.
Write your own theories about Bigfoot down, perhaps to be published later as a blog post, website, or journal article.
 Try to remain unseen; this is the best possible position for an observer. However, it is thought that Bigfoot has an excellent sense of smell and will probably figure out you're about.Remain calm and do not panic.
Remember to use your camera to record the sighting either by way of photos or film.
Make as little noise as possible.
 Treat Bigfoot with the same respect that you give to any wild animal able to attack and kill you, as well as using your knowledge about the mannerisms and behavior of humans, apes, and monkeys. David Borgenicht and Trey Popp suggest the following:Avert your gaze. Meeting the gaze may be misinterpreted as a challenge for territory or a fight. Use your peripheral vision to monitor its movements.
Keep quiet and move slowly, without any sudden gesticulations.
Restrain your dog if you brought one.
Make yourself appear as non-threatening as possible. Without turning your back to Bigfoot, sit down. Then make out like you're grooming or eating something.
Don't run. Bigfoot is thought to be able to run faster than humans.
 Some things to think about include:


what he or she looked, sounded, or smelled like;
exact date and time;
exact location with a description of the environment (i.e., in woods by swamp);
weather;
other witnesses;
what you, and others, were doing at the time of the sighting; and
anything else noteworthy, such as how much you've been drinking.
 Consider contacting the Bigfoot Field Researchers Organization with your report.Preserve the area as if it was a crime scene, to avoid losing or contaminating any evidence. Collect all physical evidence, such as hair, blood, feces.

