 The users in India can use the English (United Kingdom) speech language to use Cortana.;
, You can set a proper setting for Region and locale in your Windows Phone in order to use.


Go to Settings > Region and ensure that the region is set to INDIA

Go to Settings > Speech

For most users in India, the default speech language is set as English (India)

Tap on the English (United Kingdom) speech language under speech language drop down list.
 To check the process of download and install,


Go to Settings > Phone Update. You can see the download progress of the update.
After downloading, if you have scheduled to install the updates on the time basis, the speech language will be installed at the specified time.
To install the update immediately tap the Install button.
This process will install the update and restart the phone.
, Hence the phone will migrate the old data in roughly about 21 steps.
 Windows Phone will show a message saying " Update Successful... Additional Language Support" (refer the image). Once you get a message similar to the image, your speech language i.e. English (United Kingdom) would have been installed on to the phone.
, Hence one must turn the location services "ON", prior to the activation of Cortana. To turn on location settings,


Navigate to Settings > Location.
Slide the location services button to "ON".
 Tap the Cortana live tile in the start screen (or) slide to all apps, select Cortana (or) tap the Search Button in the Navigation Bar.



Type in your name and tap on the next button.
Cortana will pronounce your name.
Tap the next button to proceed to the next step.
 So she would like to know about your interests. She might propose you some questions. Answer to all that she questions you.
 You can communicate with Cortana either through voice or by typing. Tap the microphone icon to record your voice proposing a question to her. She might do an internet search or provide an audio simulated reply. Alternatively you can also type in the text box which will not provide an audio output.
 Suppose you ask Cortana to predict weather of the day you can say or type What is today's weather like? and she'll give you the weather forecast for the entire day and based on your location.
 and she'll give you a list telling what she can do.

