 Go to www.howrse.com. Choose a creative user name that will stand out from the others. Avoid the generic "horselover1234" type user names as many others have ones like that and people may think you are multi accounting.;
, On the right is a box where you can choose your horse. Choose a horse or pony and then give it a name. Then choose the gender. Then click Next.


Try to choose a rare color, so that if you sell your horse later, it will be worth more. If you want to create something that represents your dream horse, you may never want to sell so choosing a rare colour is less important. You can choose from lots of breeds, choose a Shetland pony if you wish, then choose a coat color such as strawberry roan or Palomino.
The color depends on the breed of your horse (for example: Friesians can only be black).
 Stallions can be gelded for a skills bonus but will be unable to reproduce. Alternatively, they can be left as stallions and you can offer coverings when they are sexually mature. Mares can be bred and you get to keep the foal.
 Then enter your date of birth (birthday). It will instantly take you to the login page, where your user is already typed in, you just need to type in your password.


If there is no sponsor, leave it blank.
 When you log in to Howrse, you will be instantly taken to your first horse's page. Follow the tutorial or quests, it will give you good hints. Take the first riding level test on the first day. There isn't much else to do on day one. The test is very easy. This is a highly sought after position, so asking around in the EC forum may help.


The quests will start as soon as you log in. Follow the quests for now, until each one is done.
When you finish with the quests, you get a wonderful surprise. You'll get prizes, and a new horse at the end.
 This is an important guide, which will tell you about caring for your horse in the game, making money, breeding and trade.


If you want extra bonuses and a walkthrough, do the quests at the top of your first foal's page. The person leading is named Ow. Do the walkthrough. It will give you all the basics of the game, and at the end, it will fully train your first horse and give you a second to breed with.
 Feed, groom, stroke, water, and give him a turnip if you have one. Do this stuff to both of your horses.


Do not age your horse at this time.
 You will not need to buy many goodies, as the walkthrough will give you tons of stuff to care for your growing stable.
 The trophies are things that you earn for having all of the coats for one breed of horse or all of the fifth element horses or even pets!

, Only 30 minutes is needed for this.
 It gives them energy and morale.
 Do one ride with your horses.
 Train at least three times on two disciplines.
 If your horse's time is about 20:00 or 21:00, put him to bed, then age him.
 This time, do two times on two disciplines.
 Put him into the meadow. Then play with it for 30 minutes, then participate in a competition for both horses.
 Under the My Profile tab, there will be a button called My Objectives. Follow these to win.


You will get a lot of prizes, including horses, even a Pegasus horse. No unicorns though––you have to breed one, which is rare. You get 1/5 chances of having a unicorn foal.
 As you play, your horse will age. There will be different mile stones that s/he reaches. When your horse is old enough to play games (8 months) there are some methods you can follow (follow this link for a schedule : http://www.howrse.com/centre/forum/sujet?id=144116&sujet=1117812). It is very important to follow the schedule, it will allow for the maximum gain of genetic potential (which you can read about in the breeders manual).


One of the milestones your horse will reach is sexual maturity. This happens at 2 years and 6 months. If you have a mare at this point you may be tempted to breed her so that you can have another horse. If you want, you may, but it will take a while to earn your money back as you have a low paying job, and you can't sell horse until 10 days of seniority. Your mare, however, will be fully trained, and just needs BLUPing. Give her lessons everyday to continue adding skills until she is thirty years old, and enter her in lots of competitions to get her BLUP up. She needs to win 20!

, When you have 10 days of seniority, you can gain access to the sales. The sales is a place where you can buy more horses. After buying a horse from the auctions, you can visit the Safe Haven, once you have passed level 2.


At first, you can only access the auctions.
You need to be at least 30 days and 2 horses to access the direct sales. Same for the reserved sales.
The Safe Haven is a nice place that horses can live when their owners do not want them or decide to retire them. You can stroke these horses daily, and win a small prize. The Safe Haven is a very nice place for horses, but once you send a horse there, you cannot get it back.
 If you decide to get a second horse, here are some things to remember.


Look for purebred horses unless you specifically want a cross
Make sure you will have enough money to cover the auction price or you could lose a karma point.
Ensure you have enough funds to care for your horse/s
Don't give reserve auction sales for a specific player, and don't give in to comments with threats like "Safe haven if not sold." because, after all, it's a "Safe Haven", not like the horse will be put to sleep.
 After 30 days you can set up an Equestrian Center (EC). Read the EC manual. Here are some things to help give your EC a bit of a jump start:


When you get your EC you are given 25,000 e. you will be tempted to buy stalls and start boarding horses right away. Don't, you will have nothing to offer prospective boarders. Instead, buy a green house if they are less than 19000e then buy a fertile six acre meadow. Grow tons of crops and sell turnips and oats and whatever you grow at the market. Build up your money until you have roughly 100,000 equus.
Every day, buy 1000 droppings and make it into manure (on your meadow page at the top). Sell what you don't need to fertilize your crops.
Keep growing crops constantly. Always have apple in Autumn, flax in Spring and wheat in Summer sell them for profit.
When you have earned 25,000e buy 2 six acre fertile meadows and grow crops in them as well as the ones you already have. Start to grow ingredients for health mashes and make 100 of them.
Lots of people start hiring right away. Don't! Your workers can't work until you have about 20-30 boxes that are occupied!
Once you have enough money, buy 6 smallest boxes, 2 fertile 6 acre meadows and 6 rabbits. This is cost 37,980e. EDIT: rabbits are no longer on Howrse.
Put your minimum skills to 4000% (so that people don't board), put flax as bedding in boxes and put 1 meadow as pasture. Every few days, swap this meadow with another one so the fertility and cleanliness don't go down. Make sure you have at least 10,000e, 200 carrots and 100 health mashes always.
Once you have all employees, put your min skills to 0%.
Keep making mashes, carrots and making money by selling crops. When you have enough, upgrade the boxes (do it all at the same time).
When you have more than enough, buy five 15 acre fertile meadows. Buy 5 scarecrows and put them in the 15 acre meadows.
Upgrade boxes again.
Once a week increase the minimum skills by 20%.
Start to buy 18m2 boxes (top quality) one at a time and get 2 more 15 acre meadows as pasture.
Don't think this is going to be easy. It takes a long time but it's worth it!

,, If you don't have any turnips, buy a lot more. A whole bundle is good, like 50 turnips. They are important for training foals.
 These people can help you out later during the game when you are in need of something, or are in need of advice.


Accept all friend requests, and congratulate random people.
Reply to all messages, and be polite by saying please and thank you often.
 This will help your horse give better foals––the higher the BLUP of your mare, the higher the IBS of the foal! And of course, that will help you sell the foals for more.


The requirements to BLUP your horse are to finish training and rides to bold your horse's top 3 skills. The game will already have done this for your first horse, you just need to BLUP it. You must win 20 1st place ribbons in the competitions, and then age your horse to 10 years old. Many players have day to day schedules for BLUPPING in their forums. Learning to BLUP quickly increases your chances of joining a breeding groups, which offer friendship, and a higher chance to become successful on the game equus wise, passes wise, and much more.
 Go to the directories, click on the Horses tab, and type in Xanthos, Archimedes, Topaz. Here are links: http://www.howrse.com/elevage/fiche/?id=9575004 #http://www.howrse.com/elevage/fiche/?id=7286577 http://www.howrse.com/elevage/fiche/?id=18867758

,