 You can usually find these in retail or office supply stores, or online. These programs will usually say whether they are for personal tax preparation, business tax preparation, or a combination of both. Reputable tax preparation software types you might consider include:


TurboTax
H&R Block
TaxAct
TaxSlayer
These types of programs are best for people who do not have very complicated tax situations. If you have any reason to believe that your taxes may be complicated (reasons could include claiming lots of deductions, having a high income, or owing taxes from a previous year), you should consider hiring a professional to prepare your taxes.
 Some of the programs require an internet connection, so you can download the software using a key code that comes with the purchase. You may also choose a brand with a hard copy that you can install without an internet connection. However, you may need an internet connection if you wish to file your taxes electronically.
 The program prompts the taxpayer for specific information, helping you locate it on your tax document(s), making taxes easier to prepare. During this process, your tax preparation software will solicit information primarily about income and deductions.
 Income is any money that you made during the calendar year whether from a job, a freelance gig, or the selling of goods. Assets that you liquidated, sold, or inherited may also qualify as income.Income from your job will be listed on your W-2.
Other types of income may not be listed on any particular tax forms but should be saved by you in your records. See Part 1 above for a detailed discussion of necessary documents.
 The government will let you deduct certain expenses from your taxes provided they fall within parameters. Examples of deductions you may use when filing taxes include:The standard deduction, which is a dollar amount that reduces the amount of income on which you are taxed and varies according to your filing status. If you choose the standard deduction, you cannot itemize your deductions. To find out what your standard deduction would be, you can use a calculator here.Itemized deductions, which include health care premiums and HSA accounts, vehicle registration, certain retirement accounts (Roth IRA), and expenses for contract work (i.e. 1099), including mileage.
Whereas income doesn't necessarily need to be proven, deductions do. You will need supporting documents, such as receipts, logs, and/or payment slips to prove that your deductions are legitimate.
 Keep in mind that you may also be required to pay a state tax. Not all states have an income tax, and many states tax at different rates. When you enter your information into the program, it should compute your state tax/refund in addition to the federal return. However, some programs charge a small fee for the addition of state taxes.
 Run the self-check feature included with your tax return program. If it finds errors or omissions, the program will walk you through making the corrections. Use common sense when checking for errors. A simple typo or missing field in your application could drastically change what you owe on your taxes or the refund that you can expect to receive.For example, if your income for the calendar year is $32,000 but your tax preparation software indicates that you owe the government $8,000 in taxes, you probably know that there's been a miscalculation. $8,000 in taxes on $32,000 means you're paying about 25% of your income in taxes, which is too high a number for your income bracket.
 Repeat this process until you have corrected all tax errors.
 The audit meter reviews your information to determine what your audit risk is. If your audit risk is high, be sure that the information you have on tax return is 100% correct. A misleading statement or number could be scrutinized and cost you if you are indeed audited., You can file your taxes either by mail or by selecting the e-file feature.


To file by mail, send off your tax documents to the address specified on your documents on or before the filing deadline. The filing date is usually April 15th. If you owe any money, you may need to file your taxes and send in your owed taxes to separate locations.You can find an interactive map for where you need to mail your filing here.To file electronically, file your tax documents over the internet on or before the filing deadline. The software will prompt you for your banking information. Carefully type the name of your bank, along with the account number where the IRS should send any refunds or deduct any payments.You may also qualify for Free File, which is another service available for free through the e-file system, if your income is below a certain amount., You can request an extension either electronically or by mail if you cannot meet the filing deadline. If you choose to file an extension, the IRS will typically give you six more months to file your taxes.


To request an extension by mail, you will need to file a paper Form 4868.If you paid any part of your taxes due at the time you filed your extension, include that payment on your tax return form.
 Keep in mind that an extension of time to file is not an extension of time to pay. If you are unable to pay the full amount of tax due with your tax return because of financial hardship, you should still file the tax return on time with a “good faith” payment of as much of the pay due as you can afford to pay.


If you believe that you will be able to pay in full within 120 days, you should call 1-800-829-1040 to request extra time.
If you cannot pay within 120 days, you should complete Form 9465 or Form 9465-FS to request paying the remaining tax in installments., If you chose to e-file, the IRS will typically automatically deposit any refund into the provided account within 4 to 8 days.

