 It is important that you remember to drag every track that you plan on playing into the software, because unlike Serato, you can not properly play tracks that have not been previously analyzed.;
, This is also an important part of staying organized while you are playing.
 Another organization technique that will really add to the fluidity of your set. Instead of having to scroll through hundreds of tracks trying to find the song you want to play next, plan your set beforehand and get all of the tracks in order. You won't regret it.
 This is very important, because if your beat grids don't follow the beat of the song, it will make beat-matching very difficult.
 The same technique won't work for everyone. For example, you might set A-cue at the beginning of the track, B-cue 16 bars from the drop of the track, C-cue 8 bars from the drop, and D-cue 8 bars from where you want to mix the track in., This will help you avoid an occasion where you've loaded a track expecting it to be cued and it wasn't. There will be a small graphic beside each track telling you whether it has been cued or not.
,, Make sure that you see it loading onto the flash drive on the bottom Rekordbox, and make sure you don't remove the flash drive until Rekordbox has finished exporting your crate.
 It is easy for files to become corrupted, and sometimes crates might not export in their entirety. It is also possible to experience issues with network connectors on CDJs where it won't load your tracks through all the devices. In that case you would need a flash drive to plug into each CDJ you planned on using. Play it safe, and be prepared for anything.
 Flagship hardware can be very pricey so ask around the DJ community, make friends, and share equipment with others. The DJ community is generally a pretty cool bunch so be outgoing, and reach out to people so you never have an issue with finding the right equipment to practice on.
 Make sure everything is set to go. Just get there early and be prepared., Make sure to have fun, and if you make a mistake keep playing. Chances are the crowd didn't even notice.