 Your best and first line of defense when dealing with any form of social anxiety is listening to your mind and body. Become tuned in to how your body is responding to the environment you are in and with the people around you. The moment you start to feel the onset of your anxious symptoms is the moment you need to take responsible actions to keep your own well-being in check.

Physiological responses to anxiety include blushing, sweating, racing heart, shaking, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, feeling light-headed or faint and dizzy, dry mouth, and sometimes stuttering.
You may be thinking to yourself, “Everyone is staring at me. What are they thinking? Are they judging me?” “They probably think I am a loser. I need to get out of here, I don't fit in or belong here.” “I don't know what to say. I don’t have anything to contribute to the conversation. They will see that I am nervous. I will be the fool.”
Behavioral responses to anxiety may include avoidance, leaving situations or events early, only arriving to a situation or event with a companion or friend you feel comfortable with by your side, increased focus on your phone, being overly apologetic, seeking reassurance from others, and obsessiveness with watching responses of others towards you.;
, If you’re experiencing anxiety in the moment, find a way to exercise where you are. You might be in your office or at class when you start to feel anxious. Wherever you are, you can do exercises to help you with your social anxiety.

Excuse yourself and take a few moments by yourself to do some jumping jacks.
Take a brisk walk up and down a couple flights of stairs.
If you have a private space, do some exercises where you are such as pushups, situps, or balancing exercises.
 If you feel anxious and want to move, taking a walk can be a great option. Take a walk around your home, office or school building, or outside. Passing anxiety can reduce with just 10 minutes of exercise. If you’re nervous about a meeting at work or a presentation in front of many people, clear your mind and decrease your anxiety beforehand with a pleasant walk.If weather permits, go outside and take a walk. Being in nature can be calming and soothing., If you have a situation in the immediate future that’s making you anxious, squeeze in some time beforehand to exercise. Aerobic exercises (such as running, swimming, biking, or rollerblading) can be helpful in reducing anxiety and stress. Especially if stress has affected your ability to concentrate, exercise can improve your focus and alertness. Just five minutes of aerobic exercise can start the benefits.Exercise can even protect you from stress, anxiety, and depression. People who exercise regularly are less likely to develop symptoms of depression or anxiety.
 Yoga is a form of exercise that can be gentle or vigorous, depending on your preference. It uses little to no equipment and can be practiced alone or with a group. The most common form of yoga often combines poses, breathing techniques, and deep relaxation. Yoga appears to counteract the stress response, lower anxiety and depression, and improve mood.If going to a group class is overwhelming, do yoga at home or attend smaller classes. You might make a goal to attend larger classes as you feel ready.
 Tai chi combines careful breathing and movement exercises in a meditative flow. If you have some mobility restrictions or prefer a slower pace, tai chi might be a good option for you. Tai chi can be helpful in lowering anxiety and decreasing your stress response.Look up tai chi classes near you or explore some practices by following a video at home.
 Along with exercise, relaxation can play a major role in addressing your social anxiety. Try progressive muscle relaxation to calm your body and your mind.Relaxation can help you lower stress, reduce anxiety, and help you stabilize your moods.Find 30 minutes each day to practice something relaxing.

For example, try qi gong and meditation. You can also take a bath, write in a journal, or read.
 People who exercise and complete cognitive-behavior therapy for anxiety tend to see larger gains in their treatment.if you’re already taking medications or seeing a therapist for your social anxiety, consider adding exercise to your treatment and see how it affects you.

Always choose an exercise program that appeals to you. Most of all, stick with it to see the best results.
 If you feel nervous around other people or of public performance, you might struggle with feeling confident in yourself. Your confidence may affect your job performance, considerations for a promotion, or your aspirations in life. Exercising can help you build physical and mental skills. You can create and meet goals and overcome negative thoughts that might contribute to your social anxiety.Push yourself to try something new or set a fitness goal. For example, do 20 push-ups, run a mile, or bench press 40 pounds. Meeting your goals can help you feel more confident and increase positive feelings about your abilities.
 If you struggle with isolation, make a point to be with others in a small environment. For example, join a small gym or a running club. If being in a group sounds too intimidating, ask someone to be your workout buddy. Go to the gym together or keep each other accountable for your weekly exercise. If you struggle to motivate yourself to exercise or work out, having some accountability can greatly improve your chances of moving.Ask a close friend or family member to join a gym together.
Use exercise classes as a way to meet people and build friendships. For example, set a goal to say hello to someone new or talk to someone after class.
 If the idea of going to a gym seems sweaty, stinky, expensive, or unenjoyable, opt to exercise outside. Go for a jog around your local park, take a hike, or go rock climbing. Start by exercising on your own or join a small group. Being outside can expose you to nature and give you vitamin D, which can help with mood.Take your dog on a walk or grab your kids and take a walk in the park together.

