 Isolation is a physical state, like being trapped on a desert island. Loneliness is a feeling, one that emerges in early childhood as a defense mechanism against possible isolation but which continues throughout life. This is why you can feel all alone in a crowd of people at the bus station, in your school cafeteria, or even while riding in the car with your family. Loneliness and fear are intertwined.Don’t try to deny your feelings of loneliness, or downplay them as “silly” or irrational. They exist. Accept them as real, without passing judgment. Feeling lonely doesn’t make you “weird” or “weak”; it makes you human. You can’t overcome something if you won’t acknowledge its existence., Widen your view. A small picture may show you alone, but the big picture cannot miss your impact on the world. In your mind, imagine a picture frame, and look at yourself and all those connected in one way or another to you. Think of how different the picture would appear without you in it.


Think about all the people you interact with in your life, starting perhaps with your family. Think about how you are a part of their lives, and how they are a part of yours. Accept that these people care about you, and that they want and need you to be a part of their lives.
Pretend you are doing a school project and research the subject of loneliness and connection. Read, watch, and listen to experts on the subject.Think about how your findings intersect with your own life experiences.
 Thinking deeply and rationally about loneliness is sometimes helpful; at other times, though, it is best to stop thinking and get busy doing something. Take a break from your loneliness by distracting yourself with pleasant, enjoyable, healthy activities. If you can enjoy these distractions with a partner or a group, all the better.Take a nature walk. Ride a bicycle. Just get up and move around a bit. Don’t allow yourself to sit and stew in your feelings of loneliness.
We all have a “critical inner voice” inside our heads that tells us we’re not good enough, that we’re failures, that nobody cares about us, and so on. This voice tends to get louder when we’re alone with our thoughts. You can never eliminate this little voice completely, but you can limit its ability to build up into a crescendo., It can be easy to tell yourself “I’m going to get up, get out, and do something about feeling lonely.” It can be far more difficult to actually follow through. It’s not enough just to plan to deal with your feelings of loneliness; you have to actually do something about them.Don’t accept little self-made excuses to cancel a lunch date or quit that knitting club or substance abuse support group. Hold yourself accountable. There are many people out there who want to help you better manage your feelings of loneliness, but you need to be completely “on board” with the process.

