 Ground beetles are a natural predator of slugs. You can purchase ground beetle larvae from a gardening store and distribute them through your garden in early spring. The larvae will feed, enter their pupae, and emerge as adult beetles in the summer.. Alternatively, you can encourage wild beetles to stay near your plants by providing dry refuges under stones, grass, or straw. This allows the beetles to hide from predators, making your garden an attractive home. Luckily, ground beetles can live almost everywhere that slugs can also live., The biggest natural predators for slugs are birds; ducks, chickens, robins, jays, and other common species all enjoy a slug meal. If you’re not too squeamish, you can pick out slugs and toss them to the wild birds in the morning; they will become conditioned to look for slugs in your area over time, and you won’t have to ‘feed’ them for long. You can also let your chickens or ducks, if you have domesticated ones, eat the slugs from your garden on a daily basis.


Keep a close eye on your chickens, as they may eat plants as well.
Encourage birds to nest in your garden by providing hedges or dense shrubbery, bird feeders, and a bird bath., Toads love slugs, and will eat them and other pests from your plants if you give them a home in your garden. If you’re trying to attract wild toads, turn a pot or other container upside down against a rock to create a dark hiding place for the toads. Otherwise, you can look into purchasing wild toads to live in your garden and eat the slugs on a daily basis for you. You can also look into adding a small decorative pond for the toads and frogs to reside in.Do not keep fish in the pond, as these may eat the tadpoles.
 Nematodes are microscopic parasitic worms that live in soil. You can purchase nematode species specifically for killing slugs at your local gardening store. This can be extremely effective, but this is a double-edged sword. Once all the slugs are killed, their predators (and the nematodes) will leave the area or die out. If you do not reapply the nematodes every few weeks, a massive wave of slugs may invade and take over due to the lack of threats.The nematodes should come with directions. Typically, they are spread over the soil, then watered in.

