 You need to look at your choices with a good frame of mind. If you don't look for a solution to your problem, it will be difficult to find it. There are many different ways to help you achieve positive energy. You can try yoga to clear your mind, go and bring a blanket to the beach and relax, read a good book while drinking hot chocolate, a nice bath,...etc. Whatever that will work for you to get your spirits lifted before deciding to make important decisions about your life. This is important especially because the consequences of making lousy decisions just because you felt upset or helpless when you made them-can be potentially dreadful.;
, As we all know, we don't have forever to live in this world. If there is a certain dream you want to follow, don't wait until your actions to fulfill your dream are to late to have an effect. I am not saying to be a daredevil, just that it is okay to test your abilities that you want to develop.
 If you have lots of ideas on what path you want to take in life, you are normal. You are definitely NOT alone. If you like writing you can buy a journal to help you organize your thoughts on paper. Sometimes it all comes to place when you can visually see your goals on paper laid out for you. If writing is not your thing, don't lose hope. You may find that by telling someone close to you about your indecision, you can clarify your choices and then make a decision easier. If it is a career that you question, do as much research on the internet or from the library as you wish.
 It may feel a lot better if you talk to someone that is knowledgeable about the specific goals you want to achieve before making final decisions. If this isn't possible, you can write down a list of questions you want to be answered regarding the goals you want to achieve. Who do I need to contact? What qualifications do I need for this path? Where do I need to start? Remember that the process it takes to find the answer is just as important as the answer itself.
 You need to love the path you are taking in order to be truly successful. Something that makes your heart feel warm and makes you smile. Don't dread over money and decide the path you take solely because of the income it would provide. If you will be miserable with that path, what does it matter if you got so much money from it? Money doesn't buy happiness. It could help, but it shouldn't solely decide your dreams.
 Eventually there always comes the time where you need to have your plans take action. What are you waiting for? Don't do something that you will regret later. Make a list that can show you the pros and cons of everything you've got to be familiar about. Take your time with this process. It is better to take a few extra hours to think it over well, then a few extra years to make up for a mistake.
 Motivation is not something you should overlook. Find what is best for you to get motivated. Listen to inspiring people, hear upbeat music, read, go out and visit interesting places...etc. Motivation comes from anywhere and yet it makes all the difference to see your dreams coming to life.

