 You might not always be able to choose your travel destinations, especially if you are traveling for work or with others. If you do, however, have a say in where you go, pick a place where the fare is vegetarian-friendly. For example, India, Thailand, and Israel are known as vegetarian-friendly destinations.Do some online research to find out what locations are vegetarian-friendly.;
, You will need to be able to communicate your dietary needs to restaurant and airline staff during your travels. You should be able to ask, “Is this dish vegetarian?” and “I am a vegetarian” in the local language. You should also learn the local words for fish, chicken, beef, and pork. This will help you easily glance over a menu and eliminate dishes with these ingredients., If the airline on which you are traveling provides in-flight meals, it is important that you request a vegetarian option long before you board the flight. In many cases, you will be given meal options when you book your flight. If not, contact the airline directly and make sure they will be able to provide you with a vegetarian meal during your flight., Traveling while vegetarian will be much easier if you take the time to research restaurants in your travel destination before you arrive. Peruse guidebooks, talk to friends who previously traveled to the destination, and do some online research. Make a list of restaurants you will visit along with their addresses and hours of operation., Sometimes travel doesn’t go as planned. You might end up stranded in an airport or searching for a vegetarian restaurant only to find it is closed! You can avert disaster by packing portable vegetarian foods like nuts, protein bars, dried fruit, or peanut butter., There is a good chance that someone will offer you non-vegetarian food on your travels. Learn how to tactfully decline the offer using the local language and taking local customs into account. Learn to say, “Thank you, but I do not eat meat,” in the local language. If you speak the same language as the host or server, you can also explain why you do not eat meat.

If you are afraid of offending the host or server, you can always accept the food and give it to your travel partner or to someone in need.

