 You shouldn't change yourself for a guy because then he will like the fake you and not the real you, and that's not good. That is taking the wrong direction. Don't go there. Do whatever you feel like doing and act however you feel like acting. Dart if you feel like. If you usually pick your nose, pick your nose! Wear what you like, say what you like, act how you like. Do whatever you feel like. If you're genuinely a quiet, calm, serious sort of person be like that. If you are really kinda crazy, be crazy! If he doesn't like you for who you are, he's not worth it.;
, He would rather see your face and real body then all that fake glob on your face and clothes that show your body off. Its okay to put on some make-up, maybe even a little blush or something else (whatever you want) but - don't use what you feel is too much. It's for your own good. He won't see the real you if you put fake stuff on you when your really beautiful inside and out. Do not care what other people think of you, say about you, or anyone who doesn't like you (in a mean way.) Again, if he doesn't like you for who you are, he is not worth it.
 A guy is not going to like you right away just because he sees you walking in the hall to class. Try to get him to catch you glancing at him at least a few times . Get him to stare at you through sheer willpower.
 As said earlier, if you aren't the bold, chatty type who finds it easy to talk to guys, don't do this, as you won't be being yourself if you talk to boys just to get another guy to be jealous when you wouldn't normally. When around him (such as lunch, in the halls, or before and after school), let him start seeing you either talking to another guy, flirting with another guy, staring at another guy, or just with guy friends in general., Before you do that, be sure he knows that you know he is around by force of will. Don't glance at him as you do this. He may think you're trying to make him jealous and that's a turn-off.
 For example, say you're in lunch, and he sees you with friends. Do a dance move randomly if you are the kind of person that does this normally, or go to a guy and put your arm around him. Do something like similar to this. Other ways to make them want your attention include having something noticeably in common. Notice what he's into and if you are into it too, advertise that! If you have a band tee-shirt he does, wear it. If you have a book you've noticed him reading, let him see you reading your copy, or something similar. Wear his favourite sport's teams colours or some supporters gear, carry your binder decorated with Greenpeace symbols if he has one, take your flute to school if he plays flute or join the chess club if he's in it. Look for things you like that he likes and use them to make a connection. Again, do not change yourself for him.
 This will just mess you up, unless you are being true to yourself doing so. Lots of people are conceited, do think they are all that and believe that they are incredibly popular, when they actually aren't. If that's you, don't change, be yourself.
 Be nice to him, if the opportunity arises even though you don't know home. Be polite, hold the door for him, say hi, let him go in front of you in a queue, these acts are about all you can do with a boy you don't know and hardly see. Also, smile. Happy girls are the prettiest.
 Don't notice him and let him see you with other guys as much as possible. He'll be eating out the palm of your hand in no time!

