 You can find a list of mental health organizations in your area by searching online for “mental health non-profit" and the name of your city. Then, make a few phone calls to see which organizations have opportunities for in-person volunteering.Volunteer to pass out flyers or leaflets at a public gathering area, like a mall, or door-to-door. Man the booth for a mental health organization at a local festival and share information with the patrons who stop by. Offer to answer phones at a local mental health charity organization.
Make sure to work with a team or partner when passing out information, especially going door-to-door, for safety reasons. You might also want to wear a t-shirt with an organization logo.Participating in an information pledge campaign is one way to raise awareness for SAD. With these campaigns you agree to research and pass along knowledge regarding mental health concerns.;
, Run a 5K or 10K for anxiety awareness. Take on a challenge, such as parachute jumping, and publicize it to get public attention for mental health treatment. Once you connect with an organization, look at their events calendar to see what might appeal to you.


Events are often linked to specific weeks or months. For example, the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) observes a mental health week in October that includes a focus on Social Anxiety Disorder., Use all of your social media accounts (Facebook, Twitter, etc.), as outlets for information and stories regarding Social Anxiety Disorder. Try to post at least one item every day, or if you are more frequently online, maybe raise it to five items of interest. Make sure that you get your information from reputable sources, so that your readers will trust you.Diversify your posts in order to reach a wide variety of audiences. Reach out to teens, older adults, etc., as all sorts of people can find information on Social Anxiety Disorder useful.
Keep a hopeful and helpful tone when writing your post. You might offer stories of people living fulfilling lives with social phobias or even celebrity testimonials. You especially want anyone dealing with Social Anxiety Disorder to know that they are not alone.
 There are many online (and some print) publications and blogs that will accept guest author articles and posts. Find a site that discusses mental health concerns and submit a piece of your writing to it. For example, if you have SAD, you might write about how you were diagnosed. Anxiety UK, among other groups, often solicit personal reflection stories.Don’t be discouraged if your writing is not accepted immediately. Revise your piece to reflect any criticism that you may receive. Keep submitting and you will eventually find the proper venue.
Help spread the word by also subscribing to and then forwarding any SAD or mental health organization newsletters that you receive. For example, “Triumph” is the newsletter for the ADAA and contains a wide variety of useful information for those interested in learning more about anxiety.

