 It is impossible to track the value of a PPC ad if you don't have data on website traffic before the ad appears. Assign someone to gather your sales and traffic data from your website for at least 1 month, so you can judge the results of the PPC campaign against this data.;
, One of the best ways to increase your chances of success with a PPC ad is to develop a landing page for the ad that is filled with high-quality content. A landing page that caters to your ideal customer and gives specific information will often have a larger chance of success than a general home page.


Landing pages are not traditionally product pages. They usually encourage a call to action, such as giving people access to high-quality content as long as they input their email address. Then, you can communicate with them by email. Define your call to action on this page, in order to increase your conversion rate.
Consider creating several landing pages based on the keywords you are using to promote your PPC ads. For example, a surfing site may set up a landing page for their "surf boards" keyword advertising that shows videos of people riding on surf boards or tutorials. A PPC ad for "women's swimsuits" might show a feature of a woman pro surfer wearing a popular swimsuit model.
 Either contact your website programmer or create a free account with Google Analytics. Set up a campaign for all of your existing accounts, and create a campaign for each PPC ad.
 Many PPC advertising programs allow you to set a daily maximum, so that your advertisement does not show when you have reached your desired number of clicks. Decide the duration you want to advertise for, such as 1 month, and choose a daily budget that will allow you to remain profitable.


Do keyword research. Choose 20 keywords and search for them on Google, Bing, AOL, Yahoo and other search engines. If you see top competitors are ranking highly, then you are probably on the right track; however, if it produces a lot of irrelevant links, then your money will not be well spent using these search terms.
If your site does not come up in the first page of the listings with any of the search terms, then PPC advertising is the way to show up on search results quickly. You should also look into search engine optimization (SEO), but SEO website changes can take weeks or months to improve your search engine ranking.

