 There is no such thing as Bratz without having a passion for fashion.;
, You can create a stylish outfit with a simple tank and a cute sweater. Never wear strapless shirts or dresses without a sweater.
 Your tops should be tight and form-fitting, but you don't have to show off too much. Shirts with sayings and sparkly designs would be perfect.


Wear midriff-showing shirts and sparkly corset tops.
Wear sparkly see-through sweaters over shirts. Pouffe-like sleeves are also big among the Bratz dolls. A vest is also super cool when it's spruced up with some bling.
 These are especially nice with rhinestones, appliques, and jewels. It's best if they are skorts, or you wear appropriate leggings.skirts


Wear tight mini-skirts. These are a staple part of the Bratz' wardrobe. If you can't wear mini-skirts, then wear leggings. They're warm and so cute! Tights under mini-skirts in the winter are awesome.
Gorgeous fancy skirts look amazing for parties.
 Jeans are super-cute with heels. Bratz dolls are into bell-bottom jeans, but skinny jeans tucked into boots are also super-fab. Jean shorts are also good over leggings. You can spruce up some old jeans with some cool bling.


Buy cute jeans with rhinestones and other appliques.
 Always wear high heels and boots. If you're not allowed to wear high heels then just wear flats, wedges, square heels or boots. Sparkly flip-flops are also acceptable.


You can do any kind of heel-Converse heels, boot heels, whatever you like. If you can't wear heels, then certainly wear flats, Converse, or no-heel boots.
 Accessories and bling are very important to the Bratz dolls. Go ahead and wear sparkly earrings, necklaces, and bracelets all at once.


Long earrings are a must. (If you don't have your ears pierced, you can get snap-ons or magnetic).
Wear one comfy choker, and two to three long necklaces.
Bracelets are also important. Wear lots of them (especially with short sleeves).
Bangles and charm bracelets are best.
 Get ones with neon colors, eye-popping color combos, and cool animal prints. Claire's Accessories is a good spot to shop for this look.color

, These are warm yet stylish. They are best in winter, when it is practical. However, during other seasons you can wear just one as a fab fashion accessory. You can also make them. Cut off the feet of some cool knee socks, and cut places for your thumbs. Ta da! you can also add bling like rhinestones, jewels, and buttons.
 No Bratz doll would ever be caught without her purse. Go to a thrift store and pick out something you like. Always have an emergency makeup kit, your cell, and emergency cash in your purse.
 The Bratz wear sparkly eyeshadow and mascara. Use lots of super sparkly and shiny lip gloss. Apply a blush, but remember you want the focus to be on the eyes and lips.
 Liquid eye liner works best, but normal is also great.
 Use either purple, blue, silver, or gold on your lid. Use a darker version of that color at the crease, but don't go higher.
 Don't use mascara. Use fake lashes or nothing at all. Mascara can damage you lashes.
 Use a little, but only if you need it. The focus should be on the eyes and lips.
 For a true Bratz doll look, you need to go overboard on the lips. Use lots of super-shiny gloss over a hot pink or purple lipstick. (Don't use lip liner!)

, They either wear ponytails coming out from the tippy-top of their head or loose hair. Crimp your hair, add highlights to your hair, curl it, etc. If it's short, straighten it and clip in extensions. Use sparkly barrettes, scrunchies and bobby pins.


Choose a high ponytail. This is a good Bratz hairstyle.
 Most Bratz dolls wear their hair loose., If you're allowed, do two streaks. One on each side of the head, in the very front by the face.

