 Prior to starting an exercise routine, it’s recommended to have a checkup with your medical doctor. Your physician can help make recommendations based on your weight and ability level as to what exercise you can participate in. Ask your physician how long you can exercise for and what you can build up to over time. Ask about any risks you may have regarding exercise and follow their recommendations.Make an appointment with your physician before starting any exercise program to make sure it is safe for you to exercise.;
, Mood charting is a great tool to better understand your bipolar disorder symptoms. Get in the habit of mood charting regularly and use this to help assess your exercise plan. Mood charting can help you map out symptoms as they begin to develop, and this can help you know when it is most beneficial for you to exercise.For example, you may notice there are certain times during the day you feel more down, and exercising during this time may be beneficial. Alternatively, you may find it easy to maintain an exercise routine during the time of day when you are feeling better.
 When exercising specifically for bipolar treatment, put more emphasis on aerobic activity over weight training. While weight training can help improve muscle tone, it appears that aerobic activity is most beneficial in treating bipolar disorder.Try activities such as dancing, running, biking, swimming, or skiing.


If you’re looking for a quick and easy way to exercise, go for a brisk walk each day.
 If you’re hesitant to exercise because you don’t enjoy it, know that there are lots of activities you can do to exercise outside of going to a gym or running around a track. Don’t bother doing exercise that is boring or monotonous to you and instead, find an activity you enjoy and look forward to doing each day. And don’t feel obligated to go to the gym: check out yoga classes, ice skating, salsa lessons, swimming, or hiking. There are lots of ways to be active and you can find at least one that you enjoy.Even if you don’t like lifting weights or running, many gyms offer classes that help you build muscle, flexibility, and endurance.
You should find an environment that works for you as well. For example, if you do not like exercising around people, you can do videos at home. Alternatively, if you prefer more structure and guidance, you can do a class at a gym.
 Having a mental illness can make you feel like isolating or not being with others. If you tend to isolate when you feel depressed, make a point of spending time with friends. This can extend to your exercise routine, too. Find a friend to attend yoga or spinning classes with you. This can help both of you stay motivated and keep one another accountable for exercising.Especially if your depression causes isolation, having a regular class or workout buddy can help you stay socially engaged, even when you’re feeling your worst.You might also consider hiring a personal trainer. They can keep you accountable and make sure that you are doing the exercises properly. It may even help reduce the anxiety about working out that some people might experience.
 Some people start exercising by pushing too hard, then burn out. Instead of setting a high bar to begin with, start slow and build your way up. This can help you feel accomplished and like you’re moving forward in your exercise routine and help you to stay motivated to stick with it.For example, start by exercising ten minutes three times each week. Work up to exercising 30 minutes five times each week.
Some people find that it is more beneficial to exercise for a shorter period more often than to do less frequent, longer work outs. For example, you might decide to exercise for twenty minutes a day rather than do an hour long work out twice a week.
 As you build an exercise regime, keep a journal, log book, exercise tracker, or other form of record to show you how far you have come. This can make you accountable for staying on your new routine while giving you motivation to keep going. It is also a great way to see how far you've come!

If you want your friends and family to follow you on your journey, try starting a blog or post updates on social media. Some apps will even post your progress for you. This may help keep you accountable.
Some things you may want to include in your journal are what type of exercise you did, when you did it, how long you did it for, and how it made you feel.
 Make it your goal to exercise 30 minutes each day for five days each week. Figure out a good time to exercise. For example, if you have more energy in the morning, do a morning workout. If you prefer to workout midday or after work or school, plan to exercise once you finish your day.You can be flexible with your schedule. You may even want to try out different times out to see what works best for you.


If going to the gym is too much effort, exercise outside or at home. Take your dog for a walk, go on a hike, or dance to your favorite tunes.
Make sure to start your exercise on Monday. This will give you a good start for the week.
 Many people with bipolar state that having a daily schedule helps them control their moods.Make exercise a part of your structured schedule. Having a routine helps your life to be predictable even through your ups and downs.If you struggle to motivate yourself to exercise, including it as part of a scheduled routine can help.


For example, find time before or after work to exercise. If you exercise after work, consider going straight to the gym and avoid going home first. This helps you stay motivated and not get side-tracked!

, While some say that exercise can encourage mania, you might struggle most in going to the gym when you feel depressed.This is the most important time to work out, so make the effort! If you’re feeling depressed, do your best just to get to your class, gym, or workout area, as getting there can be the hardest part. Once you’re there, spend as much time as you can exercising, even if it’s just 15 minutes.


If you feel like exercising is impossible, remember that it’s just a feeling and not actually impossible.If you’re having a hard time convincing yourself to workout, tell yourself you’ll go, even though you feel tired or exhausted. Once you’re there, it’ll be easier to spend at least a little time exercising.
When you're working out, try to stop when you're feeling an "exercise high." After some time, you will start to associate exercise with good feelings, and it help motivate you to keep going.
 Stay motivated by having goals in your exercise. You may want to run a 5K or 10K or press or lift 50 pounds. Find ways to stay motivated in your exercise by making and attaining goals. Make actionable and specific goals to help you meet your overall goals. For example, if you have a goal to lift 50 pounds in three months, aim to increase your weight by five pounds each week, and lift three times each week.For example, you may want to work up your hiking distance so that you can hike the Grand Canyon in several months.

