 Nobody deserves to be bullied, and these messages don't reflect on you. You may feel hurt, and that's natural, but recognize that the bully is in the wrong. Their mean words are inaccurate.


If you are having any thoughts of harming yourself, tell someone right away.
;
, When the messages first start coming through, ignore them and archive them—file them away in a folder, print them out, etc. You can take back control of the situation by storing them as proof of the abuse. It's best not to delete any of them, no matter how hurtful they are.


Block the user that is bullying you.
Protect your online accounts.
Inform any local authorities that can deal with the situation.
 When dealing with this difficult situation, it is best to talk to someone both responsible and trustworthy (preferably an adult) that you know very well. They will take this seriously, listen well, and help you find a solution.


You could also contact cyber bullying organisations-like Cybersmile or Childline.
Consider talking to a parent, teacher, guardian, older sibling, or school guidance counselor.
If you don't have anyone in your life whom you feel comfortable talking to, there are organisations you can contact. Try Childline, CEOP, Crisis Chat, Cybersmile, ETCB and finally, Pure sight. (You can also just type up " how to deal with cyberbullying" in any browser and an organisation should come up)

, While it's painful, going into detail is important, because it can help them figure out exactly what happened and exactly how to stop it. Here are things to tell them:


When it started
Why it started (Did they hate your video/image, feminist opinions, drama king friend?)
What type of things they have said (show the messages)
How it makes you feel
How it is effecting your life
Who else knows—have they been bullied too?

, The responsible adult can give you guidance on how to handle this situation. If neither of you know what to do, the adult can help you call an organisation where people are trained to deal with this.


Consider emailing the website to ask for an IP ban of the abusive user.
Tell them about this article, mention some of the organisations that can help, talk about what course of action you should take.
Alert the police via the non-emergency number, as it is not an emergency, just a problem that needs to be sorted through.
 Realize that none of this is your fault, and you handled it as well as you could. Bullying is a terrible thing that happens, but the victim is not the real culprit. If you still aren't feeling okay, talk to someone you trust about the after effects.

