 Both service dogs and civilian dogs can develop symptoms similar to those that afflict human sufferers of post traumatic stress syndrome. In particular, abuse, natural disaster, and other traumatic experiences can lead to symptoms such as anxiety, depression, lack of appetite, and more.Any signs of persistent nervousness, distress, or confusion should all be considered serious.
If your dog routinely forgets basic commands, holds their ears back constantly, has dilated pupils, tends to keep their body low and their tail tucked, and frequently breathes rapidly with the corners of their mouth drawn, they are likely suffering from significant anxiety.
 A dog that may be suffering from mental distress will likely benefit from having a space that is all their own. Designate their crate, or even a room, off limits to any other people or animals in your home. Keep the dog’s favorite toys there, as well as their food bowl and an item of your clothing.If possible, locate the dog’s safe space somewhere quiet and out of the way.
Supply chew toys a swell, as anxious dogs are often more prone to chewing.
 Order and consistency can make your dog feel more comfortable. This means walking and feeding your dogs at the same times every day. When you do introduce new environments, people, or other pets to your dog, do so gradually. In short, minimized variations from a consistent routine whenever possible., If your dog is willing and able to play with other dogs, encourage them to do so. Bring them to the dog park whenever possible, even if they simply quietly watch the other dogs play on your first few visits. While it may take a while for your dog to comfortably play with other dogs, it’s a meaningful sign of recovery once they are able to do so.Also take your dog out with you on runs, hikes, and swimming excursions. Even if they are slow to want to socialize, it’s still important to ensure they get plenty of exercise, and they will likely enjoy doing so with you.
 Personnel in some dog kennels have begun using a surprisingly method to help socialize dogs that have become frightened, irritable, or overly aggressive after abuse or other traumatic experiences. The approach is also very simple: sit near you dog and read to them. Even respondent, lethargic dogs have been known to wag their tails after a few minutes of listening to a human read in a calm, even, and friendly voice., Many holistic approaches to a dog’s mental health exist. The most legitimate are based on dietary changes, and include supplements such as Omega 3 fatty acids. Talk to your vet before changing your dog’s diet, especially when you’re considering providing supplements.L-theanine and melatonin are also recommended to boost canine mental health. In fact, you can buy L-theanine supplements designed specifically for dogs.
There are also collars that emit pheromones that may help anxious dogs relax.
Depending on the degree of your dog’s distress, your vet may even recommend pharmaceuticals such as clomipramine, fluoxetine, or amitriptyline.
 Symptoms such as those related to conditions like PTSD will not necessarily be “cured”. A dog’s state of mind can be significantly, if not permanently altered by a traumatic event. However, you can help diminish the symptoms your dog suffers by providing them with constant love and understanding. 