 You could either go on the computer and select "get a job" or click on the newspaper and select "get a job". Either way works fine. When deciding which job to get, keep many things in mind. First, look at the pay. What would your sim rather have, a job that pays 120 simoleons each day, or 250? Also, look at what job your sim wants, if any. You can see this either in their wants, or lifetime want. Your sim will be happier, and will most likely want to reach the top of that career. Lastly, look at the skills you have. If you have high body skill, try the dance or military career. With high creativity, a culinary or artist career might be best for your sim. Here is the complete list of jobs:


Athletic






Business






Criminal






Culinary






Law Enforcement






Medicine






Military






Politics






Science






Slacker






Artist






Natural Science






Paranormal






Show Business






Law






Gamer






Adventurer






Music






Journalism






Education






Entertainment






Dance






Architecture






Intelligence






Oceanography





;
, You can tell when your sim works by clicking on the "jobs & skills" button when you select your sim. The days of the week highlighted in blue is when your sim works. To see which skills you need to gain, look in the "jobs & skills section". The skills you need to get promoted will be highlighted in blue. When you have free time, make sure you gain these skills, or else you will not get promoted.
 Family friends are people (nobody in particular) you must become friends with in order to get promoted. A family friend is NOT a relative, they're just another sim that is friends with you OR someone else in the family. To see how many family friends you need in order to get promoted, click the "jobs & skills" button. Beside a smiley face will be a number (+1, +2, etc.) That means how many additional family friends you need. It will also tell how many family friends you already have.
 To go to work, a carpool will arrive an hour in advance. Click on it to send your sim to work. If that sim is the only one, the game will automatically fast forward until they come home, unless there is a career chance card.
 In the previous step, I mentioned career chance cards. On some days, usually the first day of work, the game will pause and have a note come up. There will be a situation and 3 choices. One of them is to ignore. If you ignore the situation, nothing good or bad will happen. But the other two choices determine what happens. Sometimes your sim will gain or lose a skill point, get promoted or demoted, or even get fired. Everything is random, but just choose what you think is best.
 After work, a message will appear that says how much money your sim got from work, and if they got promoted. Get promoted by gaining skills, family friends, and picking the right decision on career chance cards. Keep getting promoted to reach the top of your career!

