 Make two columns with a list in each column. In column one write your interests and abilities (What are you good at?) In column two make a list of your difficulties and weaknesses. This can help to clarify your thinking in both areas by comparison and contrast. Hopefully you'll feel good about your strengths and prospects and you will not be confused.;
, Define your questions. Ask questions of your teachers, mother, father and other elders, as well as your peers. Read and do research to seek answers at the local library or on the internet.
 If you are not sure about what you want to learn and develop, then just take a guess and start on something that seems right.



You may need to get over some bad habits/weaknesses, and so work on lessening your weaknesses that seem to matter the most. For example, If you are good in improving your attitudes, being positive and thoughtful, then consider working in an area requiring contact skills in work that requires communicating with people.
 Persistence is about half of being successful. That takes mental discipline and keeping on doing positive habit-forming while breaking bad habits. This could be in school, in a career, a hobby or all of the above.
 Keep working and studying. Working itself is far more satisfying and important than reaching a temporary solution. Few things in life are permanent.
 Don't worry if your concepts are not clear at first or seem to come and go. Just step up and take a breath, keep going and be sure that you are doing it in a good manner.
 Be thankful for your opportunities and go for it, instead of complaining! If you find that your skills limit your earning potential consider staying in or going back to school or college. If your interest lies in the computer industry, many community colleges offer computer certification tests. Check with counselors at school or college.
 After all many employers just want to see that you can finish your program of study and be self-motivated to improve yourself, not just because of "the paper" for graduating from school and college.

