 You may not be the most confident person, but you can still pretend to be. If this person begins to push you, simply shove them away. Control your voice. Try to make it sound deep and powerful, not wobbly and scrawny.;
, If this person is just shouting things at you, it's not the time to attack them. Wait for them to give you a reason, this will get the bystanders (and law) on your side! If they push you, simply ignore them, or push them back if you think they'll keep going. If they punch you, go nuts.
 Make sure you are a good distance in relation to the mugger. Don't stand too close nor too far away from them. Spread your legs so they're a little wider than your shoulders, with your main foot being the most forward one. Turn your body sideways to the mugger, this will make you a smaller target, and make it harder for them to hit you in the stomach or solar plexus. Bring your hands arm arms up to your face, try to protect your head and neck as much as possible.
 Act like you're not going to hit them, and then suddenly make your move. A quick hit to the throat is effective; it doesn't take much to collapse their trachea, and if you manage to do this, the fight is over! By this time, the attacker should have raised their hands to their throat/face. If you get the feeling they are not done yet, use your fist to pummel their stomach, or give him a quick jab to the solar plexus. If this still didn't do the trick, go ahead and send your knee into their groin or breasts. At this point, the attacker should be doubled over in pain, and most likely not in a good fighting condition. This is where you make your choice, walk away or keep going at them? If they show any sign that they want to keep fighting, improvise. Hit them a couple of times, kick them. From here on, it doesn't take a lot to bring them down!

, If they are huddled up in a ball on the ground, leave them. If however, they are still trying to pushing you around, then do everything you can to stop them. Know when to stop; don't overdo this; you don't want to take their life.

