 Stark white is the color of choice, but slightly off-white shades also work. The point is to create a "blank slate" of sorts. By keeping the walls as neutral as possible, the rest of the room stands out more.
 Glossy linoleum is one of the floor types frequently associated with modern design schemes. Choose a non-obtrusive, plain color, such as white or black. By settling with a neutral color, you allow the other accents in your room to take center stage.
 If you want to add a bright burst of color, find a bold shade that makes a strong statement. Select a square rug that adds straight lines and sharp angles to the room, and opt for one that only covers part of the floor instead of the entire floor. A smaller rug permits your glossy floor to show through.
 Glass is a shiny material that remains relatively low-key, which may work well in many modern living rooms. One with stainless steel or black lacquered legs adds a notably contemporary look. Stick with square or rectangular tables, or look for a perfectly round circle.
 Instead of looking for furniture with rounded corners and soft edges, look for seating that has straight lines and sharp angles. The seating should also be in neutral colors like white, beige, gray, or black. Black furniture adds appropriate contrast against white walls, but white or gray seating may work better if you plan on adding bright splashes of color elsewhere.
 Black-and-white zebra print is especially fitting for modern décor, but a bold red, green, or orange adds just enough visual interest to serve as a fitting focal point. Stick with square and rectangular pillows over rounded ones or those without any well-defined shape.
 A circular or cube ottoman in a color that matches the rest of your seating can accompany your sofa while serving as additional seating when necessary. The simple color and geometric shape allows it to fit in perfectly.
 Skinny floor lamps with a single bright light shining at the top can add a tremendous amount of light while keeping to the minimalist ambiance of a modern living room. Choose a simple design with a black or metal stand.
 Recessed ceiling lights can flood your living room with color, creating sharp, angular shadows that highlight the room's modern theme. These lights are also relatively hidden and do not clash with the look of the room.
 Modern living rooms are sparsely decorated, but they do not need to be completely empty. A few white votive candles or geometric vases filled with orchids can add just enough visual interest to the room to make it look lived in, but do not flood the room with too much unnecessary detail.
 Hang a painting or two on a bare wall to draw the eye or place a statue on an end table or coffee table. The statue can be a modern geometric design, or it can be a statue of something that exists in the real world, such as a horse or cat. Paintings can be colorful, but a statue should be simple, monochromatic, and made from one material.

