 This is very important. Keep a neutral exterior at first, in prefer to prevent people from prejudging you.;
, Have good body hygiene, be fresh, and stay clean. Nobody will want to talk to you after a whiff of body odor. Brush your teeth at least twice a day, wash your hair everyday and take a shower at least four times in a week.


Shower regularly. Take a shower every one or two days, depending on the weather and the level of activity you've undertaken. Always shower after a heavy workout, though.

Some girls have to wash their hair everyday because it's naturally greasy, and some girls only every other day. Find out what's right for you.
Tuck your hair up under a shower cap. Do so if you wish to take a shower but feel your hair doesn't need a wash.


Smell sweet. Use scented hair or body products in the shower, and use some body lotion in order to keep your skin soft. Spray yourself lightly with perfume or body mists. You may wish to buy coordinated scents to maximize the effect. Whilst a faint smell is lovely, beware of overdoing it, especially at school. Less is more.

No amount of 'smellies' can successfully mask the smell of sweat. Use a good antiperspirant to prevent sweating. You may wish to top off with a deodorant which will mask the smell of your sweat.
 If you wear a uniform, you may not need to wash your jumper, trousers, or skirt more than once a week. However, you should remember to change your shirt everyday or every other day.
 Get rid of acne or pimples if you have any. Use a daily facial cleanser to reduce or prevent acne. Choose one which complements your natural skin type: normal, dry, sensitive, oily or combined. Follow up with a moisturizer as facial cleansers tend to be drying.


Experiment with different products to find what best suits you. Talk to a pharmacist about the products on offer. However, give each product a fortnight or so before you expect to see any real effect.
If you find that you have a lot of problems with spots, visit your doctor. They may prescribe certain medications to help clear it up.
 Use light, natural tones for school. In addition, save the bright colors for parties.


Use a close to your complexion foundation or for a lighter feel, a tinted moisturizer. Apply concealer under the eyes and on pimples. Pat it on, and don't rub it in. Afterwards, lightly dab on face powder to cover your face, and blend in your foundation with your concealer.
Remember to remove all makeup every night. Otherwise, it will clog your pores and cause acne.
 This showcases your lovely eyes and suited for your eye color. Choose what works for you best. If you prefer only to wear lip gloss and concealer, then do that.


If you have blue eyes, there are several shadow shades that will work for you. Shades in the brown, light pink and violet families work best generally. Also, try rich browns, golds, warm taupe, soft peaches, and pretty lilacs.

For eyeliner, go with a brown shade or dark brown to keep it subtle and soft. You want to look as if you woke up that way. With mascara, use brown or brown/black mascara, or even clear mascara to look the most natural.


"Decorate" your green eyes. Violet and plum eye shadow shades are best for green eyes. Warmer colors like deep purples, mauve, lilacs, and medium pinks are also good choices. Browns, bronzes, golds, coppers, and deep greens will also compliment your eye color.

For eyeliner, try a dark brown, hunter green, or plum shade. Black eyeliner can often be too overwhelming. However, if you think it can look nice, then use it. Your mascara should be brownish black too. Use black mascara sparingly.


Complement your brown eyes. Brown eyes are some of the easiest to complement. This eye color can get away with greens, golds, browns, pinks, blues, grays and purples. Earthy colors tend to look the best for neutral looks.

Black eyeliner will work nicely with brown eyes. Use some black mascara to open and brighten the eyes.


Complement hazel eyes. Shades of pale pink, light purple and baby blush look great with hazel eyes. Use some shimmer on your lids to bring out the twinkle in your eyes. Hazel eyes stand out with deep greens, lavenders and shades with soft yellow undertones. To bring out the gold in your eyes, choose golden based eye shadows.

To bring out the green specks in your eyes, choose a brighter green shade like emerald and apply in three different intensities.
To bring out the blue specks in your eyes, go with purple in three different shades. To highlight the brown base of your hazel eyes stick with natural shades of brown. This will give you that "do-like" appearance.
To bring out the green and blue specks with a more natural look, go with soft natural shades paired with dark green or blue liner and black mascara.
 This way, you won't need to lick them all day. Exfoliate your lips once every 2 weeks with a homemade scrub or one bought from the store.


Use a medicated lip balm or chap-stick of your choice. Do this in order to keep them smooth and supple. Apply your favorite lip gloss/lip tint on top, in order to get sheer and shiny lips. Lip glosses come in many sweet flavors. Do not lick them off!

, If you wish to remove hair from your arms or legs, try shaving, waxing or using a hair removal cream.


Try shaving if you haven't already. Use a shaving cream with a razor to remove hair. Buy a woman's razor to avoid nicking yourself. Sensitive razors are available for shavings your underarms and bikini area. If you are afraid of cutting yourself, try a depilatory cream or lotion.
 Waxing is the longest term solution available to most teenage girls. If you wish to start waxing, find a reputable practitioner or try it yourself at home. Follow the instructions carefully to ensure the best experience and results.
 They cause pimples and bumps.
 Any stray hairs should be plucked away. Straight eyebrows tend to look more youthful, arched eyebrows look more mature and grown up.


If your eyebrows are thin and undefined, use an eyebrow pencil, or matte eyeshadow. Use it close to your eyebrow color to color them in. Use a pencil/shadow at least 2 shades lighter then your hair. Never use black; it looks far too harsh, even on black eyebrows.
 Dry hair is more prone to damage and breakage.


Use a high quality shampoo and conditioner, then apply your styling products.
If your hair gets very oily and you feel like you have to shampoo your hair everyday, invest in a dry shampoo from a local beauty supply store. If your hair is more textured (curly or wavy) shampoo your hair once to twice a week, and use a conditioner on your no-shampoo days. Every hair type deserves personalized care; curly hair has different needs to straight or wavy hair.
If you want to add something interesting, try coloring your hair; do not use anything too bold or different. Don't go from black to platinum blonde, you may be labeled as unoriginal or fake.

Do soft, subtle shades about one to two shades lighter for a complete dye. For highlights or a soft ombre, you can temporarily try different colors of your choice. Nothing too out of the ordinary, especially at private schools.
 Once in a while heat manipulation isn't too bad.


Always use a heat protestant to avoid damaging your hair too much. If you prefer using no heat, there are tons of heat-less ways to differently style your hair on YouTube. You can even get new hairstyle tutorials to try.

For example, use a french braid, fishtail, waterfall, heat-less waves, creative ponytails and buns, etc. Style it differently everyday. A little accessory makes a difference.
 Try curling your hair sometimes for loose waves, or scrunching it for a wet beach look. You can also straighten it for a sleek look, and try different ponytail and bun styles with varied headbands.
 If your new school allows you to wear whatever you please, make it your own. Wear plenty of cute tops with skirts and jeans. Simple cardigans, sweaters, and jackets can dress up or down an outfit.
 Never pick style over comfort. Cute wedges, ballerina flats, sandals (if your school allows it), and sneakers (if you're the sporty type) can always make your outfit look great.


Wear what your school allows. If you have a skirt that you feel is a bit too long, Roll it up a bit, but no more than two to four inches above the knee. The school will know and the people will confront you in front of the whole class. How embarrassing!
Try untucking your school shirt, and unbuttoning the first two buttons, which is usually above your cleavage. But, if you can't do anything to alter the uniform due to strict teachers, leave the uniform alone.
 Try jewelry, a pretty headband, and a cute tote bag. Wear the expected socks or shoes. Most private schools have a designated color, such as brown or black.
 For black shoes, wear ballerina flats, low heels, Toms, Sperrys, or Converses/Vans. Many of those shoes come in different color options.
 If you aren't allowed to wear nail polish, just put on a clear polish. If you are then experiment, and try fun and funky colors ranging from red to white, green to blue. Try anything! If you want to look simple, and a bit more matured, you can also try a pretty french manicure on your natural nails or acrylic/gel.
 The nails can snag, and make your natural nail brittle and weak. Weigh out the pros and cons.
 At every class, try to sit and talk to someone new, don't be rude to anyone it can come back and nip you in the bottom.


On the first week of school, just tag along. Don't try to be friends with anyone just yet. Find a person to help you adapt to class. She will be a good friend to you, so don't stop talking to her when you get popular.
 That's the easiest way to become popular, or if they are mean. You don't want to turn into that then stay with the kids you met in classes.


If you gain more friends and are confident enough, try joining the school council, or even president. Don't be fake and try to like everything they like, you still want to be yourself right? And what fun would it be anyway if you weren't yourself?

, Try Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, etc. You can add friends on those websites. Try hanging out in places they would normally be at. ex: Starbucks/Caribou, school gym, mall, etc. Ask to sit with them, Be prepared for a solid "No". They might not exactly trust you yet. If they say "yes" then your right on track.


Soak up their trends, gossip, and everything else. Do not distribute it, though.

They might not even care for your opinion right now, as they might not even consider you a friend.
You can get into conflicts with others for gossiping about them.
If you tell a secret of theirs to someone else they won't trust you anymore. You'll be at square one again, so don't get too overconfident and forget who you are.
 You'll know when you did everything correctly when they have a party/sleepover that they invite you to, That means they like you. They won't just invite anyone to their house, right? If they have any plans and choose to invite you, that will seal the deal.


If you aren't invited, don't be too disappointed, maybe you'll have to initiate interactions. You can invite her (leader of clique), and her only to your house. She might accept.
Keep the conversations light and flowing. Do fun things like prank call people, watch movies, bake things, do nails, makeup, facials, and hair. Don't feel restricted to only be at your place. If your old enough you could plan it on a night that has a party, you could get ready at your place, (Hair, makeup, cute outfits) and have a blast at the party. Afterwards, you could come home and do something else interesting.
The next time you can invite the others, but if you feel like you have to always initiate conversations and she never tries to talk to you either, then maybe it isn't even worth it. She may also be hard to convince or trust people as a close friend.
Don't share your beliefs and deep secrets yet, focus a little on her for now so she can build your trust as well as you, so you can be certain she doesn't distribute your secrets and beliefs either.
 To have a clique find a few people you feel the most connection with and make a group with them.
 Be yourself, and honest. Don't lie or brag, Nobody likes a liar!

