 When a lot of people are looking for a finite amount of jobs in a particular industry, human resources can feel stretched to its limits. There are a lot of ways human resources filters out potential employees, from tossing poorly spelled cover letters to not clicking with you at the first interview, and the "no-unemployed applicants" is often another ploy to try to cull the initial first large wave of applicants.;
, The reasoning is most likely that you're less skilled, more out of date because you've not been in the workforce recently, so it's important to be able to dispel such concerns.



Volunteer while looking for work
Continue studies or training while looking for work
Keep updated about the news, current affairs, what's hot
Improve your general knowledge - read a lot!

, Get out there and meet the people who might otherwise throw up barriers to your application. Once they know and like you, it gets a whole lot harder to throw back your application.
 It hurts not only your own prospects, but everyone else's too. Think of it this way, no matter how fed up you feel looking for jobs--would you like to read through reams of unrelated, unqualified resumes sent in "on the off chance" that someone might spot the diamond in the rough? Life isn't the movies, so be sensible about your job applications and put in more effort to those applications you know you have the skills for.


Have your resume checked to make sure it has no mistakes, waffling, or irrelevancies
Perfect your writing of a cover letter

Learn excellent phone manners

Show that you know the company inside out when you do apply; it is completely unforgivable to give an inkling that you haven't spent time reading through their website and company reports
Upgrade your qualifications if the jobs that interest you require more than what you've got.
 Inform potential employers that you're fully employed on particular projects and be sure to list them, along with clarification of what each project or role involves. The difference is that you're not remunerated, not at this point anyway, but you're certainly in the "thick of it" as far as keeping updated and knowledgeable is concerned.
 If you're losing sleep, shifting sleep patterns to sleep late, rise late, or you're generally letting yourself get out of shape and out of sorts, you won't be ready for the snap interview when it comes and you will do yourself an injustice. Stay in top shape - the job search remains as professional as turning up to work every day.


Build your self esteem
Build your self confidence
Deal with negative thinking
Don't listen to negative people.

