 Your rabbit's ears are the most important to pay attention to. When rabbits overheat, blood vessels in their ears swell and cause a general redness to appear. This is a great indicator of heat stroke in rabbits. An overheated rabbit may also have one or more of the following symptoms:Wet fur below the nose
Heavy and fast breathing
Flared nostrils
Sprawled out on the floor
Hot ears and feet
Inactive and not as alert as usual (lethargic)
Eyes half closed, Rabbits shed a lot. Normally, they clean themselves and remove all the excess fur and dander. If your rabbit is shedding and not cleaning itself properly, this extra fur can act as another layer of insulation. In the winter, this works well for a rabbit. In the summer, it can lead to heat exhaustion.


Brush your rabbit from head to posterior. Keep your strokes light. You don’t want to remove too much fur or hurt your rabbit. Do so during the summer months regularly., Place small ice cubes in your rabbit's water bottle to lower its temperature. If you have to leave your rabbit for a long period of time in warmer temperatures, this is a good step. Over the course of the day, the water will remain cooler for longer as the ice cubes melt. Dehydration can lead to heat stroke more easily in rabbits. If your rabbit is overheated, it will look for ways to cool itself off. If its water is colder than usual, it will seek it out and drink more to cool itself down.Give your rabbit veggies to help keep it hydrated. Soak small carrots, celery stalks, and other vegetables that your rabbit enjoys in water and then place them in your rabbit’s cage. This way your rabbit will get additional water through its food., It is ok to dip its feet in water, but don't completely dunk it in it. Rabbits by nature are not strong swimmers. You may think that a quick dunk will cool them off, but in reality, it may exacerbate your rabbit's condition. The shock of the water may cause anxiety, which will elevate your rabbit’s core temperature.You can lightly mist your rabbit with water, but don't drench it (see next step)., Mix 1 part 50% rubbing alcohol and 3 parts water in a spray bottle; then spritz the solution on the outside of the rabbit's ears and on the top of the paws. Wet them well and the evaporation will cool the rabbit tremendously. (The alcohol just speeds evaporation.)
, Try calling your vet first. He may ask you to try different cooling measures before you bring your rabbit in for an exam. He’ll probably suggest many of the tips included above. If you’ve already tried all of these tips, tell your vet so and then proceed to bring your rabbit into the clinic.