 Take a little of the concealer you normally use for your skin tone and dab a little just below your eye line using your fingertips. Applying concealer can help the eyeliner stay in place longer.Always wash your face before applying makeup and be sure to wash makeup off of your face at the end of the day. This will help keep your skin clear and healthy.;
, Gently pull down the skin of your lower eyelid. Take your cotton swab and swipe along the waterline so that you remove any moisture. This will help the eyeliner stick to your waterline.








Take care when using the cotton swab on your eye. Stand in front of a mirror with good lighting so you can easily see what you're doing.
 To make application easier, look directly at the mirror and tilt your head down. Don't adjust your gaze while you do this. Use your fingertips and gently pull down on the eyelid.Some people find that squinting can make it easier to apply eyeliner to the waterline.
 Use a sharp eyeliner pencil and rub the pencil along your waterline using sweeping motions. You should still be pulling the lid down so that the pencil doesn't directly rub against your eye.








While it might seem easier to use liquid eyeliner, you should avoid applying it to the waterline.
 Dip a cotton swab in some makeup remover or petroleum jelly. Carefully run it along the lashes below the waterline. This can clean up smudges or thin out a heavy line of eyeliner.








If you'd like to create a smoky look, gently smudge the eyeliner along your lashes. You can use clean fingertips or a smudging tool.
 Set your eyeliner by applying a little eye powder to keep the eyeliner in place. Dip an eyeliner brush in eyeshadow that's the same shade as your eyeliner. Brush the eyeshadow over the eyeliner.








If you'd like a bold look, you can repeat this process and apply eyeliner to the upper waterline (known as tightlining).
 If you like how your eyes look when you use eyeliner on the waterline, then you should continue doing it. But, if you're worried it doesn't work with your eyes, there are simple things you can try. For:








Wide-set eyes: make sure the eyeliner goes all the way to the inner corner near your nose.
Close-set eyes: avoid applying eyeliner in the inner corner and instead apply it mainly along the middle and outer corner of your eyes.
Small eyes: use a softer color like brown or khaki instead of black which may define your eyes too much.
 You'll probably want to use a sharp eyeliner pencil since you can control the eyeliner easier. You can also use a gel eyeliner and a brush if you feel comfortable applying the liner with a brush. If you choose a pencil, choose one that's designed for applying along the waterline. Kohl pencils are good choices for this.Since the eyeliner is directly against your eye, choose a waterproof eyeliner to make it last longer. Just avoid using liquid eyeliner since it's too slippery to accurately apply.You can use any color of eyeliner. Black eyeliner is a good choice for bold, evening looks. White or tan eyeliners can open up the eyes, making them appear brighter.
 You can rub the eyeliner over the waterline several times when you're initially putting it on. But, you should avoid touching up the waterline later. Doing so can increase your risk of infection by up to 30%.








Once your waterline is lined with eyeliner, it will be hard to contain or control. You may need to carry cotton swabs to clean up any smudging or mess after wearing it for a few hours., If you're using a pencil instead of gel, always sharpen the pencil before each use. This ensures that the pencil tip is fresh and won't introduce bacteria into your eye, which could lead to infection. Keep anything that touches your eye completely clean. For example, if you're using a cotton swab, make sure you use a new swab right out of the package.To further reduce your risk for eye infection, never share eyeliner or eye makeup with others. You should also replace your pencil eyeliners every two years., Your eyeliner will stay in place longer if you take the time to curl your lashes before applying the eyeliner. This way, eyelashes don't poke down into the makeup.








This can be especially helpful if your eyelashes naturally point straight downward.

