 One out of five people with shingles will develop post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). You may have PHN if you are experiencing severe pain in the same area where you had your shingles rash.PHN can last for weeks or months. Some people can experience symptoms for years.The older you are, the more likely you are to develop PHN.If you experience pain when things touch your skin (e.g., clothes, wind, people), you may have PHN.If you wait too long to seek treatment, you may be more likely to develop PHN.
 While PHN is the most common complication, there are other complications such as pneumonia, hearing problems, blindness, brain inflammation (encephalitis), or death.Scarring, bacterial skin infection, and local muscle weakness are also possible complications., If you think you are suffering from PHN or other shingles complications, you should go see your doctor. Your doctor will be able to develop a treatment plan to manage your complications. Your treatment plan will be focused on managing your chronic pain.Your treatment plan may include topical agents such as lidocaine, analgesics such as oxycodone, anti-convulsants such as gabapentin (Neurontin) or pregabalin (Lyrica), or psychosocial interventions.Many people may experience depression or other mental health issues when they deal with chronic pain. Your doctor may prescribe you antidepressants or recommend that you receive cognitive behavioral therapy. Your cognitive behavioral therapy may include relaxation techniques or hypnosis. Both of these techniques are effective for managing chronic pain., If you are 60 and older, you should get the shingles vaccine. Even though you have had shingles before, you should still get the vaccine.You can get the vaccine at your doctor's office or at the pharmacy.


Your shingles vaccine will be covered by Medicare Part D plans or your private health insurance.You should wait until your rash has disappeared before you get vaccinated. Talk with your doctor to decide the best time for you to get the vaccine., Living with shingles means that anything can trigger an outbreak, including stress, a lowered immune system, poor diet and exhaustion.While getting vaccinated is the only way to prevent shingles, having good overall health can help you avoid another outbreak and recover from shingles better.Eat a balanced diet and get plenty of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants.
Exercise regularly and get plenty of rest.

