 When setting up a time to speak with your friend, find a comfortable spot to meet such as a favorite hangout or place you two visit frequently. The more comfortable both you and your friend are, the better your conversation will go and you want it to go smoothly.A quiet place with room to sit and relax is a good place to speak.
Coffee shops, cafes, parks, etc. are good places to talk.
 You might be worried or even angry at your friend for wanting to have plastic surgery, but approaching your friend with high emotions is unlikely to be helpful. Before you sit down to talk with your friend, you will need to calm yourself down.Try doing some deep breathing exercises, meditation, or a progressive muscle relaxation.
 Using “I” statements will help you to express your concerns in a way that does not seem like you are accusing your friend.Using “you” statements is more likely to make your friend feel like she has to defend herself.


For example, don’t say “You don’t need plastic surgery! You are being unreasonable!” Instead, say something like, “I am concerned about your intentions for having plastic surgery. I would really like to help you make an informed decision.”

, People who are struggling with mental health issues might see plastic surgery as a way to solve all of their problems. If your friend struggles with depression, anxiety, or other mental health issues, then he or she should postpone the decision to have plastic surgery.Try saying something like, “I know you have been feeling depressed lately, but plastic surgery is not the solution. It might be a good idea to talk to a counselor and get some help for how you have been feeling before you move forward with your plan to have plastic surgery. Would you be willing to let me help you find someone who can help you?”

, You might not be able to change your friend’s mind, no matter how well you prepare or how sound your reasoning is. If your friend still wants to have plastic surgery despite your concerns and the risks involved, then the best thing you can do is offer your friend your support.


Try saying something like, “I don’t agree with your decision, but you are my friend and I support you. I will do what I can to help.”
Consider offering to accompany your friend when she goes to see a plastic surgeon, or taking care of your friend after the surgery.

