 Just like people, cats can get too much sun. Cats that spend too much time in the sun can get dry skin and sun damage. The exact amount of time your cat needs in the sun depends on its breed. Talk to your vet about your cat’s sunshine needs.Cats with white ears, noses, and eyelids are more likely to get sun-damaged skin than cats with darker skin.
 If your home gets infested by fleas, it can be hard to get rid of them. Talk to your vet about the best options for flea control in your home. Your vet will provide advice based on their knowledge of your cat’s health and breed.The most common flea prevention methods are oral medications and sprays that keep fleas away from your cat.
You can also limit the odds that your cat will contract fleas by keeping it away from stray cats and limiting its outdoors time.
 A balanced diet promotes healthy skin.A healthy feline diet contains fatty acids, vitamins, amino acids, and minerals. Look for a cat food that is labeled with an Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) statement attesting to its nutritional completeness.The best-quality cat foods will have meat, meat byproducts, or seafood listed among the first few ingredients.
Choose a cat food your cat enjoys eating. If your cat turns up its nose at a given cat food, even if it is nutritionally balanced, there are many other nutritionally balanced cat foods available that are more palatable to your kitty. For instance, canned food tends to be preferred over semi-moist food, which in turn tends to be more popular than dry cat food.
Most cats need to be fed three times daily. Your vet will let you know if your cat needs its diet adjusted based on its age and weight.
 Worming refers to the process of removing the intestinal worms that often populate the feline gut. Cats with large worm populations could develop skin problems.Tapeworms, hookworms, and roundworms are some of the most common worms in cats.To deworm your cat, consult your vet. Your vet will be knowledgeable about what sorts of feline worms are most common in your geographical area, and will be able to recommend the most effective deworming treatment based on modern veterinary science.
Your vet will let you know how often you need to deworm your cat during your regularly scheduled veterinary visits.
 If your kitty has skin problems due to an underlying condition like cancer, diabetes, or a mite infestation, treating that condition is the necessary first step in solving the skin problem. Talk to your vet about the best way to solve your cat’s underlying condition., If your cat has a balanced diet but still suffers from dry, flaky skin, consider adding omega 3 fatty acid or cod liver oil supplements to their diet. These are available from many pet stores in the form of chewable capsules that you can simply feed your cat along with its meals.Ask your vet to recommend a reputable brand and verify that such supplements would be safe and effective for your cat.
Always use supplements as directed by the manufacturer.
 Cats usually do not need to be bathed since they clean themselves regularly. But if your cat has skin problems – especially dry or flaky skin – a bath could help treat grimy and matted fur that might exacerbate skin irritation. Use a mild, nontoxic, moisturizing shampoo when washing your cat.Bathe your cat when it is relaxed. Baths after a play session are ideal.Before bathing, trim your cat’s claws and brush its fur to remove any loose hair. Place cotton balls in your cat’s ears before the bath to keep water out.
Place your cat in the tub and use a handheld hose or detachable showerhead to get your cat wet.
Massage the shampoo into your cat’s fur according to manufacturer directions. Rinse the cat off with the hose or showerhead, then dry your cat gently with a towel.

