 You may be a bit annoyed that your dog stops every five seconds to sniff something on your walk, but to your dog, each smell is fascinating. Every smell communicates something about what's going on in the area, including who's been there recently (dog and human). Giving your dog a chance to sniff around will keep it entertained., Walks generally aren't the place to introduce new commands, but they can be a great way to reinforce training your dog already knows. Plus, your dog will find the walk more interesting if it gets to interact with you more.For instance, you can work on sit and stay as you walk. Try telling the dog to sit at various times throughout the walk, particularly if it's a challenging time, such as your dog wanting to chase after a squirrel. You could also try running a few paces ahead and then asking the dog to sit.
You can also work on recall. Start by practicing with less interesting places, such as a light pole. Let your dog sniff the area, and go to the end of the leash. Call the dog's name, and use your recall word to get it to come. If it comes immediately, praise it and offer a treat. If it needs some help, get its attention with a funny noise or by lightly bumping it on the back. Then run off, calling its recall word. When it follows you, make sure to praise it extravagantly and give a treat, so you prove you're more interesting than what it was looking at.
 Your dog will likely enjoy playing with you whether you're on a walk or at home, though some may need to get used to the idea in public. For instance, you can take a tug toy along with you to bring out at different times during the walk. You could also crouch down and act like you're stalking your dog (in fun). Try any game your dog seems to enjoy., Another way to keep your dog entertained is to treat the walk like an obstacle course. You could weave the dog between parking meters, for instance. You could also ask the dog to jump up and walk on benches or on low garden walls. Basically, you're just looking for ways to make the walk more interesting.