 Try to find a quiet place where you'll be able to relax. Use deep breathing exercises, feeling the air pass through your nostrils and raising/lowering your abdomen.Sit in a quiet spot and eliminate as many distractions as you can. Silence your cellphone and close the door (if possible).
Loosen any tight clothing so that you won't be restricted.
Close your eyes and concentrate on your breathing.
 You can visualize whatever you want. It can be a real place you've been, or a place that you completely imagine. Try to incorporate as many sensory details as possible to "trick" your brain into thinking you're really there in that moment.Start by picturing a visual image. Choose a place that is totally relaxing. It doesn't matter if you've never been there, just imagine a place of peace and tranquility.
Imagine the sounds you'd hear there. For example, if your visual image was a quiet beach, you might imagine the sound of waves slowly lapping or surging against the shore.
Next, imagine the physical sensations you might experience there. If you're on a beach, you might imagine the sun warming your skin and the gritty feeling of sand underneath you.
Try to incorporate an olfactory sense, if you can. On the beach, for example, you might smell the ocean's salty water wafting in on the breeze, or perhaps the smell of sun screen on your body.
 You can continue visualizing for as long as you'd like. When you're ready, simply open your eyes (slowly) and get ready to stand up. Take it slow, since your body and mind just left a state of relaxation and may need to readjust to waking life.


Open your eyes slowly. After closing your eyes and imagining a quiet, peaceful place, it may be jarring to remember your actual immediate surroundings.
Don't try to stand up too quickly or you might get disoriented.
You may want to stretch out your muscles before you stand up to get the blood flowing again.
Fix any clothing you might have loosened, and you should be calm and ready to tackle the rest of your day.

