 Match yourself to a book genre you’re sure to love to ensure a fun reading session. If you are unsure what genre of books you might like, ask librarians, teachers, friends, or family members for suggestions.


Genres of books can include fiction, fairy tales, fantasy, historical fiction, horror, humor, mystery, poetry, science fiction, biography/autobiography, and nonfiction.Movie genres are similar to books, so ask yourself what kinds of movies you usually enjoy watching.
If you’re totally stumped, go to a local library and read a chapter or two from different books.
Don’t be afraid to go off the beaten path and choose an unusual genre. For example, children might particularly enjoy reading a graphic novel or comic book or an adult might really prefer Young Adult books.;
, You’ve got the genre down, so now you just need a specific book title to ensure you have fun. Browse bookshelves for splashy covers or look on internet blogs for fun sounding titles.Make books audition for you by picking several to begin reading at the same time. May the best book win!Make a child feel special by giving them a gift card or letting them sign up for their own library card with which to find their own book.
 Going on vacation? Do you like being able to chose your own font size? Does a cool reading device cover make you happy each time you sit down? You can check out or purchase e-books online without ever leaving home., Think about spaces you enjoy where you can read. Since books are portable, you can tote them anywhere from a bathtub to a park to a cafe.Calm, relaxing spaces might be your bathtub, bed, or a quiet reading room in a library.
Reading in a pub, cafe, or restaurant is perfect for those who prefer hustle and bustle.
Bring along your book on a beach or camping trip, to a park, or a patio if the outdoors air appeals to you.
A dedicated nook in your house for your kids to read with a magic carpet and overstuffed pillows makes reading exciting for little ones., Like listening to music? Snacking on chips? Curling up under a blanket? Make sure these things are available in your chosen environment to help brighten your mood while reading.
 Since reading can happen whenever, choose a time when you will be most alert and relaxed. Early morning or late evening are good times for reading and retaining information.Weekdays bogged down with work and school? You may find it more enjoyable to read on weekend afternoons when you are less pressured by obligations.
If winding down at night is when you feel most relaxed, curl up and read a chapter or two before bedtime.
 Put on your best dramatic reading voice and channel the characters. Ask the characters questions as you go along and imagine how they might respond to you. This will make you feel more a part of the story, which will help make reading more fun., If you are a movie buff, you will enjoy reading books based on movies you like. Read a book before or after seeing a movie on the big screen and then look for any differences between the print and screen versions., Meeting up with friends in a reading group at the local library or a book club in your neighborhood are great ways to enliven reading. Gushing about the romantic lead or venting about a frustrating character with friends makes for a fun evening.


Book club meetings often involve food and friendship, in addition to discussions of the book. You’ll leave with a full tummy, happy heart, and satisfied mind.If you prefer not to leave your home, go online and engage with others on book forums.
 Partnering with another person to read doubles the fun! Take turns reading to each other or pause and discuss the plotline to brighten your reading experience.


Reading only a chapter or two each sitting will build anticipation for the next reading session with your partner., As you read keep a journal handy where you can jot down your emotions. When you’re finished with the book you can look over your thoughts and remember the parts that challenged you, made you laugh, or spoke to you deeply.