 The position that you need to hold your deck is called the Biddle grip. This is when you hold the cards with one hand, with your thumb on the edge of the deck facing you, and your ring and middle fingers on the opposite side of the deck. Your index finger will be used manipulate the cards, and your hand should be positioned like a claw, with your index finger resting on the top card of the deck., Apply pressure on the edge of the cards with your index finger and lift so that 1/3 of the deck gets cut. Slightly move this portion of the deck to the side to separate the portions of cards from the main deck. This action is also known as a swing cut., After you cut the deck with your index finger, slide the cards across so that they end up in your other hand. The cards should be facing down, and the palm on your other hand should be facing up. You should now have one deck of cards with 2/3 of the cards in it and one deck of cards with 1/3 of the cards in it., Using another swing cut, split the larger portion of cards into two equal and separate decks using your index finger. Keep them in your one hand, but use your index and middle fingers to keep them separated., With the 2/3 deck still split in half, transfer the smaller deck to your other hand and hold this deck with your ring finger and thumb. While doing this, make sure that all the decks are still detached from one another. Do not mix the cards completely or you'll lose track of your deck. You should now have 3 separate portions of your deck separated by your fingers., Now, with your other hand, pull out the middle portion of the deck. Continue to keep the bottom and top portion of the main deck separated with your fingers., In order to give the illusion that you're cutting the deck, you'll have to use a swivel move. To swivel the top portion of cards, use your index finger to push on the corner edge of the main deck so that it rotates at a 90 degree angle. As it's sliding, put it over the cards in your other hand. If done correctly, this should happen in one smooth motion., Now, it will appear that you cut the deck several times and shuffled the cards, but the cards will actually still all be in order that you began with.