 If your child wants to tell you something, listen to them, even if they’re not telling you anything objectively important. Take the time to comfort them if they are sad or hurt. Talk openly about feelings with your child, and share your own emotions with them.Doing this will teach them that feeling their emotions is normal and it will also validate them as a person.


You might say, "I want you to know that you can talk to me about anything. I'm always here for you." You must be willing to follow through on this, however. Carve out time to talk to your child on a regular basis.
 Make it a priority to talk and play with your child regularly. Read to them, take them to the playground, or ask them to show you their favorite toys. Show your child that you’re interested in them by letting them lead the interaction and giving them your full attention.If your schedule is packed, schedule playtime just like your other important commitments.
Turn off your phone and the TV before you spend time with your child. Electronic distractions can make it harder for you to connect with each other.
 No two kids are alike, even at an early age. Tailor your interactions with your child towards their unique personality and needs. By accepting your child on their own terms, you give them the message that you’ll love and care for them no matter what.For instance, if your child is timid, encourage them to try new things and reassure them when they are nervous. Don’t criticize them for their shyness or set restrictive rules that will make them feel even more fearful. Criticizing will only reduce your child’s self-esteem. Avoid criticism as a tool of "tough love."

, It is important to let your child know that you notice when they do well. Be sure to praise your child for their good actions and let them know that you are proud of them.


For example, if your child gets a good grade on a test, be sure to tell them they did a good job and that you are proud of them.
 No matter how frustrated you are, never tell your child that you don’t want them or that you’re going to leave them. Saying something like this can do long-term damage to a child’s trust in you, as well as their sense of self-worth.If your feelings are about to get the better of you, step away and take a deep breath before you return. It’s better to postpone dealing with a problem than to say something you’ll regret.
 It’s hard to recognize and meet your kids’ needs when you’re sleep-deprived and stressed. Keep yourself healthy and sane by eating well, getting some exercise, sleeping at least seven hours every night, and sneaking in personal time on a regular basis.Don’t be afraid to reach out for help, especially when your kids are very young. Ask your partner to help out with household chores more, or see if a friend will watch your toddler for an hour so you can have some downtime.
If you’re struggling with depression, anxiety, or another mental health condition, seek treatment right away. Children are very perceptive, and they may think it’s their fault when your mood is “off.”
Avoid allowing yourself to become agitated. This is usually a sign that you need to take care of yourself.

