 Add 6 cups (1.4 l) of water, ½ cup (118 ml) of soy sauce, 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of mirin, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of rice vinegar, 2 minced cloves of garlic, and ¼ teaspoon (¼ g) of fresh ginger to a large pot. Heat the mixture on high to bring it to a boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.Mirin is a Japanese sweet rice wine that you can usually find in Asian grocery stores or the international food section of a general grocery store.
 After the broth mixture comes to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low. Let it simmer uncovered while you prepare the rest of the ingredients., Place a large skillet on the stove and add just enough vegetable oil to lightly coat the pan. Allow the pan to heat on high until it is extremely hot and the oil begins to shimmer.The oil may smoke just slightly when it reaches the right temperature.
 Add ½ pound (227 g) of thinly sliced beef of your choice to the hot pan. Let the meat cook for 3 to 4 minutes on the first side. Flip it over and allow it to cook for another 2 to 3 minutes on the other side. Transfer the seared beef to a plate and set aside it for the moment.Make sure to thoroughly pat the beef dry before adding it to the pan.
When you think the first side of the beef is finished searing, shake the pan. If the meat moves, it’s ready to be flipped.
 When the broth is simmering, add 2 carrots that have been peeled into ribbons, ¼ cup (58 g) of scallions, and 2 cups (200 g) of bean sprouts to the pot. Allow them to cook in the broth for 5 minutes.You can substitute green onions for the scallions if you prefer.
 After the veggies have cooked in the broth for a few minutes, add 4 medium zucchini that have been spiralized into noodles to the pot. Let the zoodles cook in the broth until they reach your desired level of tenderness.You can use either a veggie spiralizer or a julienne slices to create the zoodles.
 When the zoodles are as tender as you’d like, add the seared beef to the broth. Mix well to ensure that the meat is evenly distributed throughout., To serve the ramen zoodles, ladle equal portions into 4 bowls. Squirt a little Sriracha to taste over the bowls and enjoy.Adding the Sriracha is an optional step. If you aren’t a fan of the heat, you can omit it.

