 Approximately two-thirds of men who experience infertility have difficulty with sperm production. Difficulties with sperm production include not only how many sperm are produced but also the quality of the sperm.In terms of quantity, ejaculating less than 15 million sperm per milliliter of semen is considered a low sperm count. If you suspect you may have a low sperm count, you should ask your doctor about getting your sperm count tested.You could also do a home sperm test.


Do a sperm test at home. You can purchase a home sperm test online or at major drug and department stores. Typically, these home sperm tests are reasonably accurate in measuring sperm count. You will have to ejaculate into a cup, wait ten minutes, and then look for your results.Remember that home sperm tests are limited in their ability to test for male infertility. They only measure sperm count and do not check for things like motility, shape, and other aspects of sperm quality., Although many plans cover the diagnostic tests needed to determine infertility, there can be complications. You should check with your insurance plan to see if they cover the infertility tests you want to take.Some plans cover the diagnosis of infertility but not the treatment. You should also see whether or not your plan covers infertility treatment.
Check to see if there are age and gender related restrictions in your plan.
 Your doctor will likely conduct a physical examination and look at your medical and sexual history. The next step will likely involve an analysis of your semen. You will have to masturbate into a cup and they will send the sample to the laboratory for sperm count testing.If the sperm analysis is not sufficient to determine infertility, your doctor may do a scrotal ultrasound test. This test is used to look for problems such as varicocele (varicose veins in the scrotum).Get hormone testing to see if there is a problem with testosterone.Get a post-ejaculation urinalysis. This test is used to determine if your sperm are travelling in the wrong direction and ending up in your bladder.Look into genetic tests. If the sperm analysis finds a very low count, you can get genetic testing done to see if your condition is inherited.A testicular biopsy may be conducted in unusual circumstances. This test can determine whether the problem lies with sperm production or transport., If you have been trying to conceive for over a year and have not been able to determine the problem with your regular doctor, you may want to see a specialist. An infertility specialist can explore your infertility problem in detail and order targeted testing as needed.