 Your town is divided into 16 acres. These acres are 16 squares by 16 squares each. A perfect town should have at least 8 perfect acres, and 8 good acres. How good an acre is is measured by the number of trees, flowers, weeds, and junk in that acre.;
, This is so you’ll know how much trees and flowers you should have. The best way to do this is to choose a pattern from your inventory. Start at the top left (or top right) corner of your town and count 16 squares to the right.


Put the pattern on the 16th square and on the one next to it to the right, which is the first square of the next acre. Knowing that that square is part of the acre, count 16 squares to the right again, and mark the 16th and the 1st in the next acre.
Keep marking, and do this vertically too, until you have finished the whole map.
 When you go to Isabelle in the Town Hall and talk to her by pressing “A,” you have the option of inquiring about citizen satisfaction in your town. Isabelle will then give you guidance on how to improve.
 In order to do this, go sit in the mayor’s chair in the back of the Town Hall. Isabelle will then come up, and talk to you.


There will be two options for what you can do in the mayor’s chair: public works projects and ordinances. For this, pick public works projects. Then, you will see the list of available public works projects. Choose the one you like most and you’ll be off to the next step!
Building upgrades, such as the Dream Suite, do not count towards the number of public works projects as far as the citizen satisfaction is concerned.
Remember that some public work projects reduce citizen satisfaction. This can be any project that emits a large amount of unnatural light (e.g., video screen) or is industrial (e.g., drilling rig).
 Isabelle will tell you that you need to find a place for the project to be placed. You can then run around town, and Isabelle will follow you. Once you have a spot you like, talk to Isabelle again by pressing “A.”


If the spot is large enough and not blocked by nearby features (such as a river), then Lloid the gyroid will be placed and you can start collecting funds.
If the spot does not provide ample space, you will need to keep looking.
 Of course, you need to collect the funds! Every public works project has a different funding amount that is listed when you first pick from the available projects. Your citizens will chip in a small amount of bells, but it is up to you to collect the bulk.


Once you have completely funded the project by donating bells to the gyroid, the project will be completed and built the next day.
 Oftentimes, you’ll find yourself being told that your citizens want more public works projects—build them!

, Sometimes, Isabelle might also tell you that the citizens want more flowers and trees in the town. It is actually good because not only will it increase citizen satisfaction, it will make your town more beautiful.
 In fact, it is the first thing you should consider doing. Setting the ordinance in place will result in flowers almost never wilting and weeds growing less frequently, thus aiding you in your mission to keep the town beautiful.
 If you have time traveled a lot without caring about how much weeds there will be, chances are your town is by now flooded with them. It could be very frustrating to think of having to get rid of every single one, but believe me, it’s completely worth it.


Your town will look amazing just because there are no weeds, and it is not as hard as it may appear at first, be patient.
 If there was a rafflesia somewhere in your town, then you might want to see if there are more. Rafflesias are big red stinky flowers (considered as weeds) that appear when there are too much weeds in your town.


You can get rid of a rafflesia if you pluck every single weed in your whole town.
 This also includes junk that is buried. Make sure to get rid of them because they are unacceptable in having either perfect or good acre.


Fruits, however, and shells are not considered junk, nor are patterns that you put down, so they can stay.
 Too many will cause a decrease in satisfaction. Isabelle can help you gauge whether or not you have too many or too few trees; if she doesn’t mention trees at all, then you know you’ve hit the right balance.


To plant trees, have a sapling in your inventory (purchased from the garden center), and follow the same process with the flowers.
To plant fruit trees, you must first dig a hole with your shovel, have a fruit in your inventory, and then bury that piece of fruit.
Trees must have at least one space between each other in order to grow and absorb enough nutrients. If you try to plant one tree too close to another, it will wilt and die.
 To plant flowers, have them in your inventory. Then, when you’re standing in the spot that you want the flowers to be planted, tap on the flower bag, and hit “Plant.” The flowers will then drop directly under your character’s feet.


You can purchase flowers from the garden center off Main street.
Planting flowers of the same type near each other is beneficial as it may result in hybrid flowers.
Don't have too many flowers, but not too few either. Keep in mind that weeds cancel out flowers on a 1:1 ratio. Likewise, if you don't want to get rid of some weeds like dandelion puffs or clover patches, you can just plant some extra flowers.
Flowers also substitute trees if there is too few trees in an acre, and they can also cancel out trees if there are too many of them.
 Your town can hold at most 10 villagers, and being capped is your best bet for achieving perfect town status. Having less than 10 can result in less satisfaction.
 Once you've built public works projects and beautified your town, check with Pelly or Phyllis if there are anything else you must do.


Isabelle{ or Pelly and Phyllis before New Leaf] will roughly tell you what the problem is, but you will have to figure out where the problem is. She will either tell you that you have to add more trees, get rid of trees, add flowers, get rid of rubbish or get rid of weeds, or she might tell you that this town is horrible which means you have to do all of the above.
 For as long as you keep your town beautiful, build many public works projects in it, and keep it fully populated, you will achieve Perfect Town status. Benefits will be in the form of new public works projects, rare mushrooms, and the Golden Watering Can.

