 It may seem like a simple suggestion, but rebooting your computer will fix many of the problems you may be having. Press the Power button or use the Shut Down command to safely turn the computer off. If the computer is not responding, press and hold the Power button for about five seconds to force the computer to power off.


Allow your computer to sit for about thirty seconds after being turned off before you turn it back on again.;
, Think back to when the computer started having issues. Was a certain program installed, or a change made to the hardware? Was something suspicious downloaded, or installed with a program you got? Was there a power outage and now things aren't working correctly? Narrowing down the possible cause of the problem will make it much easier to determine how to proceed.
 A loose power cable could be preventing your computer from booting up. A bad surge protector could be the culprit. Your keyboard or mouse may have come unplugged. Your monitor cable might be loose. Checking all of your connections will only take a moment

, There are countless issues your computer could be experiencing. Problems can occur with your programs, operating system, hardware, or network setup. While it would be impossible to cover every problem in this article, there's a very good chance that someone else has had the same problem that you're facing. Searching Google for possible solutions is often the fastest way to get your computer working again.


Be specific with your search. Include the program's name and your operating system. Search for the exact error message along with any error codes. Focus on keywords that describe your problem. Try to narrow it down to your situation as much as possible.
Focus on tech forums when browsing through the search results. You will often find the most in-depth guides and most useful suggestions from these sites.
 Updating your programs, operating system, and hardware drivers may solve the problem's you're having. The update process varies depending on what it is you're trying to update.



Click here for a guide on installing Windows updates.

Click here for tips on installing updates on a Mac.

Click here for a guide on updating your hardware drivers. This is especially useful if you are having display or networking problems.

