 A boy or girl who is fragile of spirit needs to know you care and the eyes are the windows to the soul.;
, It may not mean much to you, but a smile is infectious. A person who smiles at another person is an encourager, who is offering a moment to another soul who just needs to know someone cares.
 While you don't want to overdo this, you will want to hug as a hello and a goodbye when you are with the special someone. This shows you care and makes them feel like you are engaged in what matters to them.
 Now, if you really are not into someone, but they really like you and you want to keep up the charade, then kiss them in unlikely places... Their hand, for instance, would be considered chivalrous. You can follow a kiss to the hand with taking said hand and pressing it against your cheek. Their forehead, however this may come across as paternal or maternal if you are not careful. Their cheek, though this may backfire as it seems rather stand-offish. More like what a friend would do. You can kiss them chastely on the lips and if they seek more involved kisses, just say its something you are saving for when you get married. This will force them into keeping it chaste as well to keep you in their love tryst but also will make them begin to wane their interest in you because their fire may burn out for you.
 Every so often, as if to punctuate what you mean, just so slightly place your hand on their arm or shoulder or, if you are more daring, their back around their waist for a 3-count then remove it. Young women especially have their hearts race pitty-pat from casual caresses. Make sure to keep eye contact

, Whatever you do, sound sincere. People can feel a fake usually from miles around. If you sound false or insincere, most people can tell, so hone up your acting skills. This will work not only with fake relationships but with your bosses and even your parents, if you get good enough.
 A person who cries is a person who has shown vulnerability in front of someone. Don't do it at the drop of a hat or for some insubstantial reason, rather cry because your dog has died or you didn't get into the college of your choice or your mom and dad are getting a divorce or you just feel so frustrated with life you could die. Make it a good reason and go with it. Don't discuss it again afterwards. Just make it a once and done kind of thing. Don't complain about everything because no one likes a whiner and don't mope for too long. Give it a half a day and then act like nothing ever happened. Smile again. Life is good.
 A person who takes time to talk with someone shows interest. Whisper it in his or her ear for more intimacy.
 Communication is a 2 way street. Don't play just the talking part, ask questions and sit back because people love nothing more than to talk about themselves. For the ones that don't and are true introverts, it make take some convincing, but if you want them to fall in love with you even more, this will do the trick.
 A person who sings for their loved one shows they are not afraid to let go of their inhibitions in front of them. We have all been told not to sing before, even the really good singers. Sing quietly just for him or her while holding them in your arms. This tells them you are willing to unhinge.

