 Progressive muscle relaxation is a meditation technique in which you systematically tense and relax different muscle groups in your body to promote awareness of your body, and an allover state of relaxation. Progressive relaxation can be used day or night for general relaxation, but is especially helpful for promoting sleep at night. Performing the full progressive relaxation exercise should take between 10 to 15 minutes.
 Put on your pajamas and ready for bed. Darken your room, lie down, and adjust your pillows and blankets until you are fully comfortable.
 Take a few deep breaths, and quiet your mind. Begin focusing on your body, and tell yourself that it's OK to relax., Begin at the top of your head, and work your way down in the order described. Tense the muscles just enough to feel the tension, not so much that you feel pain. After five seconds of tension, relax the muscles you are working on. (Some people find it helpful to think or quietly say the word "relax" for this part.) After 10 seconds of relaxation, move on to the next muscle group, and repeat the process.


Forehead. Wrinkle your brow or raise your eyebrows up like you are surprised, then relax.
Eyes and nose. Close your eyes tightly in a squint, then relax.
Mouth, cheeks and jaw. Stretch your mouth open, as in a yawn, or make a wide grimace, then relax.
Hands. Clench your fists, then release them and relax.
Wrists and forearms. Hold your hands up like you are pushing an invisible wall and tense, then relax.
Upper arms. Flex your biceps, then relax.
Shoulders. Raise your shoulders towards your ears in a shrug, then relax.
Back. Arch your back gently, then relax.
Stomach. Tighten your stomach muscles like you are "sucking it in," then relax.
Hips and glutes. Flex your glutes, then relax.
Thighs. Tense your thigh muscles above the knees, then relax.
Ankles and feet. Flex your feet, raising your toes as high as you can, then relax.
Toes. Curl your toes as tightly as you can, then relax.
 Repeat the process of tensing and relaxing 3 to 4 times on any muscles that still feel tight or tense.
 If you still feel tense, or are not quite asleep, repeat the process once more, beginning at the top of your head, and progressively working back down to your toes.

