 Have knowledge of hand techniques like the jab and reverse. Know how to do a front kick. Be aware of how to do high, low, and middle blocks.Stances of horse, ready, front, and attention should be known.
The two form techniques of the kick front punch and stepping front punchneed to be known.
A minimum of 16 classes are taken to earn the gold belt and have to be taken within the minimum of two months.
 Know the knife hand, spear hand, and back fist hand techniques. You should also know how to do a roundhouse kick.


Be knowledgeable of the side facing cat, front facing cat, and lunge stances.
The two form techniques of kick front punch and lunge punch should be known.
A minimum of 32 classes need to be taken to meet the requirements for this belt within a minimum of four months.
 At this stage, you should know how to do the reverse stance, the open hand block, and the side kick. Hand techniques like one finger spear hand and ridge hand should be known.Form techniques like kick reverse punch and reverse punch should be known.
For the blue belt qualification, you must take a minimum of 48 classes within a minimum of 6 months.
 Learn the hook and jump front kick. the hook and jump front kick. Become adept at the elbow hand technique.A minimum of 64 classes has to be taken at this stage within a span of a minimum of 8 months.
 As a green candidate, know how to do back hand techniques, spin kicks, and back fist and x blocks. For your green belt, learn the reverse lunge stance and the jump side kick.For your green candidate requirements, you will need a minimum of 80 classes and a minimum of 10 months.
For your green belt requirements, you will need a minimum of 96 classes and a minimum of 12 months.
 As a brown candidate, be adept at the lunge reverse stance and the lunge reverse and kick lunge reverse form techniques. As a brown belt and 1st brown, the emphasis is placed on kata and kisos.For the brown candidate, a minimum of 120 classes is necessary and a minimum of 15 months before you move to the next thing.
For the brown belt, a minimum of 144 classes and a minimum of 18 months is needed before you move to the next 1st brown level.
For 1st brown, you will need a minimum of 168 classes and a minimum of 21 months.
 Earn your black belt candidate qualification by taking a minimum of 200 classes at a minimum of 24 months. Become versed in the Naihanchi kata.Earn your black belt by taking a minimum of 300 classes at a minimum of 36 months.
Black belts can be earned as young as 9-10 years of age.

