 This is the usual path that most companies take. It is what they have done for ages. Getting a full-time employee feels comfortable and normal. But many of the software developers come with big Egos that are hard to manage. Now add payroll, sick/vacation time and benefits may become a real hassle.;
, There are times when another full time professional is just not needed, but slowly work is piling up and it has to get done. It seems like someone on your team could and should take on an extra tasks to save time and budget. Each project may have several and maybe small tasks that need to be done with the specific skill or experience that your team members may not posses. The tasks seem to be small and does not warrant for a new hire. But it may be inefficient or difficult to find that one person on your current team to do them all and well.
 All businesses face this at one point or another, there is work to be done but not enough money left to do it! You are concerned about the project completion and timing but funds are limited and there is no option of adding another permanent expense before you have enough steady business to pay for another employee. So, consider letting appropriate specialists at aggressive rates to take care of your overflow and extra.
 They may not be very strongly motivated to deliver good code quickly. On top of this, you may need to handle jobs that are too big or complex to do with your own people and may not be in your team’s area of expertise.This would be the time to outsource your current work to competent professionals in the specific segment of your industry. They will make you look good and can allow you to bid and successfully complete work for large corporations that you wouldn’t win otherwise.
 Very high rates are typically a show stopper for many IT projects due to many IT companies charging very high prices and billing customers for a lot of consulting time before the programming project even begins. But not all companies today charge the prime.
 You could have already said: No more outsourcing! As you have had many problems in dealing with companies from China or India. But never say: NEVER! When outsourcing may be the only remedy when running out of budgets before the new software release is out, losing key IT employees before the project is finished or when it seems that competitors bypassing you on the IT arena every day… You've got to do something!But your disappointments with “classical” outsourcing to India, China and Pakistan due to bad quality, loose management, and constant rotation of IT personnel overseas or lack of control is still fresh in your mind. At the same time competitors are pushing hard with their IT efforts, and your CEO is ultimately responsible for the company’s competitive position on the market. So, there is a lot of pressure to fix the problem.
 This would help you to identify the tasks you can outsource.
 Make it as detailed as you can and provide sufficient and timely background information that could be beneficial for success of this project.
