 Do not say rude things that are unnecessary, whether they are true or false. Saying things that will further agitate a situation will do nothing to improve your relationship with your mother.;
, No matter what, Mom will always think she knows what's best for her baby, and you will always be her baby. Tell her that she is entitled to her opinion, but that you feel differently. Include a statement like "Thank you for your advice, Mom, but I have decided that having children does not fit into my life plan." Expressing your opinion in a calm fashion will make her feel like you aren't attacking her.

ship with your Mother.
 They took the time to raise you and provide for you. Be sure to thank them when they do something nice for you. This will let your Mom know that you appreciate her.
 If you know that she sorely objects to the amount of money you spend on your car, do not bring it up in conversation. Understand that she will likely never understand your view on certain subjects and avoid them in conversation. This does not pertain to subjects that must be discussed, like children, spouses, abuse or other serious family matters.
 Even if she needles you to discuss a private subject, politely tell her that you do not want to talk about it. If you stick to your guns, she may be frustrated at first but soon learn that her meddling is to no avail.
 If you know your Mom needs a few days to recover from an argument, don't pressure her to talk about it too soon. Doing so may cause tensions to continue to rise.
 If you sense that tensions are rising, say that you are aware of her opinion and simply walk away. Be sure to physically separate yourself from tension; take a walk, a bike ride, or go into your room and listen to music. Take deep breaths to calm yourself.
 It is not okay for someone to say cruel things to you, even if she is your mother. Certain boundaries should never be permeated. Show your mother the same respect and refrain from insulting her or cussing at her.
 This can be either temporary or permanent. Keep in mind that if you leave home, you may not be permitted to move back in at a later stage.
 After an argument, go into a private place. Continue with your daily life but just refrain from talking to your mother. Keep it up. Do not cave in or let her win. Let her come to you. She will. When she finally gives in, welcome her with open arms. She'll be happy you're interacting with her again, and peace will reign.

