 Sitting on your couch, inspired by the task-less day, you feel relaxed and comfortable. After you spent the whole week living in an overloaded schedule, spending countless hours in classes, dealing with various day to day dramas, and working to make those few hundred bucks so you can enjoy life more, today you’re free. You do whatever you truly love doing. Suddenly, your mood happy, light, and energized, time begins to fly and you find yourself in your own world. What are you doing? Do you want to get paid for it?;
, Who would pay me for the help? And, how much would they pay?” Answer as specifically as possible; for example, instead of saying “people who want their kids to have better grades,” say “families who make over $100,000 a year, and want their kids to get all A’s, would eagerly pay me $50 an hour to help their kids learn my favorite subject.” Check out CraigsList to see roughly who’s paying for what kind of help. Don’t you think helping more and more people, over and over, for more and more money can help you live the way you want to live?

, Talk to your friends, family, and coworkers first. Don’t try to “sell” anyone, to try to convince everyone you run into that they need you. Rather, knowing that there are people out there who will eagerly pay for what you have, and all you have to do is find them, let people know what you do, who usually would use your help, and ask them if anyone they know has expressed a need for such help.
 What would you like people like me to do better?” Eliminate the problems, and do what the people want you to do. You will immediately be smarter than 95% of businesses that are operating today, and will become infinitely more successful. Remember the fundamental law of Economics, people will happily pay you to give them something they truly want and can buy.
 There are four major parts to running a business, Sales, Marketing, Operations, and Billing. Sales, is getting people to buy from you. Read “You Can’t Teach A Kid To Ride A Bike At A Seminar,” by David Sandler to get really good at sales. Marketing is getting people interested in you, so that you have the opportunity to help them buy from you. Study Rich Harshaw's “Monopolize Your Marketplace” system for Marketing. Operations is doing whatever they’re paying you for. Read “E-Myth,” and “E-Myth Mastery” by Michael Gerber to learn how to build a “World Class Company” and get your operations down to a process you can reproduce and sell. Billing is getting them to pay you. Set up Quick Books and get Quick Books training to build a bullet proof billing system, and get paid.
 What if you could guarantee your success? With a dedication to learning everything you can about reaching your goals and dreams, reading books, actively seeking advice from others who have succeeded, striving to do everything even better, you will literally guarantee that you will get to where you want to go.

