 One tablespoon of ground flax will fulfill the daily omega-3 requirements and does not alter the flavor very much of the yogurt or smoothie. This will also add fiber to your yogurt or smoothie. The fiber in flaxseed has positive benefits for the elimination of waste from the body.
 Flaxseed goes well in baked goods at small or larger amounts. It imparts a toasted nut flavor that matches well in sweet or savory baked goods. Some popular baked uses of flaxseed are in breads or muffins. It has a good heat stability so all the nutrients are available after the baking process and is a good way to get extra fiber in a baked item without affecting texture and taste dramatically.


Because of its high oil content, flaxseed can replace oil in baking recipes. Use one cup of milled flaxseed to replace 1/3 cup of oil (3:1 substitution ratio).
 Flaxseed can be used to make vegan egg replacements for baking. Combine 1 tablespoon of flaxseed meal and 2.5-3 tablespoons water and allow it to sit for five minutes. This mixture can replace one egg in baking recipes."Flax eggs" do not work equally well in all recipes, but it is good for fluffy baked goods such as pancakes, quick breads, brownies, muffins, and cookies.Flax eggs may produce slightly gummier or chewier baked goods.
 The deep toasty flavor of flaxseed goes well in rich stews and sauces., Ground flaxseed blends well in mayonnaise, mustard and ketchup. Flaxseed also goes great in salad dressings and as a salad topping. You will not need to add very much (1 tablespoon or less will suffice).
 Grind about 1/4 cup of flax seed in coffee grinder. Add 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon and two tablespoons peanut butter. Add hot water to the flaxseed/cinnamon/PB mixture and stir. This makes a nice warm cereal.


You could also add 1/4 cup raw sunflower seeds and 1/4 cup raw sliced almonds, each ground separately, to the flax seed mixture, and increase the cinnamon to about 1/2 teaspoon.
 Using smaller amounts throughout the day in whatever you are drinking will give just as much, without the thickness from one larger dose.


Mix a little into coffee. Stir well, and put in a travel mug for people who don't want to see the flax floating in it and they won't notice.
Stir a little into juice and drink up.
 Many ready to eat foods can be found with flaxseed already added. These foods include cereal, cereal bars, muffins and breads. There can be some drawbacks to this method of adding flaxseed to your diet. These drawbacks are you do not know how much flaxseed you are actually getting and many processed foods have lots of added sugar and sodium. If you do purchase items made with flaxseed it is helpful to read the label; the higher an item is in the ingredient list, the more of that ingredient in the food.

