 You can straighten your hair just by putting in some large foam hair curlers. This method will not result in pin straight hair, but the large rollers will get rid of small curls and create gentle waves instead.


Get the largest curlers you can find. If possible, find some curlers that are about the same size as soda cans.If you are not opposed to using heat on your hair, then using large hot curlers can speed up this process. Otherwise, go for some foam rollers and be aware that you will need to leave them in for quite a while.;
, You will need to start with damp hair, so you may just want to shampoo and condition your hair before you begin. If you do not have time to wash your hair, then spritzing it with a bit of water will also make your hair damp.









Make sure that your hair is damp throughout, not just in a couple of places.
Remember that your hair should be damp, not dripping wet. If you decide to wash your hair, dry it with a towel when you are done and let it air dry a bit as well before you put it into the rollers.
 Using some hair clips, comb out your hair and divide it into two equal sections. One section should contain hair from the top of your head and one should contain hair from the back and lower sides of your head. Use a clip to secure the top section to the top of your head.









Sectioning off your hair will allow you to put the bottom section of your hair into rollers first and then work on the top section of your hair.
If you have extra thick hair, then you may need to divide your hair into three or four equal sections.
 Focusing on the bottom section of your hair first, put your hair into rollers. Start with the ends of your hair and slowly roll the roller towards your head and then secure it. After you finish with one section, move on to the next and keep going until all of your hair is in rollers.
 The rollers will need to stay in your hair until your hair dries, which can take several hours if you have long, thick hair. If you put the rollers in your hair at night, then you can just sleep in them. Otherwise, expect to have them in for at least a few hours.








