 Some fruit trees can pollinate themselves. Others need a second fruit tree of a different cultivar. If you don't know what cultivar your tree is, you can try looking it up in a fruit tree guide or contacting an agricultural extension. Here are the most typical situations, although there are exceptions:Most apricot, peach, nectarine, citrus, fig, persimmon, quince, and sour cherry trees can pollinate themselves (they are "self-fruiful"), although additional trees can improve yield.Skip ahead to the section on pollination.
Most apple, plum, pear, and sweet cherry trees require a second cultivar (they are "self-unfruitful"). Some cultivars will produce a smaller amount of fruit on their own ("partially self-fruitful"), in certain climates.;
, Assuming you or your neighbor does not already have a fruit tree that fits the bill, you'll need to plant or graft the pollination partner. Before you buy the tree, make sure the cross-pollination will succeed:


If you know the specific cultivar of your fruit tree, look up recommended combinations in a gardening book or local agricultural extension website.
If you do not know the cultivar, choose a "universal pollinator." Local fruit growers may be able to recommend one that grows well in your climate.
See the tips section below for a little species-specific advice.
 In order to cross-pollinate each other, the two trees must have flowers at the same time. If possible, find the specific months the new cultivar blooms, and confirm that these overlap with your existing tree. Otherwise, check for "early-/mid-/late-season" labels and compare this to your own tree.


The growing season typically lasts between the last spring frost and the first autumn frost, but the exact time period depends on your climate and latitude.
In an orchard, the pollinator should open its flowers slightly earlier, so the pollen is already available when the main crop begins to bloom.While the blooming time should overlap, try to find a species with a different fruiting time. This allows for a longer harvest season.
 Now that you've chosen your cultivar, you'll need to provide its pollen to the tree. There are three ways to do so:



Plant a new fruit tree within 100 ft (30m), and preferably within 50 ft (15m).This option is recommended for most home gardeners.

Graft a branch onto the existing tree. This option requires more expertise, but may be necessary in small gardens or crowded orchards.
Hang a bouquet of flowers from the branches of the tree. Do so in the cool early morning, during periods of bee activity., If you are growing a large number of trees, plan the placement of your pollinating tree. Each main crop tree should be within 100 feet (30.5m) of a pollinator, and preferably within 50–75 ft (15–23m). The optimal placement can rely on many complex factors, including climate and crop management practices. Seek advice from experienced growers, or begin by considering these options:Plant one row of the pollinator between every one to four rows of the main crop. This makes crop management easier, but you may need large numbers of pollinating trees.
In every second or third row, replace every second or third tree with a pollinator. This is a more efficient system, as long as you use enough trees for your orchard setup. This may be inconvenient if you practice crop management techniques along an entire row at once, as the two cultivars may have different requirements.
 Almost all fruit trees require bees to spread their pollen, even self-fruitful trees. You can plant additional flowers to encourage wild bees and other pollinating insects to visit your garden:Plant flowers that bloom at the same time as your fruit trees.
Plant flowers of different colors, sizes, and heights to attract a diverse array of pollinators. Blue, purple, and yellow flowers tend to be more effective.
Grow flowering plants native to your area, which are more likely to attract native bees.
Focus on flowers with one ring of petals, which have more accessible nectar than flowers with multiple layers of petals.
 Honeybees are not the only type of pollinating bee. Many other bee species live alone or in small groups, and can move in to your yard without an elaborate hive setup. Make your yard bee-friendly with these alterations:Leave patches of bare, undisturbed soil for burrowing bees. Ideally, choose a sunny slope.
Mix dirt and sand together and form a mound. Surround with a low, wooden frame, and top with rotting logs or old firewood. Keep the mound clear of all plants besides clumping grasses.
Drill deep holes into the side of fence posts or stumps. Use a variety of drill bits to attract different species. Drill at a slight upward angle to protect against rain.
 If bee populations are low in your area, or if you are growing an entire orchard, hire a beekeeper. Research your cultivar first to determine the most effective pollinating species. The beekeeper will bring her hives to your fruit trees once they bloom, and remove them as the flowers start to fall.


Write a contract in advance that includes the size of the colony (number of frames).If the bees are sluggish or there are not many pollinator trees in your orchard, consider beehive inserts. Place the insert at the hive entrance, and fill it with commercial pollen from the correct variety. Keep pollen cool and away from sun when not in the insert, and add another teaspoon (5mL) every few hours., While bees are by far the most common pollinator, many species can be pollinated by ladybugs or other insects instead. These may be available for purchase at gardening or farming supply stores. Other species may be pollinated by hummingbirds or bats, which require different methods to attract them. Before investing in these species, research your fruit tree cultivar to ensure this is effective.
 Do not spray pesticides on or near blooming trees. Even if directed at other insects, most pesticides have the potential to harm bees and other pollinators., Dandelions and other flowering weeds will waste the effort of your bees. Clear the area around your trees before the blossoms appear., Another option is to transfer the pollen by hand. This is tedious work, so it's mostly used when bees are not available, or when you are selectively breeding trees and want to avoid accidental combinations. Here's one way to try this out:


Fluff up a cotton swab by pinching the end and pulling. (A small paintbrush can work as well.)
Dip the swab onto the pollen of a flower. This yellow dust sits at the end of long stalks (stamens) in the flower center.
Carry the pollen to a second flower and brush it onto a stigma, or sticky female area. This is usually the middle stem, but you may need to look up the location for your species.
Remember to transfer pollen between two different, compatible cultivars. If you only have one, self-fruiting cultivar, you may transfer between flowers on the same tree.
 Lack of pollination is not the only reason a fruit tree can fail to bear fruit. Make sure your tree is protected from frost damage, and avoid excessive amounts of fertilizer.Many fruit trees go through cycles of production. If your fruit tree yields much less fruit this year than last year, don't worry. Most likely, it will continue to produce a large harvest every other year.
Fruit trees also have a minimum age before they blossom profusely and produce fruit. A newly purchased nursery tree is usually one or two years old, and may take anywhere from zero to six years to start fruiting., Because dwarf fruit trees are shorter and smaller than larger varieties, bees are less likely to encounter them. Dwarf fruit trees should be planted within 20 feet (6m) of each other to cros-pollinate., Some fruit trees, mostly certain apple cultivars, have sterile pollen. If you started with a sterile cultivar, the new companion tree will pollinate the sterile tree, but will not bear fruit itself. Plant a third tree if you want the second tree to fruit as well., If you desire a smaller crop with larger individual fruits, remove immature fruit early in the growing season. Always leave the largest fruits on the tree. Where fruits are comparable size, remove fruits until they are spaced evenly along the branch, or until there is only one per spur.This will affect future yields as well. After two or three years of thinning, you may not need to make further adjustments.
Orchard growers may aim for a specific leaf to fruit ratio depending on the cultivar. If you use this approach, make sure not to undermine your efforts while pruning the tree.

