 It’s a bad idea to have a chicken coop that sits directly on the ground. This will provide easier access for predators like fisher cats, who are very sneaky.


Having your chicken coop sit directly on the ground will also result in poor air circulation and rot. Instead, raise the chicken coop up about 1 foot or more off the ground.
This should make it harder for small predators to get into the coop.The other advantage of the elevated coop is that it can provide protection from hawks for free-ranging chickens.
Remember that the fisher cat can climb, though, so, although the elevated coop will make it harder for the fisher cat to access the coop, you will still need to make sure there are no openings or rotting wood for the fisher to exploit., Don’t think chicken or poultry wire will protect chickens from fisher cats and other predators. It won’t. Fisher cats can tear through regular chicken wire pretty easily, but they won't be able to get through hardware cloth.


Choose hardware cloth with small mesh of 1/2 or 1/4 an inch. Use similar hardware cloth to protect rabbit hutches. Fisher cats easily rip through regular chicken wire. Hardware cloth, which is available at many hardware stores, is really welded wire.Dig a trench around the entire coop to bury the hardware cloth. The small openings in hardware cloth made it hard for a fisher cat to get through it. It’s very durable and won’t tear easily, and it can be placed over any opening a fisher cat could exploit.
Put the hardware cloth over windows, vents, and use it to make a chicken run that is safe from fisher cats. Create a skirt of hardware cloth around the run. Make sure to dig down at least 6 inches when erecting it. Line the bottom of the run with the hardware cloth, so fisher cats can’t dig underneath.
 Cover any and all openings that a fisher cat could possibly sneak through to get inside a chicken coop. Fisher cats are able to get through very small spaces due to their size and dexterity.


This means you should fit hardware cloth over windows in your chicken coops as well as over any ventilation holes. Study the area and cover any opening, even if it looks very small.
Don’t make the mistake of thinking that fisher cats can’t get into a hole that’s high up. They are able to climb, and thus they are very good at climbing and wriggling through small openings that are positioned high up.
Make sure the top of the run is also covered. This is also important to keep away predators, like hawks, that might swoop into the coop to grab a chicken. It will also protect the chickens from fisher cats.
 The chicken coop must also have a roof in order to protect it from predators, including fisher cats, who can get on top of it due to their climbing abilities. You must protect all areas of the coop.


You could use a traditional roof made out of tar or shingles or a metal roof. Some people use hardware cloth as a roof in case the fisher cat climbs up.
Adding electrified netting can provide extra protection for your chickens, deterring even the hardiest and sneakiest fisher cats. It's more expensive, but the best protection.Ensure that the chicken coop doesn’t have any openings, however small, or weakened areas because fisher cats will seize these openings to wriggle through. Fisher cats can get through openings as small as 1 inch in diameter.
 Predators are sometimes sneaky enough that they can lift up simple latches, so you need to secure the coop with latches that only humans can manipulate.A hook through an eye bolt is probably not a secure enough latch to protect a chicken coop from fisher cats. Instead, choose a door latch system that contains a carabiner that is threaded through the latch hole. Choose a latch system that requires two hands to open.
Consider adding automatic coop doors. Automatic doors shut and lock the chickens inside the coop, often by using a timer system. Some automatic doors use light sensors or solar options if you don’t have electricity nearby.
Automatic chicken doors should run you about $200, but they can be worth it because it’s very traumatic to lose chickens to fisher cats.
 Preferably, use metal containers because other predators, like rats and mice, will chew through plastic containers easily. Fisher cats will come around any place with a lot of mice or rats.


If you leave feed around, you will attract more fisher cats, but also other predators and pests. Don't leave anything in your lawn that will be a draw for hungry creatures.
You’re going to draw mice and rats, and that will draw fisher cats who feed on them. Mice are one of the fisher cat's favorite foods. Mice and rats are also unpleasant creatures to have around your yard on their own.
Hang your chicken feeders outside the coop to also prevent mice and rats from getting into the feed meant for the chickens.

