 Eating a healthy diet is important. However, over-restricting your calorie consumption can cause your body to produce less serotonin.Talk with your doctor or a nutritionist about what level of calorie consumption is healthy for your body and fitness goals.;
, The amino acid tryptophan is part of serotonin production. When combined with vitamin B6, tryptophan can pass through the blood brain barrier and convert into serotonin.Some research has linked tryptophan depletion with lower brain serotonin levels.Low tryptophan levels are also associated with increased anxiety.This doesn’t mean that you can replace your antidepressant with a handful of cashews, but research suggests that supplementing your tryptophan levels, such as by eating tryptophan-rich foods, may help you naturally boost your serotonin levels.The average adult should aim to consume 3.5-6mg of L-tryptophan per kilogram (2.2 pounds) of body weight. However, your needs may vary, so it’s best to consult with a doctor or nutritionist to find out your specific needs.Milk products are high in L-tryptophan.In addition, many milk products are fortified with vitamin D, which helps promote serotonin production.Foods with high percentages of tryptophan per 100g of food include soybeans (1.6%), cashews (1.6%), oats (1.4%), cow’s milk (1.4%), and chicken breast (1.3%)., Some research using lab rats shows that L-lysine binds to serotonin receptors, inhibiting serotonin “reuptake” (i.e., how your brain reabsorbs serotonin). Inhibiting serotonin reuptake helps keep more serotonin available in your body.Foods that are high in protein are often high in lysine. However, too much protein may interfere with tryptophan in the bloodstream, an important precursor to serotonin.
Lysine-rich foods include meat, cheese, fish, nuts, eggs, soybeans, spirulina, and fenugreek. Beans and other legumes also contain lysine., Some research suggests that caffeine may interfere with serotonin uptake.However, other research suggests that caffeine may actually benefit the activity of some antidepressants, such as duloxetine and bupropion.It may also promote feelings of alertness and energy when consumed in lower doses.If you do consume caffeine, keep your intake at a low to moderate level (200-450mg per day). For example, a cup of regular coffee usually contains about 100mg of caffeine per cup, while most colas contain about 45mg per 12-ounce can.Caffeine is also in some medications, such as migraine headache pain relievers, so watch all your caffeine sources.
 Carbohydrates help increase serotonin levels.When you eat a meal high in carbohydrates, your body secretes the hormone insulin. Insulin lowers the levels of most amino acids in your bloodstream, but it doesn’t affect the levels of tryptophan, which is necessary for serotonin production. More tryptophan is thus able to enter your brain, where it can be converted into serotonin. Because of your individual metabolism and the protein content of complex carbs, the serotonin production prompted by carbohydrate intake varies.Complex carbohydrates, such as whole grains, barley, and sweet potatoes, may help increase serotonin levels. However, these complex carbs contain more protein. High-protein meals increase the levels of competing amino acids in your bloodstream, meaning that less tryptophan makes it to your brain.Meals high in sucrose (sugar), which have a high glycemic index, stimulate more serotonin precursors than meals high in starch, although both sucrose and starch carbohydrates increase serotonin production., Vitamin B6, sometimes called pyridoxine, is a crucial part of how tryptophan is converted to serotonin.Vitamin B6 also has many other health benefits, such as fighting heart disease. Experts recommend that you get between 1.3-1.7mg of B6 per day.Avoid extremely high doses of vitamin B6 (greater than 100mg daily). This could lead to nerve damage.Good dietary sources of B6 include beans, whole grains, nuts, poultry, fish, bananas, dark leafy greens, avocados, papayas, oranges, and cantaloupe.Bananas naturally contain serotonin. However, this serotonin cannot pass the blood brain barrier, so it will not increase brain serotonin levels.Because they contain vitamin B6 and many other nutrients, they’re still a wise choice for a balanced diet.
 Some research suggests a link between omega-3 fatty acids and serotonin function. People with low serotonin levels also often have low levels of DHA, an essential building block for brain function.Omega-3 fatty acids can help replenish DHA levels.Seafood is one of the best sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Cold-water fish such as halibut, mackerel, salmon, trout, and tuna are very high in omega-3s.Seeds and nuts, especially flaxseed, pumpkin seeds, and walnuts, contain omega-3s
Flaxseed, canola, and walnut oil are fairly high in omega-3s. Oils such as corn, soybean and sunflower are not as high, but still offer some.Dark leafy greens, such as kale, parsley, spinach, and watercress, offer omega-3s through ALA. ALA is not processed as efficiently as DHA, but these foods are also very healthy and should be a regular part of your diet., Dark chocolate contains resveratrol, which has been shown to increase serotonin levels.Cocoa is also very high in tryptophan.Eat dark chocolate, as it has more cocoa (and usually less sugar) than milk chocolate., Like dark chocolate, red wine also contains resveratrol.However, alcohol can interfere with healthy serotonin function.Talk with your doctor to see if drinking alcohol is appropriate for you.


Alcohol can also interfere with several antidepressant medications.
 Low magnesium levels reduce serotonin.Vitamin B6 determines how much magnesium your body will absorb, so make sure you are also eating foods that contain B6. You can get magnesium through a variety of dietary sources, as well as supplements.Adults should have between 310-420mg of magnesium daily.
Good sources of magnesium include tofu, whole grains, legumes, green leafy vegetables, brazil nuts, wheat bran, almonds, cashews, pumpkin seeds, pine nuts, and walnuts., St. John’s wort improves mood and reduces anxiety in people with mild to moderate depression.These effects are likely because it has been shown to increase brain levels of serotonin in lab animals.Taking St. John’s wort may be a good idea, but it’s crucial to consult with your doctor before taking it, as it has negative interactions with many drugs and can cause severe complications to existing medical conditions.


Taking St. John's Wort with SSRIs and other types of medications that increase serotonin can cause serotonin syndrome, a life-threatening reaction. St. John's Wort can also make other drugs less effective when taken at the same time. Drugs that might be affected include oral contraceptives, anti-retroviral medications, anti-coagulants such as Warfarin, hormone replacement therapies and immunosuppressant medications. Talk with your doctor if you are on other medications.Do not take St. John’s wort if you are pregnant, trying to become pregnant, or breastfeeding. Do not take St. John’s wort if you use hormonal birth control; it may make your birth control less effective.Do not take St. John’s wort if you have major depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, or ADHD. St. John’s wort may cause severe side effects for people with these disorders. It also interferes with other antidepressant and anti-anxiety medications.Do not take St. John’s wort if you have a heart or liver condition, or take medications for your heart or liver. St. John’s wort also negatively interacts with many medications for HIV/AIDS and cancer.This is not a complete list of interactions. Consult with your doctor before taking St. John’s wort to make sure that it is safe for you.

