 If it's a new relationship, it's a good idea to err on the side of practicality versus romance.


Don't buy her something that she'll laugh about to her friends, though, such as a toaster or a vacuum cleaner.
Rather, buy her something that you've noticed she needs. She will probably appreciate your thoughtfulness. You could also buy her something more artistic for her house, such as a pretty vase you found.For example, you could buy her an espresso machine, and tell her you've noticed she likes espresso (if she does), but that she only has a regular coffee machine.
 However, don't make it too far into the future. That might be presumptuous if the relationship is new.


What does work is to buy her tickets for an event that upcoming weekend (but maybe inquire gently as to whether she is available). You could also buy her tickets to a new movie she's been talking about wanting to see.
These could be tickets to a local wine festival, to a concert for a band she enjoys, to a book reading, or to any number of things.Another possibility is to give her a card indicating the event you'd like to take her to, and choose one that doesn't require tickets (like a local fest). That way you're not making assumptions about her time. These gifts are called "experience gifts," and they produce memories if you do them together!Take her to an amusement park!

, Maybe you noticed that her hedges need trimming or that her refrigerator is making loud noises.


Tell her for her birthday you would like to come over and help her out with X, Y, or Z. She will probably appreciate the fact she can rely on you.
Give her a nice card that explains that, although the relationship is new, you are enjoying getting to know her, and wanted to do something that shows her she can rely on you as the relationship progresses.
Smile and say, don't worry, when things aren't so new, I can be a romantic person too! But I'm trying to be respectful, and take it at a nice pace.
 This gift has a dual purpose. It shows her that you are a person with intellect and also that you have a sense of her likes.


Pick something that relates to a topic she is interested in. You probably can't go wrong with a book of poetry! Try E.E. Cummings or, if she is Irish, William Butler Yeats.
Let's say she is a lawyer. You could get her a biography of a lawyer she admires. In other words, try to tie the book into her life somehow.
Whatever you do, don't buy her a cheap pop culture paperback (unless it's a book she mentioned, or the book a movie she loves was based on) and don't buy her a self-help book! Along the same lines, you could buy her a CD from a band she likes.

