 "When you love your job, you will never work a day in your life," goes an old saying. Find a job that includes your favorite activities. Maybe it will still be work, but when you love what you do, it is something you are more likely to thrive in. Note that "dream jobs" are still hard work, even if you are a rock star or a professional video game player. However, doing what you enjoy is certainly a better route than something you hate.


If you love drawing, think about taking a course on that and joining a club on drawing.
If you love video games, you may want a course on programming.
Love an area of science? If you are interested in a specific area, such as genetics, astronomy, geology, biology, or psychology that may be an area to look into.;
, Everyone comes to the world with certain strengths and weaknesses, and knowing what they are make a difference in figuring where to focus your energies. For example:


A person who finds mathematics easy may be interested in accounting, sciences, or engineering.
If you are excellent with people, you may be a good salesperson, therapist, or teacher.
A risk-taker? Maybe you should consider starting a business or start-up.
 It is easy to get caught up in the idea of having a "dream job", and not see plenty of jobs that may not be high-profile, but have a good payoff. Having a future as an electrician, accountant, or welder may not be glamorous, but these skilled workers are always in demand and command good pay. It may not be so idealistic an ideal as pursuing your dream of being a rock band drummer, but you are more likely to have a comfortable lifestyle--and you can always play the drums for fun.
 Sometimes, you just have to start somewhere, and either you find you enjoy it, or not, or a mixture of both. This is valuable feedback on both what you enjoy or do well, and what you do not. It is better to just try something than to do nothing at all. As a young adult, you have to get started somewhere to get experience.

Almost always when you start in the job market, it will be a job that is low-paying, low-responsibility, and you are at the bottom of the chain of command. That is just a hard reality, but this is the adult world and unless you start somewhere, you end up nowhere.
Be on time, be respectful, work hard.

Working at a retail store may reveal you do not like dealing with the register, but are really excellent with store displays. Perhaps you have a flair for advertising, or design, or organization.
You hate working at an assembly line. You decide this career route will not work for you, and look into getting your license as a CDL driver.
 As a young adult, often you barely know what you are capable of, and do not have experience with the world outside of high school. It is very difficult to know what to choose when you really do not have the data to make a truly informed choice. Besides, in today's world a worker changes jobs and careers fairly frequently -- not knowing exactly what you want to do means you may be open to many possibilities.

Some young adults know exactly what they want to do--good for them, it does not mean you are inferior in any way. Sometimes people give the impression that if you are not focused and driven, you are a failure. That is simply unfair and untrue. Plenty of successful people start out indecisive, overwhelmed, and feeling unsure.
Many people are working in positions today that did not even exist 10 years ago. Therefore, be assured that you cannot be prepared for all changes in the future.
Career counselors can be a very helpful resource. In some areas, high schools have staff members who can give you personality and aptitude tests, and discuss with you your interests. These are not typically required services, so you have to show initiative in contacting such people.
Colleges, university, and trade schools also often have such services.
Professional career counselors. If you can afford it, a private career counselor can help you find your way.
Also try some on-line resources. While not as good as professional counseling, they are typically free and provide a sense of direction.
 It is not unusual to not be able to envision a future outside of high school, and there are some respectable routes to help you explore your future while building a resume. In general, find an organization with authority and structured learning, (or monitored self-direction). Examples of these include:

College or University. A liberal-arts degree exposes you to many subjects, and there is typically flexibility to change majors. For example, you may start out as a history major, find out you excel in business classes, and decide to focus on marketing. However, schools such as trade schools or art schools are often equally good (if not sometimes superior) if you know you are artistically or trade-inclined, but simply do not know what you want to do with these aptitudes.
Military. In many countries, joining the military can provide an environment in which you gain discipline, learn valuable skills, and sometimes see the world. In many cases you can also get credit for university classes.
Paid humanitarian work. For some people, joining an organization in order to help other people will give you important skills and experience, and maturity. Examples include:

Peace Corps
Missionary Work
Americorps (in America).
"Gap Year Programs" Some schools and organizations have programs for students who want to go to a higher education program, but not right away. This may involve travel, volunteer work, internships, or other special programs.



