 Find a brush that extends about eight to twenty feet. Alternately, attach a car wash brush to an extendable pole made for paint rollers.You can purchase an extendable brush specifically for cleaning siding, or use a long pool broom.
 Make sure that the head of your brush fits easily into the bucket you choose.Fill the bucket with hot water and a biodegradable detergent, according to the product’s label.Add 3/4 cup of household bleach or vinegar to each gallon of water, if needed.Add bleach or vinegar if your siding shows any signs of mildew.
Don’t mix bleach with any cleaner that has ammonia in it.
You can use a cleaner specifically for siding, liquid dish detergent, or a cleaner such as Spic and Span.
 Wear gloves if your solution contains bleach or a harsh cleanser. Wet a clean white rag in your cleaner solution. Rub it on a spot of siding and see whether it is potent enough to do the job.You may try up to a few mixtures until you find the right strength to clean your siding.
Adjust your mixture as needed, adhering to all safety precautions and instructions of the cleaner(s) you chose.
Use eye protection if the cleaner instructs you to.
 Water any shrubs, grass or other plant life near the house first. Spread waterproof tarps or plastic drop cloths over any such plant life. Remove the covers and water the plant life again once you’re finished cleaning and/or power washing your siding.Protect grass or other plants if you’re using bleach or a chemical cleaner.
 Fill a garden sprayer with your solution. Spray a portion of the siding about twenty feet wide by the full height of the surface.Let the solution sit for several minutes before brushing that portion of siding.Pre-wetting the siding will cut down on the amount of scrubbing you’ll need to do.
 Submerge your brush in the bucket of cleaning solution. Start at the bottom of the siding and work your way up.Scrub the siding sideways, back and forth. Re-dip your brush in the cleanser as needed.Starting at the top can cause permanent streaking.
The siding below the portion you’re scrubbing should stay wet. Rinse as you work so that the siding won’t dry and have contact with dirty solution that drips down.
 Set your hose on a jet stream setting. Rinse the twenty-foot area of siding you just brushed.Start at the top and move downwards.