 Owning a pair of skinny jeans that accentuate your frame and is the right cut for your body perfectly is a great way to prevent fitting issues later. Keep the fact that any and all sizes can wear skinny jeans in mind while you shop.For example, straighter shapes might want to gravitate toward low rise, super skinny jeans tailored at their calves. A tall person might want their skinny jeans to have a mid to high rise.
Skinny jeans that sit at a waist and have a classic silhouette tend to compliment most body shapes well, even curvier shapes.;
, Washes tend to be about personal preference more so than anything else, however, some washes offer a more flattering look than others. Darker washes tend to make people look slimmer, but lighter washes show less wear and tear over time and through use.Dark washes are most flattering on all shapes and sizes. As a denim selection, it offers the most versatility in being paired with different items. If you decide you want to invest in a higher price tag and splurge or a pair of designer skinny jeans, a dark wash is the way to go.
Medium washes are a color in between dark washes and light washes. Medium shades offer a range in versatility as well and can be worn in denim-heavy outfits where you wear denim jackets or shirts and want to pair it with jeans.
Light washes are hot and cold when it comes to size and shape flattery. Light bleached denim can make you look larger and show imperfections in the denim as well as the imprint of your underwear. If you choose to wear light wash skinny jeans, like in the summer for example, go for a sturdier denim in a mid to lighter blue denim wash to give your shape the most flattering effect.
 If you need extra help, ask a sales assistant to measure you. Knowing your waist size is important, because when you are unsure about whether the size 2 you are in one brand reflects the size 4 you are in another, you can compare your waist size to the waist size the tag will show – helping you accomplish the perfect fit.When skinny jeans are too small, the areas in the knees and waist that are supposed to be fitted tend to pull and stretch. This makes the jeans look awkward and feel uncomfortable.
When trying on jeans, make sure that the butt and thigh areas of the jeans have a more fitted feel than other jean types.Back pockets should sit on your butt squarely without showing the pocket lining or without pulling the denim., While a price tag doesn’t necessarily mean the jean will be less prone to stretching, consumer reviews and customer loyalty to brands say a lot about staying power of a pair of jeans.Levi’s are a great jean brand to start with due to its longevity, brand awareness, and loyal customer fanbase.


A good way to determine the quality of a pair of jeans is by looking at its fabric and its denim. Double ring spun denim (like Selvedge/Selvage denim jeans) has a different look than commodity denim (like store brand jeans) and will likely hold up much longer.Low quality jeans also have small, weak bar tracks on the belt loops and throughout the jeans, as well as fewer stitches per inch.
 Undesirable stretching in skinny jeans often occurs when the denim is pulled excessively due to bending in the knees or waist. When the jean has some spandex, it will move with the bend.


Test the “recovery” capability on skinny jeans. When you try the jeans on for the first time, crouch to the floor in a squat for 60 seconds. When you stand up, you’ll be able to assess whether or not the jeans are able to retain their shape even as you move., Turn your skinny jeans inside out and hand wash it in a bath of cold water with a small amount of liquid detergent, like Woolite Black.If you find that stretching from wear is happening, wash them to promote shrinking in the fabric.Always review and follow the washing instructions on the jean tags, since some jeans require very specific care to prevent stretching, shrinking, and fading.
The fibers can be weakened when excessive heat and harsh detergents are used in washing. This causes stretching, shrinking, fading and makes them more prone to rips and tears.Consider using a laundry conditioner to clean your jeans, like The Laundress Denim Wash. Laundry conditioners get your jeans clean while preventing stretching, fading, and fuzz., Get the most out of washing your jeans by allowing your jeans to air dry. Hang them up to air them out and help them maintain their shape and quality for much longer.Most people will instinctively want to put their jeans in the dryer, which is useful with helping skinny jeans shrink, but not recommended for long or excessive use because of the wear and tear the machine can create. Air dry your jeans whenever possible.
To accelerate drying even further, hang your jeans on a clothesline and allow the fresh air to help them dry and revitalize its scent. Be careful that they are not directly exposed to sunlight.
 If ever you’re feeling your skinny jeans are a little looser than you’d like, put them in the dryer. After hand washing them gently, toss them into your dryer at the highest setting to make the fibers of the denim constrict for a tighter fight when you wear them again.Be aware that a commercial dryer can cause wear and tear in denim with excessive use so use a dryer at your discretion.
If using a commercial dryer is your preference for drying your jeans, toss them in at the lowest setting to cut down some of the potential harm regular use may cause to the look and feel of your skinny jeans.
 Whether your skinny jeans were a bargain or a hefty investment, one of the goals with your jeans is to maintain its original color. With the water and soap you use for washing your jeans, denim’s dye will erode over time, with soap quickening that process even more. Set the dye in the denim before you wash it for the first time.Soak your skinny jeans in a bath containing cold water, a cup of white vinegar, and a tablespoon of salt. Allow it to soak for about an hour.
This step is especially crucial for darker washes and black skinny denim jeans. After the salt and vinegar soak, allow the jeans to lay flat to dry. The vinegar smell will go away once the jeans have dried.
 Jeans are one of those clothing items that can be worn often without the need for regular daily washing. To help jeans keep their color and shape, keeping your washes to a minimum is necessary. If you’re on a regular schedule of giving your jeans a wash every 4-6 months, mist them instead of washing them.Freshen up your pair of jeans by filling a spray bottle with equal parts cold water and Vodka. Give your jeans a mist with the solution. Allow them to air dry and then place them in the freezer overnight. Odor-causing bacteria will be kept at bay and will help keep any smells away.
An Vodka-free alternative is hanging your jeans up and spraying it down with some Febreze to help with odors. A quick tumble dry in the dryer with a dryer sheet is also effective., So you dropped some ketchup onto your jeans while you were eating or got an ink stain from a pen, what should you do? Washing is a possibility, but it breaks down jeans if done too often and it might not get rid of the stain. Instead of that, use some things around the house as spot treatments to help give your jeans a clean look again.If you ever happen to get some paint on your jeans, use Mötsenböcker’s Lift Off to help you with your stained denim woes.
Hairspray is a great way to remedy ink stains that might be drawn to your skinny jeans.
For grease stains, use Pine Sol to remove them.
A magic eraser also does the trick with most denim stains without excessive scrubbing or potential of disrupting the dye., Storage is as important as a step as any when it comes to caring for your denim properly. Avoid using hangers as a means for storing your jeans. The way you bought them folded up on that denim display is ultimately the best way to keep them. Fold your jeans to help them keep their shape over time., Jeans tend to get better the more you wear them. They hug you better, they gain a little character over time with fading and/or tears. It should be noted though, that excessively placing cell phones, cards, wallets, and chapsticks in your pockets can change the shape of your jeans, promote tearing, and leave permanent stains in those areas. So wear them, but consider using other things to hold your belongings to help them be worn the right way.