 There are always areas to change and improve in any situation. In order to bloom where you're planted, you need to look for opportunities in your present situation. Learn to identify areas where you could change things for the better, even if your circumstances are less than ideal.Avoid complaining about unfavorable circumstances. If you don't like something, see if you can change it instead of being negative.
For example, say you're not a huge fan of your current job. Instead of complaining about work, try to do your best job each day. This can help you land a promotion or get a good recommendation, leading to a better job down the road.
 Thinking about what could happen in the future, or what you could have done differently in the past, can distract you from blooming in the present. Even when you're frustrated, try your best to stay in the present moment and accept things for what they are.Try to work with what you do have rather than what you wish you have. You may, for example, feel you would be in a better job if you had gone to a better school or applied yourself more during college. However, you can't change that now.
Focus on what you can do to make the present better. If you feel you haven't applied yourself enough in the past, apply yourself now. Work as hard as you can now so, in five years, you won't still regret your past.
 You can always build relationships with those around you. Even if you're current situation is not great, relationships can help you bloom and grow. Try to interact with those around you. You never know what opportunities a strong relationship with a co-worker, friend, or boss could lead to in the future.Expand your network as much as you can. Stay in touch with people in your field, such as past bosses and co-workers. At your current job, try to form solid working relationships with those around you. Be polite, courteous, and hardworking and avoid bad mouthing colleagues.
 Risk taking can help in any situation. Rather than viewing your current circumstances as defining, see them as something you can rise above. No situation is ever completely stagnant. There is always room to take risks and grow as a person.People who do not take risks do not bloom. If a move may come with consequences, do not hesitate to take it just due to this fact. Sometimes, taking a huge risk, like asking for a raise or promotion, will lead to better things.
Even if a risk does not work out, you will have learned a lesson about putting yourself out there. Also, something like your employer may appreciate a risk taker. Down the road, your risk-taking may pay off even if it doesn't in the present.

