 Let them choose from a variety of age-appropriate activities. Older kids need different things to do than younger kids. A young kid may like to color but an older kid may prefer movies and video games. Ask the child what they’d like to do for the evening. You usually need to prepare these activities in advance.


If the children want to watch movies make sure you know which ones they’re allowed to watch. Some parents are very particular about the movies their kids watch.
If the children want to play video games make sure to clear it with the parents first.;
, Choose something age appropriate. Children between the ages of five and ten might enjoy using watercolor paints or cutting out shapes, but older children will find this boring. Alternatively, they might enjoy making a book from scratch or learning how to use specialty art tools like oil pastels.


Gather your tools in advance. Don’t rely on the parents to have everything you need in their house.
Be positive when making crafts with older children. Older children can be sensitive and may not take criticism well.
 Before they leave, ask the parents if there’s a park nearby that you can take the children to. Bring some kicking or catching balls, bubbles, or jump ropes. If you wear the children out it will be easier to convince them to go to bed later. However, be sure you can handle watching them outside. Don’t let them wander off unsupervised.


Bring a picnic dinner if you’re planning on staying at the park for a long time. It will be a fun change of routine for the children.
Outdoor activities are better for smaller groups of children because it’s easier keep track of them all. If you’re babysitting three or more children, stay inside.
 Ask the child if they have any favorite board games they’d like to play. Similarly, you could bring two or three of your own board games and let the child pick their favorite. Popular board games include Twister, Monopoly, and Pictionary.


Twister is an excellent option for high-energy children as it will wear them out quickly.
If any arguments break out during the board game remain calm and positive. Try to redirect the children’s attention to playing the game.
 Ask the parents in advance if you can order pizza for the night. While waiting for the pizza to arrive, play games to see who gets to pick the movie. For example, you could ask them to answer trivia questions. Whoever answers the most questions correctly gets to choose the movie.


If possible, have three or four movies for the children to choose from. It will be easier to clear four movies with the parents and may prevent long arguments among the children.
Make sure the parents leave you money for the pizza.
 What time do they normally eat dinner, and what should you serve them? What time do they go to bed? Do they need to take a bath before bed? This is important information that parents may forget to tell you.Bring a notepad to write down their responses. Otherwise, you may forget important details.
 The parents may forget whether or not you know about their child’s food allergy, especially if they have more than one child. Make sure to ask your parents if there’s anything their child can’t eat or touch. Find out if they have any medication or an epi-pen on hand in case of an attack.If you don’t know how to use an epi-pen, ask the parent to show you how. This is critical information that you may need.
If necessary, ask the parents to write a detailed procedure on what to do if the child has an allergy attack.
 Record both parents’ phone numbers in case of an emergency. If the child has a lot of health issues they may also have a physician’s private number. If so, ask for that as well. Make sure you’re familiar with the emergency number for your area.If you don’t have a cell phone, ask if you can use their landline in an emergency. However, if they don’t have a landline, one of the parents should leave their cell phone with you.
Ask if the children are allowed to use the phone.
 What movies can you show the children? What food are you allowed to eat in the fridge? Is there any food that’s being saved for later? Would they mind if you watched TV after the children went to sleep? Make sure you have a clear idea of their expectations for you. Otherwise, you may annoy them and they won’t call you next time they need a babysitter.Make sure you know how to use the television before the parents leave, especially if you plan on watching TV with the children.
 If you ask the parents for guidelines in advance you can back up these limits with parental authority. Just like younger kids, older kids need clear rules. For example, they might still have an early bedtime. You have to resist the urge to give in to their pleas and be firm about your rules.If the child has trouble cooperating turn your instructions into a game. For example, you could challenge them to get ready for bed in under five minutes.
 Older children appreciate being treated like adults. For example, give them a choice whenever you can. This will show the child that you respect their opinions. Similarly, stay calm and positive when talking to the child. This will encourage them to stay calm and positive as well.


Don’t interrupt the child when they’re talking. If you do they’ll feel like you don’t respect what they have to say.
Never lose your cool. If you freak out the child may lose all respect for you.
 Some older kids like to trick babysitters. For example, they may try to convince you that they’re allowed to play outside with their friends unsupervised. Firmly tell them that you know they’re not allowed and to stop asking. Of course, it helps to have asked the parents about these limitations in advance, but when in doubt say no.If they persist with their falsehood, tell them you’ll call their parents for permission.
If you catch the child lying don’t take it personally. Stay positive and friendly.
 If the worst happens remember to keep calm. Children take cues from the authority figures in their lives; if you freak out, they’ll freak out. Refer to the list of emergency numbers that the parents gave you to figure out who to call.If the child is in immediate danger, help them before you call the parents. The child’s safety comes first.
If the situation requires it, you may need to move to another location. Keep the children with you at all times by holding their hands.

