 The USCIS provides a number of free resources that you can access online, over the phone, or in person by making an appointment at your nearest field office. Be wary of anyone offering to provide you instructions or information on how to fill out immigration forms – you can get this information for free.The USCIS runs the National Customer Service Center (NCSC), which provides information and assistance with immigration issues over the phone.
If you are inside the United States, you can call 1-800-375-5283. Outside the U.S., the phone number is 212-620-3418.
Automated information is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. This includes status updates on your application. The information given over the phone is the same as the information you would get if you checked your immigration status online.
If you're calling from inside the U.S., you can speak to a live operator on Mondays through Fridays during regular business hours.
 If you're not sure which application to use or are concerned about your ability to gather the documents needed to complete a U.S. immigration application, you may want to hire a lawyer to represent you.An immigration lawyer also can assist you if you're dealing with unexpected or extended delays. A small mistake can result in the delay or even denial of your visa application, and it may be a mistake that only an experienced immigration attorney would pick up on.
An experienced attorney also knows what to expect from the process and how to avoid any potential delays. Typically they've worked extensively with the USCIS agents working in the field office nearest them, and can help you streamline the process toward approval of your application.
If you decide to hire an attorney, interview at least three before you make a final commitment. Most immigration attorneys provide a free initial consultation, so it won't cost you anything to check them out and learn more about how they can help you.
 If you don't feel competent reading or writing in English, you can have someone translate your immigration documents, and your responses, for you. You can have a trusted friend or family member do this for you, or you can hire someone.Keep in mind that this person does not represent you, and cannot give you advice on how to complete your application.
All they can do is read the document to you in your native language, and write down your responses in English for you. If you want forms or notices translated in writing, they also are allowed to do that.
While someone may ask for a small fee for translation services, be wary of someone who claims to have special knowledge about the immigration process or claims they can get your visa approved faster.
The USCIS only allows someone else to represent you – meaning advise you and speak for you in interviews or communicate with USCIS agents on your behalf – if they are either a licensed attorney in good standing or a representative accredited by the Board of Immigration Appeals.

