 If you’ve just purchased an old house, ask the realtor or former homeowner about the hardwood floor’s history. If you’re unable to find information about your floor, you can test it to determine the finish.Test finish soundness by applying a few drops of water onto a worn area. If the water beads for a few minutes, the finish is sound. If the water absorbs into the wood, the finish is unsound and water-based cleaning products must be avoided.
Sound finishes are more likely to be modern, while unsound finishes are more likely to be older.
 Older hardwood floors are often spotted with caked, petrified materials, like dried paint, over-waxed deposits, or gum. If it was covered by linoleum or carpet, bits of the covering and adhesive might still be present. Hand scrape any of these materials with a plastic spatula or dull putty knife.If you have trouble, try placing a plastic bag filled with ice cubes on top of the gum or wax. Let it sit for a few minutes, then try scraping it off the floor., If your old flooring doesn't have any serious damage, it might just require a simple cleaning, buffing, and resealing.Remove all furniture and floor coverings, and take off your shoes or cover them with booties. Spray the floor with a small amount of hardwood floor cleaner. Wipe the floor down with a dry terry cloth mop or a terry cloth hand towel., It's best to clean a floor with an unsound finish with odorless mineral spirits.Dampen a terry cloth towel and wipe down the hardwood surface. Use a scouring pad or sanding screen to deal with tougher spots., It'll take some work to remove stains and odor if your hardwood flooring is in a room that was formerly used as a litter box. Pour hydrogen peroxide over the affected areas, cover them with rags soaked in hydrogen peroxide, then let them soak overnight. The next day, wipe up any excess cleaner, then screen or sand and refinish the floor.If you're just dealing with one light stain, cover it with a rag soaked in hydrogen peroxide, but check it every 10 minutes. Wipe up excess cleaner as soon as the stain is gone.
In extreme cases of pet odor, the subfloor below the hardwood is contaminated. The hardwood floor will need to be removed so the subfloor can be treated.

