 Speaking to a doctor prior to a new diet or weight loss plan is a good idea. They may be able to give you alternative diets or suggest vitamin or minerals to supplement your diet with since you'll be avoiding or minimizing your vegetable intake.


Review your current weight, weight goals, medications and health history with your doctor.
Your doctor also may be able to refer you to a local dietitian for additional help.;
, These nutrition experts will be able to guide you on your weight loss diet. They'll also be able to help provide you with different alternatives for vegetables.


Ask your dietitian for help designing a meal or eating plan that doesn't focus heavily on vegetables but that could still produce weight loss.
To find a dietitian in your area, visit theEatRight website and click on the orange "Find an Expert" button on the top right.
 Setting goals for yourself with a weight loss plan can help you keep you on track and help you stay motivated.


Be specific with your goals. You want to set goals that are specific and realistic for you. Also give yourself an end date.
Remember, large a amount of weight loss in a short period of time is not realistic or healthy.Focus on losing smaller amounts of weight over longer periods of time.
Realize that with a lack of vegetable consumption (and subsequent fiber consumption), weight loss may be slower.
Set smaller goals before your long-term goals. For example, if you want to lose 20 pounds in five months, a smaller goal would be to lose four pounds within the first month.
 Meal plans can help making dieting and weight loss a bit easier. You'll have your own plan to follow throughout the week. Having all your meals and snacks planned can help keep you organized and focused.


Spend some free time writing up an entire week's meals and snacks. It's much easier to stick to a diet when you have a plan in place.
Although you may be avoiding or minimizing the amount of vegetables that you include in your meal plan, make sure you're including all the other food groups: fruits, protein, dairy and whole grains.
Be sure to plan for quick meals, easy-to-cook items, or meals that require little cooking if necessary. You want to be realistic with your meal plan. If a scratch-made dinner isn't realistic each night, make sure to account for that.

