 What qualities do they have to be like that? It could be anything from politeness to being supportive. Make a list,even.;
, Here are some examples: they are polite, considerate, a good friend, generous, kind and caring.
 Here's how you too, could change they way you relate and communicate with those around you for the better.
 This includes swearing at all (at least,not in front of anybody or very mild and not that serious). When you get angry, count to ten and take a deep breath. Think about what could happen if you said what was on your mind at that time. Chances are, not something very good. If someone is rude to you,instead of getting in a scrap about it then just say something casual and light,like "Yeah,well,that's your opinion" and if they call you a name, "And anyway, your wrong because I'm not what you say I am. But I'm not going to bother getting into a fight with you". Much more mature then screaming your head off! Tell someone if the person really upsets you, though. Keep your cool. Be nice to those around you, and respect everyone else.
 How would you feel if someone was about to laugh at you, if you were just about to do that to someone else? Think of other people as well as yourself in situations like this.
 Be with your true mates, who are ones that would never bully, laugh and hurt you. Support a mate when they have a problem and listen, make an effort in friendships, talk to them regularly, and just be what you would expect to find in a friend. Remember, be a good friend and you will receive good friends in return!

, Make a card or give a present to somebody when it is their birthday or Christmas, and learn to share.
 Anything from holding open the door to someone or giving a smile could make anyone's day!

, Offer to help and be especially nice to someone when they are ill. How about making a cup of tea or hot chocolate for a family member when they're poorly? And you could just quickly ask a friend who wasn't at school to see how they are. Even if its something very small, it makes a difference to how someones feeling, which is great!

,