 Usually, you can talk to a sibling or roommate in a more direct way when someone at school or work. Be polite and speak using nice language, but be assertive. Be reasonable and genuine when you share with them how you feel.


If someone you live with eats a special snack you bought for yourself, you could smile (not a fake, sarcastic smile!) and say, "You know, I did buy that with my own money, and it’d be better if you could ask next time.”
You could also try saying something like, “I was saving that popcorn for when I watch a movie tonight, and now there’s none left. Please don’t eat my stuff without asking, and if you do, please replace it.”
If it’s a cosmetic product, you might say, “Hey, I’m a total germaphobe! I really don’t like sharing beauty products, so I’d really appreciate it if you wouldn’t use this.”When your sibling or roommate borrows an article of clothing without asking, you could explain to them that it makes you feel like you have no privacy when they go through your drawers or closet. Everyone has a right to their space!;
, You might've already had a conversation with the person taking your stuff, but what if they keep doing it or get mad? You can get an adult to help settle the issue without being a tattle tale, especially when the problem is really hurting your relationship with the other person.


If your sibling is the one taking your stuff, you can ask a parent to be there when you talk, to make sure no one gets upset and starts fighting.
If your college roommate is the problem, resident assistants (RA) and/or director (RD) can help you out, especially if your roommate has taken something really valuable. Don't run to your RA or RD over something small, like a candy bar!

, When you and your roommate or sibling have a talk, you might decide on some things you both can share. Go halfsies on snacks you know you’ll both enjoy. Split the cost of a can of hairspray or leave-in conditioner if you know you’ll both need a go-to product to use in a rush.Make sure that you both clearly understand what’s community property and what’s for personal use.
 If you’ve had a conversation with someone but the problem persists, you might have to hide your stuff. For example, if you've told your sister a thousand times that it bothers you when she wears your favorite necklace, don’t leave it on your dresser or out in the open. If you need something sweet after a tough day, but your roommate always robs your stash, hide your candy in a safe place.


This works best if you’re pretty sure the person won’t go searching through your stuff. You don’t want encourage them to invade your privacy even more!
Hiding something may be hard if you prefer having easy access to it. This method works best for special items of clothing or jewelry that you only wear every now and then.
 Locking things up somewhere is a great alternative to hiding, especially if hiding something will only encourage someone you live with to go through your stuff. Since it's not always the most convenient, it’s best for things like valuable jewelry, special electronics, and other expensive stuff you really don't want others messing with.


It might get even more annoying to have to unlock a safe or drawer for things you use often. Use your best judgment!

