 The "shots" in this recipe are formed from bite-sized cubes of angel food cake. Baking angel food cake is easy. The simplest way to do it is generally to use a box of storebought cake mix (e.g., Betty Crocker, etc.), but it's also possible to make it from scratch. See our angel food cake recipe to get started.



Here is another good commercial angel food cake recipe.Note that the final product will be a little richer than angel food cake, so you may not meed as much as you think. A single box of cake mix should make deep fried shots for at least about 10 people.;
, Once the cake has finished baking and is cool, set it on a cutting board. Chop it into small, bite-sized cubes (about one inch to a side). Break the pieces apart and form a loose pile.


You want your guests to be able to pop the shots into their mouths, so don’t make the pieces too large. Having each piece be about the length of two small dice per side should be plenty.
 Pour tequila into a bowl and carefully dip each piece of cake in. Transfer the soaked pieces to a clean, dry bowl. Since tequila is much more expensive than the other ingredients in this recipe, it's wise to pour a little less than you think you'll need into the mixing bowl and only add more as you need it.


Because angel food cake is highly spongy, this cake will absorb the tequila quickly. Don’t leave cake in the tequila for too long or it may start to break down and disintegrate.
 Bring an inch or two of oil to about 350 F (177 C) in a pan on the stove. For most stoves, a few minutes of medium-high heat should be plenty. The oil needs to be hot enough that the cake will fry quickly, but not burn.


Use vegetable, canola, or peanut oil for best results. Don't use olive oil, which smokes at low temperatures and can give your shots a bitter taste., When the oil is plenty hot (flicking a drop of water into the pan should immediately make it crackle and sputter), transfer a few of the cake pieces in with a set of tongs or a fork. They will cook quickly, so keep a close eye on them. Turn the pieces as they cook to ensure an even browning on all sides.


Don’t drop the cake into the oil until it is hot or the cake bites will get soggy with oil.
Be prepared to cook in batches — not all pans will be big enough to handle all the bites at once.
 Once the bites are browned on all sides, transfer them to a plate covered with a paper towel. The towel will help absorb any residual grease. After a minute of sitting on the towel, transfer the bites to a wire rack over a baking tray. Here, they'll have a chance to cool and any remaining grease that drips off will be caught by the tray.


Don't treat the bites like bacon, letting them cool in a big pile over a paper towel for a long time. The steam from the piled-up bites will cause them to lose their crisp exterior and become soft.
 You can use your fingers to dust the bites with powdered sugar while they cool on the wire rack. For a more even coating, however, you may want to put the powdered sugar into a fine wire strainer and shake it over the bites.
 Enjoy your treats responsibly.

