 Get them in a wide variety of colors. The girls in the movie wear black, purple and pink ones most often. They can be low cut or v-neck but must be tight fitting. Ideally the shirt will be tight and show off the navel or lower stomach.;
, If you already have a pair, perfect! Jeans that are tight at the waist and flared at the leg are most popular in the movie 'Thirteen.' Jeans with studs, sparkles and grommets are perfect. If you want to jazz up the jeans you have, add some sequins or diamante studs to the pockets and legs.
 The girls in the movie wear lots of black Converse shoes. While the brand is not important, a pair of hightops is ideal. Feel free to add sparkled and studs to the shoes and to scrawl writing all over them!

, The girls in the movie are seen out in tight, navel baring black vests through much of the movie. These vests can be purchased at stores like Hot Topic.
 The girls are never seen without low slung, metallic belts. These belts can be bought at almost any teen clothing store. Black ones with silver grommets are most popular.
 Get a flashy bag that stands out. A silver, gold or black purse is ideal. Brands like Bebe and Guess make cute purses that are flashy and perfect for an urban scene!

, Silver chains, flashy cross necklaces and huge hoop earrings top the look off. Don't be afraid to over accessorize! Add flashy bangles, layers of thin and shiny necklaces and hoop earrings to any look. If you don't like jewelry at least buy a pair of hoop earrings as the girls in 'Thirteen' always have a pair on.
 If you don't feel comfortable doing so, you can skip this step. Nikki Reed and Evan Rachel Wood sport navel and tongue piercings in the movie. If you already have a tongue piercing be sure to show it off and let people know you have one. If you have a navel piercing splurge on some new jewels for your belly button. Get studs with chains or flashy colors., The key for this look is over the top. Lots of eyeliner (black) and eyeshadow. It is important to buy some glitter to adorn your eyes and lashes with. Lise Watier makes a great sparkly black eyeliner. If you are going to wear lip gloss make sure it is pink or red. Use blush and bronzer to look sexy and healthy. Flawlessness is not the goal for this look; you want to look pretty but also tough and cool.
 If you don't already own a curler or straightening iron it would be good to buy these tools now. Curls and glamorous hair accessories are popular in the movie. If you feel comfortable, buy some hair extensions and hair pieces. Hot Topic sells extensions in a range of colors. Buy some shiny bows and hair clips and don't be afraid to tease your hair, curl it and make it look dramatic! In the movie, Evie often has relaxed and wavy hair but straightens her hair and adds hair pieces when she's going out. Tracy curls her hair and ties it up in dramatic buns when she is going out.
 G-strings are the most popular in the movie.
 Paint your nails mostly dark colors. You'll usually see the girls in black, purple or dark red nail polish.
 While you shouldn't go out causing crime and doing illegal things, you can learn some things from the girls in 'Thirteen.' Walk with attitude and confidence and keep your head up. Be loud and laugh with your friends in public. When you are out act tough and unafraid. Act intimidating and make other girls want to be you. Flirt with boys but act unavailable and never act desperate.

