 The term "ergo" can be defined to mean "as a result" or "for that reason."Similar words include "therefore," "hence," "consequently," "so," "thus," and "accordingly."
You can use "ergo" when describing the relationship between a cause and an effect.

Example: I love reading; ergo, I have a large library at home.;
, It can also be described as an adverbial conjunction. The two parts of speech are interchangeable and essentially describe words that share properties of both adverbs and conjunctions.


An adverb is a term that modifies a verb or an adjective.
A conjunction word that is used to connect two sentences, clauses, or ideas.
A conjunctive adverb is a word that modifies the verb of an independent clause in a way that demonstrates a connection to another independent clause.

Example: I love reading; ergo, I have a large library at home.

In this sentence, "ergo" modifies the verb "have" in the independent clause, “I have a large library at home.” It also connects the clause beginning with "I have" to the independent clause, "I love reading," and indicates that the latter is a result of the former.



This does not mean that you cannot use the term "ergo." It does, however, mean that you should be cautious about using it. Using it too often can seem forced, pretentious, or unnatural. Since there are other terms that can be used in the same way, like "therefore," you may want to ask yourself if "ergo" is the best choice before you use it.
In spite of the fact that it is an archaic term, "ergo" is still used more often than many archaic terms, which does grant it some form of modern relevancy.

Example: Instead of saying, “I love reading; ergo, I have a large library at home,” consider saying, “I love reading; therefore, I have a large library at home.”

, This is one correct way to use the word and tends to look the most natural.


Typically, you use the term to indicate how the information of one clause results from the information in the clause before it. Since the two clauses are independent, you need to bridge them together with some form of punctuation.
As two independent clauses, they need to be separated with a semicolon rather than a comma.

Example: She had five cats at home; ergo, anyone allergic to cats never enjoyed staying at her house.
"If done correctly, you can also begin a sentence with “ergo.” The term should still be followed by comma, as it is when used with a semicolon.


Essentially, “ergo” is used in the same way at the beginning of a sentence as it is when used after a semicolon. You're simply splitting the two independent clauses into two separate sentences.

Example: She had five cats at home. Ergo, anyone allergic to cats never enjoyed staying at her house.
 The most common mistake people make when using “ergo” is the dreaded comma splice. This occurs when you replace what should be a semicolon with a simple comma.


Standard coordinating conjunctions can join sentences and clauses, but conjunctive adjectives cannot do so. As a result, punctuating "ergo" the same way you would punctuate a standard conjunction—"and," "or," "but"—cannot be done.


Incorrect example: Jim got caught in traffic on his way to work, ergo, he missed this morning's meeting.

Correct example: Jim got caught in traffic on his way to work; ergo, he missed this morning's meeting.

Correct example: Jim got caught in traffic on his way to work and missed this morning's meeting.


You can surround "ergo" with commas if you are using the term to further clarify the meaning of a sentence. If you remove "ergo" from the sentence, it must be able to stand on its own.


Example: Carol enjoyed the outdoors. She decided, ergo, to spend her vacation camping.
 You must also make sure that you use “ergo” in a way that matches its definition.


Always use “ergo” to express results or effect. You cannot use it to contrast, emphasize, illustrate, or describe the sequence of time because its meaning simply does not agree with those purposes.


Incorrect example: The two friends used to be inseparable; ergo, one moved away in the fifth grade, and the two lost contact after that.

Correct example: The two friends used to be inseparable; however, one moved away in the fifth grade, and the two lost contact after that.


As with all sentences, your subjects and verbs must agree with each other, all pronouns must clearly describe a previously mentioned noun, and the overall sentence must be parallel. Any rule you have learned concerning sentence syntax and grammar must still be followed here.
 Due to the fact that “ergo” is an archaic term, you will often see it applied ironically or in a tongue-in-cheek tone. You can still use it seriously, of course, but it stands out most in modern applications when used in a lighthearted way.



Example A: My neighbor Sally and the Queen of England are never in the same place at the same time; ergo, Sally must secretly be the Queen of England.

In this example, "ergo" is used to mockingly imply some degree of academic or serious thought even though the claim made is clearly preposterous. Using a "prim and proper" archaic term is a way of highlighting the sarcasm of the statement.



Example B: Robert had a stressful day at work; ergo, he went straight to sleep as soon as he got home.

In this example, "ergo" is used seriously. The grammar is correct, but one might expect to see something more common in its place, like "therefore," "as a result," or "as such."



