 You'll need a piece of corrugated paper that is about 24 inches in length (this is a ridge material, easily available from paper stores or craft stores). You'll need two magnifying glasses that are NOT the same size. You will also need strong glue, scissors, and a pencil.If the magnifying glasses are the same size, the telescope won't work.;
, The image of the print will look blurry. Place the second magnifying glass between your eye and the first magnifying glass.
 You will notice that the print appears larger and upside down.
 Mark the diameter on the paper with the pencil. Make sure that it is pulled tight.
 You will need to measure about 1 1/2 inches from the mark. This will create the extra length to glue around the magnifying glass.
 You should be cutting across the width of it (don't cut lengthwise). The paper should be about 24 inches in length on one side. Cut a slot in the cardboard tube near the front opening about an inch (2.5 cm) away. Do not cut all the way through the tube. The slot should be able to hold the large magnifying glass.
 This is where the second magnifying glass will go.


You should now have two lengths of corrugated paper. One piece should be slightly larger than the other.
 Leave about 0.5 - 1 inch (1 - 2 cm) of tube behind the small magnifying glass and cut off any excess tube remaining.
 You'll need to glue the edges of the paper together as well, since you've left about 1 1/2 inches of paper.
 This one will need to be slightly bigger than the first one. Not too much bigger, only so that the first will fit into the second one.
 You can now use this telescope for looking at things farther away, although it will be difficult to view the stars clearly. This type of telescope is really good for viewing the moon.The images will be upside down, since astronomers don't care about up and down in space (there is no up or down in space, after all). if you wish to align the image with gravity, you can use two prisms aligned in an "N" shape to correct the image, but you will have to re-position the lenses.

