 By shopping around at several mortgage lenders, you can determine which ones offer the best interest rates.Finding the lowest rate can save you significant amounts of money over the term of the mortgage.


You may be able to get a general sense of mortgage rates in your area by using online tools offered by real estate websites, banks, or other lenders.However, to get a specific quote, you will need to contact or visit lenders.;
, If interest rates change, your rate will change. A rate lock, however, is a legally binding promise (qualified by any special terms) that you will get a specified rate from a lender.
 This means that a varying number of “points” are charged depending on the conditions of the rate lock. These points translate into different fees. For instance:


In many cases, it is free to lock in a rate for up to 30 days (in some cases, up to 45 days).
Typically, rate locks are guaranteed thereafter in 30-day increments, with higher fees for longer terms. A 90-day rate lock, for example, will cost more than a 60-day rate lock; a 120-day rate lock will cost more than a 90-day one.
One point equals one percent of the loan amount., While locking in a mortgage rate can protect you against interest rate hikes, it can also prevent you from benefiting if interest rates fall.Some lenders, however, offer a mortgage rate lock float down, which allows you to make a one-time decision to exchange your locked-in rate for a lower one.Thus, it can be in your best interest to find a lender which offers this possibility.
 Some lenders require a clause in mortgage rate lock agreements that allows the quoted rate to rise by a certain limited amount if interest rates rise before you close on a house. This is known as a rate cap.Even with a rate cap, a mortgage rate lock agreement offers you some protection from rising interest rates. However, by shopping around for interest rates you will determine the best agreement terms, and find out if any lenders do not require a rate cap.
 There can be considerable pressure to do this as soon as possible. However, this isn’t always the best idea.


In some cases, mortgage rates might fall. Talk to your realtor or another knowledgeable individual about current trends and expectations for rate activity.
Some lenders charge a rate lock deposit, which you may or may not want to or be able to pay.
Some lenders will lock in your mortgage rate at a slightly higher rate than the current rate. This allows you to continue to shop for a home while avoiding a rise in interest rates. However, if it turns out you did not need to lock in your rate, you will end up being charged more than was necessary.
 If you decide that you do not want to seek a mortgage rate lock from a lender, then the rate will “float.” This means that your rate will be set at whatever the prevailing rate is shortly before your scheduled closing date., Once you have decided on the best lender and/or interest rate, request to see a blank copy of the lender’s rate lock form, if possible. This will give you an exact sense of what to expect before submitting your own application. If you have time, you can have the blank form looked at by your realtor and/or real estate lawyer for approval.,


Rate lock fees can be several hundred dollars. In many cases, a rate lock fee might be refunded, unless your mortgage application is canceled.
 Depending upon the institution, you may have several ways to make the request (phone, fax, in-person visit, etc.). However you initially contact the institution, it is important to get the request in writing.Send a document that specifies the rate you would like to lock your mortgage in at, and any applicable points or other terms. Make sure that your request is signed and dated by you and any co-borrowers.


Most lenders will connect you with a mortgage consultant or office to contact when you are ready to request your rate.
Your realtor or real estate attorney can help you in preparing this request.
When sending your request, make sure that you have completed any application and made any deposit your lender requires to get a mortgage.
 Your lender should send you a letter confirming your request for a rate lock within a specified period (usually a brief one, such as 5 days).If your request is approved, you should get a written confirmation from your lender. Make sure that the confirmation displays:The agreed-upon rate
Whether or not the rate is guaranteed
The property address
The loan amount and program (i.e., the mortgage period)
The lock in fee
The lock in date
The lock in expiration date
Any special terms or conditions
The lender’s and borrower’s signatures

, In certain situations, you can re-negotiate the rate lock terms; in others, you will either have to accept the new rate or seek a new mortgage. For example:


If rates change in between making a lock in request and its approval, the original request will be void. You will then have to re-negotiate the request, if desired.
If you change the kind of loan you are requesting, or the terms of the loan (for example, the amount of your down payment), your rate can change.
Your rates can also change if your credit score rises or falls during or after the process of making the rate lock request.
If your income cannot be verified, lenders may not be able to honor a rate guarantee.
A change in the appraised value of the home you are seeking to buy can also result in a change to your rate.

