 This section will give you a few, simple ideas on how to decorate your box. You don't have to use all of them. You can choose one or two that appeal to you the most or none at all.
 Permanent markers are cheaper and easier to sue, but paint pens are more opaque and will show up against patterns and dark colors. You can write simple messages, such as "Happy Birthday" or "Love." You can also draw random designs, such as hearts, spirals, and swirls. Here are some ideas:


If the gift box is for a birthday present, use bright colors (or the receiver's favorite colors). Write "Happy Birthday" all over the box. Consider drawing some balloons, tiny stars or confetti, and spirals.
If the box is for a holiday, use colors and symbols that match the holiday. For example, if the gift box is for Halloween, use orange and black for the colors. Draw some pumpkins, black cats, or bats.
 You can use regular rubber stamps and an ink pad. You can also cut your own stamps out of thin sponges and use tempera paint for the ink.

Try using different sized stamps. For example, use the larger stamps (such as trees) towards the bottom, and smaller stamps (such as stars) towards the top.
Consider using different colors of ink or paint.
 Most gift wrap has a set, repeating pattern. Your gift box doesn't have to have that; the stickers can be all random. If you want to mimic the look of gift wrap, however, arrange your stickers in a grid or checkered pattern (as opposed to randomly). Also, try to use only one or two shapes; this will make your gift box look interesting, but also refined. For example:

For a winter themed gift box, you can alternate large blue snowflakes with small silver snowflakes.
For a fall themed gift box, you could alternate red or gold leaves with orange pumpkins.
For a summer or spring themed gift box, you could alternate butterflies and flowers.
 Take the lid off first, and then paint each piece separately. You can use acrylic paint and apply it with a foam brush or a paint brush. You can also use spray paint. If you want to add more designs, wait for the paint to dry first, then paint on smaller designs using a thin paint brush. Here are some ideas:

For a winter themed box, paint the box a light blue first. Then, paint delicate snowflakes and snow swirls using white and silver paint.
For a birthday themed box, choose a cheerful color, such as yellow, for the base. Then, paint some birthday-related symbols, such as confetti, balloons, and cakes. Try to use bold colors, such as blue, red, and green.
 Spread a thin layer of Mod Podge over the side you want glittered. Then, sprinkle some glitter or sparkly confetti onto the box. You can use as much or as little as you want. If you want the entire box to be glittered, let the side you are working on first dry completely before moving onto the next.

To seal your work and make it last longer, wait for the glue to dry, then spray the entire box with a clear, glossy, acrylic spray. The spray must be glossy or your glitter will lose its sparkle.
You can also use spray adhesive instead of Mod Podge.
 Place your gift inside the box, and put the lid on. Cut a long strip of wrapping paper that is one third the width of your box; it needs to be long enough to wrap around your box. Place the strip on top of your box, and wrap it over the sides. Secure the ends of the wrapping paper strip to the bottom of the box with a piece of clear tape.Consider wrapping a piece of thin ribbon or twine around the box, and tying it in a bow on top. Make sure that the ribbon or twine is centered over the paper strip.
For a layered look, repeat the process, but with a slightly narrower piece of wrapping paper. Try to use a contrasting color or pattern.

