 Disconnect the negative battery terminal.;
, Some vehicles have places that have an empty rubber grommet that hides an unused factory hole. You can just put a hole in this grommet and run your wire through. If your vehicle does not have a factory hole in it, then you will have to make one.
 Check the area very carefully before you start drilling. You don't want to drill into anything unnecessarily. 

, Rust can cause damage to the firewall in the future.
 This is very important. High voltage will be traveling through this wire and if it were to chafe and touch the firewall, problems will occur.
 You must pay close attention during this process. Make sure you do not pinch the power wire or accidentally cut the power wire while you are running it through the engine bay.
 This should be installed as close to the battery as possible. This fuse will protect your vehicle from being destroyed in case of a power wiring shorting.
 You will need to remove the rocker panel and kick panel covers to do this as well.
 Be mindful to avoid any pinch points such as seat tracks or door jambs.



Connect the blue wire to the remote.






Then the ground wire (Black)







,, You will need to follow a process similar to that of the power wire. However, run your RCA cables on the opposite side of vehicle. You do not want to run power wires and signal cables on the same side of the vehicle. This could induce noise into your system. Connect the remote turn-on wire to your amplifier using an appropriate connector (such as a ring terminal).
 If your running your speakers from the inside of your vehicle; make sure you run them on the same side as your RCA cables.
 Most speakers have indicators that read either a + for positive or a - for negative.
 The negative wire does not have to be a long piece of wire. If possible, scrape an area that is clear of the gas tank and insert a metal screw. The metal to metal contact will conduct a chassis ground. After you have the negative terminal connected to ground, cover the connection with paint, caulk or a similar protective material to prevent rust (corrosion = noise)., After this is done, you may then insert your inline fuse.
