 Cat/cow is a relaxing yoga movement that allows you to stretch and contract your entire abdominal region to reduce bloating and stimulate your digestive organs.Come onto all fours with your legs directly below your hips and your hands below your shoulders. Your arms and thighs should be perpendicular to the floor. On an inhale, lift your head and your tailbone, arching your back.
As you exhale, drop your head and tailbone towards the floor and curve your back outward, like the arching "Halloween cat" image.
Then inhale and arch upward, exhale drop downward. Do as many repetitions as feel good.
 The seated spinal twist squeezes your digestive tract, which can help relieve gas and bloating. This pose is especially good to do after you've just had a big meal.From a seated position, bend your right knee underneath you as you would in a cross-legged seat. Cross your left foot over so that it's flat on the floor outside your right thigh. You can keep your right leg straight if this is too difficult.
Lift with a straight back, wrapping your right arm around your left knee. Set your left hand on the floor behind your back and twist to the left. With every inhale, think of lengthening your back. With every exhale, try to deepen the twist.
Hold this pose for five to eight breaths, then return to center, switch legs, and do the other side.
 As the name suggests, the wind-relieving pose massages your intestines to help relieve gas and bloating. However, it does more than that, also strengthening your back and abdominal muscles to help flatten your abs.Start on your back with your legs extended, feet together, and your arms extended on either side. On an exhale, pull your right knee towards your chest. Wrap your hands around your knee or your shin and press towards your belly. Inhale.
On an exhale, lift your head and chest and try to touch your chin to your right knee. Be careful not to crunch your neck. Release back to the floor as you inhale.
You can repeat this three to five times before switching and doing the other leg. You can also do both legs at the same time.
 Twists increase circulation to your abdomen, encouraging better digestion and helping you more quickly eliminate toxins. This gentle twist can be done directly after the wind-relieving pose.If your knees are still bent in towards your chest from the wind-relieving pose, release one leg to the ground and extend it. If you are lying flat on your back with both legs extended, pull your right knee up towards your chest.
On an inhale, roll toward the left from your hips, keeping your right arm extended out straight from your shoulder. Try to keep your shoulder blade pinned to the floor, twisting only from your hips. You can place your left hand on the outside of your right knee to deepen the stretch, but don't force it.
Hold the twist for 10 breath cycles, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. Then, on an exhale, slowly twist back to center. Release your right leg and repeat the twist on the other side.

