 You should use Skype, Facetime, or another free video-calling service. Make a schedule, and set a time to meet each other online (such as Monday at 6pm). If you can't video call, have conversations with ordinary phone calls., Once they are settled into their new dorm or home, you should ask them for their mailing address. While you may keep in touch through email or texting, you can also send them cards in the mail to let them know you are thinking of them. When their birthday rolls around, mail them a small gift. Receiving mail will put a smile on their face, and you just might get something in return!, Your friend will be busy with college, and they may not have time for frequent phone calls. Instead, text them. You do not need a reason to send them a text. You could send them a funny picture, an article that made you think of them, or news about your life. Or you could just ask them how their life is. Texting is a convenient and easy way to keep in touch over a long distance.After their first week of college, send them a message asking “How’s college going?” This will give them an opportunity to tell you about their new experiences. You can also ask “What are classes like?” or “Have you made many new friends?”
You can also use an instant messaging service such as Facebook Messenger, What’sApp, or Snapchat., When they come home to visit, make plans with them in advance. They will probably be busy seeing all of their friends and family, so setting a date to hang out ahead of time will help you actually meet up. Try to choose an activity where you can both chat and hang out. For example, going out for dinner is better than seeing a movie together since you cannot talk during a movie.
 While you can still remain friends with someone who has left for college, your friendship may change in certain ways. You will not see your friend very often, and you may not chat as much as you used to. Your friend will live far away from you, and they may become busy at university. This is not a bad thing. You will also become busier, especially as you make new friends and finish your last years in high school. Cherish the memories you have, and appreciate the exciting future in store for both you and your friend.

