 If you wear shorts, skirts, or dresses, then you might be beginning to feel a little insecure about those hairy legs poking out for all to see. Never fear, there is a solution to your dilemma! Pull out that razor and bottle of shaving cream/gel, and whisk away all that pesky hair!
, Perfume is a great way to embrace your more feminine side. It doesn't have to be expensive. If you aren't comfortable with perfume, body spray is a great alternative. They sell awesome scents at Bath and Body Works. Don't drown yourself in your scent, however; you don't want to stink up your classroom at school with your smell. For perfume, apply a spritz to the very end of your neck and each wrist, or spray the scent into the air twice, one spray where your upper is and one where your waist and legs are and walk through it. For body spray, since it is not as strong, you will probably be okay with a spray in your hair, on your neck, on your shirt, on each leg of your pants, and one spray down toward your feet., You can get them professionally waxed at your local hair salon, or you can pick up home waxing kits and a pair of tweezers and do your own., Wash it twice a day, once in the morning and once at night. Either use a cleanser or cleansing facial pads to wash it. Apply over-the-counter acne medication and/or treatment to clear your face of pimples/zits, blackheads, etc. If acne is severe, consider talking to a dermatologist., Some girls like to shower every day, some, less. No one can tell you how often to shower, so you should shower as often as you think you need. Use a quality soap, body wash, or shower gel to gently wash away dirt, grime, and other germs from your body. Wash in warm water, as it opens up the pores so you can clean them out, then right before turning the water off, use cool water to close your pores to make it harder for germs to enter your layers of skin., Use a quality shampoo and conditioner to clean and condition it. Again, no one can tell you how often to wash your hair, so just do it as often as you would like. Work up a good lather with your shampoo. When shampooing, focus on your scalp, but make sure to clean your strands, as well. When conditioning, focus more on your strands, as your scalp produces its own oil, and rub any excess conditioner into your roots. Style it in a way you usually wouldn't; straighten it or make ringlets, pull it into a ponytail or low pigtails, it doesn't matter. Healthy, clean hair is beautiful hair., Buy pink, sparkly, sequined, skirts, dresses, whatever; make sure it is something that a guy would never wear. As for shoes, one day try ditching the black sneakers and go for a pair of heels or ballet flats., Talk with the girls, flirt a little bit (if you want to, and all in clean fun,) text smiley faces and hearts, just embrace your girly side for a change. Who knows, you may even enjoy it!