 Look for die cut stickers because they have a unique shape. This is important because you want your tattoo to take the shape of the sticker. Some common tan tattoo stickers include a heart, star, cross, a pair of lips and anything distinct enough to leave a recognizable shape.


You also can make your own die cut stickers. Buy some sticker paper. Draw the shape you want on the paper, or use a stencil if you can’t draw. Then cut it out.If you have an at-home die cut machine like a Cricket, you can use that to make your own stickers as well. Follow the instructions for the machine.;
, You want the area where you’re putting the sticker to be clean and dry so that the sticker adheres to the skin and lays flat. Remember that the sticker has to remain on the skin long enough for you to tan, so you want it to adhere to the skin well because it may be there for a while. You don’t want it falling off., Peel the backing off the back of the sticker. Orientate the sticker the way you want it. Whichever way you apply the sticker is how the tattoo will appear on your skin. Once you have it the way you want it, place the sticker on the skin with the sticky side down. Then, rub your finger over it, pressing firmly to smooth out bubbles.
 The sun will darken all of your exposed skin except the area underneath the sticker. All of the other areas around it will get darker. So,this how your tattoo will form. The tattoo will be your naked skin beneath the sticker.


A safer alternative is to use self tanner since you get to avoid UV rays, which can lead to skin cancer and pre-mature wrinkling. Simply apply it over and around the sticker, making sure to cover any skin that isn't covered by the sticker., After the sticker has been on long enough for you to get a tan or darken the area around the sticker, you can remove it. If you are using the natural sunlight to get a tan, then you’ll need to stay in the sun long enough to darken your skin. Everyone tans a little differently, so the length of time will vary for everyone.


If you have a darker skin tone, it may take a little longer since your darker skin provides more protection from the skin.If you’re using self tanner, follow the application instructions on the bottle to determine how long to let the formula sit. You may need to leave the sticker on for a while after washing off the self tanner, but it will depend on the brand of self tanner that you’re using. Once you have removed the sticker, your natural skin tone will appear in the shape of the sticker you applied.