 Some people feel awkward asking questions because they don't want to sound stupid, don't want to offend the physician, are intimidated, or just feel overwhelmed.


Ask for something for you or a family member to take notes on. You can ask some questions later, but if you don't write them down you may forget for the few minutes you spend with the physician.
Many of the questions can be answered by other healthcare personnel, such as your nurse, as well.;
, You know your body and mind best. Your family can be just as valuable if you are not able to communicate, so make sure they know what you want and will follow through with it in case you cannot.
 Are you having elective surgery? Do you need IV antibiotics for an infection? Does your condition need monitoring? What does the procedure involve? What is the expected outcome? Your physician or Emergency Room/ A&E physician should explain this, but if you don't think you understand, don't be afraid to ask.
 Let your physician and nurse know if you want to consider alternative medical treatments while you are hospitalized.
 An exact answer may not be possible for various reasons, however, your should be able to get an approximation.
,, Have a copy available to bring with you for the hospital staff.
 Something you can either grab yourself or a family member can bring in later.
 Common tests include blood pressure and blood oxygen testing and being given a identity wristband. Try and keep track of who you've seen so that you can feel confident later, when you haven't seem anyone for a while, that you've already been attended to.
 This will help alleviate some of the feelings of loss of control and anxiety that often accompanies hospitalization.


If something has not been explained, or you didn't fully understand the explanation, ask for clarification.
If you are admitted for emergent care, your healthcare workers may be very focused upon vital or life-saving treatments, and there may not be time for extended question and answer sessions, but they should do their best to make sure you understand.



For example: You are tired of getting needles stuck in your arm for blood tests every few hours. It hurts, you're bruised, and you just don't want to deal with it.
Consider that without that kind of monitoring, not only could your treatment be delayed, or not as effective, it could mean that your condition could worsen without your nurses and physicians being able to monitor it, causing you to spend more time in the hospital or suffer from complications.
 That is, after all, while you are there. If you need pain or nausea medication to be able to do so, let someone know. You are part of your healthcare team.
, If you are anxious or unhappy about something, in pain, or need something, they need to know it. What they are not aware of, they can't fix.
 They are, almost without exception, in place to protect you, the patient.


For instance, if a hospital has policies in place to prevent falls. You may be well able to walk about and do things for yourself, but a nurse or aide may insist on helping to the bathroom, might making you feel helpless or silly.
What you may not be taking into consideration is that you may feel fine, but those pain pills you took a half hour ago have the potential to impair your judgment, at least a little. Also, if you're feeling a little out of it, then possibly the nurse has noticed something you haven't and wants to prevent you sustaining an injury. No one goes to the hospital and plans on falling while they are there, but it happens.
 There is a whole system of medication checking between the physician, the nurse, and the pharmacist, but the last stop is you. Mistakes can be made, and you can decrease that possibility even more. If you can, always check what you're taking and that it is the correct dosage for you. Remember, you might only receive a few pieces of medication a day, but a nurse may dole out hundreds. If unsure, it is always perfectly acceptable to get your nurse to double check.
 Whether you are having an elective surgery or and extended more difficult stay, you do not want either of these complications.
 Write them down or ask someone to write then down for you and make sure you ask the physician what the results were.
 This can avoid a lot of frustration and frayed nerves. Different areas have different laws and policies regarding information and if your family is worried, then a lack of knowledge may make them feel even more anxious.

