 Try vacation sites like Last minute deals, Expedia and Priceline to see if you can book the hotel, car and tickets together. Check to see if one of the hotels that is suggested in the wedding invitation is listed as a vacation option.;
, Always choose to include nearby airports and take advantage of non-peak travel.
 A strange part of air travel is that it is often cheaper to take two flights than one. Book a one-way trip to a major city with a layover in the wedding destination, and then get off with a carry-on bag at the layover.


Note that the airline will cancel your return flight if you have booked a return ticket.
 Look for car shares that are available in the area and sign up for an account in advance. Book the car according to the times you need it and you can pay $3 to $7 per hour.
 Stay in a room with two queen beds, and it will likely be cheaper than booking your own rooms. Better yet, check on a suite and get more couples involved.
 If you aren’t completely sure that your plans are settled, get the travel insurance. The $17 to $50 cost for insurance will likely be far less than you save by booking early.
 Book the venue hotel for only the wedding night. Save money with a cheaper option for nights before and after the wedding., If you need to stay more than one night, VRBO, HomeAway and AirBnB can offer great details on bulk accommodations. You will also probably get a kitchenette so that you can save money on food.If you are single, you can find room rentals or ask the bride and groom if they have local friends who would be willing to put you up., Since there will be photographic evidence of your fashion choices, try to swap with friends in different circles. Trade throughout the summer so that you look like you’ve bought a new dress for each wedding, without spending a dime.
 If you’re a woman, choose wedges since they are good for outdoor or indoor weddings. The dress is more important than the shoes, while they often get thrown off anyway in order to dance.
 For men, one suit that fits well can be accessorized with a tie, pocket square and cufflinks in several different ways. Renting a suit is only a good idea if you go to a wedding once in a while.
 Buy clothes that you can wear to work as well as a wedding. Make sure your clothes go with your one pair of wedding shoes.
 There are even sites where you can rent bridesmaid dresses for $50 a day, instead of buying one for $200.
 Early birds will get the best choice of items. If an item is on sale, you are also more likely to get a good deal.
 Amazon, Bed, Bath and Beyond, Target and Macy’s are known for providing options to get free shipping, so choose this registry over another one that charges $15 for shipping.
 If you are close to several friends who are attending the wedding, get together and pay $25 to $50 per person to buy them a larger item on their registry. Large presents are a huge surprise and they are likely to be impressed that you organized such a thoughtful gift., Try crafting a photo album, family recipe box or wall art. Look on Martha Stewart's website and in her books to find good DIY options that look expensive.
 Offering your professional services will help the bride and groom save money. You may be able to give them something they could not otherwise afford.


For example, opt to make the cake, do the flour arrangements, create a photo booth or sew some table runners.
 The bride and groom should be happy with your company. Get them a card with a sincere message inside.

