 Make sure that you and your partner have a stable and happy relationship with potential for a future before making any introductions. Chopping and changing partners and introducing your child to every man you meet can be emotionally damaging and confusing to the child. Children are susceptible to forming bonds with people quickly and if the relationship is unstable and your partner leaves, your child will also suffer the loss. Be sure of your relationship before making any decisions.;
, There is no harm in a baby (less than a year old) meeting your new partner, because if they leave, the chances of your baby remembering or forming a bond is less likely than those bonds formed with an older child. However, limit the amount of time your new partner is around the baby if you are unsure of how the relationship is going to progress.
 Mentioning your partner in conversation (depending on your child's age), will let the child know that you have a new friend who you spend time with. Also, if your child has started talking already, it might be a nice idea to allow them to speak on the phone occasionally so that your child will have some time to get used to this new person, if only on a vocal level to begin with.
 For example, if your child is being uncooperative at mealtime, bedtime or when you go to the store, it's best not to invite your new partner over. This is because again, depending on the child's age, they will associate the meeting of this new man with times they find distressing and may act up in the future when your new partner makes an appearance. However, if you go to the park or the play house, the child will be at ease, in a social environment where the meeting of people is somewhat the norm, making the introduction something that's associated with fun.
 Most children don't understand relationships between men and women, particularly in the early years, so there is no need to complicate matters by explaining. If your child is older and does understand relations between men and women, still consider calling him a friend while your child gets used to him being around.
 Limit physical contact between you and your partner around the child and keep the nights he stays over to a minimum. Remember, it has only been you and your child together for as long as he/she remembers and the new partners involvement in both your lives can make the child feel insecure, especially if they think that their 'time with mommy' is being compromised.
 That way he can strike the conversation to a great start with something that interests your child.

