 Girls are very attracted to a confident guys. You must always appear confident when you are around her. Even if you are a little nervous, your body language can still say that you are confident. Always approach her with a smile and direct eye contact.Eye contact is especially important when you are talking to her as well. If you look down or look around too much, you will appear nervous or uninterested.
If you do not know the girl, a smile and eye contact tells her that you are interested and approachable.
Try not to twiddle your thumbs, fidget, or mess with your clothes when you talk to her. All of these things will make you look nervous.;
, Keep your hair cut, groom your facial hair if you have it, wear flattering clothes, and have good hygiene. Show her that you put time and effort into your appearance. You never know when you will run into her, and you always want to put your best foot forward.Looking your best will also make you feel more confident.
Make sure you wear plenty of deodorant and don’t have bad breath. Always carry gum or a peppermint with you.
If you wear cologne, do not overdo it. Too much cologne actually makes you smell bad. A couple of sprays should do the trick.
 Offer your help to both her and other people around you. This shows her that you think of others and are a kind person. You do not have to do anything grand. Small acts of kindness are impressive as well.Open the door for someone.
Offer to carry bags or groceries.
Carry a heavy item.
Give money to a homeless person.
 Girls like someone who can laugh at themselves and make them laugh. Having a good sense of humor is one of the top things that girls want in a partner.She will want to be around you and spend time with you because you are fun.


Tell her a story where you did something silly or were slightly embarrassed. Did you trip in front of a big group of people? Did you get nervous during a presentation and mumble or sweat a lot?
Be careful when you are trying to make her laugh. You do not want to be the class clown. Try to see the stuff that she laughs at and pay attention to how she responds to your jokes. If she rolls her eyes or doesn’t laugh, try something different.
Also avoid teasing her. You may be doing it because you like her, but she will not take it that way.
 Even though you want to impress her, do not cross the line and get on her nerves. Avoid following her around, bothering her friends, making weird noises, or doing crazy things like jumping off of the bleachers or making a lot of noise in the lunchroom to get her attention.


You never want her to think that you are a show off.
Again, if she rolls her eyes or ignores you, stop doing that behavior and try something else.
 Make a list of some of your accomplishments. When you talk to her casually bring them up if they are appropriate for the conversation. You do not want to brag, but you want her to know some things about you.For example, if you we were watching a basketball game or a movie that had basketball in it, you could mention that your team made it to the state finals one year.
Maybe you are an accomplished reader. If she mentions a book, you may say, “I love to read. I usually read 2 or 3 books a month.”
If you placed in the science fair or did well in the talent competition, let her know.

