 It can be difficult to accept yourself. Usually, this has something to do with your past. Uncovering the reasons you can't accept your shyness will help you. Sometimes, all it takes is understanding why you are so against it. By working with a counselor, you'll be able to comb through the roots of your shy personality and then work with him/her on how to change your perception of it to finally accept it.


Check with your insurance company to see if they cover behavioral health.
Search online for counselors who have experience helping people who are shy.
Speak to the counselor on the phone if possible to ask about how she approaches helping people who are not confident about their shyness.
 Not accepting your shyness can lead to depression. Depression can lower your quality of life and lead to feeling like you want to harm yourself or others. This is serious. Call your physician immediately if you ever feel this way for a depression assessment. There is hope for how you feel. You can love yourself.
 A lot of the steps have been mentioned here with embracing your shyness, loving yourself, and then learning more about the benefits. Sometimes, it can help to have someone there by your side to celebrate your progress towards acceptance, which is how a life coach can help you.


Look for coaches online.Many coaches have a website to market their services so search for one with experience in shyness or confidence building.
Coaches do not have to be trained or certified, but it’s a good idea to choose one that has some training in the area of life coaching. Look for that credential or check the International Coach Federation for coaches to find one that has fulfilled their requirements to ensure you find someone who will be ethical.
Coaching is a partnership between coach and client. You and the coach will come up with ways to help you accept your shyness. Each session will help you move towards your goals of accepting shyness, and you’ll have work in between sessions to further help you.

