 Cats can usually reach higher areas than dogs can, so take advantage of this by placing your cat's food out of the dog's reach. Try up on a counter or on a cat post. That way your dog won't be able to reach the food and your cat can eat in peace.This method will also ensure that your cat has to “work” a little for her food, which will help keep her healthy., If your dog is small enough, a gate should successfully block him from the cat food. The cat should be able to climb or jump over this gate to reach her food.Some special gates have a cat hole, just big enough for the cat to get through. Consider this option if your cat is unable to get over a gate blocking her food.
You could also use a baby gate to block off a doorway and set it a few inches off the ground. This will give the cat room to squeeze through, but your dog won't be able to unless he's very small.
 Like a gate, a cat door will block off a doorway and stop the dog from getting through. The door has a flap that the cat will fit through, but that most dogs will be too big for. Look for one of these in a pet store or on the internet.This will only work if your cat is smaller than your dog(s). If the dog is the same size as your cat, obviously, this won’t work.
 There are some products that electronically block off your cat's food. They operate through a microchip or electronic tag that your cat wears. A sensor on the feeder will recognize your cat and open when the cat approaches. It will then close when the cat leaves. This can be an expensive option, but it will prevent your dog from taking the cat's food without you watching him all the time.Make sure that your dog doesn’t become a bully. Some dogs may sit in wait for the feeder to open for the cat, then bully the cat out of the way. Observe the feeding several times and discourage any bad behavior.
 If your dog has a habit of pestering your cat, it might be good to give the cat a room to himself. Place his food, water, litter box, and toys in here and block off the entrance with a gate that your dog can't get over or under. That way your cat can retreat in here to rest whenever he wants.