 It's possible that your dog climbs on the couch because he knows you snack there, and there might be crumbs in the cushions. Or maybe your cat climbs on the kitchen counter because she knows you put her food bowl up there from time to time. Whatever piece of furniture your pet is climbing on, there's a chance he's come to associate that location with food. Keep food away from the furniture you're trying to train your pet away from, and promptly clean up any messes you make on or near that furniture., One way to train your pet out of using furniture (and keeping your pet off, even when you're not home) is by making the furniture less comfortable. Buy some cheap place mats and cover one side of them with double-sided scotch tape. You can then lay these sticky mats, with the adhesive side up, on whatever counters or couch cushions your pet is drawn to, or just apply double-sided tape directly to the furniture. The sticky sensation will be extremely uncomfortable, yet it won't harm your pet, and if you're using place mats it won't damage your furniture, either., Aluminum foil is another simple furniture deterrent that will make furniture loud and uncomfortable, and therefore undesirable, without harming your pet or damaging your furniture. Simply lay sheets of aluminum foil across couches, chairs, and counter tops. You can also use an upside down plastic carpet runner across your couch and chair cushions., A simple way to keep pets off your couches and recliners is by laying other furniture, like folding chairs, across the cushions. This will remove all temptation by making the furniture completely inaccessible to your pet, yet it's still simple enough for you to easily remove when you want to sit on the couch or chair., One way to train your pet out of climbing onto furniture, especially when you're not home, is to lay a gentle booby trap. A good example of a harmless (yet effective) booby trap is to stack a bunch of empty soda cans on the furniture. Be sure the empty cans are well-rinsed, to ensure that no sticky residue gets on your furniture. You can build a little pyramid, either on a couch cushion or on the headrest above an armchair, and if your pet tries to climb up the toppling cans will frighten him off the furniture. Over time it may startle him enough to stay off the furniture permanently., If you don't want to create your own furniture blockers, there are a number of commercially-available furniture deterrent devices on the market. The Snappy Trainer consists of a large paddle attached to a sensitive trigger, which can detect when an animal has climbed onto the couch or chair cushion and causes the whole device to snap up in the air. The SSSCAT, another motion-activated device, shoots a blast of air at your pet if he crosses the motion sensor while climbing onto your furniture. The Sofa Saver is a device you lay across the couch, and if a pet climbs onto it, the device activates a noisy alarm that will scare away your pet. Each of these devices can prove to be highly effective because they startle your pet without causing any harm, and they can be used even when you're not home.