 Another type of debt investment is to provide financing for a purchaser to buy an asset, such as property that you own. Private lending agreements can be made for any type of asset purchase. These loans are typically backed by the borrower's assets, giving the lender the right to seize those assets in the event that they default. These loans can be taken out by businesses or by individuals.For buyers that have difficulty obtaining a traditional mortgage, private lending may provide them the only opportunity for home ownership. As the seller, you can retain the deed until certain conditions are met and receive a steady cash flow while the buyer meets his or her obligations., Once you have located a potential borrower, be sure that the buyer completes a detailed loan application. You should verify that all of the information provided is correct and run a credit check on the potential buyer.For mortgage loans, you can download a Uniform Mortgage Loan application at: http://www.freddiemac.com/uniform/pdf/form65.pdf.
 You should check local or market interest rates when determining the rate at which you plan to finance the loan. Keep in mind that secured loans often offer a lower interest rate because the lender is protected by their right to seize the borrower's property in the event of a default.
 You may want to consider hiring an attorney to draft the loan agreement for you. If you choose to draft the agreement yourself, make sure that you comply with all state laws. You can search your state’s laws at: https://www.law.cornell.edu/statutes.html. Generally, your agreement should include:


The loan amount, the date that payments are due, the length of the contract, signatures of all of the parties, and the amount of the down payment (if you are lending for a mortgage).
You should specify that the secured asset is held as collateral for the loan and that you can seize that asset if the buyer fails to meet his or her obligations.
For a mortgage loan, you can consider requiring a balloon payment. Rather than financing the property over 30 years, you can require that the seller make a significant payment at the end of a fixed period. This is referred to as a balloon payment. By that time, the seller should qualify for a traditional mortgage and be able to pay off their debt to you.