 Take a moment to consider why you don't like the person. Did something happen? Is it just a trait in the person that you don't like? It's important to figure out why because it can help you make amends.Sometimes, we don't like people because they are a bit too much like us. In other words, you may not like that the person is a bit snobby without realizing that that's a trait you don't like in yourself. Coming to that realization can help you accept the other person.Part of the solution is forgiving the trait in yourself, too, and working to be better. One way you can be better is trying to make friends with the person you dislike. It isn't easy, as even adults have trouble with these kinds of relationships, but you can work to make it better.;
, If you dislike the person because you had a blow up, consider if it was partially your fault. Most of the time, when two people have an argument, both people are at least partially to blame. Try apologizing for your part in it to make amends between you two.For instance, you could say, "I know we haven't been getting along since we had that huge fight. I really hate that. I really am sorry for the names that I called you and the things that I said. I'm sorry for my part in our fight. I messed up, and I'm truly sorry. Can we be friends again?"

, Now that you've figured out why don't like the person, try figuring out what you do like about him. Figuring that out means you have to talk to him and observe the things he does. Start with something small if you have to. Maybe you like his handwriting or the way he styles his hair. As you look for things you like, the hate you have for the person will lessen.It doesn't hurt to mention what you like to the other person. Try offering a compliment to him once you notice something you do like. You might get a hostile response, but you've opened a positive bridge of communication.
 Many times, if you get to know a person, you may find you have things in common that you never knew you did. Try inviting the person to sit with you at lunch or to go with you to the mall. You may find that you actually like being around the person, or at the very least, that you can tolerate him.