 Technology has been proven time and again as the number one distraction in the modern world.Although this is usually thought of as a bad thing, it can work to your advantage if you're trying to keep someone distracted.


For instance, you should try linking them to a funny video on YouTube.
Text messages are a great distraction.
There are plenty of online games you can recommend someone play.
 Everybody loves stories. Stories allow someone to step out of their own lives for a short while and experience life in someone else's shoes. A funny anecdote about your own life can be all you need to effectively distract someone. Humour is important in a story, especially if you're trying to get the other person's mind off of something serious.A good story can be found just about anywhere in your life. It's usually best if the story actually happened to you. That way, the interaction will feel more like a bonding experience between the two of you.


Try to keep your story to the point. Offer details when you think it helps the person get a better idea of what's going on, but make sure you don't stay in one place for too long., While humour and laughter are a great source of enjoyment at the best of times, they are also the best possible coping mechanism. It is highly recommended as a healthy distraction, as it's simple, effective and usually inexpensive.Depending on the existing relationship you have with the person you're trying to distract, humour may come easily o may be more difficult.


If you're really stumped for humour, you might try reciting a few jokes beforehand. That way, if nothing comes naturally to you, you'll at least have something to try with.
 If you're trying to distract someone from something in particular, you need to be wary of bringing an association of that thing to the person's mind while you talk. While you shouldn't let your caution get in the way of proper conversation, it's recommended you keep the thing you're distracting him from in your mind while you talk. Try to think of things that may trigger an association in that person's mind and avoid them accordingly.For example, if your friend was recently in a traumatic car accident, you may want to avoid talk of anything automobile related, even if it's something as innocuous as going to a drive-in movie.
 Chances are you won't be able to give your undivided attention to someone over a longer period of time. Recommending something your friend should check out on his own helps to open up a window for him to distract himself on his own time when you're not around. Shows and video games are great distractions, but books are great too. The mind is easily distracted if it's being bombarded with interesting material.

