 This way, you can make your manga interesting. Just don't copy it completely. Learn from popular manga(s). Why are they so popular? What is the interesting part? Most factors that make these manga(s) popular are:


Interesting story: this is an important part. An interesting story means interested readers. A more intriguing story goes deep and flows in clues, or rather, bits and pieces throughout the manga. This helps grip the reader to it, and makes them want to find out more so it can all piece together.
Easy-to-understand story: clarity is number one! Whatever the manga is, if it's not understandable, the readers will close your pages. If your clues and plot twists do not piece together as they should, the reader will be left puzzled and rather indignant. It doesn't have to piece together right away; if you prolong the manga in issues and volumes, that can wait.
Nice graphics: the artwork is the most important part of a manga. It's what catches the reader's eye, and quite a lot of effort should be put into this artwork. Manga-kas regularly worry about technicalities such as backgrounds, panel angles, and anatomy, which are styled to the artist's original form.
Exciting panels: the media is an art! From the background (detailed, with added effect), panel's shape (square, circle, bleeding), until the flow (up, then big, then small). This will help your manga keep a form that is easy to follow.
Character's personality: this will make them unique! The personality stereotypes like being brash, prone to blanking, being forgetful, being grave and serious or excessively emotional, etc, will make them easy to recognize. But properly-made characters should go deeper than stereotypes. The most important part of a character is how he or she is used in the plot, and how his or her past made them how they are today. In addition, one might consider catchphrases such as "kaze~" or "After all, I am ___~~". But these are rare, and made only for strangely outgoing characters. Overdoing it will annoy the reader.
Additional effects, this is also useful for conveying overt emotion. Something like camera angles, out-of-frame, zoom in and zoom out, are also useful when aiding the panel set.;
, Manga is a set of pictures to tell a story you make. So, decide your beginning story. Match it to your story's genre. And for good, don't copy! Maybe you're a fan of Naruto, and you're making a manga of the ninja world. Put that off, be creative! There are still many stories to be made. But still, the decision is in your hands. For inspiration, use the media that you see and involve yourself in regularly, or match it to an idea or even a dream. You might take a bit of the story from one manga, then a bit of another and so on. You might put that interesting little bit from, say, Shingeki no Kyojin, together with that awesome dream you had/that random daydream in math class. Mash it up, mix it together, edit it to your own tastes; most importantly, have fun. Just make sure it's in your own interests, and that it matches the genre you aim for!

, Dynamic designs are fine for shonen {action} manga, but try to stay clear of stereotypical designs, like ninja robes, katanas, and spiky outrageously colored hair. Try to match original concepts to the characters' personalities. You character might be a tomboy, and she likes weird clothing combinations. Maybe you can dress her up in combat boots and mini-shorts, along with a tucked-in vintage-ish shirt. She might hang out with lots of guys, so she talks like them too. Whatever you do, make it original, make it memorable. Make you character one that your readers will instantly recognize, even from afar and say, "Hey, that's from 's manga, , right?!"

, One cannot become a manga-ka on his own with just a pencil and paper. To complete professional work, you must have the tools necessary to ink and tone {or color} it. Multi-liner pens are a start and Deleter* screentones are available on their web-store. Although, granted, these tools are not cheap, so be ready to save some serious money for these if you are serious about this as a career. Otherwise, it is not worth the time and money to simply dabble.
 You don't become experienced in a week. And since OEL manga is at an all-time low, get ready for high expectations and denials. They are a part of the business, and without patience, you can never succeed. Just keep trying until your work is done and a publisher accepts your submissions. We recommend starting out small, and building up a fan-base for your work. But never give up; it will make your work a burden more than a hobby, a joy, or even a job.
 Learn from your mistakes and take in what you can. Reference anatomy from photographs, and learn intricate style, often ranging from dynamic and chunky with hard lines to delicate and uniquely original, from artists that interest you.

