 Using some brooches from the family will personalize the project and make it a keepsake.


If your family members want the brooches back, you can choose to deconstruct the bouquet at a later date.;
,


Give yourself at least a few months to look for brooches. You can return to the clearance section of these stores and buy recently reduced merchandise to save money.
 If you have a special style of brooch, such as enamel, rhinestone or precious stone that you want to feature in your bouquet, it will take a little longer to collect enough brooches.
 These items look very similar to brooches when placed in a bouquet.
 The number you need will depend upon the diameter of the brooches and the size of the bouquet.



Buy long, green floral wire. These will become your brooch stems. Make sure you have enough for each brooch and 2 for larger brooches.
Find green floral wire. This is used to wrap the wire together.
Buy a large silk flower, such as a hydrangea, in the color of your choice. Inserting your brooches into the flower will help to fill out the empty space and protect your brooches from rubbing against each other. You can also choose a dozen flowers or several different types of silk flowers to intersperse among the brooches.
Buy ribbon. You will want to wrap the bouquet stems with ribbon to create an attractive and elegant holder.
Buy some needle-nosed pliers, wire clippers and a hot glue gun (with glue sticks), if you do not have these things already.
 Plug in your glue gun and gather all your supplies.


The glue gun is essential for brooches that break during the bouquet-making process. Low-cost brooches frequently break or lose stones. Glue the pieces on immediately so that you can still use them.
 Close the clasp and secure it with a hot glue gun if necessary.


Decide if your brooch will be secure if you wire it through the clasp. Some brooches break or have unsteady clasps. In this case, try to wrap the wire around the front of the clasp itself, between petals or stones.
,


Use your needle-nosed pliers to wrap wire around delicate brooches. Bend the wire at the top with the pliers, so that it is securely attached to the clasp.
, Floral tape can be flimsy, so make sure it overlaps as you curl it around the wire.


Press the ends of the floral tape securely so that it sticks well.
 Create a pile of brooch stems, until you feel you have enough to start making the bouquet.


Making brooch stems can be a time-consuming process. You may need to make 50 to 80 stems in several sessions.
 You can buy a bouquet holder or foam block to make a wider base with which to hold your bouquet.


In place of a bouquet base, find a foam noodle bath toy and cut it to the length of your base or vase height. The open center allows you to place the brooch stems inside.
You do not need to use a bouquet holder. You can add sticks or silk flower stems to make a wider vase. Place them together and wrap them with tape to secure a wider base.
 Insert your brooch stems into the spaces between the flower petals.


Make sure to alter the color and size of the brooches that are next to each other.
 Gather your brooch stems until you have a full bouquet shape.



Clip the wire stems with the wire cutters, if they are too long.
, Use a hot glue gun. Allow the glue to dry well before you begin wrapping the ribbon.



When you get to the bottom, you can wrap the bottom with ribbon vertically and rewrap it horizontally or you can leave the stems showing for 1/2 inch to 1 inch (1.3 to 2.5cm)

, Tuck the end of the ribbon inside the other bands of ribbon at the top.
 You can wrap the base with a necklace or sew on pearls.

