 NOTE: The default password is 0000. To remove all controls, you will have to disable controls in nine separate areas.

Log into the Sub Account you are changing.
From the Home Screen, press up on the d-pad to get to the Function area.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Restrict Use of PS4 Features > Application.
Select Allow to remove all restrictions.
Next, go to Settings > Parental Controls > Restrict Use of PS4 Features > Blu-Ray Disc and select Allow.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Restrict Use of PS4 Features > DVD and select Allow.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Restrict Use of PS4 Features > Internet Browser and select Allow.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Restrict Use of PS4 Features > Select New User and Log in to PS4 and select Allow.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Sub Account Management, select the Sub Account you want to change and press the X button. Choose Parental Controls and under Chat/Message choose Allow.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Sub Account Management, select the Sub Account you want to change and press the X button. Choose Parental Controls and under User-Generated Media choose Allow.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Sub Account Management, select the Sub Account you want to change and press the X button. Choose Parental Controls and under Content Restriction choose Allow.
Go to Settings > Parental Controls > Sub Account Management, select the Sub Account you want to change and press the X button. Choose Parental Controls and under Monthly Spending Limit choose Unlimited.
 Turn off the PS4. Once it is off, press and hold the power button. Release it after you hear two beeps – one when you first press it, and another 7 seconds later.
Connect the DualShock 4 controller with the USB cable and press the PS button on the controller. You are now in safe mode.
Select Restore Default Settings to restore your PS4 to the factory default settings.
Once your PS4 restarts, you can now remove parental controls as indicated above. The password will be 0000.
 NOTE: you will have to disable three separate sets of controls to gain access to all content and to the web.Go to the Settings tab and select Security Settings.
Go to Parental Control and enter your four digit password (the default is 0000).
Set parental controls to Off and click through the next screen by clicking OK.
Next, go to BD Parental Control. Enter your four digits password.
Click Do Not Restrict.
Finally, go to Internet Browser Start Control and enter your password.
Click Off.

Select Restore Default Settings and when prompted select Yes.
You can now remove parental controls as in the instructions above. The default password will be 0000.

