 Food banks offer free food to people in need. Most towns have at least one. By donating through a food bank, you can be sure that your food will get into the right hands.Some food banks operate independently. Others are run out of religious organizations or thrift stores.;
, Food banks might have plenty of food on their shelves, but it’s likely that much of that food isn’t the most nutritious or useful to those in need. Before you pack up your donation, call to ask what items the food bank is most in need of. During the holidays, food banks are usually in need of seasonal items. However, they might not be willing to take perishables.
It’s always a safe bet to bring non-perishable proteins, such as canned meats and beans.
Goods that require other ingredients (such as cake mix) are not very useful, since they would require people to buy ingredients.
Condiments and seasonings might not seem useful, but they’re always in high demand.
 Put the food together in a box or bag. Check every item to make sure that it is still good and has not expired or grown mold. Avoid anything with damaged packaging.Some food banks will accept things that are slightly past their “best if used by” date.
You cannot donate homemade food such as hot meals, jams, or baked goods.
Non-food products such as toilet paper, toothpaste, and diapers can usually be donated as well. These are excellent donations because they can't be bought with food stamps.
 Food banks are always struggling to keep food on the shelves, so the bigger your donation, the better. Before you deliver your donation, ask friends or neighbors to contribute. Most people have at least a couple cans of food at home that they’d be happy to part with.If you are feeling very ambitious, you can organize your own food drive.
Collecting food from others may help inspire them to donate on their own in the future!

, Make sure you know when the food bank is open to receive donations. Deliver the food in a sturdy box or bag. Make sure to keep anything that isn’t food (such as cleaning products or personal hygiene products) separate.