 Different levels of education will qualify you for different nursing jobs, duties, and careers. For example, becoming a registered nurse (RN) only requires an associate degree whereas becoming a nurse practitioner may require a master's degree in nursing. If you already have a degree in another subject, you can choose to get a second bachelor's or a diploma.If you already have a bachelor’s degree in another field, you can complete a diploma course. These courses offer an accelerated program to nursing, although they do not qualify you for the more specialized jobs.
An associate degree in nursing (ADN) will take two years to complete, and the coursework must be done at a state-approved training program or school. It is cheaper and faster to complete than a bachelor’s degree.
A Bachelor’s of Science in Nursing (BSN) will require four years of coursework at an accredited university. A BSN will open the door to more job opportunities and higher salaries. There are accelerated programs available at some schools for those who already have a bachelor’s degree.
A Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) is required for some more specialized fields of nursing. You might consider this after a few years of working in the field.;
, Different countries and localities have different requirements for becoming a nurse. To understand which degree and qualifications you need, you should look in both your national and local licensing procedures for nurses.


In the US, you will need a nursing diploma, an associate degree, or a bachelor's degree. Further requirements vary by state. Refer to the American Nurses Association for more information.
In the UK, you will need to complete a bachelor's degree in nursing. You can apply through the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS).Canada’s requirements vary by province, but in general, you must have a bachelor’s degree and proficiency in both French and English. You cannot work as a nurse with a diploma or two-year degree in Canada.In Australia, you must complete a nursing program approved by the Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia (NMBA). This program will register you with the NMBA. You must be registered with the NMBA to practice in Australia., If you want to become a specialized nurse, you may have to complete additional requirements. While you do not have to choose your specialty immediately, you can start thinking about what type of nursing you’re interested in.Psychiatric care nurse: Requires a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor’s degree

Lactation Consultant: Requires a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor’s degree

Nurse practitioner: Requires a bachelor's and master's degree in nursing

Pediatric nurse: Requires a diploma, associate degree, or bachelor’s degree

Cardiac Care nurse: Requires an associate or bachelor’s degree

