 A variety of computer software programs equipped for designing and printing individualized CD covers are available, most of them available for free download. You can customize your own photos, add text, and size them appropriate for jewel cases, or your own slip-cases. Any of the following are perfect for designing CDs:


Adobe Illustrator
CD Label Designer
CD & DVD Label Maker
CD Cover Creator
CNET
Print Master Gold;
, In some programs, you'll be able to select this when you open the program, but if you're using a multi-purpose software, like Illustrator, you'll have to define the size of the project. CDs are 4.724 inches square (120mm x 120 mm), so use the box tool or set your parameters accordingly.It might be appropriate to change the background color to something like dark gray, or whatever you'd like the base color scheme of the CD to be, to make the changes more obvious.
If you want to create the back cover for a jewel case, as well, the dimensions are 5.906 in. x 4.646 in. (150 mm x 118 mm), to make space for the folding line. To create the back cover, follow the same steps as follow.
 This tutorial will assume you're using an Illustrator-like program, but you should defer to the specific design software you're using. In general, though, you want to create a new layer on top of the base layer, then select an appropriate image for the cover.


Browse through your saved photos or search for one online. The simpler, the better, in general. You can change the background color scheme to match your desired image later, if necessary.
Select "Import Image" and resize and trim the image to fit the box, if necessary. You can usually do this by dragging.
Alternatively, if you're trying to replace a lost cover, you can search for and save an image of the cover online and import that. Skip the next few steps and go straight to printing, if this is the case.
 Add another layer on top of the image and draw a text box to include text on the CD cover. Use complementary fonts, sizing, and coloring to match the image you selected for the cover. Generally, you won't need to include more than the title and the name of the artist, or you could just include something simple, like "Dave's Awesome Mix" if it's a CD of your own making. It's also perfectly fine to leave text off entirely for a more artistic look.
 Any time you're printing and cutting, the edges may very occasionally, so you should probably keep the most valuable imagery and text somewhere near the middle of the design. Try to keep important stuff at least an 1/8 of an inch away from the borders., Make sure to make sure the sizing parameters in your printer match the size of the CD cover. Select "Print Preview" to be sure that you don't need to resize the document before you print out a physical copy.
 This can be found at most arts and crafts stores, as well as office supply facilities. CD cover paper is perforated on the edges, allowing you to easily break apart the individual front and back covers.


You might need to reconfigure your printer to
Alternatively, just use plain printing paper, if you're going to use heavy-duty jewel cases anyway. It'll look fine.

