 Small rollers create tight curls, and large rollers create softer, wavy curls. Very large rollers simply volumize your hair and cause the ends to curl under, rather than creating defined curls or waves. You need at least shoulder-length hair to use larger rollers. Hot rollers are good for almost all hair types except for very fine or thin hair that's prone to breakage. They're particularly good at reducing frizz.


The number of rollers you need will depend on the size of the curls you are trying to create, as well as your head size. If you’re trying to create a lot of small, tight curls with small to medium rollers, you may need a dozen or more rollers.
As a general rule, each roller should sit on a section of your hair about the same size as the roller, regardless of the texture or thickness of your hair.
Felt rollers offer additional smoothness and shine, which is great for hair that tends to frizz.You can create different curl or wave shapes by wrapping your hair around the curler multiple times. For example, making 1 ½ wraps around a curler will create a “c” shaped curl. 2 ½ wraps will produce an “s” shape. The number of wraps you can make will depend on the length of your hair and the size of the curler.;
, If you have extremely curly hair, blow dry your hair straight before rolling. This will help you set smooth, uniform curls.
 It's important to preheat your rollers to get them to the optimal temperature before you begin rolling. Follow the manufacturer's instructions. If you have a hot roller set with variable temperatures, you may need to experiment to find the right setting for your hair.


For tighter, spiral curls use small rollers and high temperatures. For softer, looser curls use large rollers and low temperatures., You can find heat-activated sprays and creams at most drug stores and beauty supply stores. This type of product will help protect your hair from heat damage and will keep the curl set longer. Distribute the product evenly throughout dry hair.
 Create a "mohawk" about 2 to 3 inches wide that runs from your forehead to the back of your neck. Secure it with a clip. Using a tail comb, part the hair on the sides of your head into a few even sections and secure them with clips.
 Comb through a section of hair as wide as the roller you're using and no more than two inches thick. Hold that section up and away from your head. Place the roller at the ends of your hair and roll down toward the scalp, rolling away from your face. Secure with clips.








Continue rolling the mohawk section, working your way from front to back. Section off manageable sections of hair and roll them onto the rollers, then secure with clips.
 Comb through the section, pull it up and away from your head, and place the roller diagonally across the ends. Roll tightly to your scalp and secure with clips.Repeat until all hair is rolled.









To achieve bigger lift, roll hair at the top part of the side sections diagonally. For the highest possible lift, roll the hair up at a 90° angle from each section.
 Allow the rollers to completely cool before removing them from your hair. Removing the rollers too quickly will result in less long-lasting curls. Rollers will take longer to cool in very thick or curly hair, but be patient. The results will be worth it!

, Start at the bottom and work your way to the top of your head. Hold the roller in one hand and remove clips with the other.









Do not pull or tug the roller out of your hair as it will mess up the curl and may also damage your hair. Allow it to drop out of the curl.
 Brushing through your curls will remove much of the curl and result in loose, flowing waves. To keep the curls neat and tight, run your fingers gently through your hair. Spray with hairspray to ensure long-lasting curls.









If you want more volume, bend over and let your head hang down. Shake your head a few times and run your fingers gently through the curls. This will give you bigger, bouncier hair.

