 Like most important relationships, even the best friendships can feel a little constricting or boring every once in a while. However, if you’re feeling frustrated with your friend more often than not, it might be a sign that you’ve outgrown the friendship. Ask yourself


Do you feel like you have nothing to talk about anymore? Differences are awesome, but if you and your friend have nothing in common any more, the friendship might be higher-maintainance than it’s worth.
Does your friend only get in touch with you if they want something, like your notes or your car for the evening?It’s not much of a friendship if you feel like you’re being taken advantage of.
Does your friend make you feel like less than your best? Sometimes we rely on those we love to push us to be better. However, if your friend constantly corrects you or makes you feel bad about yourself, you might be better off without them., Not every friendship that has reached its expiration date should end organically. If you have a friend who physically or emotionally hurts you, get away as quickly as you can. Friendships can be abusive, just like romantic relationships, and it’s important to take care of yourself as well as possible.Identifying abuse in a friendship can be tricky. In general, if you are scared to be with your friend (whether it’s because of things they do or say), that’s a bad sign.If someone scares you, there’s nothing wrong with suddenly ceasing to speak to them.
 Once you’ve identified a friendship that’s on its way out, but there’s no reason for you to end it completely, sit on it for a couple of weeks. A slow drift is, by its nature, slow. There’s no reason to rush into it, so be certain.


You may notice that you are missing your friend or craving their company again. If so, hang out with them one more time. Do you have fun together, or do you feel the same problems are in place?
Your friend might have also noticed that your friendship is cooling. If this happens, they might initiate a slow drift of their own. If they do this, that makes things easier; you don’t have to put any energy into ending the friendship., Friendships are great because they have much less social pressure on them than other types of relationships. Therefore, your decision to let one spin itself out is casual. Don’t mar that by making a big announcement or writing an official breakup note in your friend’s planner.