 Your baby will generally let you know when they need to be fed. Expect crying. With time you may come to be able to hear the difference between the cries and know which means hunger and which means bedtime and so on. How often they eat will depend on what they are eating, how much of it they are eating, and their own individual metabolism.


Older babies will often give an indication when they are hungry, such as hand movements.
 Infants will need to drink milk, either from formula or breast milk. Try not to give them anything other than this, as it will likely make them sick or lead them to choke. They can eat baby food once they reach a few months old and as they start to get teeth you can introduce more solid foods.


Breast milk has been shown to be much healthier for your baby than formula, as it will provide not only the nutrients your baby needs but will also temporarily pass on many of your immunities to your baby., You will need to choose between bottles or breastfeeding. No matter which method you choose, you will need to ensure that you are doing it correctly in order to prevent your baby from getting an infection and to help decrease the likelihood of spitting up.

If bottle feeding, you will need to decide between a variety of bottle types. You may wish to purchase simple, more cost-effective bottles or you may wish to purchase more complex ones. Bottle liners can be purchased if you want to reduce the amount of washing you’ll be doing, but you’ll make more garbage in exchange.

Breastfeeding is incredibly simple. Women were born to do it, after all! Be sure that you are keeping your nipple clean and free of any infections. Consult with your doctor if you are taking any medications and check labels on over-the-counter drugs. You will also want to eat as healthfully as possible, since you will be sharing those nutrients with your baby!
While there are a variety of acceptable feeding positions for either method, you may want to feed with the baby in an upright position, as this will help prevent spit up.
 Babies stomach muscles are very weak in the beginning. So weak that sometimes they have a hard time keeping food in there! Don’t worry, this is very normal...it’s just messy. Prepare for spit up by always having rags handy in order to clean up the mess, keeping a bib on your baby when they’re a little bigger, and generally having a rag placed in front of your mouth any time you intend to burp them or move them around soon after eating.


You will want to watch for spit up that is a color other than white or clear (red, yellow, green, and brown, for example) as these can be signs of illness. If you see this, take the baby to the doctor. Similarly, spitting up very forcefully or your baby not gaining weight are signs that would warrant a doctor’s visit.
 They can easily swallow too much air while eating and the bubbles in their stomach will make them cranky and uncomfortable. Lay your baby so that they are slightly over your shoulder and then firmly pat their back. This will help release the air and make your baby very happy.
 If your baby seems very unhappy and you cannot find any other cause, they are likely gassy. Help them to work the gas out of their system by laying them across your lap on their stomach and with their butt slightly elevated. Pat their back and draw your hand downward to help work the gas out; gravity will do most of the work.

