 If there are problems with the anal sacs, the cat will pay attention to it in a way that you will notice. They may lick it or bite at it. They may also scoot their behind across the floor.Your cat does this to try and alleviate the pain and itchiness.;
, The anal sacs are two sacs located on the bottom sides of the anus. The ducts or the sacs can become swollen if there is something wrong. The tissues may become red around the anal area., If the anal sacs or ducts become too impacted, you may notice a red or bloody discharge coming from their anus. You may also notice the discharge of a pus that is thick and a dark color.This discharge may be accompanied by a foul odor.
 Some cats may experience digestive problems. They may have an upset stomach, vomiting, or diarrhea. This typically occurs before there are outward signs of problems with the anal sacs or ducts.The cat may also experience constipation or problems defecating., Cats who have an anal sac disorder may start acting differently than usual. They may chase their tails more or excessively lick their posterior area. The cat may also be grumpier than usual and may not respond to their owner’s petting or affection.Your cat may also be more reluctant to sit than usual., Any problems with the anal sacs or ducts needs to be examined by a veterinarian. At the vet, your cat will have a complete physical exam. The vet will also you for a medical history of your cat.You will need to tell your vet about any symptoms or odd behaviors of your cat. This can help your vet more accurately diagnose your cat’s condition. For example, your vet may ask you questions about your cat’s defecating habits, including the size, shape, and frequency.
 If the vet suspects anal gland disease, then they will perform a rectal exam. During the rectal exam, your vet may try to empty out the anal sacs. They will examine the secretions that come out to look for any abnormalities.Generally, this requires your cat to be sedated because it can be uncomfortable.
 If the vet believes your cat has an infection or the anal sacs are abscessed, they may check the white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets in the blood. This will help tell them if there is an infection.If a tumor is suspected, the vet may do a serum panel. This will test the cat’s organ function, along with the body’s electrolytes.
 If the vet thinks the cat has a tumor of the anal sacs, they will start with an x-ray of the chest or abdomen. This looks for any tumors that have spread to the lymph nodes or lungs. X-rays show obvious signs of cancer.The vet may also look for tumors via an abdominal ultrasound.
 For many cases, your vet will try to get rid of the fluid impacted in the anal ducts or sacs. Your vet does this with their finger. They will apply pressure to the ducts to push out the fluid. Your cat may need anesthetic during this procedure.This is only done if the sacs are impacted.
 If the sacs are impacted and cannot be manually expressed, the vet may flush and irrigate the anal sacs and ducts. The cat must be put under anesthesia for this procedure. The vet flushes the area with a saline solution.This procedure may also be used if the sacs have ruptured.
The saline solution will help to break down the impacted and firm buildup so it can be removed from the sacs.
 If the anal sac has abscessed, the vet will need to lance it so it can be drained. After lancing the abscess, the abscess is flushed with saline solution to help clear up any backed up or thickened secretions.The cat will need to be under anesthesia for this.
 If there is an infection, the vet will prescribe antibiotics to treat it. The vet may also prescribe antibiotic ointment to rub on the infected area. Topical steroids are sometimes prescribed if the area is inflamed., If the anal sac gets infected or impacted frequently, then the vet may suggest removing the anal sacs. Removal of the sacs is also the treatment for anal sac tumors. This is usually the last treatment considered.Surgery may lead to fecal incontinence and straining when defecating. This may clear up within a few weeks.

