 Your body usually tells you when you're angry. Maybe you start huffing and puffing because your breath has gotten faster. Maybe you feel your teeth clenching together, or maybe you notice your hands are balled up. Maybe you feel your face getting red. All of these signs are your body's way of telling you you're feeling angry.Some of the other physical signs of anger you may notice include clenching your jaws or grinding your teeth, headache, stomach ache, increased and rapid heart rate, sweating (especially your palms), feeling hot in the neck/face, shaking or trembling, and dizziness.
Keep in mind that not everyone will show anger in the same way. You may feel some of these things, but you might also feel different things when you get angry.;
, Some people, when they get mad, literally "see red," meaning they notice more redness in their environment.

Other people get a sort of tunnel vision, meaning they have trouble seeing right. Other people feel a tenseness in their bodies, or they may feel like something heavy is on their chest. All of these things could help you realize when you're angry., Some kids don't know how to talk about their anger. When that happens, they just bottle it up inside. That's not good because it can make you feel worse, both in your heart and your body. You may notice that you get headaches, for example, or have a stomachache., It is important to acknowledge how you are feeling and to put a label on it. When you're angry, the first person you need to tell is yourself. That is, you need to be able to admit to yourself what you're feeling. So you could say to yourself (out loud or in your head), "I'm feeling mad."It can also help to figure out how angry you are. Think of it like a stoplight. Green is not angry at all. Yellow is getting angry, and red is angry. How angry are you?

, Next, you need to figure out why you are upset. What has happened to make you so mad? You might need to take a few minutes to think about what has you upset, though sometimes you might know immediately.For example, you may be mad because your sister stole your favorite book, or you may be upset because your mom told you can't do something you want to do.
 Often, you may feel angry about a situation, and you don't know why. Sometimes, anger can come from feeling afraid or hurt. Instead of dealing with that emotion, which can be hard, you turn to anger, which may feel easier at the time.Try to see if you can find an underlying feeling. Are you really feeling mad at your best friend who said something mean, or are you feeling hurt?

, The best thing to do when you're mad is to talk about it with the person you're made at or an adult. Taking with someone about how you are feeling can help to make you feel better and to try to find a solution to the problem. The key is to not say mean things or lash out. Instead, try to say why you're mad.For example, if your sister borrows something without asking, you may want to lash out at her. Instead, say what you're feeling, like "It upsets me when you take things without asking. I like knowing where things are, and it frustrates me if I can't find something. Will you please ask the next time?"
Try not to blame the other person. For example, DON'T say, "You're always taking my things. You're a bad sister."
To a parent, you could say, "I feel frustrated that our trip to the zoo got cancelled."

, Anger can make you want to throw things, hit people, and say mean things. But, doing those things won't make you feel any better, and it will make the people you're with feel worse. It's best to try to discuss your feelings calmly.Before you say something when you're angry, ask yourself, "Is it nice? Do I really want to say it? What will happen if I say it?"
Never use violence to resolve your anger. Throwing things or trying to hit people doesn't solve anything.
Remember that it is important to avoid acting on your anger and stay rational.
 You might have heard people say "Count to 10 when you get angry." What they really mean is you need to take a moment to breathe and calm down. Counting to 10 gives you the moment you need to breathe. When you feel yourself getting angry, try counting slowly up to 10 in your head, breathing deeply in and out as you do.You don't actually have to count to 10. You can also just take a moment to breathe. Try breathing like Darth Vader does. You just want to take deep, heavy breaths. Take a big, slow breath in through your nose, and then slowly blow it out through your mouth. Keep doing it until you feel yourself calming down., Another way to calm down is to imagine yourself somewhere you like or would like to be. Just close your eyes, and pretend like you're there. Try to use all your senses. What do you see? Smell? Hear? Feel? Taste? Just pretending to be somewhere else can help you calm down.For example, you could pretend to be in your favorite movie, or you could imagine yourself in the last place your family went on vacation.
 Sometimes, when something is making you really mad, you just need to walk away from the problem. Of course, you shouldn't run away from your parents or teachers, but if you feel yourself getting mad at your brother or sister, for example, sometimes it's just best to leave the room instead of getting in a fight.If you are mad at your parents, you can say, "I'm getting really mad, and I need to be alone for a minute."

, Sometimes, a good way to let your anger out is to actually just spend some time yelling. However, you don't want to yell at anyone. It's best to use this one in the privacy of your bedroom. Just let the person know you need to go be angry for a minute.Go into your room, and try yelling "Raw!" or even just screaming into your pillow.
 Finding an activity that will take your focus away from what is making you angry is a good strategy. Do something that you enjoy, such as reading a book, calling up a friend, going to see a movie, playing a game, or going for a walk.

Exercise is an especially good way to distract yourself because the physical activity will help to get rid of the cortisol in your system. Go outside and do something, such as riding your bike, playing basketball with a friend, or even just walking or running around.

