 A tornado watch means that there is a threat of tornadoes within your area and that you should keep an eye on the news. A tornado warning is much more serious. Tornado warnings mean that a sign of rotation has been detected and that you should take immediate action depending on the tornado's location and its predicted track.Whenever you see a tornado watch, keep the news and radio on for further news.
Whenever you see a tornado warning, get to cover immediately.
 Have this plan in place and practiced before you need it. Everyone you live with should know exactly which room of the house to go to in the event of a tornado. Make sure that this room is stocked with all necessary provisions.


Note the places in each room where you should seek cover if you cannot escape, like under tables or cabinets.
Are there any places where you would be trapped or in extra danger, such as upstairs rooms? Are there ways to make them safe, such as stashing a cheap rope ladder?
Do you have first aid kits, crowbars, fire extinguishers or other special equipment around the house that people should know how to find?, This should contain all the basics for survival in the worst-case scenario, and can be used as a general emergency kit for most natural disasters.



First-Aid

Gauze, antibiotic wipes, pain relievers, bandages, broad-spectrum antibiotic, necessary prescriptions, adhesive tape, diarrhea medicine, bar of soap



Food and Water

1 gallon (4 liters) for each person in house, canned goods, cracker packs, and other non-perishables



General

Scissors, writing materials, flashlights, battery-operated radio, extra batteries, pocket knife, plastic bags, needle and thread, Major disasters can crack gas pipes and lead to incredibly dangerous leaks. If you smell gas, you need to be able to immediately switch off the utilities to protect you and your house from flammable gasses. Call your gas provider if you have any questions.
 Cut away dead or damaged tree branches that could be ripped off in high winds, and tie down, secure, or move in lawn furniture. Keeping your lawn clean is about more than looks. Dead branches, decorations, and lawn chairs will be whipped at 100's of miles an hour in the event of a tornado, slamming them into your stuff. Keep your lawn free of anything that could turn into a weapon when picked up by a tornado., If tornadoes are a regular part of your local weather, buying or building a shelter is well-worth the cost. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has produced a guide to building a shelter yourself as well.

