 Unlike using a proxy site, virtual private networks (VPNs) require you to set up an account in order to access a server's name and address. You will need the VPN's name and address, as well as login credentials, to connect to a VPN.

If you want to use your VPN service for longer than a week or so, you'll usually have to pay for it., Click the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or press the ⊞ Win key., It's in the bottom-left side of the Start window., This option is in the top row of settings on the Windows Settings page., It's a tab on the left side of the window., This option is at the top of the VPN page., Click the box below the "VPN provider" heading at the top of the page, then click Windows (built-in)., This includes the following:


Connection name - Type a name for your VPN connection into the Connection name field.

Server name or address - This is where you'll enter your VPN's address.

VPN type - Click the box below this heading to select your VPN's connection type. You should receive this information along with the VPN's address when signing up for the VPN.

Sign-in info - Depending on your VPN, this section will vary. You'll usually enter your username and password here.
 Doing so saves your VPN connection as a network on your PC., It should now be on the VPN page of the Settings window., This option is at the bottom of the VPN's name card., If you didn't select the option to have your VPN save your login credentials while creating it, you'll need to log into your VPN service and click OK to finish connecting to the VPN., Go to https://www.facebook.com and log in. As long as you're connected to a VPN, you should be able to use Facebook., Unlike using a proxy site, virtual private networks (VPNs) require you to set up an account in order to access a server's name and address. You will need the VPN's name and address, as well as login credentials, to connect to a VPN.

If you want to use your VPN service for longer than a week or so, you'll usually have to pay for it.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen., This option is near the top of the Apple drop-down menu., It's a purple globe-shaped icon., This option is in the bottom-left corner of the Network page, just below the list of network names., Click the box to the right of "Interface:", then click VPN in the drop-down menu., Click the box to the right of "VPN Type", then select your VPN's connection type (e.g., L2TP over IPSec).

The VPN's site should provide this information.
MacOS Sierra does not support PPTP connections.
 This can be whatever you want to name the network., It's the blue button in the bottom-right corner of the window., Enter the following information:


Configuration - Make sure this box says "Default".

Server Address - Type in your VPN's address here.

Account Name - Type in your subscription's account name here.
 It's below the Account Name text field., Check the box to the left of your VPN's User Authentication option (e.g., Password) and then type the answer in., This section is near the bottom of the window. Most VPNs use the "Shared Secret" option; check this box, then enter your VPN's shared secret phrase., It's near the bottom of the Authentication Settings window., It's near the bottom of the window., This ensures that all sites you visit will use the VPN connection., This saves your VPN settings and creates your network., It's below the Authentication Settings option. Doing so will prompt your Mac to connect to the VPN., Go to https://www.facebook.com and log in. As long as you're connected to a VPN, you should be able to use Facebook.