 A grandiose sense of self-importance is one of the most identifiable traits of the narcissist. Individuals with narcissistic personality disorder believe that they are elite and special. They may select their friends and acquaintances based on their status or popularity. They may also go out of their way to make important contact as it cements their perceptions of themselves.Narcissists also often pose as helpers, make grandiose promises to people, and lie about good deeds they've done, leaving them with good reputations. But look closely to see if they have ever delivered on these. They will have often left a series of tragic relationships in their wake.
If your spouse is a narcissist, you may have felt as if they act like they are better than you or those around you. They expect to be admired and believe they deserve the very best of everything. This can lead to you feeling insignificant and even suffering from a low self-esteem.;
, Narcissists portray a unique dynamic when it comes to criticism. They are extremely sensitive to the criticism of others, yet they themselves are incredibly critical. Because narcissists are naturally arrogant, your spouse may act as if they know it all. You may receive the brunt end of this behavior as they attack various aspects of your character or appearance.


However, if you offered constructive criticism to your spouse, they may respond negatively. Although your spouse may appear to have a high self-esteem, you probably notice that it is fragile. They may become incredibly angry or even violent when criticized.They will also withhold love and affection if you criticize them, disagree with them, or do not give them exactly what they want.
 Narcissists have a hard time feeling compassion or concerns for others. You will often find yourself having to explain basic human decency to a grown adult. This is a warning sign. Your spouse’s #1 priority is themselves. Everything is “me” or “I.” They seem to have very little insight into your emotional needs and are unable to show empathy when you are upset.The narcissistic spouse may also lack an ability to recognize your feelings, interests, or personal values. You might say, “That was selfish of you and it hurt my feelings.” They will either be confused or say you’re too “sensitive.”

, Narcissists have no qualms about using others to get what they want. They may take advantage of acquaintances or family members to improve their own situation or advance in some way.


Being the spouse of a narcissist, you have probably felt manipulated or used on various occasions in order for your spouse to achieve their goals. For example, your spouse may open credit cards in your name without you knowing, or use your social connections to advance their own status.