 If you find that you have a difficult time getting that extra flick of the wrist in at the release of every throw, try this for practice. Kneel on the ground with a partner, spaced about 5–10 feet (1.5–3.0 m) apart. You don’t need to use your mitt for this, as you won’t be throwing hard enough to cause an injury.









Bend your throwing elbow so that it is vertical, or parallel to your torso. You won’t be winding up your arm for this, so stiffen your shoulder and elbow joints to hinder movement.
Use your non-throwing hand to hold the elbow of your throwing arm. You are doing this to prevent it from moving, so cup the front of your elbow tight enough that you will block your forearm from moving forward.
Throw the ball by flicking your wrist only. You should start with the correct ball grip and your wrist tilted slightly back, and then toss the ball forward by flicking your wrist downwards sharply. You are using your wrist to provide all the momentum of the throw; don’t use any other part of your body.
As you practice this, move a few steps further back. This will strengthen the power of your wrist and help you to use this motion even at a distance. You should never exceed 20 feet (6.1 m) from your partner though, so that you don’t accidentally cause injury to yourself or your partner.
 If you have problems with making strong, fast throws while maintaining accuracy, it may have to do with your follow through. To do this exercise, kneel on one knee (your throwing knee) on the ground about 10 feet (3.0 m) away from your partner. Practice softly throwing the ball, focusing on your form and windup.









As you release the ball, bring your arm completely across your body so that your throwing hand rests on the other side of your opposite thigh. If you were standing, your arm would rest on your hip.
You should not focus on speed or strength for the exercise. Concentrate solely on the accuracy of your throw and your follow through.
Make sure that although you are bringing your arm totally across your body, that you are still releasing the ball when it lines up with the target in front of you. Releasing the ball too early or too late will cause it to go off target.
As you feel more confident in your follow through, slowly move further back while still kneeling. Eventually, use this same practice while standing.
 With good wrist-movement and follow-through, you are on the road to perfect aiming. To practice your aim, stand with a partner a short distance away (10-15 feet). Use the aforementioned exercises to throw the ball to the other person.









Before each throw, stick out your gloved hand to point at the chest of the other person. Simultaneously, take a small step with the same foot.
Practice this without gloves, so that you are focused on aim rather than strength.
As you throw, keep your eyes on your partner’s chest. You should never release eye contact, until they have caught the ball. Pointing, taking a step, and maintaining eye contact should help to perfect your aim.
Move further and further back, and begin using your glove if necessary while practicing your aim.

