 There is not enough scientific evidence to determine how much acai juice makes a helpful, safe dosage, but it is recommended that you start small. Straight acai juice can upset stomachs that are not used to it. Measure 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of acai juice into a small glass. Consume 1 ounce of acai juice once a day for three to four days. If you do not notice any negative side effects, increase the amount to 6 tablespoons (90 milliliters) each serving, limiting yourself to one or two servings per day.;
, Diluting the acai juice can make it easier on your taste buds and on your stomach. Mix 2 teaspoons (10 milliliters) of chilled acai juice into 8 ounces (250 milliliters) of cold water. Drink the mixture immediately to prevent it from separating. You can gradually add more acai juice, up to 6 tablespoons (90 milliliters), depending on your taste preferences.
 Acai juice tastes especially good with other berry juices. Mix 2 teaspoons to 6 tablespoons (10 to 90 milliliters) of acai juice into an 8-ounce (250-milliliter) glass of mixed berry juice, blackberry juice, or blueberry juice. Acai also tastes great when mixed into pomegranate juice or mango juice.
 While the acai juice won't make your soda any healthier, you will still receive the benefits of acai juice by mixing the two. Add 2 teaspoons (10 milliliters) of acai juice to a standard cola. Standard colas work better than lemon-lime sodas or other flavored drinks. The strong flavor of the cola can mask the taste of the acai if you do not care for it, and the acai will add a hint of berry taste to the cola to create greater depth of flavor.
 Milk absorbs other flavors remarkably well, and the chocolate undertones of the acai berry make it a healthier substitution for chocolate milk. Adding 2 teaspoons to 2 tablespoons (10 to 30 milliliters) of acai juice can really create a strong flavor. If you cannot drink milk or choose to stay away from dairy for diet or health reasons, you can also add the same amount of acai juice to soy milk or almond milk.
 The potency of acai juice can compete with the strong taste of coffee, so you only need to add about 1 or 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) to get a strong effect. The berry flavor creates a unique coffee experience, while the chocolate undertones make the taste just familiar enough to work with coffee. Acai juice is also a healthier choice than standard cream and sugar.
 Just 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of acai juice in an 8-ounce (250-milliliter) glass of your favorite tea can completely transform your beverage. You can mix acai juice into black or green tea, much like you would mix in raspberry or lemon. Acai juice goes especially well with white tea and fruity herbal teas, however, especially those that are blueberry, strawberry, or mango flavored.
 Try blending together 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of acai juice with 1 cup (250 milliliters) of milk, 1 banana, 1/4 cup (56.7 grams) of frozen strawberries, 1 tablespoon (14.15 grams) of butter, and four or five ice cubes. You could also simply add 2 to 4 tablespoons (30 to 60 milliliters) of acai juice to your favorite smoothie recipe, especially if the smoothie has a banana, apple, or pear base and uses other berries like blueberries, raspberries, strawberries, and blackberries.


Alternatively, you can blend 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of the juice with vanilla or chocolate ice cream to create a simple acai shake.
 Instead of reaching for the caramel or chocolate syrup, pour 1 teaspoon to 1 tablespoon (milliliters) of acai juice over plain vanilla, chocolate, or strawberry ice cream to add a boost of nutrition an otherwise unhealthy treat.
 Simply pour the acai juice into a popsicle mold and freeze until it hardens to create an easy, healthy treat to enjoy during hot weather. A popsicle made with nothing but acai juice may be a bit potent for some tastes, however, so you can also dilute 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of juice with equal parts water or mix in another juice, like orange, grape, or mango, before freezing.
 Acai juice is not acidic enough on its own to break down meats, so you may need to mix 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of acai juice with about 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of lime juice or apple cider vinegar, along with 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of olive oil. You can add other spices and seasonings, or you can leave the marinade as is since the acai juice will thoroughly flavor the meat. Acai-based marinades work best with pork and chicken.
 Ham is one meat that tastes notably good with a glaze. While glazes made of pineapple and orange tend to be the most popular, an acai glaze packs a nutritious punch while bestowing a truly unique flavor to the ham. Mix 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) of acai juice with 1 cup (225 grams) of brown sugar. Spread the mixture over the ham and bake it in the oven as you usually would.
 Create a simple vinaigrette 2/3 cup olive oil (167 milliliters) with 1/3 cup (83 milliliters) red wine vinegar or apple cider vinegar. Add 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 milliliters) of acai juice and a pinch of salt and pepper to transform your dressing into an acai berry vinaigrette. Drizzle the dressing over a simple loose-leaf salad.
 When preparing the filling for a blueberry pie, strawberry shortcake, or peach cobbler, mix in 2 teaspoons to 1 tablespoon (10 to 15 milliliters) of acai juice. The juice will not affect the consistency much, but it will add a little extra complexity to the flavor as well as added nutrition.

