 A saline (salt water) nasal spray can be used to help you get through a cold, allergies, or to simply help keep your nose clear. Saline nasal sprays can be made at home and used as often as needed without worries. They can be used for adults, children and infants.
 You will need water, salt, and a small spray bottle. The spray bottle should be a 1-2 ounce bottle.


If you will be using the spray to help an infant or a small child with nasal congestion, you should also have a soft, rubber-bulb syringe to remove nasal secretions gently and efficiently.
You can use sea salt or table salt, but if you have an allergy to iodine (or if you don’t know if you have an iodine allergy), use a non-iodized salt such as pickling salt or kosher salt.
 Boil 8 ounces of water and allow it to cool to very warm. Add ¼ teaspoon of salt to the 8 ounces of water and mix well. The ¼ teaspoon of salt will make a saline solution that matches the amount of salt in your body (isotonic).


You may want to try a salt spray that has a greater concentration of salt than your body (hypertonic). To do this add ½ teaspoon of salt instead of adding ¼ teaspoon of salt. This may be useful if the congestion is significant with a lot of discharge, and you are having significant trouble breathing or clearing your nose. Don’t use a hypertonic solution for infants or small children younger than five years old.
 Add ½ teaspoon of baking soda to 8 ounces of hot water and mix well. The baking soda will adjust the pH of the solution to make it less likely to sting a sore nose.
 Pour the rest of the solution into a covered container and refrigerate. Remember to warm up the refrigerated solution before using it though! After two days, throw out any unused solution.
 Some of the solution will probably go down the back of your throat. Be sure to have a towel or tissue on hand to deal with drainage.
 For infants and small children, apply the nasal spray by placing the tip of the bulb over one nostril (avoid touching the inside of the nostril at all if possible), give one or two small squirts, and wait 2-3 minutes. Then tilt the baby’s head back slightly and use the soft, rubber-bulb syringe to gently remove nasal secretions.Don’t squeeze the bulb too much.
Gently suction out the solution by squeezing the bulb, placing the tip slightly into the nostril, and then releasing the bulb.
Avoid touching the inside of the nostril if you can, though this may be difficult with a squirming baby. Wipe the bulb off on a tissue and discard the tissue. Use a new tissue for each nostril, as you are trying to minimize any contamination and to minimize the spread of an infection. Wash your hands before and after each treatment.Repeat this only two to three times a day. If your baby squirms too much, relax and just try again later. Remember to be very gentle!For older children, you can repeat the process four to five times a day

