 Ask what you will need on the field trip (and what you won't need). Also, write a list of the things you want to bring personally. Once that is done, cross out anything that wouldn't make sense to bring and add anything that you forgot.


A checklist is useful for this as you can tick items once you've packed them.
When it's only a day's field trip, not an overnight trip, you don't need a lot. On the other hand, if it's a week long or more field trip, you'll obviously need to plan in greater detail.;
, It'll need to be large enough to fit everything but still the right size and weight for you to manage. If you're buying it for the first time, get the retail assistant to help you load bags and walk around with them on, to get a feel for the bag plus weight. If must be a tolerable weight if you're walking a lot, or doing a lot of physical activities.
 If not, here are some things to consider:


Backpack (see above)
Backpack liner if rain is likely to be an issue or you'll be traversing fords or wading in mud or swamps; if you do fall, a waterproof liner wrapped around your items will protect them from waterlogging
Writing equipment (paper, notebook, pens, pencils, paints, etc.)
Measuring instruments (as required)
Digital camera
Tablet (this may be useful for documenting things, if you're used to using it; make sure it's fully charged though)
Flashlight
Modeling clay (for impressions, models, etc.)
Cellphone (again, check that it's fully charged as there won't be anywhere to charge it out on the field trip)
Sunglasses, hat, sunscreen, insect repellent
Wind jacket/rain jacket
Layers of clothing (if needed)
See a camping list if you're going for an overnight or longer field trip.
 The top of your bed or the floor of your bedroom or perhaps even the bed or floor of a guest bedroom are good places to pack from.
 A fun pack usually includes a pen/pencil and a piece of paper. Then you can bring pocket-sized fun items, such as clay, a mini flashlight, or even your own food (if you are allowed). You can bring in whatever you want, as long as it fits inside a pocket-sized container. If you're going to be security checked, like in the CNN Center, don't bring it. Remember share some things with your classmates.
 You should bring a water bottle and a snack for the ride. Bring a light jacket just in case, if later on in the day it gets chilly.
 The top of your bed or the floor of your bedroom or perhaps even the bed or floor of a guest bedroom are good places to pack from.
 These include a packed lunch, a light foldaway rain jacket in case of rain, a re-useable water bottle with water already in it, sunscreen, chapstick, sunglasses, a spare cardigan, a sun hat and bug spray.
 Don't take a travel neck pillow for the coach because that is a complete waste of space. Ideal extras are things like: a small notebook and pen, a camera, an extra snack and an ice pack in your lunch. Not only does that keep your lunch cool, but if you get too hot you can put it to your forehead to cool you down.
 Put your lunch at the bottom of your bag to keep it cool, then put the extra snack on top, then put the rain jacket, then the camera, then the cardigan then the water bottle tucked down the side so you have it handy, but your keeping it cool, then the notebook and the pen (put the pen in the spiral bind if there is one), then the bug spray, chapstick and sunscreen. Put the hat and sunglasses on, but keep a space at the top of the bag to put it in if you want to take them off. The idea of packing like this is to keep food and drink cool, but keep drinks handy, then protect the camera by putting it between clothes, then having notebooks, pens, sunscreen, chapstick, and bug spray handy at the top. It is best to keep the side pockets, if there is any, free of things in them in case someone takes them. They might even take sunscreen or bug spray because they might not have any and may not be nice enough a person to ask you to borrow some.
