 Though flowers or chocolate can make almost anyone smile, you can surprise your loved one even more if you give a gift tailored to his or her personality, so it's something that he or she will really appreciate. This type of gift will be very romantic because it will show that you put a lot of thought into what would make the perfect gift for your special someone. Here are some romantic gift ideas:



Gifts for a music lover: concert tickets, an iTunes gift card, a new CD, a book about his or her favorite artist or band, a record player with a few records, a DVD of a concert of his/her favorite band, a poster of his/her favorite band, or even a bobble-head of his or her favorite musician.

Gifts for a sports fan: a signed baseball, basketball, or football, a baseball cap or jersey with his or her favorite team's logo on it, tickets to a highly sought-after game, a "voucher" for a weekend trip to see a new sports arena, a shout-out on the Jumbotron during a game, or a documentary about your loved one's favorite athlete.

Gifts for a food lover: a new cookbook, a subscription to a cooking magazine, a gift card to a new restaurant, a fancy bottle of wine paired with delicious cheese, enrollment in a cooking class, a fancy new cooking tool, or nice new serving bowls.

Gifts for a fashion lover: a gift card to his or her favorite store, a new outfit from his/her favorite store, a new pair of shoes, tickets to a fashion show, or fashionable accessories.

Gifts for a book lover: an e-reader, a personalized bookmark, a signed copy or first edition of a book, a gift card to a book store, a surprise trip to a reading by his or her favorite author, or a copy of a rare book.

Gifts for an outdoor lover: Clothing for his or her favorite activity, whether it's hiking or mountain biking, sunglasses or binoculars, guidebooks for a new location he or she wanted to visit, or other outdoor gear they've wanted, like a new backpack.;
, Though any date that is planned with love and care is very romantic, it would be even more romantic if you planned a date tailored to the needs and interests of your loved one. If your love interest hates the outdoors but you plan a long hiking adventure, then that wouldn't be very romantic. If you want to plan a romantic date that's perfect for your loved one, then try some of these tips:



Dates for a music lover:

Go to his or her favorite artist's concert. If it's a free concert at a park, pack a small picnic to accompany the show.
Listen to a local jazz or folk concert at a small cafe. Enjoy wine or dessert while you listen.
Cook a romantic meal while listening to the records of your loved one's favorite artist.
If you play the guitar, write a romantic song and serenade your loved one with it.
Spend an afternoon perusing a record store with your loved one. Then go home and enjoy your new acquisitions.



Dates for an outdoor lover:

Go on a hike to the top of the mountain and enjoy a picnic along the way.
Take a boat ride.
Ride bikes on a wooden trail.
Go horseback riding.
Take a long walk or a jog on the beach together.
Spend a night stargazing on a blanket. Bring a small telescope for the occasion.



Date for the sentimental type:

If you've been together for a while, recreate your first date together and write your loved one a letter that shows how much your love has grown since then.
Spend a day hitting up all of your favorite local haunts. Order the same foods and drinks you used to love.
Spend a night in looking at your old photos and letters.



Dates for a food lover:

Cook your loved one her favorite meal. Practice making it when he or she isn't there so it's perfect.
Make cheese or chocolate fondue together.
Arrange a perfect cheese and nuts plate to go with a nice bottle of wine.
Play light jazz, light candles, and cook a meal together.
 If you want to keep your romance alive, then you should leave thoughtful notes for your loved one to find when you aren't around. If you leave the house earlier than your loved one for work or another reason, leave a post-it note on the bathroom mirror that tells your loved one something like, "I hope you have a wonderful day, sweetie. I can't wait to see you tonight!" This will make your loved one smile as soon as he/she sees it. Here are some other ways to leave thoughtful notes:


Leave a note in your loved one's textbook or pleasure-reading book. Your loved one may not find it for a few days, but when he/she does, it'll put a big smile on his/her face.
If your loved one is going away on a trip for a few days, put it in his or her travel bag, in a place where he/she won't look until he/she gets to his/her destination. This will make him/her think of you as soon as he/she opens it, and you won't feel like you're so far away.
If you're feeling really romantic, you can even write a love letter.
 Though you shouldn't smother your loved one with love all day long or its effect will begin to wear off, you can just remind him or her of how much you love him/her by sending a short email during your work day, or sending a sweet text or two just to say that you're thinking of him/her. Here are some ways to send thoughtful texts or emails throughout your day:


Send a quick email that says something like this: "Dear Joan, I've been thinking about that amazing meal you made for me last night. I'm so lucky to have you in my life. I can't wait to take you out to dinner this weekend to return the favor. Yours, Mark."
Send a quick text that says something like: "What is my love up to this afternoon? I hope you're enjoying the sunshine."
Don't go overboard -- just one message each day will get the point across.
 If you want to be romantic, then you have to be able to read your loved one's mind and to know when he or she needs to you to help out a bit by doing a small favor. Though you may not think running to the grocery store to pick up a few day's worth of groceries when your loved one is busy is very romantic, it actually shows that you're thoughtful and attentive to your loved one's needs. Here are some thoughtful favors you can do to show you care:


If your loved one has a cold, take on pet duty for the week. Offer to walk his/her dog in the mornings, or to help feed and take care of his/her pet.
If your loved one's allergies are raging, offer to water the plants for a few weeks until he/she feels better.
If your loved one is tied up at work, step out to get him/her some lunch and hot coffee.
If your loved one mentioned some errand he/she needed to run, surprise him/her by doing it for him/her.

