 In order to make the dispute process run smoothly, you should gather the following information before sitting down to fill out your dispute:your Social Security Number
your date of birth
your address;
, Go to https://www.ai.equifax.com/CreditInvestigation/home.action in order to fill out an online dispute form.


Click on “Get Started.”

, In order to pull up your records, Equifax will ask for your name, date of birth, current address, Social Security Number, and email address.


You will then be asked four questions about loans or credit cards you have taken out in the past. You must answer the questions correctly in order to pass through the screen and access your information.
 You will be able to dispute the following:


your personal information
your accounts
negative information on your credit report
inquiries into your credit history

, You can dispute an item by clicking on the “Dispute Item” hyperlink which should appear beside the item. You will then be provided with options. Select the one which best describes your dispute with the challenged item.
 After disputing all items, you will be shown a summary of the information that you are disputing. At this point, you can change or modify your dispute.Once you have double-checked all information, you can submit your dispute. Click “Submit.”
You should receive a notification by email.
 Equifax generally has 30 days to investigate the disputed item. Typically, this will involve Equifax contacting the creditor or entity which submitted the information you are challenging.If the creditor finds that the information is inaccurate, it must then notify all three national credit reporting agencies of the error.After the completion of the investigation, Equifax will inform you in writing of the results. If the information you challenged was inaccurate, you can request that Equifax send updated reports to anyone who requested your credit report in the last six months.
 If Equifax determines that the information is accurate, you can ask to include a statement of dispute in your credit file.In this statement, you can explain why you think the information is wrong.


You could also use your statement to explain why you fell behind on your payments. If you have a legitimate reason—such as unforeseen medical bills—then you might want to include the information.However, you should consider any downsides to including the statement. For one thing, it seems to validate that the information is correct. Second, some people might not want to take a risk hiring or renting to someone who has had medical problems.
To add a dispute, send 100 words (200 if in Maine) to Equifax Consumer Services LLC, PO Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374-0256., Even if you report online, you should still follow up with a letter to Equifax. A letter is tangible proof that you filed a dispute. You can use the Federal Trade Commission’s sample letter, which is available at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0384-sample-letter-disputing-errors-your-credit-report.


You can set up your letter as a standard business letter. For information on what that looks like, see Write a Business Letter.
 Send it to Equifax Information Services, LLC, PO Box 740256, Atlanta, GA 30374.Be sure to send it certified mail, return receipt requested.The receipt will serve as proof that Equifax received the letter.
Also keep a copy of the letter for your records.
 Equifax is one of three national credit reporting agencies (CRAs). You should pull your credit report from the other two CRAs to see if the same error appears on those reports.You can call Experian at 1-888-397-3742, or visit the website at www.experian.com.
You can call TransUnion at 1-800-916-8800, or visit its website at www.transunion.com.

