 Your new dog should make the first move toward the visitor. If the visitor makes a move toward the new dog, it might get scared or territorial. With your new dog on a leash, wait for it to extend the leash to its maximum length. When it’s pulling gently at the leash and sniffing or woofing inquisitively at the visitor, allow the new dog to wander a bit closer. Provide verbal reassurance to your dog all the while.If it wishes to wander all the way up to the visitor, allow it to do so. Otherwise, allow it to wander off and don’t force it to stay in close proximity to the visitor.
 Putting your dog in a crate or behind a baby gate is a good way to introduce the dog to visitors. This keeps the dog feeling safe and secure while at the same time preventing the dog from jumping up or on your visitor. This gives both the dog and the visitor time to observe the other from a safe distance.If your new dog is too disruptive even behind a low barrier or inside a crate, move it to another room while your visitor is visiting.You might try to introduce your new dog to your visitor again after 10 minutes or so.
 It might be hard to know what your new dog’s triggers are because it is new. However, if foster owners or previous caretakers observed any trigger behaviors in your new dog, they might have passed such knowledge on to you. If the prior caretaker did not pass anything on to you, or if the new dog had no prior caretaker, make careful observations about your dog’s reactions to particular people and stimuli.For instance, your new dog might become fearful or aggressive when in the presence of perfume, people wearing wide-brimmed hats, or other “intimidating” modes of dress.
Avoid introducing your new dog to visitors who possess or demonstrate qualities that trigger negative behavior in your dog. Alternately, embark on a desensitization program to prevent your new dog from reacting poorly to its triggers.
 Like people, some new dogs have fears or anxieties that they grow out of over time. The best thing you can do is to introduce your new dog to a variety of different people over a long period and give it lots of positive encouragement and stimulation during the introductions. This will help your new dog develop a store of experiences on which it can draw so that being introduced is not a novel or unusual thing, but rather, a normal part of a healthy social life.