 Light, powdery snow does not contain a lot of moisture or air, making it difficult to pack into a snowball. For the best snowballs, seek out snow from areas where the ground may be warmer. Wetter snow makes for better snowballs.Heat is often given off by a house. Snow close to buildings may be warmer than average.
Snow that's exposed to the sun may be warmer than snow you would find in the shade.
If you can't find warmer snow, lie down on the ground for a few minutes. The heat from your body will melt the snow slightly, adding moisture. This will make for better snowballs.
If it's possible, choose to have a snowball fight during the afternoon. Snow tends to be more shapeable when the weather is slightly warmer, so playing when the sun is out can give you a better selection of snow.;
, Temperatures right around freezing are best for making snowballs. The snow is warm enough that's it's shapeable, without being wet to the point of sloppy or slushy. If it's around 32 degrees Fahrenheit out, this is the best time to have a snowball fight. If possible, play when the weather is around 32 degrees., Snowballs are best when they're firm and packed. Snow that's slightly below the surface has already been packed together by the pressure from the snow and ice above. If there's more than a few inches of snow on the ground, reach below the surface to gather snow for a snowball., When seeking out snow, make sure it's free of dirt and debris. Pick snow from an area that's not near the road. You may want to sift through snow before picking it up. Look out for things like animal urine or feces, rocks, twigs, and other hard objects.
 When it comes to making a snowball, gloves are key. Mittens do not allow as much hand movement, preventing you from adequately shaping your snowball. Also, mittens tend to allow less heat to escape. A small amount of heat is good for a snowball. It melts the snow slightly, allowing you to shape it easier., To start making your snowball, cup your hands. Dip them into the ground and pick up about a handful of snow in each hand. This is slightly more than a half a cup of snow in each hand., From here, bring your hands together. Start rotating your hands. This motion will help fuse the snow together. Slowly and rhythmically rotate your hands while pressing the two clumps of snow together., With each rotation, increase the pressure. The perfect snowball will be firmly packed. You should increase pressure gradually, however. Putting too much pressure on the snowball too soon will result in the snow crumbling. Be patient. Start rotating with a small amount of pressure, and gradually increase as you go., After awhile, the snow will get harder and harder to maneuver. You will start feeling resistance, which is a sign your snowball is almost complete. Stop rotating the snowball and transfer it to one hand. Use the hand not holding the snowball to smooth out rough edges to form a nice oval shape., If you're able to do so, it's a good idea to set your snowballs aside before you begin a snowball fight. The pressure and heat from your hands will cause the snowball to release moisture. When the snowballs are set out in the cold, the moisture will refreeze, making the snowball more firm., You should make sure there are no chunks of ice in the snow you use in a snowball. Throwing snowballs with ice can cause injuries to other players. Sift through snow before making a snowball to make sure it does not contain ice., Playing with snowballs can be a fun activity. However, you should never throw a snowball at a moving vehicle. This can result in a car accident. Stick to playing in the confines of your backyard or a local park.
 In the event someone is hurt, you should have a safety word to let other players know to stop. Snowball fights are usually safe, but injuries do happen. Choose a word, like "Banana," and tell other players to yell that word in the event they're injured and need assistance. If someone yells the safety word, stop immediately and get help., If it's cold enough for a snowball fight, temperatures outside are below freezing. Make sure to bundle up in snow pants, scarves, gloves, hats, and other winter gear. Exposure to the cold for too long can result in potentially serious health problems like hypothermia.