 While antacids will not treat any ulcers that might form because of gastritis, they will reduce the amount of stomach acid and thus ease stomach pain. Particularly if your gastritis is due to what you eat and drink — i.e. too much alcohol, acidic beverages like coffee and soda, and too many processed or fatty foods — taking antacids after meals may help.Common antacids include aluminum hydroxide (Amphojel, AlternaGEL), magnesium hydroxide (Phillips' Milk of Magnesia), aluminum hydroxide and magnesium hydroxide (Maalox, Mylanta), calcium carbonate (Rolaids, Titralac, Tums), and sodium bicarbonate (Alka-Seltzer)
Be aware that antacids can interfere with the uptake of medication. Be sure to take them at least on hour after taking any medications.;
, Instead of drinking potentially irritating liquids like alcohol or soda, try to drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water a day. Some people prefer filtered water, but as long as the water comes from a clean source, it is safe to drink., The right oils and vitamins can help to reduce inflammation of your stomach lining and also fight H. pylori, the bacteria that causes many cases of gastritis. Consider taking:


Vitamin E — Reduces inflammation.Vitamin C — 5 grams of vitamin C taken daily over 4 weeks has been shown to eliminate H. pylori in some patients with gastritis.Omega-3 fatty acids like fish oil — One or two capsules a day, or a teaspoon two to three times a day, may reduce inflammation.Probiotics — The "friendly" bacteria in probiotics can help to suppress the H. pylori causing gastritis., Herbs have been used for centuries to battle the symptoms of gastritis. You can take them in capsule form, as a tea (1 tsp. of herb per cup of hot water), or as an extract. If a tea, steep five to 10 minutes for leaves and flowers and 10–20 minutes for roots, and drink two to four cups a day.

Cranberry — 400 mg twice daily — Cranberry helps to fight H. pylori infections by preventing the bacteria from attaching to tissues. Cranberry juice and pills are both effective.Mastic extract – 1,000-2,000 mg daily, taken in two to three doses – Has been shown to inhibit the growth of H. pylori bacteria.DGL-licorice extract – 250-500 mg, three times daily – Licorice reduces inflammation and fights H. pylori bacteria.DGL is licorice without glycyrrhizin — a chemical with negative side effects.
Peppermint — one .2 ml enteric-coated tablet, two to three times daily or as a tea after meals – Peppermint soothes the stomach and fights H. pylori bacteria.Ginger — Ginger helps to prevent ulcers and to reduce the amount of H. pylori in your gut. You can take it by chewing on fresh ginger, boiling it and drinking the liquid, or adding ginger powder to a drink., Regular use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as aspirin and ibuprofen, is one of the major causes of gastritis.Try switching to another pain reliever, like acetaminophen, that causes less irritation. If you are still having problems, ask your doctor about other pain reliever choices., Gastritis can be aggravated by eating heavily processed, fried, or very spicy foods. If you can, cook your own food from fresh ingredients, and avoid:


Acidic beverages like coffee, sodas, or citrus-based juicesRefined foods, such as pasta, white bread and sugar
Trans fatty acids, often found in things such as cookies, cakes, and other commercially-baked foodsProcessed foods such as breakfast cereals, chips, frozen meals, or meat products like bacon and sausageFried foods
Heavily spiced foods