 Active alert time often follows after quiet alert time. Your baby may be showing more frequent and active movements. In active alert time, your baby will move their legs, arms, body, or head. They might be looking around the room. Babies in active alert time tend to be more interested in objects than in people. This is a good time to play with your baby and have them interact with the environment.Babies in quiet alert time are often quiet and relatively still, whereas babies in active alert time may be making sounds or larger movements.
 Baby toys such as mobiles, soft picture books, and stuffed animals can help your baby engage their senses. Choose toys that have high contrast colors (such as toys in black, white, and red).Let the baby play with one toy at a time to avoid overstimulation.You can introduce toys during tummy time to maximize their engagement.


Up to three months of age, babies are content with toys that are interesting to look at. They will not be able to hold or grasp an object very well, although they might enjoy reaching for it. Wind chimes, mirrors, and mobiles are good choices.Between three and six months, your baby will enjoy grasping and feeling objects. Soft stuffed animals, board books, and rattles will engage their senses.After six months, your baby may enjoy playing with books, balls, or any other object that they can interact with, such as a toy telephone or squeaky toys.If your baby starts crying, looking away, or yawning, it is a sign that they are done playing with the toy. Put it away until their next alert time.
 Many babies love looking in the mirror. As they grow older, they will become more and more fascinated by their reflection. Pick your baby up, and show them a mirror. Let them interact with the mirror by having them point, wave, or touch their reflection.If you have a baby seat or gym, you can attach a mirror to it so that your baby can look at it while sitting., If you have chores or other things to do while your baby is alert, you can put them in a bouncy seat or swing. If your baby is old enough to play, they will entertain themselves with the attached toys. If they’re still an infant, they may be content to watch you as you go about your activities.


You can hang a mobile over them while they are in their seat. They may be fascinated by the objects, and as they grow, they may learn to interact with them.Don't use walkers, as they are a safety risk and don't help your child develop proper walking skills.

