 Take all of your natural hair as well as any extensions and pull them together into a hair tie or big hair clip at the top of your head. There’s no point in trying to differentiate between the two types of hair so gather it all up together in one big grouping.;
, It will be too overwhelming to try and rip out all of your extensions at once, so you want to pull out separate rows of hair at a time. Start with a small section at the base of your head at the nape of your neck.Use a rat tail comb, or a comb with a long pointed end, to pull out an even section of hair.
Start at the bottom of your head and gradually let down your ponytail so you can keep track of where you’ve already removed extensions.
 Your extensions will be pulled snug against your scalp with a thread. Lightly run your fingertips along the ridge of the braid or seam where the extension was sewn to find the end. Use needle nose scissors or manicure scissors to isolate the thread from your hair and cut it.Use a mirror to find the end of the thread or ask a friend to locate it so you cut the thread and not your natural hair.
You may still end up cutting some of your natural hair out if it has grown out around the seam.Be careful and use the end of your scissors to cut the thread. This will help keep you from cutting too much of your hair.
If you don’t mind cutting a little of your natural hair, you use the scissors to clip away some of your natural hair to help expose the thread.
 Use both hands to gently pull the extension away from your scalp. One hand should hold your natural hair roots to your scalp in order to prevent breaking or damaging your hair. With your other hand, firmly grasp the extension thread and lightly pull it in the opposite direction to unravel the sewing.


Work your fingernails or a thin object like a nail file to wiggle in between the braid to help loosen the seam.
You may need to cut another section of the thread if there are tangles of matting from your natural hair growing around the extension seam.
 Some extensions have threads that can be coated with a salon product that breaks down threads without damaging your natural hair. Spray a section of weave or extension thread with the solution and let it sit for a few minutes.Work from the bottom of your head to the top and use a wide toothed comb to pull any debris out of your hair when you’re finished.
 Gradually pull out a little of your ponytail to work on individual sections of your hair. Go slowly so that you don’t miss any pieces of weave or extensions that may be hidden in your natural hair. It’s better to be patient than to find a chunk of hair hanging by a thread later.


If you have extension pieces that are not damaged or ragged, set them aside. They may be able to be reused another time.
 Once you’re finished use a wide toothed comb to make sure that you have removed all artificial hair or materials, Comb from the top to the bottom of your hair and go from one side of your head to the other. Spray hair detangling solution on any tangles or pieces that are proving to be difficult to remove.
 Your hair needs some time to heal itself after the stress of artificial products. Wash your hair with a clarifying shampoo and then use a deep conditioner to help put nutrients back into your hair and scalp.Wait at least two weeks before putting more extensions in your hair to let your roots recover.As you wash your hair, be on the lookout for any extension remnants that may have slipped through your notice.

