 If you feel inclined to beat someone up, you could have an anger problem. While anger can be healthy, it can also be unhealthy. You may need to deal with an anger problem through self-help or professional help if the following are true: Insignificant things make you very angry.
When you’re angry, you display aggressive behaviors, including yelling, screaming, or hitting.
The problem is chronic; it happens over and over again.
When you are under the influence of drugs or alcohol, your temper gets worse and your behavior more violent.
 Meditation can help you regulate your emotions. If you feel that you are overly focused on your negative feelings for another person, give yourself a little mental vacation through meditation. Meditating regularly can help you control your emotions, which can help you maintain control over your actions.Take slow, deep breaths. Maintaining this breathing will likely bring down your elevated heart rate. Your breaths should be deep enough that your belly extends on the “in” breath.
Visualize a golden-white light filling your body as you breathe in, relaxing your mind. When you breathe out, visualize muddy or dark colors leaving your body.
Making a habit of meditating every morning, even when you're not angry, will make you feel more calm in general.
 Anger management programs have been proven to be highly successful. Effective programs help you understand anger, develop short-term strategies to deal with anger, and build your emotional control skills. There are many options available for finding a program that is right for you. Individual programs may be available in your area for specific age groups, occupations, or life situations.
To find an anger management program that is right for you, try searching online for “anger management class” plus the name of your city, state, or region. You can also look for appropriate programs by asking your physician or therapist, or consulting the self-improvement course offerings at your local community center.
 The best way to learn to keep yourself from beating up other people is to identify and treat the root of your anger. A therapist can give you relaxation techniques to use while dealing with people you dislike. She can help you develop emotional coping skills and communication training. Additionally, a psychoanalyst who specializes in helping resolve problems from someone’s past (such as neglect or abuse from childhood) can help mitigate anger tied to past events. You can search for a therapist specializing in anger management in North America here and in the United Kingdom here.

