 Studying independently will require you to manage your own time and workload, which can be difficult if you are trying to study a subject or period you have no interest in. Try to choose a subject in history that interests you, no matter how much you already know about the subject.Remember, this doesn’t have to be a school subject, it can also be a hobby or point of interest.;
, Knowing why you want to study history, and what specifically you would like to study, will help you better find relevant resources and materials. Try to narrow down your subject to searchable periods in order to have the best possible search results and the most comprehensive study possible.


Examples of specific interests can range from larger periods, like the Renaissance, to specific events, like the war of 1812.
Remember that this doesn’t mean you have to choose between one or the other. You can make plans to pursue all of your many interests.
 Ask parents, friends, and former teachers for advice. Studying alone can sometimes be overwhelming, especially when trying to navigate material that you are unfamiliar with. Reach out and get in touch with others you know who have spent time studying, whether it has been independently or in school.


Try asking teachers questions like, “I’m trying to study Colonial American history independently, do you know of any good resources?” “Do you have any good tips for studying independently?” or “How quickly do you think I’ll be able to learn this material?”

, Local libraries are great resources for information and material. Go to your local library and talk to your librarian about what resources the library offers. Be sure to ask them about the subject or period you are interested in studying. Many libraries have connections with other libraries, which means they can reserve resources that they do not have.


Most public libraries require a library card. If you don’t have a library card ask your librarian about the registration process.
Libraries are also a quiet place where you can spend time studying.
 Online resources can be particularly helpful, especially if you live in a remote area or have a schedule that won’t allow you to frequently go to a library. There are many comprehensive online learning resources that can help you source material, test your knowledge, and take part in conversations with others who are also interested in history.


Try looking up scholarly articles and peer-reviewed essays on online resources, like Google Scholar and JSTOR.Look for period or subject specific blogs or forums online, like history subreddits on Reddit or personal blogs devoted to your area of interest.
Many online resources, like universities and scholarly sites, also offer multimedia material, like recorder lectures, slideshows, and interactive websites.
 Many acclaimed universities also post their syllabi online, which can be a great resource of information and time management. Looking at syllabi for examples may also point you in other directions that are only accessible through specific educational institutions, like libraries, that might not otherwise be available or discussed online.


Many of the Ivy League schools, like Harvard, post their syllabi on their website. Try contacting their department or searching out a specific subject., Participating in historical reenactments can be a great way to get involved in learning about historical events that are of interest. Historical reenactments can occupy a wide range of events, from reenacting sieges and treaty signings to historical meetings and roleplay. Most historical reenactment groups are run by a community of others who share interests and have a passion for history.Look into historical reenactments groups, like the American Heritage Festival, or consult online resources like Reenactor., Planning a visit to a historical site can also be a great way to involve friends, family, and loved ones in your passion for history. Visit a site that you already know a lot about so that you can involve others in your passion. You can also visit sites that you don’t know much about to excite an new historical passion.


Many travel sites and agencies, like TripAdvisor, offer comprehensive reviews of historical trips and vacations.There are also many online blogs devoted to visiting historical sites around the world, like Travelthruhistory., Collecting historical memorabilia is a great way to continue learning about events that interest you. There are many ways to collect memorabilia. You can source it from specific collectors, or you can browse pawn shops and antique stores. It will be helpful to have an idea of what you are looking for when contacting specific collectors. However, browsing pawn shops and antique stores can be a great way to stumbleupon hidden finds.


Try looking for historical memorabilia on online vendors, like Heritage Auction or Ebay.