 Snap can be played with as few as two players and up to six (or even more).


The game does become a bit hard to control when there are more than six players. It will require a second deck of cards for playing when you go above six players.;
, The deck does not have to be completely full, because what matters are the ranks of the cards and not their suits.


Some people choose to play Snap with decks from other card games, such as Old Maid, as long as the backs of the cards are all the same., Before beginning to pass out cards, the dealer must carefully and thoroughly shuffle the deck.



The dealer continues to pass out the cards face-down in piles in front of each player until the last card is dealt.
No players should look at their cards while they are being dealt.
 The first person picks up the card at the top of his/her face-down pile. The card must be turned over very quickly so that he/she cannot see it before anyone else. Then, the card is laid down face-up in a new pile next to the face-down pile.


It is recommended to flip the card over in such a way that the face is away from the player. This way, if the card is flipped too slowly, then the player will be the last person to see it., At the end of the round, each person should have one card face-up next to his/her larger pile of face-down cards.
 This game requires the skill of paying attention to what is going on around you, as well as to what you are doing.The first person to notice that two cards with the same rank (i.e. 6, King, 2, et cetera) are face-up yells “Snap!”


Remember that the suit does not matter.
The person who calls “Snap!” does not have to be one of the players with the matching cards, although you can play a variation with the rule that it does have to be one of those players.
 The player who successfully calls “Snap!” first gets to take both piles of face-up cards and add them to the bottom his/her own face-down card pile., The game should immediately continue after the two matching piles have been collected.


The players who lose their face-up piles will start new ones from their remaining face-down pile. This means that they are closer to being out, unless they win piles by calling “Snap!”

, When this happens, take the two matching piles and combine them into one pile in the middle of the table.This is the snap pool.


Play will resume, and when someone draws a card that matches the top card of the snap pool pile, the first player to yell “Snap pool!” first wins the middle pile.



Players must continue playing with the cards they have left if they lose their piles.
 Pick up your face-up pile of cards, turn it face-down without shuffling, and continue play.


Eventually, as the game gets closer to the end, players with strong memories can memorize the order of their cards so that they can spend more time looking at their opponent's piles to call “Snap!”, When a player is completely out of cards, he/she is out of the game.


The winner of the game is the player who wins all of the cards.

