 There’s no need to venture all the way to the Alaskan frontier or remote outposts of the Rockies in order to find good looking accoutrements. The rustic look is in, so it shouldn’t be hard to track down a few things that suit your preferences at major home goods stores. You’ll have the most luck when shopping for bigger items like tables, chairs and bedding in these places.


Chain stores like Crate and Barrel, Hobby Lobby and Pottery Barn specialize in rustic home decor.Furniture outlets tend to charge more, so if you don’t like the idea of paying as much, thrift stores and DIY distressing techniques may be the way to go.
 It’s not uncommon to stumble upon forgotten treasures at secondhand stores and vintage boutiques. These are often items that you can’t find anywhere else, and you’re guaranteed a good deal. If you’re remodeling on a budget or looking for one-of-a-kind pieces, a thrift store may be your best bet.Many old pieces will be ready to display in your home as-is.
Be sure to check beck regularly, as store inventories change constantly.
 Rather than scouring various stores and shops for wares with the right rustic vibe, buy furniture and accessories new and modify them yourself at home. Distressing furniture is fast, fun and could hardly be easier. All you need are a few basic tools like paint thinner, sandpaper and specialty paints and brushes. When you’re finished, you’ll have a collection of items that are truly one-of-a-kind.Painted wood furniture can be weathered to expose the beautiful grain underneath, and metal objects can be strategically rusted or painted over with a matte finish.Change out the hardware on any dressers or cabinets you happen to come across to customize their appearance.
 For those little extra touches, look no further than your own attic or garage. Most homes are loaded with scraps of materials that are infinitely useful if applied correctly. For instance, you could use a roll of butcher’s twine to wrap drawer pulls and cabinet handles, wire lanterns for indoor lighting or frame an assortment of old fishing hooks to make wall art that’s anything but commonplace. With a few innovative ideas, you’ll start seeing your junk drawer in a whole new light!If you have a certain item that you want to use but it doesn’t quite go with the rest of your furnishings, try painting, sanding or distressing it to make it a better visual fit.Get creative! As your own personal interior decorator, you’re only limited by the scope of your imagination.

