 A psychiatrist or family physician can perform an examination and speak with you about why you feel you might need antidepressants to treat your health condition. In most cases, meeting with a psychiatrist is considered ideal since psychiatrists specialize in mental health disorders, have more experience working with antidepressants, and can prescribe the antidepressants that will work best for you.Research local psychiatrists who are covered under your insurance plan and set up an appointment by phone or online.
Find a psychiatrist using a site like ZocDoc or Thero.org.;
, Providing as many details as possible can give your doctor the insight needed to correctly diagnose your disorder and prescribe the right type of antidepressant. For example, those diagnosed with bipolar disorder may need two different medications to manage manic and depressive phases, but someone with anxiety disorder may need one specific type.

Mention physical symptoms of depression such as insomnia and lack of energy, as well as mental symptoms such as sadness or feelings of helplessness.
 Identifying the cause of your stress and depression can help your doctor properly diagnose and treat your condition and prescribe the right type of medication. Be honest with your doctor when asked if there are any stressors in your life.

For instance, perhaps you are in a toxic relationship currently that has caused you to become depressed. Mention this to your doctor.
 In most cases, individuals who’ve been experiencing long-term stress are the best candidates for antidepressants. Those experiencing short-term stress or depression due to being separated from a partner or laid off from work may not be considered ideal candidates.
 Let them know of any medications that you’re currently on, including vitamins and birth control. This can help your doctor better understand which treatments may or may not work to help improve your condition. For example, inform your doctor of any drugs or medications you’ve taken in an attempt to treat depression, and whether you’ve been exercising more frequently or eating healthier foods to improve your condition.


Some of the drugs you are currently on might also be causing your depression or anxiety and your doctor might prescribe you a new kind to alleviate the symptoms.
 After having done some research on different forms of antidepressants, come with some suggestions and questions for your doctor. Tell them what medication you’re interested in and why and ask questions about the side effects of the drug.Find out what antidepressants they typically prescribe and which ones their patients have had the best experiences with.
 Most antidepressant medications are only available via prescription and can be obtained from a licensed pharmacist. Before you leave the doctor’s office, make sure your doctor provides you with a prescription for the antidepressant or that someone from the office calls the prescription in for you.

Find out more about the cost of your medication and whether it will be covered by your health insurance provider, if applicable. Certain antidepressants may be more costly than most other types of prescription drugs and many offer generic forms that are much cheaper.
 Many commercial drugstore and pharmacy chains are open 24 hours a day, seven days per week so you can fill your prescription and begin treatment immediately. You will likely have to wait a few hours before it is filled.
 After you get your prescription, you might have questions for your doctor. Or perhaps you have started taking the medication and something doesn’t feel right. In any of these cases, contact your doctor to ask questions or set up a new appointment if necessary.If they are not in, you can ask to leave a message or email them.
 Some doctors are hesitant to write a prescription for an antidepressant, believing that the patient may be able to improve their symptoms through other lifestyle changes. However, if you feel that your depression, anxiety, or other disorder is debilitating, then you can seek a second opinion. Make an appointment with another doctor or psychiatrist in your area to get their medical opinion.