 This bears repeating: do NOT stand out from the crowd. Dictatorships, by their very nature, insist upon submission to their absolute authority. This usually extends to attendance at functions or rallies, obedience to social attitudes and mores, incorporation of slogans into the daily vernacular, and above all, a lack of setting one's self apart in action, appearance, or voice from one's peers. This generally extends especially to religion and ethnicity: dictatorships do not appreciate deviation from ANY social norms, and history is full of tragic examples of persecution of groups of people based solely on these factors.;
, Complaints are usually treated as signs of discontent, and are often used as a reason to eliminate those few freedoms you might be allowed to enjoy.
 Dictatorships often reward the exposure of people whose traits run counter to the established norms. In a repressed society, these rewards, however insubstantial, may provide enough incentive for otherwise decent and trustworthy individuals to either betray trust or invent charges against you in order to obtain them. Historically, this sort of betrayal has even turned parents against children, children against parents, and even spouses against one another.
 Dictatorships usually have substantial bureaucracies that manage the day-to-day function of government; notably, these bureaucracies tend to provide the greatest perks and most lucrative positions inside the economy. As a result, you can expect a significant amount of under-the-table dealings including bribes and nepotism to obtain these jobs. This is not always the case, however. Before assuming a given official is prone to corruption, try to quietly learn the euphemistic language that surrounds bribery (e.g. "administrative fee", especially if paid in cash, often means someone is getting a bribe).
 Conforming to legal norms also is a requirement for living under a dictatorship. Authority is usually absolute, and is therefore not subject to question. Avoid especially counter-government demonstrations, maintaining as neutral a posture and attitude in your day-to-day life as possible.
 Conformance and reputation for support often lead to a relaxed attitude toward an individual. Be prepared to methodically work your way toward a relatively unguarded border area or embassy of a country whose policies are moderately counter to those of the dictatorship under which you find yourself living. Attempt to quietly make contact and gain asylum or cross the border safely. Alternatively, find ways to escape within your inner being--whether that's through meditation, individual worship, or simply determining to set aside space inside yourself to resist the restrictions placed upon you. Never give up hope, even when all hope seems lost: the human spirit needs to believe that there is good in the world and that conditions can improve.
 Calculate the risk associated with any "gray area" possessions, songs, literature, clothing, symbols, or even relationships. Your goal is to stay alive under a dictatorship, which often means external compromise.
 In a dictatorship, the dictator is the supreme authority.No law is greater than him. If you try to protest against him all alone or with a few people, there is no one who can stop him from punishing few people protesting against him.