 This is a physical technique you can use to relieve stress and distract yourself from finger biting. When you feel yourself getting anxious in a given situation, try this to resettle yourself. It also works if you're feeling bored.Start by tensing the muscles in your arms as hard as you can. Breathe in as you do this. Hold your muscles tight for five seconds.
Exhale and relax your muscles. Stay relaxed for 15 seconds.
Tense another muscle and inhale for five seconds. You could tense your back muscles, abdomen, thighs, calves, and so on. Exhale and relax for 15 seconds.
Continue until you have tensed and relaxed all of your main muscle groups. The urge to bite should have subsided. If it hasn't, repeat the process. You may need to rotate between muscle groups for ten or more minutes.
 Deep breathing, or diaphragmatic breathing, is a known stress relief technique. Studies show that it can be used to help put an end to many types of bad habits. When you feel the urge to bite your fingers, use this technique:Sit or stand up straight with your shoulders back and your head upright.
Take a slow, controlled breath that fills out your abdomen. Your stomach should move out when you inhale. If only your chest moves, your breathing is too shallow, and you need to focus on inhaling more deeply.
Exhale and let your belly recede. Continue deep breathing in this way for at least five minutes, or until the urge to bite your fingers passes.
 Mindfulness is another word for being fully in the present moment. It's easy to get distracted by bored or anxious thoughts. When you're mindful of what's going on in the present, you're less likely to unconsciously bite your fingers. Practice mindfulness as often as possible, since it gets easier with time.When you feel your thoughts wander in an anxious direction, focus on your physical senses. Think about what you see, taste, hear, feel and smell right now.
Keep focusing on the present moment until the urge to bite passes. If you're having trouble getting your mind into the present, try looking down at your fingers and flexing them.
 If your finger biting seems related to a larger problem with anxiety, alternative medicine may work for you. Speak with an alternative health practitioner about which treatments might be best for your situation. Here are a few popular choices:


Acupuncture. This is the ancient Chinese practice of inserting needles into certain areas of the body. Some studies have shown that acupuncture can be a helpful treatment for anxiety.Hypnosis. This involves working with a practitioner to tap into your unconscious mind and take steps to relieve anxiety.Meditation and yoga. Studies show that these practices are helpful in getting in better touch with your body and treating the physical and mental symptoms of anxiety.
 Certain lifestyle habits can make anxiety worse, contributing to the state of mind that leads you to bite your fingers. Addressing anxiety by making simple changes can go a long way toward helping you kick a bad habit. Try doing the following:


Eat a nutritious diet. Studies show that whole grains, almonds, maca root and blueberries can help with anxiety. Avoid foods high in refined sugar.Cut back on alcohol and caffeine. Both of these substances have properties that can make anxiety worse.
Regular exercise releases endorphins that reduce anxiety.Getting plenty of sleep is another important way to reduce your anxiety and sense of well being.

