 You have a resume and cover letter presenting information that is said to be factual. Before the candidate even enters your office, take some time to verify the information he or she has given you. The job market is tough, and it's not unthinkable for candidates to embellish their resumes a bit to get an edge over the dozens of other people who applied for the job. Doing research beforehand is also a good way to prep yourself for the interview so you can ask informed questions instead of just winging it with generic ones.


Call the candidate's references. Ask questions specifically related to information from the resume and cover letter.
Do an online search. Google the person and check LinkedIn, if their profile is public.
If you know people who know the candidate, casually ask a few questions about the person's work history.
Research the companies the candidate worked for - you can learn a lot about what the candidate might be bringing to the table.;
, The purpose of an interview is to learn more about a candidate's personality and determine whether he or she will be a "good fit." This is your chance to learn more than what the candidate presents on paper. You might be interviewing five people with the exact same level of education and experience, so it's time to think more deeply about what you need from your potential hire. What kind of person is going to do the job well? What will make one person stand out from the rest?


Are you looking for someone with a big personality who's going to push traditional boundaries? Would it be better to have a serious, hardworking type who reliably gets the job done well every time? Figure out what work style you want in a candidate.
Determine whether you need someone who is detail-oriented or a big picture thinker.
Think about the people who have previously held the position in question. What worked, and what didn't?
Remember that getting along with someone else isn't a good enough reason to hire them; you need to be confident the person will do a good job. There are plenty of people who make excellent first impressions, but falter when it's time to get to work.

