 This is the longest and most difficult part of becoming less shy for most people on the spectrum. However, once your anxieties are gone, most of your shyness will leave with it. The two major components of doing this are as follows:

, Identify one general fear (e.g. "Fear of strangers") and make a hierarchy of things from least to most scary. Start with something at the bottom (least scary) and work your way up as you grow more comfortable. Here is an example for a fear of asking for help:


Ask brother to reach high shelf
Ask sister for help on math homework
Ask dad for anything
Ask to walk Mrs. Patel's dog
Ask store attendant for help
Ask stranger for directions

, What is the worst thing that could realistically happen? Does that thing happen? How do people respond?

, Would you be mad at someone who stuttered, mixed up their words, flapped their hands, or awkwardly entered a conversation? How long would it take for you to get over it and move on?


Most people do not care as much as you might imagine.
 You can use these as you try new social situations and tackle your list. These work for many anxious and autistic people. Try plenty of techniques and choose your favorites.


Positive self-talk and affirmations

Breathing
Visualization
Cost-benefit analysis
Progressive muscle relaxation
Self-hypnosis
Engaging the senses

, You don't want to push yourself too hard or stress out. Spend plenty of time on your special interests, give yourself quiet time each day, allow yourself to be autistic, and get lots of sleep each night.
 Maybe your brother is a great listener, your autistic friend is super sweet, or your mom is always there for you. Find people who make you happy and be with them.
 If there's anything that will make or break your attempt to become more social, it's how determined you are. You have to want to become less shy in order to do it. You need to be able to shake off your mistakes and carry on. Always keep trying. In the end, you will be glad you did.

