 Cities like Penang in Malaysia offer a wide variety of delicious but cheap street foods like Penang assam laksa and curry laksa. The Korean capital of Seoul offers dishes like gimbap and bungeoppang. Fukuoka in Japan has over 150 open food stands which offer foods like ramen, gyoza, and tempura. Or, you could travel to Singapore or Jaipur in India to get a variety of curries from street vendors or established high-end restaurants.Yerevan in Armenia is also an up and coming foodie city that offers a wide range of foreign and regional cuisine like khorovats, a traditional Armenian dish that consists of grilled meat on a skewer.;
, If you're looking in the north part of America, there are cities like New York, Chicago, and Philadelphia that offer a wide variety of international cuisines from across the globe as well as their own local favorites. The south has some cities with choice cuisine such as Charleston, Houston, and New Orleans. Places like Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Portland are all cities on the west coast that have many different restaurants, eateries, bistros, and wineries.The south offers a wide array of traditional southern cuisine like fried chicken and shrimp and grits.
Boston is known for its clam chowder and seafood while a city like New York is known for its cheesecake and pizza.The food in the Midwest includes pies, BBQ, and chili, to mention a few options.If you live in America, organizing a trip domestically will be less complicated and often less expensive than having to get tickets to fly internationally.
 Europe hosts a wide range of different cuisines depending on which region of the continent you go to. Mediterranean cities like Palermo and Naples in Italy offer up a broad range of pasta, seafood, and other traditional Mediterranean dishes. If you want a taste of British food, cities like Edinburgh and London have traditional dishes like black pudding, fish and chips, and shepherd's pie.Southwestern cities in France like Bourdeaux and Toulouse have traditional dishes like confit de canard, which is duck and fried potatoes.
Northern cities like Copenhagen in Denmark are home to several Michelin-starred restaurants, Africa has a large foodie scene and boasts a variety of unique regional and traditional dishes. If you are looking for traditional Swahili food, a city like Stone Town in Zanzibar is a great spot for a foodie. Places like Cape Town, in South Africa, has restaurants that offer traditional African styles of cooking, that include Afrikaans, Cape Malay, Indian, and seafood dishes.


Swahili food includes Sorpotel, a meat and organ masala, as well as boku-boku, a traditional Swahili meat stew.
Other foodie cities in Africa include Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, Algiers in Algeria, and Lagos in Nigeria., If you're looking for amazing, freshly caught seafood, you should plan a vacation to a place like Santiago in Chile or Lima in Peru. Buenos Aires in Argentina is known for their beef dishes.Food in Brazil includes a variety of barbecued meats and a dessert called brigadeiros, which is made of chocolate and is similar to truffles.Mercado Central in Santiago in Chile offers up some of the freshest salmon, sea urchin, abalone, and a plethora of other fish that are local to the area.
 Reflect on the types of cuisine that you prefer and try to cater your trip to your specific tastes. Determine which foods you are most passionate about, and which kind of cuisines you'd like to taste.Styles of food include American, British, Caribbean, Italian, Japanese, and Mediterranean., Choose a destination that you can afford. You'll want to make sure that you can afford things like lodging and necessary living expenses. You'll also want to make sure that you have some extra money so that you can go to the best restaurants. If there is a limited budget, consider going to a location that's closer, but that still has many high-quality eateries.


The most expensive foodie towns include London in England, New York City in the U.S.A., Paris in France, and Vienna in Austria.The cheapest foodie cities to visit include Mumbai in India, Beijing in China, Budapest in Hungary, and Krakow in Poland., Being a foodie means being flexible when it comes to the environment that you eat in. Casual dining can come in the form of food stands, a farmers market, food trucks, or small restaurants. High-end dining usually entails fancier restaurants and bistros and are preferable to those that like elegant food. Determine if you want to vacation in the city or out in the country and whether you're more interested in the art of cooking, or how ingredients are sourced. If you are more interested in the aesthetics and experience of eating at a high-end restaurant you should look to vacation in a city.
If you are more interested in freshly sourced ingredients, you should go to a location where the food is raised or grown domestically.
 Decide on whether you'd like to travel somewhere close, or if you'd rather visit another country. If you don't have a large budget or a passport, consider going to a domestic foodie town or city so that you don't have to pay much for travel. If you do have the money to spend, you can consider a host of international options.


The cost of a vacation should factor into whether it's feasible to travel out of the country.
Other things to take into consideration include getting passports and the amount of time you have for your vacation.
 Once you choose the city and country that you want to go to, it's important to find accommodations like a comfortable hotel or lodging. Use your budget to determine what kind of hotel you would want to stay at. Make sure to choose a hotel that has transportation or is in walking distance of good restaurants, distilleries, wineries, or farmers markets.
 If you have to take a plane to your foodie vacation, you'll have to book tickets in advance. Search online for the best deals for tickets that match both of your free schedules.
 Do a search on the surrounding area and find different restaurants and foodie destinations that are close to you. Write down these destinations and have a plan so that you know which restaurants, markets, or vendors you wish to visit.
 In some cities and towns, there are specifically scheduled days for events like farmers markets or food vendor sales. Take advantage of any special events going on where you are staying. Type "food and restaurant events" and the city where you are vacationing into a search engine. Do a search and look for food-related events that are happening locally.


Examples of special foodie events include New York Resturant Week, Madrid Fusion and Gastrofestival, Cherry Blossom Festival in Tokyo, and the Singapore Food Festival.It may be a good idea to set mobile alerts to remind you of special events going down in the area.

