 Of all the natural products marketed towards helping you combat acne, naturally anti-bacterial tea tree oil may be the most effective. It may even be as effective as benzoyl peroxide for some people.,Though it may work more slowly to actually prevent acne, it can help reduce inflammation and redness associated with acne overnight.
Use a gel containing 5% tea tree oil topically every day.
Be wary if you have rosacea, as tea tree oil may worsen your symptoms.
Allow tea tree oil to soak into your skin for 5 to 10 minutes before rinsing it off.
 Alpha hydroxy acids (including glycolic acid and lactic acid) and azelaic acid can help remove dead skin cells, unclog pores, and reduce inflammation associated with acne.,Alpha hydroxy acids will also help new, healthy skin grow.
Beware of the side effects of using hydroxyl acid, which include sensitivity to sunlight, redness of your skin, and mild stinging.
Azelaic acid has antibacterial properties, and has been shown to be equally as effective as conventional acne treatments when used correctly – though, again, it takes a bit longer to work. Azelaic acid may also be helpful in reducing redness associated with acne and rosacea.
Use a 20% azelaic acid cream twice a day for at least four weeks.
Prescription azelaic acid medications are great options to fight acne during pregnancy and while breast-feeding.
 There are a few natural options that may seem odd, but may also help you combat acne quickly and cheaply. Consider each of the following:,Toothpaste. Silica in toothpaste will reduce the size of pimples by drying them out overnight. Use a natural toothpaste to avoid potentially irritating ingredients such as sodium lauryl sulfate.
Ice cubes. Ice can be used to reduce inflammation by rubbing a small cube on the affected area. Stop if your skin begins to go numb.
Aloe vera. Especially in conjunction with conventional acne treatment, a 50% aloe vera gel can greatly assist in your battle against acne. As a nutrient and vitamin rich moisturizer, it will help your skin heal, recover, and generally look and feel more healthy!
Coconut oil. Another natural moisturizer, coconut oil is also known for skin healing properties. Spread a teaspoon of coconut oil over the affected area, and allow it to soak in for half an hour or so before washing it off.
Aspirin tablets. Crush up an aspirin tab and mix it into warm water. Use a Q-tip to apply the paste to individual pimples. Allow the paste to dry and wash it off with warm water. This will make pimples less noticeable, and is a great option to reduce the appearance of acne overnight.Zinc. Lotions and creams that contain zinc may be more effective in helping to reduce acne breakouts.
Green tea extract. Use a lotion with 2% green tea extract to reduce mild to moderate acne.
Bovine cartilage. Get a cream containing 5% bovine cartilage and apply it twice a day.
Brewer's yeast. There’s a specific strain of brewer's yeast – CBS 5926 – that may reduce your acne. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for use.

