 He should make you feel good about yourself, valuing your personality, intelligence, and kindness. If a guy is right for you, you should have fun while you are together. The right guy will make you feel loved, appreciated, and valued.Try asking yourself, “How do I feel after hanging out with the guy I’m dating?”
After you hang out with the guy you’re dating, try coming home and making a list of how you felt during and after hanging out together.
Some examples of feeling include happy, sad, anxious, curious, and excited.
 If you’re dating the right guy, you should both bring out the best in one another. This means encouraging each other to grow in all aspects of your lives – emotionally, personally, and professionally. The right guy brings out your best personality traits, and you do the same for him.


Try making a list of your best qualities and behaviors. Then ask yourself, “Does the guy I’m dating bring out these things in me?”
Some examples might include having a positive outlook, acting with kindness toward others, or not engaging in gossip.
 Communication is key to a successful relationship, and how you and your guy communicate is a great indicator as to whether he is right for you. Both partners should be able to talk openly about their feelings, hopes, and dreams. And both should listen carefully to what the other person is saying. Even if it’s just small talk or what seems like an insignificant experience, it’s important that you and your guy communicate openly and regularly.Try making a list of times you communicated effectively with the guy you’re dating, and times you wish the communication would have been better.
An example of good communication might include the time you argued but both took time to listen to the other person’s thoughts and feelings.
An example of poor communication might be when he failed to inform you he wasn’t coming to hang out after previously making plans to do so.
Compare the lists to get a holistic perspective on your overall communication as a couple, including areas where you can improve.
 If the guy you’re dating doesn’t respect you, he’s not right for you. He should respect your time, talents, and opinions. He should be okay with disagreeing. He shouldn’t lie to you, second-guess you, jerk you around, or try to micromanage your life. If a guy is right for you, he will respect and value you as an individual.Make a list of times the guy you’re dating treated you with respect, and then make a list of times you felt he disrespected you. Compare the lists.

