 Part of creating a YouTube channel is learning how to market yourself. Your channel name should say why someone should watch your videos and not someone else's. Brainstorm words that apply to you and how you want to portray yourself on this channel.Maybe you want to make a comedy YouTube channel and you describe yourself as "mischievous," "snarky," and "hyperactive." You could name yourself "Snarky Snippets" or "Mr. Mischievous.";
, If your name is snappy, your audience will be more likely to remember it. Try rhyming, using alliteration, or synonyms. If all else fails, you can never go wrong with puns.Don't get too complicated or obscure with the wordplay.

Suppose you're making a cooking channel. You could name yourself "Ready Spaghetti" or "Baking Bread with Betty."
Examples of word-savvy YouTube usernames: Periodic Table of Voices, Crash Course, BoredShorts TV, and Sick Science., Trendy names are often one word related to your content. Your viewers will be more likely to remember your channel name if it's short and sweet. Scour a thesaurus for unique words, and look up their meanings in a dictionary. If the word seems to fit and feels natural when spoken aloud, you may have found your username.

Examples of simple YouTube channel names: Kurzgesagt, Flula, and Smosh., A portmanteau is a word made up of two different words. Examples of portmanteaus are "brunch," "smog," or "sitcom." Take two words that describe your channel's content and mesh them together. Try brainstorming a few different portmanteau until you create a witty one.If you're a video game channel, for example, you could combine the words "RPG" and "Gamers" to create "RPGamers."

, To create a popular name, you will first want to decide what your channel will offer. What do you hope to provide that nobody else can? Maybe you have a certain brand of humor, are an excellent baker, or have a brilliant idea for a web series., A relevant name will get you far in attracting potential viewers. Your name should give your audience a good idea of what your channel's about. Having a specific, relevant name will attract a larger audience.

If you're making an art history channel, for example, you might want to name it "History Talk" but your viewers won't know that it's about art. Naming it something specific, like "What's Van Goghing On?," will help your potential audience find it.
 Understand what your prospective demographic is and and what they're looking for in a channel. Think about your target viewer's age, interests, and personal needs are.

Suppose, for example, you are making an astronomy channel.Think about words that might appeal to space fans (like "universe," "asteroid," or "galaxy") and use them in your channel name. You might name your channel "Our Breathtaking Universe" or "Marvels of the Galaxy."

, Word-of-mouth is going to be crucial when expanding your platform. A complicated name will be hard for your viewers to remember or recommend to others. Pick a name that is easy to spell and remember so people can start talking about it."Pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis" might seem like a great name for a medical YouTube channel, for example, but your audience will have a hard time pronouncing it., While you do have freedom of speech on YouTube, putting profanity in your username will seriously limit your fanbase. You may give the impression that your YouTube channel is cruder than it actually is. Keep your YouTube name tasteful, and stay away from bathroom humor., Specific names will make your channel stand out. Avoid broad names like "Writing Tips" or "Movie Facts." Make your name unique, and avoid cliches or overdone phrases. Cliches will cause your audience to tune your username out and give the impression of laziness.You can transform a YouTube name from boring to unique by giving a twist to an old cliche. Instead of "When It's Said and Done," you could name your book review channel, "When It's Read and Done."

, A good Youtube name is easily searchable. Don't clog your username up with underscores or too many numbers. Your viewers might hear about your channel and try to search for it, only to forget a symbol and miss your channel. Usernames with letters only will look sleek and professional.

"Joseph_599485," for example, is going to be hard for people to remember. Pick a memorable name like, "Yo Joseph Yo" or "Josephasaurus Rex."

, Before you make your YouTube name official, run a quick internet search to make sure the name isn't taken. If someone has a YouTube channel that sounds similar to your prospective choice, try naming your channel something else. You don't want your channel constantly mixed up with another one.