 If you have puffy eyes all day, it could be that you're simply not getting enough sleep, or the quality of the sleep you are getting is poor. Puffiness under the eyes is a common symptom of sleep deprivation. Aim to get 7-8 hours of sleep every night.
 It's not unusual to have puffy eyes upon waking. A possible explanation for this may be that when you are lying down for several hours in a horizontal position and then stand up, the fluid that was resting under your eyes is suddenly being pulled down by gravity. To reduce it, you can try using an extra pillow while sleeping so that the fluid is not as drastically drawn down when you get up.If you sleep on your stomach, try to move toward sleeping on your back instead. Stomach sleepers tend to have the puffiest eyes, since this position allows fluid to collect there.
If you're a side sleeper, you might find that one eye gets puffier than the other. Try to switch sides or start sleeping on your back instead.
 The skin around your eyes is fragile, and it can get stretched out and damaged by rough handling and exposure to chemicals. To prevent the skin around your eyes from getting loose and filling with fluid, change your routine so that you're treating your face more gently.


Don't use harsh chemicals to wash your face. Use a light, gentle cleanser instead.
Don't wipe or rub your makeup off your eyes; use a makeup remover so it comes off more easily.
Don't scrub at your eyes with a towel. Gently splash water over your face and pat it dry.
Use moisturizer on your eyelids and around your eyes.
 Puffy eyes are often caused by allergies, which inflame the face and cause water to collect there. You might see a big difference if you treat your seasonal allergies with a good allergy medication.


Try an over-the-counter medication or get a prescription from your doctor.
Be sure your house is free of dust, animal fur, and other allergens. Change the filters on your heating system and wash your linens frequently.
 Do you tend to eat salty dinners frequently? This is a big cause of puffiness around the eyes, since the salt causes you to retain water in the face. If you go to bed almost every night with a lot of salt in your system, it can actually cause the skin in your eyes to stretch out and sag over time from getting filled with fluid. Start these new habits to reduce the chances that this will happen:


Use less salt in your cooking. Try reducing it by half, then go lower if you can.
Don't eat out as often. You can't control how much salt restaurants use in their food, and it's usually more than you think.
Avoid salty foods like chips, salted nuts, pretzels, canned soups, fried foods, and other foods that tend to be high in sodium.
Snack on bananas and raisins, both of which alleviate fluid retention.Consume cabbage or cranberry juice. Both are diuretics, which will help you "evacuate" some excess fluid.Don't turn to caffeine as your diuretic of choice, as it can interfere with sleep and bring back the puffiness.
 Alcohol leads to fluid retention in the face, as well as causing dehydration. Limit your alcohol intake to 1 or 2 drinks at a time, 1 or 2 times per week. Drinking more than this will eventually cause the skin around your eyes to loosen.
 Sometimes the swelling is a side effect of another condition. Getting treated for the condition may help cure your puffy eyes. Here are a few conditions that commonly lead to eye puffiness:


Pregnancy
Hormonal variation in the menstrual cycle
Dermatitis (sensitive skin is more likely to swell in response to irritants)
AllergiesMononucleosis (puffy eyes may be an early symptom of infection
Medication (puffiness or water retention could be a side effect)
More serious medical conditions

