 The best way to find the record of an annulment is by going to the county where the annulment was granted and purchasing a copy of the record. If you’re looking for a record of your annulment, go wherever you filed. If you’re looking for someone else’s annulment, there are a few things you might try in order to locate where it was filed:The state of Texas maintains a statewide index of divorces and annulments dating from 1968. As of September 2016, it seems to be the only state recording annulments on a statewide basis. Search the index at https://www.dshs.texas.gov/vs/marriagedivorce/dindex.shtm.
Do a little internet sleuthing. LinkedIn is a great way to trace a person’s whereabouts over the course of a given time period, as is Facebook. Background check websites will usually let you do a search before you pay, and you'll often see address information on the intro page.
Check census records. If you’re looking for historical records of an annulment, you might have some luck tracing the individual’s whereabouts through census records. Information about individuals is available up to 1940. Find historical census records at https://www.archives.gov/research/census/.;
, Once you’ve determined where the annulment was granted, contact the clerk of court for that county and ask them if they maintain the records of court judgments for the county, and if so for how long.


They often do, but in some counties a county recorder handles the records for older cases.
 Once you’ve figured out which office to go to, visit the office and request the record. As always, offer the clerk as much information as possible. It’s better to have information you don’t need than to need information you don’t have.In some localities, you’ll be able to search these records online. However, online records are often limited. There may only be a record of an annulment taking place on a certain day, with no text from the judgment or details of the case.
 There’s typically a fee associated with obtaining a copy of a court record, but it usually isn’t much—less than $50.It’s probably best to bring cash. Many county offices do not accept credit.

