 You can buy some batteries for an old one, or buy a new one. The batteries required are button batteries, about the size of a quarter, called CR2032.;
, Start by spending all the time you have for the baby to change into a child. It will take around an hour, and it will require a lot of attention to care for. Be sure you have over 1 hour of free time to care for it.
 Decorate your Tamagotchi with stickers, nail polish, glitter, rhinestones, or anything else you wish. You can glue on feathers, wiggle eyes, wings (clay!), or write all over it with a Sharpie marker.
 Take some felt, and measure it around your Tamagotchi in a rectangle. Double that length, and stitch or glue the edges together. Put a little strap on it to hook over your wrist or around your neck.
 Bring it to friend's houses, even in public. Nobody will really care, because the world is filled with (Tama)crazy people, right?

, Never let it get overweight. When it goes over its base weight, play games until the weight goes down.
 Take some pebbles, super glue them together into a slight half-sphere shape, and glue felt over it. Make a little base out of a larger, flat rock, and cover the bottom with felt. This can be a little cabana for your Tamagotchi when you go to the beach, lake, pool, whatever. You can sculpt a little glass of lemonade with ice cubes out of Sculpey and glue it to the Tamagotchi cabana.
 Never pause it, because it sleeps at night (obviously.) The less you pause it, the cuter character you will get!

, You can paint this so it will have a little holder at night.
, Take 3 plastic, sealable sandwich bags, put your Tamagotchi in one, and arrange them like nesting dolls, sealing each bag tightly. Your Tamagotchi is now shower- and pool- proof!

, Take clear nail polish, and spread a thin, non-streaky layer onto the screen. Wait 20 full minutes for it to dry, and this should protect the screen from further scratches. Be aware that any warranty does not cover this, so do this at your own risk.
 Maybe if you accidentally drop your Tamagotchi in the pool unprotected, the battery will completely FLIP out.


If it is in water, leave it in a warm, dry place for 2 days, and replace the battery. Also, batteries wear out after 6 months, and around 4 months for non-lithium batteries. This may vary though.
 Take advantage of a new game. Or, if it doesn't die, it will eventually get married by the matchmaker. Or not. Your choice! Take advantage of a death, or a new generation!

,