 If you’ve been using the same regimen for several years, it could be time for a change. Maybe your acne-prone skin isn’t producing the amount of oil it once did. Maybe the skin on your neck is starting to sag. Maybe you’re noticing more break-outs than usual. These are signs that you need to change your facial cleanser, moisturizer, mask, and other elements in your skincare regimen.A few helpful ideas include:

Treating sagging skin/wrinkles with products containing hyaluronic acid.Treating acne with products containing tea tree oil.Reviving dull skin with an exfoliating cleanser., In this analysis, you’ll discover the warmth or coolness of your skin undertones. Once you know this info, you’ll know which makeup and clothing colors work best for you., Use your new skincare regimen and knowledge of your season to try something new with your makeup. Use colors that complement your natural undertones. Maybe you’re a summer, but your foundation better suits a winter. If you suffer from acne, rosacea, or other reddening of the skin, try green concealer to cancel out the red. If you’ve noticed a few fine lines, avoid piling the on makeup, as this will only make you look older., Now that you know which colors to rock and which ones to avoid, it’ll be easier to buy new clothes. No need to break the bank. You can buy fabulous outfits in charity shops for a fraction of department store prices. Take at least four hours to find outfits that will do your makeover justice. Shop at brick-and-mortar stores so that you can try on the clothes before buying them., Thumb through your favorite magazine, or browse online for the latest styles. Take the picture(s) of your favorite style(s) to the salon. If you have trouble deciding, ask your hair dresser to help. Ask if they have imaging software available so that you can try on a new ‘do before you commit.If you’re not ready to commit to anything too drastic, ask your hair dresser to trim off about 1 inch (2.5 cm). It’ll get rid of split ends and refresh your hair. Plus, it costs a lot less than a full cut and style., It’s natural to want to try out a new hair color during a full-body makeover. Start with something subtle that works with your face shape. For example, if you’re a brunette wanting to lighten your hair, start with red highlights or streaks that easily blend with your natural color. If you have a square jawline, have your beautician use your highlights to draw attention to your eyes.