 Do you want something pre-built, or want to assemble your own? RTF stands for Ready To Fly and includes everything including controller and battery, while ARF is Almost Ready to Fly, which assembly and the purchase of all necessary electronics (servos, ESC, receiver, battery, etc.) separately. PNF stands for Plug-n-Fly, often requiring you to buy your own battery, receiver, and transmitter separately. Do you want electric or glow (gas)? If you want to build the entire plane yourself, kits are also available.;
, Beginner planes are typically electric RTF trainers in the $50-$300 price range including battery and controller. A good Internet search is "RTF trainer. If you have a brick-and-mortar hobby shop in your area, be sure to visit it. The employees there will be extremely helpful and knowledgeable, especially if it's a reputable store.
 Most RC planes, even RTF ones, require a bit of assembly.
 Turn on the transmitter, then the airplane. Check the direction of flight surfaces (have someone experienced check you).
 There are different conventions about which stick does what. These are called "modes," and there are 4 main ones - Mode 1, Mode 2 etc. It is best to use a mode which is used by any instructor or the most common to other flyers in your area. Mode 2 is the most commonly used mode in the US.
, Don't fly if the ribbon is parallel to the ground! Under 30 degrees is perfect.
 If possible, launch INTO the wind. If you are taking off from a runway and the wind is perpendicular to the runway, it is possible to take off, but not advisable for a beginner.
 Once the plane is almost floating above the ground, bring the elevators (usually up-down on the right side) up about 30% and let the plane get off the ground. If you're hand launching, advance the power to full and give the plane a straight level and firm (not too hard) toss into the air and quickly grab the controls. If you are still learning, have someone else launch your airplane for you so you can keep your hands on the sticks.
 I usually fly what we call 3 mistakes high, which is 150–200 feet (45.7–61.0 m) up, then reduce the throttle to half power.
 Just push the stick over for a split second and release. Simulator training will make you better at this.
 This will roll the plane slightly to the side. You will also need to pull back on the appropriate control stick slightly to pull the plane through the turn. To complete the turn, roll the plane parallel to the ground. Remember to always keep the plane upwind, this way it won’t blow away from you.(this only applies if you turn with ailerons.
 If you do stall, recover by pushing the nose down until the aircraft is flying fast enough to generate lift again. This may seem counterintuitive, but pulling back on the stick further will only make your situation worse in a stall.
 When you find yourself comfortable with this pattern, try flying an oval in the opposite direction (let other pilots around know what you are doing so they know to avoid you if you are flying an opposite pattern). When comfortable with both directions try a figure 8 pattern.
 Reduce power slowly (don’t touch the (elevator) stick - to descend, simply reduce the throttle). You want the plane to almost glide on its own. When the plane is about 5 feet (1.5 m) from the ground, cut the throttle.
 Note that this only applies to aircraft with a tailwheel, tricycle-gear airplanes should touch down on the back two wheels first and then let the nose settle down onto the runway.

