 Yes, cakes, cookies, sodas, and fast food meals have high calorie counts that can increase weight. However, the cost in other potential health problems (including even childhood diabetes or heart disease) outweighs any small benefits.Calorie-rich but nutrient-poor foods, such as sugary drinks, are not the answer to healthy weight gain. Foods that are rich in both calories and nutrients are the best option, because they help add weight and provide essential vitamins and minerals.
Don’t tell your child he or she needs to “fatten up” or “get some meat on those bones” — say that you both need to choose and eat more healthy foods.
 Variety is important not only because it offers the best range of vital nutrients, but also because it helps keep mealtime interesting. If mealtime is a chore or a bore, it will be more difficult to get your kid to want to eat.A high-calorie, high-nutrient diet for weight gain in children should include starchy carbohydrates (pastas, breads, cereals); at least five servings of fruits and vegetables daily; proteins (meat, fish, eggs, beans); and dairy products (milk, cheese, etc.).
All children under two should consume full-fat dairy products, and your child’s doctor may recommend continuing this practice past that age to support weight gain.
While fiber is important to a healthy diet, you may not want to overdo it with children trying to gain weight. Too much whole grain pasta or brown rice can leave a child feeling too full for too long.
 We tend to think of fat as bad, but that is not always the case. Many plant-based fats in particular are necessary components of a healthy diet. Healthy fats are also ideal for weight gain because they provide about nine calories per gram, as opposed to about four per gram for carbohydrates or proteins.Flaxseed oil and coconut oil are good choices and can be added to a wide variety of foods. Flaxseed oil has a neutral flavor that can go unnoticed, while coconut oil can add a pleasant sweetness to everything from sauteed vegetables to smoothies.
Olives and olive oil are another good choice.
Nuts and seeds, like almonds and pistachios, provide ample amounts of healthy fats.
Avocados can provide a creamy texture to a range of foods and offer beneficial fats at the same time.
 Children who need to gain weight should be offered regular snacks. But, as with meals, healthy options should be chosen over empty-calorie foods.Focus on high-calorie, high-nutrition, easy to prepare and serve snack options. For instance, try peanut butter and jelly on whole-grain bread; nuts and dried fruit; apples with cheese; or a turkey wrap with avocado.
For treats, present options like bran muffins, granola bars, and yogurt before resorting to cakes, cookies, and ice cream.
 Adequate water intake is important for children, but drinking too much can be filling and reduce the amount of food kids eat.Empty-calorie drinks like soda provide no nutritional value, while the amount of sugar in fruit juices can be bad for teeth and overall health when consumed in excess.
Water is always a good choice, but children who need to gain weight may benefit from drinking whole milk, smoothies or shakes, or even nutritional supplement drinks such as PediaSure or Ensure. Talk to your child’s pediatrician about the best options.
Have your child drink most of his or her beverage after the meal. Skip drinking beforehand, and have him or her drink only enough to comfortably (and safely) eat. This can help keep your child from “filling up” on beverages.