 Wash your face when you wake up and again before you go to bed. Do not wash your face more than twice a day because this can actually cause irritation and dryness.The natural oils produced by your skin are healthy and may help to create a natural glow. However, this may not be the case for all people. Use a gentle face soap and water to ensure that you remove all the dirt, dead skin cells, and grime from your face.Spend time testing out different cleansing products until you find one that works well for your skin.When washing your face, rinse your skin off with cold water. This should be done in order to close your pores and block unwanted bacteria from entering your skin and causing acne.;
, In order to find a moisturizer that works well for you, you need to understand your skin type. Typically there are three types of skin: dry, oily, and normal/combination. Moisturizers are very important for keeping your skin balanced. If your skin is too dry it can result in the overproduction of sebum, which is produced to prevent your skin and hair from drying out.Overly dry skin, just like oily skin, can result in the development of acne. Normal/combination skin is typically characterized by an oily t-zone (the area around your forehead, nose, and chin) and drier cheeks. This requires a light moisturizer applied to specific areas.Try a little moisturizer on tougher skin, such as around the elbow area, before using it everywhere. If you have a reaction to the moisturizer it will be confined to that small portion of skin and you can look for a more sensitive moisturizer.
 If you use makeup, always remove the makeup before going to sleep each night. Makeup can contain harsh chemicals that may damage your skin. It can also attract dirt and clog your pores, resulting in the development of acne and pimples. As a result it is important that you remove makeup from your skin, eyes, and lips using a mild soap and water solution. This will help keep your skin fresh and blemish free, resulting in a healthier glow. Test out these natural solutions for removing makeup:Honey and baking soda: put a drop of honey on a washcloth and sprinkle with a little baking soda in order to create a natural makeup remover.Olive Oil: can be used as a makeup remover and is highly recommended for people with dry skin because it will also help to moisturize your skin.Baby wipes: are very sensitive on the skin and do not contain as many chemicals as most commercial makeup removers. This is a simple and easy way to remove makeup., It is important that you periodically exfoliate in order to remove dead skin cells and keep your skin smooth, fresh, and glowing. Try using a natural exfoliant, such as oats, orange peels, or lentil powder to remove dead skin, dust, dirt, and blackheads from your face. You should begin by exfoliating your skin once or twice a week. Then watch to see how your skin reacts. If you skin becomes red and tender you should exfoliate less and if your skin looks rough and dull you can increase your frequency of exfoliating.You should exfoliate your entire body, not just your face. This can be done in the shower using a loofah.
Tougher areas such as heels can be rubbed more vigorously using a pumice stone. This will remove dead skin and buff up the new skin, giving you a healthy glow.

