 When you get on your hands and knees, you have a better perspective to see what they see. Take notes of anything you think might be dangerous like sharp edges, hot spots, and interesting looking items that might attract a child's attention.


Remove any flammable items from the immediate area near the fireplace.
You will need to baby-proof based on your child’s developmental stage. If they can crawl, they will not be able to reach as high as if they know how to walk.
The best time to baby-proof is before your child can harm themselves, so consider baby-proofing the fireplace before your baby can crawl or walk.;
, A fireplace gate is a great way to create distance between your child and the fireplace. You can purchase fencing to go around the fireplace that will keep your child from coming within feet of the fireplace.Never leave your child unattended near a fire, whether there is a gate present or not.A fireplace gate can be used with fireplaces that are freestanding if you purchase a gate that fully encompasses the entire fireplace.
For a fireplace that is built into a wall, you should purchase a fireplace gate that you can anchor to the walls next to the fireplace.
 Babies and toddlers can easily pull down a freestanding gate and they can fall into the fireplace if they lean on the gate.Buy a gate that is specifically designed for a fireplace instead; it will be made of heat resistant material that will not get hot to the touch. They will also be difficult to bring down if your toddler accidentally topples on it.
 Fireplaces without doors can be more dangerous for families with small children because there is not a barrier between your child and a burning fire. Consider installing a fireplace door to your open fireplace to eliminate this hazard.


Glass doors get very hot very quickly when the fireplace is in use. Make sure there is a barrier, like a fireplace gate, around the entire fireplace so a child cannot touch the hot glass.
 Babies and small children will be curious to see what’s inside the fireplace so always lock the door when not in use. Consider buying a childproof door lock, like those you may use in a kitchen or with cabinets.


If the fireplace is decorative and you do not use the fireplace for heating, a plastic zip tie can effectively keep the doors shut so your toddler doesn't pinch their fingers.
 Some fireplace doors have built-in locks to secure them. If you have this type of door, check the locks to ensure that they're functional and that your child cannot open them.
 The tools should be in a location where adults can access them if needed, but a child cannot.


Ensure that any matches and lighters are out of your child’s reach.
Keep any fire accelerants, like lighter fluid, in locked cabinets away from a child's reach.
Keep decorative iron fireplace tools out of reach such as in a locked cabinet or within the fireplace fence.
Keep necessary fireplace tools, like a fire stoker, ash can, coal rake, and others out of your child’s reach.

