 Because it can take a significant amount of time for the court to rule on a petition, you should consider taking emergency measures if you don't believe the child will be safe for that long.


If you feel that the child is in immediate danger, you should contact local law enforcement to have the child removed from the situation before you start any court procedures. Not taking immediate action gives the judge who evaluates your petition more reason to doubt your claims., Your relationship to the child also may dictate what actions the court will take to protect the child.


For example, if you are the non-custodial parent of the child and believe the custodial parent is neglecting him or her, you may want to file a motion to have the custody order modified so you can care for the child.Other individuals such as grandparents may be limited in their ability to ask for custody of the child, but may be able to file an emergency petition asking for temporary guardianship., Depending on the type of petition you want to file, you may need to use juvenile court or family court.


Typically you must use the court in the county where the child lives. However, if the child was the subject of a prior court order such as a custody order, that court may have continuing jurisdiction even if the child has moved elsewhere in the interim.
Many states such as California start a juvenile dependency case in situations where a child's parents are not able to protect him or her from abuse or neglect.Juvenile dependency cases typically are started when the caseworker who investigated the initial report files a petition with the court to protect the child.If you are a non-custodial parent, you may be able to remedy the situation by filing a motion to modify child custody or an emergency petition for custody. This petition typically would be filed in family court., Particularly if you believe a parent or other person may dispute your claims, an attorney can best protect you and the interests of the child.If you're petitioning the court to modify an existing child custody order because you believe your child is being neglected by the other parent, seek out a family law attorney who has experience in child abuse or neglect claims.Keep in mind that accusations of child abuse and neglect are common between parents who don't get along or who are upset by the custody arrangements ordered by the court. Having an attorney on your side can help legitimize your claims.
If you're concerned about the cost of hiring an attorney, check with your local legal aid society to find out if you qualify for legal assistance there. Even if you don't qualify for legal aid services, they typically can connect you with lower cost solutions such as attorneys who offer sliding-scale fees based on your income.
If you live near a law school, you also may be able to find a family law clinic staffed by law students and attorneys who can help you for free or for a significantly reduced rate.
You also may be able to hire an attorney for certain parts of your case, such as drafting your court motion, without hiring him or her to represent you for the entire matter. This is referred to as "unbundled" services or limited representation, and typically costs much less than full representation for all aspects of the case., The court will not act on your claims unless you provide factual evidence that the child is being abused or neglected.


The caseworker also will present his or her findings from the investigation of your claim.
Some courts also may appoint a guardian ad litem, a legal professional who investigates the situation and files a report with the court on behalf of the child's best interests.
Evaluate the source of your information. If you learned of the possible abuse or neglect from a neighbor, friend, or family member, you should ask what the person's motivation would be in telling you.Keep in mind that neglect can be extremely difficult to prove. Your case my hinge on eye-witness testimony. For example, if the child is being left home alone all evening, neighbors may be able to testify regarding their observations of when the child is left without adult supervision.
You typically will need to have the child evaluated by a mental health professional who can testify at the hearing regarding the care of the child.
 Most courts have forms you can fill out to initiate a case regarding child abuse or neglect.


To find forms for a motion to modify child custody, look on the website for the court that issued the original order, or contact the clerk's office.
Some legal aid societies and family law clinics also have forms you can use to ask the court to modify a child custody order.
If you're the non-custodial parent of the child, you need forms for a motion to modify a child custody order.
Forms for dependency petitions are available, but these petitions typically are initiated by a state caseworker who has investigated the child's situation after an abuse or neglect report was filed., The forms require information about the child and the abuse or neglect that child is suffering.


If you've filed a motion to modify the custody order, you must explain to the court not only why the parent who currently has custody should not, but also how you are the better caretaker for the child.Since the court will evaluate your motion based on the child's best interests, you must include information that supports your contention that it is in the child's best interests to be removed from the other parent's home and come to live with you., The clerk will process your paperwork to begin your case so you can help get the child out of his or her current situation.


When you file your motion or petition with the clerk, you typically must pay a filing fee. This fee varies greatly among states and even among courts within a particular court, so call the clerk's office before you file so you know the amount of the fee and the methods of payment accepted.Some courts also may have filing fee schedules available online, but call the clerk's office to confirm the amount.If you cannot afford to pay the filing fee, ask the court if you can fill out an application for a waiver. The application will require details regarding your income and assets, which the court will use to assess your eligibility. If you qualify for a waiver, you won't have to pay any court fees for your case.Make sure you bring enough copies of your paperwork so you can have a file-stamped copy for your own records as well as copies to deliver to other parties involved in the case, such as the other parent.
 Before the court can begin evaluating a claim of child abuse or neglect the parents and others with an interest in the child must have notice of the proceeding.


Typically you can have your paperwork served on the other parent or any other interested parties using certified mail with returned receipt requested. The person receiving the documents must sign for them and this proves to the court that they have notice of the proceeding.You also can have the forms hand-delivered, typically either using the sheriff's department or a private process serving company. If your paperwork is hand-delivered, the person who completed the delivery must complete a proof of service form and file it with the court., Once you've filed your petition, your presence in court is crucial if you want the judge to act on your claim.


You also should attend the first hearing – typically called a dependency or detention hearing – if a caseworker has filed a petition to remove your child for abuse or neglect. You should attend this hearing even if you're not the custodial parent.Keep in mind that some jurisdictions will require you to attend parenting or family law training classes before your hearing is scheduled.The clerk will let you know of any additional steps that must be completed before your hearing.
If you've filed a motion to modify child custody, you will have to present your evidence and explain to the judge why you believe the original order should be modified.