 Preparing for an audition is a highly variable process. If you’re not allowed to use a script during the audition, memorize your lines by reading them aloud over and over until you can recite them confidently without referring to the script. Read the script over and over to identify the psychology driving your character. Bring that understanding to your performance.Try performing the script in a variety of ways to strike the right tone. For instance, you might try performing an angry role by yelling or by using a terse, acidic tone.
Additionally, find out when and where the audition will occur and plan to arrive there at the appointed time.
 Even if you aren’t a fit for the role you’re auditioning for, you might be able to get a role in another production. With your resume and headshot in hand, theaters and film studios will be able to contact you about other roles you might want.You might be asked to submit a resume and headshot well in advance of the audition itself, or you might be asked to submit it right before or right after your audition.
 When waiting in the lobby or waiting room for your turn to audition, don’t have a bunch of your belongings (scripts, notes, and so on) spread out that might take time to collect and order. This will only irritate the director, producer, and/or casting director., Casting directors and producers don’t want to have a conversation with you. They want to know if you can act. Present yourself in a single, quick sentence (“Hi, my name is Mike Fisher and I’m performing a scene from Hamlet,” for instance), then launch directly into the scene when they give you the go-ahead.You might also be asked to name your agent, if you have one.
Additionally, don’t waste time during the audition with questions. If you have questions, direct them to your agent, the audition liaison, or whoever helped you set up the audition.
 The process of performing your role in an audition is highly variable. In some cases, you’ll be allowed to read from cue cards or a script. In other cases, you’ll be expected to have your lines memorized. Some auditions permit you to select the role you want to audition, while other will expect you to recite a passage directly from the production that you’re auditioning for.The rules and expectations about what role you’re to perform during the audition will be explained to you in advance.
 Unless you recognize someone specific in the audition, you never know who is a director, a producer, and so on. Some of the people at your audition could be your ticket to getting the job -- or another that you didn’t even audition for. Therefore, smile and treat everyone in the audition room with respect.Disrespectful behavior includes eating, smoking, or chewing gum inside the audition room.
Additionally, don’t touch the casting director or any of their possessions.
Thank the casting director and other audition staff before leaving.

