 What is the purpose of your project? Fill a need, create something beautiful, or just have fun.;
, Ideas can come from anywhere: a discussion, a forum, work, or home.
 Sketch it, then draw it in greater detail as the idea and your decision to make the piece firm up. You can draw them to scale, but you may find that full scale is a more comforting thought when it comes to the dimensions.
 Some of the things that should be taken into consideration are:


Aesthetics
Project location/use
Material strength
The mix of materials
The wood grain

,,, There are many stresses inside a piece of wood but, when sawn, these stresses are relieved. You may not see it right away, but you may be surprised at just how much a piece of wood can move.
 Have your blades and cutting tools sharpened or buy some new ones. Dull cutting tools cause many of the blood letting accidents in the shop.
 Take the time to ensure that your saws are calibrated properly, so you can get that 90 or 45 degree cut exact.
, Never ever work when you are tired or distracted. Missing body parts are not worth it.
 As the old saying goes, measure twice and cut once.
 Otherwise, it is extremely easy to turn a 5 1/4" cut into a 4 3/4" cut.
 Do not push them beyond their capability.
 Minute differences in rulers can cause problems when trying to put a project together.
 Do not rush to start gluing things together.
 Glue will make a tenon expand so it is almost impossible to insert it into its mortise. Making mortise and tenon joints properly takes time and patience. Try cutting a tenon thick and use a rabbet plane to get it to the proper thickness.
 Improper use of clamps can rack a project out of square.
, Make every attempt to limit squeeze-out of excess glue. There is nothing worse than finding dried glue that will not take a stain.
 Don't let the tape get stuck under a layer of rock-hard glue.
, Use progressively finer grits of sandpaper. Sand the wood until no swirl marks are left. For most furniture, 220 grit is about a fine as you need to go during this step.
 Perform the complete finish process on a scrap of each type of wood so you will know exactly what the project will look like when complete.


After determining which product and process looks best, do not skip or change any part of the process used on the scrap, when it comes time to finish the project.
Small differences in the finishing process can make a drastic change in the look of the complete project.
 Now it is time to really make your project shine, but do not hurry to start this process. Wait until the finish is completely cured before starting. Some products will cure overnight; others take weeks.
 Most people will rub the surface of a project to get an impression of how well the finish was completed. There are many oils, powders, and polishes that will create that mirror finish often desired. Read the different finishing books and brochures to get an understanding of the process.
 Enjoy the moment.


Most projects will contain a flaw here and there. Do not point them out when showing off a piece. Most likely, you will be the only one that knows the flaw exists.

