 Say your name. Say it proud and do not mumble! This should be something you have practice doing whenever you meet a new person. If your name has an interesting story feel free to tell it only if it is non-offensive or cute. .


Don't launch into how your father was drunk when you were born and came up with your name based off of the liquor bottle in his hand. Those types of stories can wait. If your date has questions or comments about your name make sure you entertain them.;
, At least not if you want the conversation to flow. The person may be as nervous or more nervous than you. If you want them to cut you some slack be sure you do the same. The quickest way to make things awkward and kill conversation is to shoot them down for cursing, telling an embarrassing story, or telling a vulgar story.
 Being inquisitive on a blind date is not offensive or too forward. In fact, asking questions and being prepared to answer them yourself is a very easy way to keep the conversation flowing.


Here are some example questions:

What do you do for a living? (Guard your nonverbal communication! You do not want to shame them with a judging look when they say they flip burgers or are currently unemployed.).
Where did you grow up?
What is your perfect Sunday?
Do you have a favorite vacation spot?
Do you have hobbies?
What is one fun fact about you?
What are you best at?
Favorite food/restaurant? (If you picked their favorite restaurant kudos to you!) What would you do if you did not have to worry about money? etc.


The sky is the limit. Just stay away from deep probing questions for the blind date. Since you know so little about one another, it is possible to spend the entire date covering the basics in detail without a dull moment.
 Stay away from brief answers and miles away from one word answers. If you are not comfortable answering a question just say something witty and true to your personality to lightly deflect the questions. If you are not a witty person you can always just casually say "Lets save that topic for later."

, Never interrupt. If you do get into one of those situations where you both talk over each other by accident, graciously yield the floor to your date. If they do the same, it is then safe to proceed with what you were going to say. Make sure that you bring things back around to your date when you are done voicing your thought. Simply say, "What were you going to say?"


Listening is a skill that many people forget to show on dates and if done poorly can frustrate your date. A frustrated date does not lead to good conversation.

