 Guests will enjoy themselves more if there is something to munch on. If you decide to serve alcohol at the shower, the appetizers are even more important in making sure the shower doesn't get out of hand.
 Make a list of the bride's favorite songs or make a wedding playlist in the theme of the shower, like beach music.


A great wedding-themed playlist can include songs like "Chapel of Love" by the Dixie Cups, "White Wedding" by Billy Idol, "Let's Get Married" by the Proclaimers, "Band of Gold" by Freda Payne, "With this Ring" by the Platters, "Not Too Young To Get Married" by Bob E. Soxx and the The Blue Jeans, "Wedding Bells" by Hank Williams, "Hotel Yorba" by the White Stripes, "Forever in my Life" by Prince and "Love and Marriage" by Frank Sinatra.
 Using the R.S.V.Ps that you received, make bridal shower bingo. Give everyone a card that has squares referring to people the bride knows, such as a colleague, childhood friend, sister or aunt. A guest gets a bingo if she meets people from different areas of her life and fills in the names of those people.


You can also do an icebreaker in the style of a scavenger hunt. Make a list of interesting facts and give it to the guests. They have to find who traveled to Mexico with the bride in 2000 or who gave her her first hair cut.
 For example, do not play bawdy games with the bride's mother in attendance. Do not play games that make people talk about their relationship, if you have invited many single people.


If your bride does not seem like the type to enjoy indoor games, play croquet or bocce ball instead. This is a great idea if she is sporty.
Popular bridal shower games include making a wedding dress out of toilet paper for the bride or for each guest, playing trivia about the bride's life, write poetry or limericks.
Play purse bingo, where you get points for common items found in a purse, like a hairbrush, safety pin or pen. Each person allots themselves points according to what they have in their purse and the one with the highest score wins.
Make recipe cards and have each of the guests write down their idea of a recipe for a perfect relationship. Bind the cards together with pictures afterward and give them to the bride.
