 It can feel like everything in your life has gone sour when you’re experiencing a major change, like a job loss or the end of a long-term relationship. At times like these, when everything seems to be changing for the worse, it is even more important to pause and take stock of all the good things (and people) in your life.Remember that things could always be worse. Yes, your car has been repossessed, but at least you can still borrow your parents’ clunky Oldsmobile to get around. Sure, your boyfriend cheated on and dumped you, but at least he didn’t dare try to take the cat with him!
Don’t focus solely on the “it could always be worse” element, however. Identify and be grateful for the genuinely good and helpful aspects of your life, regardless of any changes occurring. Things like your good health, awesome apartment, and always-cheerful Aunt Sylvia are worth your thoughts and your thanks.
 When your world is in turmoil, seek out a safe harbor that you know well. Familiar places, people, things, and activities will remind you that not everything has changed. Use them as totems to ground your sense of self as the world around you becomes less familiar.Go for a meal at Grandma’s house. Re-read a favorite book, or leaf through your old baseball card collection. Spend a “sick day” together with your best friend since kindergarten.
 We all face major life changes, and none of us should try to face them alone. When you’re struggling with a life change, writing down your feelings can be very helpful. Often, though, it may be even more beneficial to verbalize your feelings to a sympathetic ear.Call or meet up with a friend or family member who you know is an attentive listener, and to whom you feel comfortable speaking with on personal matters. Say something like “I’ve been struggling a lot with the death of Spot / move to the city / changes at my office. Is it okay if I unburden myself on you for a few minutes?”
You can make it an impromptu talk, but it may be more helpful to plan out a time in advance when you know you can converse without distractions or interruptions.
 Life changes can and will increase your stress levels, and some of us have a more difficult time handling stress than others. While a manageable amount of stress is actually a healthy thing, and can help spur you to adapt successfully to life changes, excessive and/or constant stress can damage your emotional, mental, and physical health. In order to effectively handle changes in your life, you need to be able to handle the accompanying stress.Symptoms of excessive stress can take many forms, from experiencing difficulty concentrating to having heart palpitations. Treatments for stress likewise take numerous forms, ranging from healthy living (via eating, sleeping, and exercising) to meditation to enjoying fun distractions. See Control Stress for a fuller discussion of the signs of and treatments for excessive stress.
 If you simply cannot manage the changes happening in your life — or, more specifically, your emotional response to them — there is absolutely no shame in seeking professional guidance. Mental health professionals are capable of helping you to better evaluate, accept, and adapt to the changes happening to you.If you are feeling overwhelmed and need immediate help, call an emergency mental health hotline like 1‑800‑273‑TALK (8255), which is the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (in the U.S.). Or, call 911 or the equivalent emergency services number where you live.