 The first rule of present-peeking is that you search only when you’re sure your parents won't catch you. Preferably, search while they’re out. If that’s not an option, search while they’re busy elsewhere in the house. It helps to have a quick place to hide if you hear someone coming.;
, No, not your math, your sleuthing homework. Take photos before you search an area, using either a camera or cell phone. Snap a few pictures of how everything is arranged before you touch any of it.


When you’re done snooping, use the pictures to put everything back in its right place. It’ll be like you were never there.
Be sure to delete the photos when you’re finished!

, Your parents’ bedroom is the most likely candidate, so start in the closet and under the bed (some parents are careless like this). Then move on to hall closets, high shelves, or anything that’s out of reach.


Check inside bags. If your presents aren’t wrapped (or your parents are sneaky), there might be goodies inside plain paper and plastic bags.
Look inside rooms that are suddenly locked around Christmas. Look through the keys on your parents’ key chains. Indoor locks (the kind with just the small hole in the knob) are just privacy locks, and can usually be opened with a tiny screwdriver.
If your parents like spy movies, make sure they haven't put a piece of tape or something in the door so they can tell if somebody opens the door.
 A really crafty parent might even hide things in your own bedroom! Search all nooks and crannies, including cabinets, closets, vents, and the spaces between sofa pillows. Don’t disregard anything if you really want to find those presents!

, Look in the storage room, basement, garage, sun-room, attic, shed, or storm cellar if you have one. Look under the deck or patio as well.
 Your parents might be keeping gifts there until they think it’s safe to bring them inside. Don’t forget to check the glove box.


Also look in roof or bike storage units. They may be locked, but usually the key is easy to find where they always keep their keys.
 Only do this if your parents bring you to work for some reason. Be very careful not to get into important documents or any of their coworkers’ things; this might get you into real trouble.
 If your family is very close with friends or family members who live nearby, your parents might have kept your presents with them for safekeeping. Only try this if you’re going to be over there anyway; never try to sneak in uninvited. Again, don’t search any areas that might get you into trouble (ex. bedrooms or home offices).
 These could be in the dresser, the car, mom’s purse, or dad’s wallet. You might also find a product description or purchase confirmation in your parents’ email or internet history if they bought your presents online.
. Also try to look for plastic bags that may reveal where they went shopping.


Be extra careful if you decide to snoop on your parent’s computer: this is a serious violation of privacy and can ruin your entire family’s Christmas.

