 While tour directors are responsible for the logistics, confirmations, overall planning and group dynamics, a tour guide offers specific, in-depth knowledge of a place. There are tours, in need of tour guides, all over the world. Becoming a tour guide is a good way to get paid at a global destination site.There are training programs for people interested in becoming tour guides or tour directors, including the International Tour Management Institute (ITMI) in San Francisco, and the International Guide Academy in Colorado.
Most tour guides are freelance, and positions won't come with health insurance or benefits.;
, If you want to get paid to travel the world, working for an airline is a great choice. Not only do airline employees travel for free as they work, but they also receive free passes for flights when they're not working, along with free passes for friends and family.Other perks for airline employees may include free or discounted prices on hotel rooms, car rentals, and other travel-related items.
Airline employees often have flexible hours and good benefits. However, they may have little control over the flights they're scheduled to work.
 The U.S. State Department is a way to work in a wide variety of international destinations. Jobs found through the State Department range from Overseas Seasonal Hire Program providing seasonal employment for US Foreign Service Family Members Ages 16-24, to work for a government agency with international offices.Contact the Human Resources department of the local U.S. Embassy if you're traveling within a foreign country. There are embassy jobs available in a wide range of positions.
Family members of people placed in overseas jobs may be hired for many job positions. If you're related to someone working overseas, check and see which jobs you might be eligible to apply for.
A foreign service officer is a diplomat for the United States. If you are between the ages of 21 and 59, healthy, dedicated and capable, you may qualify to apply for this job. Speaking a second language is preferred, but not required.The Peace Corps is a branch of the U.S. State Department. Most people who work for the Peace Corps do so as volunteers, but still receive a living stipend. While this is far from a generous paycheck, it does allow you to immerse yourself in cultures around the world., If you're a savvy shopper, you can make money by importing goods. To do this, you'll need to travel to countries with a lower cost-of-living, purchase goods at a low price, and bring the goods back to countries where you can sell them at a profit.You'll need to learn about international and U.S. Customs laws and fees.
Look for items that particular regions are known for, such as Mexican pottery or Italian leather or special handmade items that can't be mass produced. Then sell these items for a profit in areas where they can't otherwise be found, on online.
Consider developing a specialty online store. Get to know other people who sell items similar to the ones you're selling.
 If you're a real estate agent, consider working for a resort development agency or high end international luxury housing sales. There are jobs in retail buying, travel sales, vacation planning, and other luxury lifestyle companies. An example is the company Jauntaroo, who posts a job listing as "Chief World Explorer" in order to further their knowledge of vacation destinations worldwide.Become an executive assistant for someone whose job requires world travel.
Doing event coordination for destination weddings requires international travel.
 If you work for a cruise ship, you'll travel the world with your room, board, medical insurance and dental care paid for. While a cruise ship worker works seven days per week, there are opportunities for breaks and time off during each day. Because their work doesn't end when the ship is docked, the cruise ship employees may end up traveling more of the world than they see.Staff members on a cruise ship are usually English-speaking. Staff contracts are for 8-10 months, meaning that until the end of the contract, you're unlikely to be able to return home.
Entertainment staff includes musicians, hostesses, assistant cruise directors, and other entertainers. Contracts for entertainment staff usually runs 4-6 months.
Concessionaire workers - employees who work in the spa, gift shop, casino, photographers, etc. - are usually hired by a third party company. These workers are usually English-speaking.
 An au pair is someone who provides live-in help for a family living abroad, and usually includes childcare. "Au pair" literally means "living on equal terms" and can be a wonderful way for someone to learn a foreign language and culture while they work. Hours are set by agreement between the au pair and the family. In exchange, the au pair is give her own room, board, and an amount of "pocket money."Because being an au pair is usually an informal agreement, there may not be a contract.
The au pair may be treated much like a member of the family, but this also comes with more restriction than some travelers may find comfortable. You will need to be prepared to follow the family's diet - no diet restrictions of your own - and obey the family's standards of conduct, i.e. no overnight guests or dates unless explicitly agreed upon with the family.
Living with strangers involves a degree of risk. Use respected au pair agencies to find work overseas. Get references from the family for whom you've agreed to au pair.
 Nongovernmental Organizations, or NGOs, are agencies that serve global communities. Each NGO has a unique mission, and relies upon trained staff people to bring its mission to life. If you have at least a Masters Degree in a particular field, or have a skill that's needed in a particular region, working for an NGO may be a good opportunity for you to get paid to travel.Unpaid internships are far more common than paying jobs at most NGOs.
Skills in nutrition, finance and nursing are preferred by many NGOs.
Working for NGOs is highly competitive. If there is an NGO in your home community, try working there first. This will give you an advantage when an international position opens up.
 A travel nurse works in locations for short lengths of time. The average length of a contracted position is 13 weeks, but may range from one month to one year. Contracts may be renewed by mutual agreement. Travel nursing is a full-time job, 36-40 hours per week. Housing is often provided by the company.Travel nursing is done both domestically, within the United States, and internationally. If you want to travel, look for a company, such as Worldwide Travel Staffing, that provides opportunities to work in countries all over the world.
You'll need to receive a visa to work internationally in order to work as a travel nurse abroad.
To be hired as a travel nurse, agencies typical request that you have at least 12-18 months of experience in your area of specialty.

