 The immune system is complex and efforts to keep it strong should focus on lifestyle choices such as working to maintain a balanced diet. Many fruits and vegetables offer a wide range of vitamins and minerals that strengthen immune systems. Eat a variety of foods to make sure your immune system has all of the nutrients that it needs to keep you healthy.Fruits and vegetables such as berries, citrus fruit, and leafy greens are especially good for your immune system.Avoid foods high in sugar as sugar limits your immune system’s ability to fight off bacteria and infections.
 Dining options may be limited while you travel. If you are unable to get the full recommended amounts of vitamins from your diet, vitamin supplements can help you keep your immune system strong.


Make sure to take a daily multi-vitamin that contains no more than 100% of your recommended intake. Excessive doses can create toxicities that will harm your health.Over-the-counter supplements often make unsubstantiated boasts. High dose vitamin C tablets and lozenges may have minimal effect on your health. If consumed at the first sign of a cold, they may help you manage symptoms.
 You increase your chances of getting sick when you get too little sleep. When you are unrested, your body has higher stress and inflammation levels. Keep your immune system strong by getting consistent rest.


High quality sleep does not always mean more sleep. Make sure you are sleeping between seven and nine hours a night., Stay hydrated by consuming water, fruit juices, and teas. Proper hydration strengthens your immune system by flushing toxins out of organs.


The amount of water needed depends on the person. On average, men are encouraged to drink roughly 3 liters a day, and women should drink approximately 2.2 liters daily.You cannot take bottled beverages with you through airport security, so buy a bottle of water from an airport restaurant or shop. A bottle of water has less germs than a public water fountain.
 Moderate alcohol consumption may improve the functioning of your immune system. Heavy drinking, however, harms the immune system.Drinking alcohol immediately before or during your trip can weaken your immune system. Alcohol is an immunosuppressant that may impact your ability to ward off infection.If you have been or anticipate being exposed to an infection, alcohol may increase your risk of becoming sick.

