 Develop a thesis statement. Outline your academic and career goals. Indicate the main categories you will address in your statement. Describe how your academic record, work experience and community service have lead you towards your goals.For example: “I am applying for this scholarship in order to further my studies in education. My long-term goal is to work as an ESL teacher in an inner city environment. My academic, work and personal experiences have lead me to this career goal.”

, State that you have taken challenging courses. Mention that you have an excellent academic record. Note any skills or special knowledge you have acquired. Describe any special projects or research in which you have participated. Include information about tutoring or teaching.For example: “I graduated from my undergraduate institution with a 4.0 GPA. I had a double major of Elementary Education and Spanish, with a minor in Sociology. I applied for and received a prestigious internship working with the state government on developing educational policies.”

, Describe how your work experience has taught you how to interact with a variety of different people. Affirm your understanding of your strengths. State how your educational experiences have taught you to overcome obstacles and face challenges. Describe how life experiences have motivated you to continue your education and given you a clear vision of your future.For example: “My parents moved our family to this country from Albania when I was 12 years old. I did not speak any English when we arrived. The ESL teachers in my school helped me to be successful in school, and I want to do the same for other students in my circumstances.”

, Emphasize active participation in clubs, organizations, or civic associations. Describe volunteer work you have done. Explain how you chose your community service projects. State how long your involvement was. Tell about your travels and how they have impacted you. Express how your interactions with others have engendered a passion for what you do.For example: “Each summer, I volunteer for the Migrant Workers Education Association in Chester County, Pennsylvania. They service migrant workers who come here from Mexico to work on mushroom farms. We not only link families with community services, but we also tutor children in English and help them learn important school skills that will allow them to be successful in school.”

, Describe the qualities you have developed as a result of your academic, work and community service experience. For example, your academic experience may have given you motivation, knowledge of your current field and an attention to detail. Your work experience may have given you originality, creativity and an ability to solve problems. Your community service experience may have given you maturity, emotional stability and the ability to face challenges.For example: “My experiences as an ESL student and an English tutor have taught me the value of helping children to feel successful and empowered. I know the meaning of hard work, and I have learned how to overcome challenges in my own personal and academic life.”

, Strike the right balance between being modest and bragging. Demonstrate your abilities in an unpresumptuous way with phrases like “good candidate,” “well-prepared,” and “good leadership skills.” Avoid overstated statements like “my fantastic background,” or “my eternal passion for learning.” Present clear evidence of your skills and accomplishments. The evidence will speak for itself.