 Visual learners are good at remembering things through pictures, charts, graphs, notes, or other visual material. Visual learners often replace words with pictures and use mind maps to remember meanings, definitions, dates, and other material.Here are some questions you can ask yourself to determine if you are a visual learner:Do I learn best when I watch someone show me how to do something?
Do I verify the accuracy of spelling by looking at the word to see if it is spelled correctly?
When I need to remember a list of items, do I remember the list by writing it down?
Do I solve problems by writing or drawing diagrams?
When I am adding numbers, do I verify the answer by looking at the numbers to see if they are correct?

, Auditory learners learn best by hearing and listening. Auditory learners often use sound, like sound recordings, acoustics, rhyming, or music to help them remember and learn about things.Here are some questions to ask yourself to see if you are an auditory learner:Do I learn best when I hear someone tell me how to do something?
Do I verify the accuracy of spelling by sounding the word out in my head?
When I need to remember a list of items, do I remember the list by repeating it over and over to myself?
Do I solve problems by talking myself through the problem?
When I am adding numbers, do I verify the answer by counting the numbers in my head or out loud?

, Kinesthetic learners learn best through physical touch, movement, and interaction. These learners learn through physical sensations and physical objects. Similar to visual learners, writing and drawing diagrams are also very helpful for kinesthetic learners. Kinesthetic learners also often use role-playing, either singularly or with someone else, to practice skills and behaviors.Here are some questions to ask yourself to see if you are a kinesthetic learner:Do I learn how to do something best by trying to do it myself?
Do I verify the accuracy of spelling by getting a feeling about the correctness of the spelling?
When I need to remember a list of items, do I remember the list by moving around and using my fingers to name each item?
Do I solve problems by using and/or moving objects to help me think?
When I am adding numbers, do I verify the answer by using my fingers to get a feeling if it is correct?

, When determining your learning style also consider other factors like the time of day, the temperature of the room, the level of sound, and the size of grouping in which you learn best.Ask yourself:


Do I focus better in the morning or at night?
Do I focus better when the room is cold or slightly warmer?
Do I focus better when everything is quiet or can I focus with music playing?
Do I focus better when I am studying alone or with a group of people?

