;
, They are:



Props: The two smaller, sturdier men at the front of the scrum. You are most likely to see these guys rucking.

Famous Props: Tony Woodcock, All Blacks and Phil Vickery, England.



Hooker: Stands in between the props in the scrum. A hooker has to throw the ball into a lineout and hook it back to the scrum half or Number 8 in a scrum.

Famous Hooker: John Smit, Captain of South Africa's 2007 World Cup winning side.



Second Rows: These two men are usually the tallest on the team and their main responsibility is jumping in lineouts.

Famous Second Rows: Paul O'Connell, Lions Captain 2009, Munster Captain and Martin Johnson, England World Cup Winning Captain (2003).



Flankers: There are two flankers--blindside and open side. The Blindside is usually a bit bigger than the openside, since a blindside has more players to chase after a scrum.

Famous Flanker: Richie McCaw, All Black captain.



Number 8: The player at the back of the scrum between the two flankers. He can pick the ball and run with it instead of the scrum half if he wants.

Famous No. 8: Sebastien Chabal, France & Sale No. 8



, They score most of the tries.



Scrum Half: The player who takes and passes out the ball from rucks, mauls, and scrums.

Famous Scrum Halves: Mike Blair, Scotland and Edinburgh Scrum Half and Matt Dawson, England World Cup Winner (2003).



Fly Half: Usually the kicker of a team. Stands between scrum half & centres.

Famous Fly Half: Jonny Wilkinson, who won England the 2003 World Cup.



Centres: There are two: inside and outside. These guys are fast and powerful players.

Famous Centre: Brian O'Driscoll, Ireland and Leinster captain, Irish & British Lions captain, RBS Six Nations player of tournament 2006, 2007, 2009.



Wingers: The fastest men on the team who can score some brilliant tries. They stand on the wing and receive the ball from the centres.

Famous Winger: Jonah Lomu, All Blacks. Probably the most well known player of all time after his play in the 1995 world cup. International Rugby Hall of Fame member.



Full Back: Stand behind all other defence. You are most likely to see these guys catching kicks.

Famous Full Back: Percy Montgomery, South Africa and Perpignan kicker.


Don't forget the person standing on the side screaming at you. That is of course your coach. They are apart of the team and don't let them forget it.

