


If you want to be REALLY authentic, simply grow your own hair out until it's long enough to be pulled back into a ponytail. Shave the sideburn area, and possibly some of the back, leaving only the ponytail, and you're done. Alternatively, you can simply get a wig and wear that. Either way, Rob's hair is brown, so take note.
If able, (and of the right gender) you can grow some facial hair to add to the authenticity. Rob is almost never clean-shaven, and generally sports a five o'clock shadow. If not, get a stipple sponge, and a black makeup.;
,


Without a doubt, this will be the single most difficult and time-consuming part of creating an RVD costume. Rob's trademark article of clothing is his wrestling singlet; unfortunately, the design changes almost weekly, so there's really no "classic" RVD design. Common motifs include Taijitus (commonly known as ying-yangs), Dragons, claws, and a stylized "RVD" either on the chest or right thigh. Alternatively, nicknames are displayed, such as "The Whole F'n Show" (formerly spelled out, but WWE has since censored him), "Mr. Monday Night," and "RVD 4:20." The ECW logo is also occasionally sported.
Colors vary wildly, so feel free to experiment. If truly desired, you can attempt to copy one of Rob's actual singlet designs. They are airbrushed on, so if unfamiliar with this technique, a suggested alternative is to purchase a blank singlet of whichever base color you desire and add designs with fabric paint, marker, and/or tie-dye.
Once you've got all that, throw some black bicycling shorts on underneath before donning the singlet.



The hardcore will get themselves a pair of actual black wrestling boots. Everyone else will simply hit the Army surplus store and get a pair of cheap combat boots. The difference is hard to spot to the untrained eye, and since they're going to be covered anyway, it's really up to you.
After you have the boots, you need Rob's kickpads. These are a pretty specialized item, available only in places that sell pro wrestling gear, and can get pretty expensive. A cheap alternative is to get some tall black socks, cut the feet off so that you have only the tube remaining, and wear those over your boots. Get some cheap soccer shin guards, spray paint them black, and wear them over both the socks and the boots. Slap some black kneepads over the whole deal, and it will look good enough for a costume (though not for an actual wrestling match) and you will have saved yourself a lot of money. The whole effect should be black from toe to just above the knee.
Along the outer edges of your kickpads (either real or makeshift), you need to add the words "VAN DAM" in white, spelled vertically. You can either stencil-and-spray-paint it, freehand with fabric paint, or superglue white craft foam letters onto them.



These days Rob tends to sport black weightlifters tape from his wrists to about halfway down his fingers, giving the effect similar to fingerless gloves. Back in the day, he simply wore the tape around his wrists only.



Strut your stuff on Halloween night and remember to stay in character. Use phrases like "Dude," "Everything's cool," and telling people to chill out. And if anyone asks who you are, make sure to do Rob's signature thumb point while proclaiming to be "Rob! Van! Dam!" Hopefully any wrestling fans within earshot will chant your name alongside you at this point.

