 Rub salt evenly over the surface of the roast. Wrap the roast tightly in plastic wrap, then secure it, Place it in a large bowl or on a large plate in the refrigerator overnight.


Salting the roast ahead of time gives the salt more time to soak into the meat. As a result, the sirloin tip roast will be more flavorful, and the flavor will be evenly dispersed.
Make sure the roast is thawed, or at least thawed enough for the salt to stick.;
, After a day elapses, remove the roast from the refrigerator an hour in advance so that it can become room temperature.


A room temperature roast cooks fast and evenly.
It is important, though, that the roast does not sit out longer than an hour or else bacteria can grow.
 Peel off the plastic wrap from the roast. If moisture has developed on the surface of the meat, gently pat it dry with clean paper towels.
 Make sure that the rack inside the oven is placed in the middle.


You should also prepare a rimmed baking sheet by placing an oven-safe wire rack in the center. This is where the roast will sit as it cooks, and the additional rack will allow the fat to drip away from the meat instead of gathering around it.
 Rub the roast with 1/2 Tbsp (7.5 ml) cooking oil and the minced garlic. Afterward, evenly rub the spices onto the meat, as well.


Combine the spices in a small dish before applying them evenly to the roast.
 Heat some oil in a large cast iron pan over medium-high heat. Sear each side of the roast for 3 to 4 minutes or until it is browned on all sides.


Alternatively, use a Dutch oven for the entire process. Sear the roast inside the Dutch oven on the stove. Then, simply transfer the Dutch oven with the roast directly into the oven.
 Place the roast on your prepared baking sheet and place it in the oven. Cook for about 1 hour and 20 minutes.


Use a meat thermometer to check the temperature of the roast. At this stage, it should be 115 degrees Fahrenheit (46 degrees Celsius).
 Turn the oven off but keep the roast inside. Let it cook slowly at this low temperature for another 30 to 40 minutes.


Leave the door closed the entire time to prevent letting the heat out.
For medium-rare, cook the roast to an internal temperature of 130 degrees Fahrenheit (54 degrees Celsius). For medium, cook the roast to an internal temperature of 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius).
 Remove the cooked roast from the oven. Let it rest at room temperature for 15 minutes. When ready, slice it and serve as desired.

