 Mix hot water and a few drops of mild dish soap until the water is sudsy. Dip a clean cloth into the mixture. Use these to wipe the handle on all sides.Use microfiber cloth to clean brass handles. Microfiber cloths are specially designed to minimize surface abrasions.;
, Dab a bit of ketchup on a clean cloth and wipe the brass handle with it. Once you’ve wiped down the whole handle, use a damp cloth to remove the ketchup. Use a third towel or dish cloth to dry the handle.Worcestershire sauce, hot sauce, tomato paste, and marinara sauce might also work in place of ketchup.
 Mix ½ cup (118 milliliters) of vinegar with one teaspoon salt and three or four tablespoons flour. Dab a clean cloth in the paste and rub it across the handle. Wait 10 minutes, then rinse the handle off with a damp cloth. Dry the handle with a clean, soft dish cloth., Heat one pint (½ liter) of water in a small pot. Add two tablespoons salt and two tablespoons white vinegar. Wait for the mixture to cool, then dab a clean cloth in it. Wipe the brass handles down with this saltwater/vinegar mix. Dry the handles with a clean, soft rag., Dampen a soft rag with some lemon juice. Wipe the brass handle using the rag. Wipe away the juice residue with a second rag dipped in warm water. Dry the brass handles with a dry cloth.Lime juice could also work in place of lemon juice.
 Mix ¼ cup (75 grams) salt and the juice of half a lemon. Dip a piece of extra-fine steel wool into the mixture. Wipe the brass handles down with the salty lemon polish. Wipe away the grime with a damp rag, then dry the handles using a dry cloth.You could use baking soda in place of salt.Alternately, cut a lemon in half, then dip the flat face of it salt. Rub the salted lemon across the surface of your brass handles. Wipe the handles down with a damp rag, then dry them with a clean dish cloth.
 There are many commercially available brass-cleaning products. While specific directions for these products vary according to manufacturer, you can generally spray the product on a brass handle, then wipe the handle with a clean cloth.Popular brass-cleaning products include Bistro Copper and Brass Cleaner, Luster Copper/Brass Cleaner, and Q2 Brass Cleaner.
Consult manufacturer directions before using a brass-cleaning product.

