 If you want to look like Dougie, you should definitely change. Don't forget, Dougie's style is the most different from the other band members. And the most important? His appearance changes are his own decisions. That means, he trusts much more himself than a simple stylist. At the pictures to the right, you can see the progress and the changes of Dougie's haircuts through the years. You can choose whichever haircut you like the most, but the later ones are much more Dougie.;
, Dougie's natural color is light brown/blond but he has made a few changes throughout his career. His main color has been blond, but he has also experimented himself with purple or brown highlights.
 Shower and after that use conditioner for your hair. This will make the every-day-hair-preparation much more easier. Apart from the last haircut of Dougie, the other ones require straight hair.
 Dougie is 23 years old but it could be said that he represents the ages of 16 until 18 years old. He loves hats, and skate/surf brand clothing. Specifically:



Buy brand clothes. It sounds expensive but skating brand clothes are the main characteristic of Dougie's style. Try out Hurley, Atticus, Wesc, Billabong, Fallen, Volcom, Adio, Etnies, Macbeth e.t.c.

Buy hats. The branded hats aren't necessary but they surely add more glamour to the whole style. You could try the same brands with the T-shirts.


Wear knee breeches. Dougie loves them and everyone can see that from his appearances. Occasionally, you should show up with some jeans but this isn't necessary. Since many jeans aren't part of the "skater" style, you will have to work at finding the appropriate attire. Try baggier pants for the correct look.
Buy branded shoes. The favorite brands of Dougie in shoes are Adio Nixon, Macbeth and Etnies however he claimed to have a large collection of Puma trainers when the band started. His newest shoes are bright blue and red hi-top Adidas. You could experiment yourself though.
 Dougie has four tattoos - a star on each ankle (one blue, one red), the word "Athletes" across the top of his foot, and a large space-themed scene - complete with rocket and lizard-skull - over his upper right chest. In the summer of 2006 he had the tattoo extended down his right arm, he has a chameleon in a spaceship eating a tie fighter from Star Wars and it's in a nebular. Doing the exactly same tattoos would be considered as imitation. In late 2010 he had the tattoo extended down his arm. It is completely covered with meteors, and ships. Going down he as microphones, a totem pole, a giant stone statue and leaves around his arm. So improvise and think something who has to do with these designs.
 It was known that Dougie had a lip piercing though he doesn't have it anymore as it got infected but girls adored it. There have been many fan pages about that lip ring. You should give a try, but don't do it on your own. Let an expert do it for you. He also had his nose pierced around the summer of 2008 until around the end of 2008. He claimed it also got infected in 2009 so he removed it. If a nose piercing isn't really your style, try a couple of the piercings below to add an instant rocker vibe to your look although the lip-ring would be the recommended option.


For example:

Bridge: Very top of nose, between the eyes.
Eyebrow: Pierced on the outer half of the eyebrow, vertically. (Harry from McFLY has this piercing)
Labret: Middle of lower lip.
Septum: Bottom middle of nose, below where the cartilage ends.
Nostril: Side of the nose. (Dougie has been spotted with Nostril but since most don't know it, you can try it).
 Dougie's nickname at school was "Lizard King" so you should at least like them. Dougie had once said in an interview that if he wasn't a bassist, he would have been herpetologist.





House a lizard and take care of it as a simple pet. Get some photos with your lizard so that you show off that you have it as a pet.
Make a scrapbook or a folder in your computer full of lizards in case your parents don't let you to buy one. Carry it with you often.
 The best would be to play bass but if you don't want to, you could try to play guitar. Dougie's weakness is his bass. He's been playing bass for years (since he was 13) so the earlier you start the better.
 Dougie is the bassist in McFLY which is more of a pop band but as he never forgets to claim he loves pop-punk music Specifically, he enjoys listening to bands like:


Blink-182
Sum 41
New Found Glory
My Chemical Romance
Angels & Airwaves
Wet Wet Wet
The All-American Rejects
Green Day
Brand New
Less Than Jake
Pennywise
Nirvana

, Tom Delonge is a member of the band Blink-182 who Dougie once interviewed. Dougie considers Tom as his idol and his room is still full of his posters. So collect posters of Blink 182, buy their albums from CD shops or online and add some of their songs in your MP3 player to show your preferences.

