 For non members, there are two adventures where there are chances to get at least two good items in one adventure. They are Return Of The Phantoms on Hard Mode and The Phantom Portal on Hard Mode as well. Go on Return Of The Phantoms in Hard Mode with a member arctic wolf and The Phantom Portal with a tiger. Have the arctic wolf open the arctic wolf passage. Open the chest in the passage in order to have another chance of a good item.


Finish the adventure. Open the bottom left, top right, or top left chests - they are the only chests that have chances of rewarding you good items. The other two chests reward nothing but gems.
With The Phantom Portal, tigers are for non members, so you do not need to go with another person for this adventure.;
, Good rares that can be rewarded from these two adventures are rare bows and arrows, non member pirate swords, worn blankets, rare fox hats, and rare headfeathers.


Black worn blankets and headfeathers are worth much more than other colors of the same type of item or items. Use this as an advantage in order to become rarer more quickly.
 This will allow you to collect several rares in one adventure. Create at least three more backups and including yourself for a maximum of four good rewards. In all, if you're lucky, you could get eight good rewards. Open the passageway gate with an arctic wolf (you will need two backups, plus yourself, to do this for at least six good rewards) - you will have a chance to get three good rewards. If you open a chest with a good item from the very first chest you click, open the same chests on the other backups in order to get three of the same good reward.
 Get three rare bows and arrows, non-member pirate swords, worn blankets, and rare fox hats or rare headfeathers.
 Go to the server named Aldan or a famous Jammer's den. If the den is full, it will usually lead you to a different Aldan server that usually has a lot of traders and rare Jammers in there. The regular Aldan is more of just a trading spot, however. Adventures are also hosted in there frequently.
 Coral Canyons, Jamaa Township, Crystal Sands, and Temple Of Zios are good areas. However, when the server gets very full, Appondale, Kimbara, and Mount Shiveer also get crowded. Try going into famous Jammers' dens and Brady's Lab - they are also good places for rare Jammers and anyone who wants to trade.
 Decline all member den beta trades unless you are collecting a variety of den betas to create a collection.
 Collect non member den betas, but save them. Use any member den beta for trading for spikes. Non member den betas are more valuable, and it is suggested to save them and trade member den betas instead since they are less high in rarity.
 Good non member den betas include:






Small tables, baskets of candy, basketballs, wood floors, tan carpets, Cami's frog, traffic cones, fly traps, gecko plushies, orange mats, blue mats, and rocking horses. Other non member den items Jammers trade you are fake and should not be accepted.

Tan carpets, wood floors, and camis are worth spiked wristbands themselves, so save them since they are quite rare non member den betas. Do not trade them and multiple other den betas for a spike. Place the rare den beta on trade and say, "Trade me a spiked wristband," or if you are collecting, "Trade me smaller non member den betas."


Member den betas include - robots, pots o' gems, televisions, open signs, blue vines, flower carpets, moon dirt, pink forest walls, yellow sweets, planet walls, computers (many Jammers think computers are not beta, but they are, according to the Animal Jam Wiki), bubblegum machines, art easels, RC cars, and rare claws (The Claw). Do not accept any fake member den betas, no matter what they say.

Open signs used to be worth a spiked wristband, but now, they are worth two smaller den betas. Rare Claws, however, are worth a bad long wrist themselves. Trade them for a spiked wristband instead of adding to the Rare Claw, or you would be trading fair for a short collar, creating an over trade on your side.
 The worst spiked wristband (and worst spike of all the rare spikes) is an orange short wrist. The best spiked wristband is a black long wrist. Choose a spiked wrist you want to aim to get based on how many member den betas you have. Bad long wrists are worth four den betas, good long wrists are worth five, good short wrists are worth three, and bad short ones are worth two.






Bad Short/Long Wrists: Orange (worst), Pink, Yellow, and Green.
Good Short/Long Wrists: Blue, Purple, Red, and Black (best).
 Keep in mind that most den betas are worth rare spikes themselves. Rare Claws, tan carpets, wood floors, camis, porch swings, and River Race (minigame den beta - worth a black long collar. others are worth wrists) are all worth spikes.
 You might just end up getting a deal, and there is a good chance you will since many Jammers have unwanted spiked wrists. Trade the Jammer who wanted the den betas and you should now have a spike.
 Two very bad short wrists are worth a bad long wrist. A bad long wrist is worth a black short wrist. A bad long wrist plus a very bad short wrist is worth a black long wrist, and so on and so forth. Aim to get up to the best rare spiked wristband (a black long wrist) or a good long wrist.
 The process for collecting more rare spiked collars will require spiked wristbands and den betas to trade. Gather at least two rare long spiked wristbands or six through eight den betas.
 Any are fine - both of them together would be worth a semi-good short collar, such as a purple, blue, or yellow one (two orange long wrists for yellow). Red short collars would be worth nine, and black shorts are worth 13 or 14 small ones. See the above process in order to trade for them.
 Say something such as, "My list for a rare spiked collar (may not accept specific colors) jag if so." Wait to get a deal and tell them to go to your den. Make the trade and you should now have a rare short spiked collar.
 Most Jammers usually want den betas rather than two spiked wristbands, so consider trading some spiked wristbands for den betas and then trading the den betas for rare spiked collars. Trade for six den betas for orange and pink short collars. Get seven for green and yellow short collars. Gather eight for purple and blue short collars, and 13 to 14 for a black short collar.
 Follow the same tasks, but with den betas. Make sure they are real den betas so that you won't technically trick them into accepting an unfair trade.






Aim to get two bad short collars. You can then possibly trade them for a black short collar, which is the rarest short collar.
 Trading these would be worth an orange long collar. Gather two bad long collars and trade for a good long collar. Aim to get three good long collars or six bad long collars.
 You do not have to build up to a black long - it may take longer if you're a non member. If you want to build up to other rares even as a non member, feel free to do so. Spikes are basically the process of building up to several other rares even rarer than a black long collar.

