 Along with your ingredients for the cake recipe,you'll also need some utensils and equipment, including:


A hand mixer or stand mixer
Cake pans: one 9-by-13-inch pan, two nine-inch pans, or one Bundt pan
Grease or parchment paper
A large mixing bowl
A large spoon or paddle;
, For this butter cake recipe, you will want your oven preheated to 350 F (177 C). While you're waiting, grease your cake pans with butter, baking spray, or vegetable shortening. On top of the greased pan, sprinkle a pinch of flour to create a light dusting.


If you'd rather not used greased pans, you can instead line your cake pan with parchment paper.
 Add the butter and sugar to your mixing bowl. Beat the ingredients together with your mixer on low speed. Continue beating for five to 10 minutes.As the butter and sugar incorporate, increase the speed to medium, and finally to high for the last minute or two.
Creaming the butter and sugar together in this way will create a light and fluffy cake that has plenty of volume, because the process whips air bubbles into the butter.
 Crack each egg separately into a small bowl and beat it a little before adding it to the flour and sugar mixture. This will give you time to remove any shell pieces, and will prevent the mixture from curdling. Turn the beaters on low and have them running as you add each egg.You want the eggs at room temperature because a warm egg won’t decrease the final volume of the cake.
Continue beating the mixture until all the eggs have been incorporated and the mixture is smooth and yellow.
 Beat on low until everything is incorporated. Don’t overmix, as this will produce a cake that’s tough instead of fluffy., Once added, beat the mixture on low for about 30 seconds. If there is any unincorporated batter on the sides of the bowl, use the spoon or paddle to scrape it down.Increase the speed to high and continue beating for a minute or two.
 If you're making more than one cake, divide the batter evenly between the two pans. Use your spoon to wipe the sides of the bowl so you don’t waste any batter.
 There are a few ways to tell when your cake is ready, and they include when:


The cake springs back when pressed gently with a finger
The cake starts pulling away from the sides of the cake pan
A toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean, Place the cake on a wire rack and let it sit for 10 to 15 minutes. After this time, remove the rack from under the cake and place it on top of the cake pan. Flip the cake pan over and let the cake slide onto the rack.Let the cake continue cooling to room temperature before storing or frosting.
 If you are going to be serving and eating the cake immediately, proceed with layering, filling, or frosting.


For a cake that will be used within the week, wrap it in plastic and store it in a cool, dry place on your counter.For a cake that will be used within three months, wrap it in plastic and store it in the freezer.
 There are many different types of frostings, icings, and glazes you can use to finish your butter cake, and a vanilla buttercream is a common and delicious choice. To make this frosting:Place 1 cup (225 g) of softened butter in a mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer. Beat on medium for about three minutes.
Working in 1/2-cup increments, add 3 to 4 cups (345 to 460 g) of confectioner’s sugar (add closer to 4 cups for a firmer icing). When all the sugar has been incorporated, turn the beaters to high and mix for 10 seconds.
Add a pinch of salt and 2 teaspoons (12 ml) vanilla. Beat until incorporated.
Beat in 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 ml) of milk or cream until the frosting reaches the desired consistency.
 This is a variation on a basic buttercream, but the brown butter adds a richness and nuttiness to the frosting. To make this frosting:On medium heat, melt 6 tablespoons unsalted butter (85 g) in a small saucepan. Stir constantly until the butter foams, bubbles, and turns a golden color. This will take about four to six minutes. Remove from the heat and cool to room temperature.
In a mixing bowl, add butter, 3 cups (345 g) confectioner’s sugar, and 1 ½ teaspoons (9 ml) vanilla. Beat on medium speed, and slowly add 3 to 4 tablespoons (45 to 60 ml) milk until you achieve the desired consistency.
 Chocolate is another great frosting type for a butter cake, and can add another dimension to the vanilla flavor of the cake. This recipe is similar to a vanilla buttercream, but you add chocolate and malted milk powder to the mix and use less vanilla.In a mixing bowl, add ½ cup (115 g) softened unsalted butter and 1 teaspoon (6 ml) vanilla. Mix on low to combine.
Continue mixing, and gradually add in 2 cups (230 g) confectioner’s sugar, ½ cup (59 g) cocoa powder, ½ cup (65 g) malted milk powder, and a pinch of salt.
One tablespoon (15 ml) at a time, add in 7 tablespoons (105 ml) of milk until the frosting is smooth, light, and spreadable.
 Citrus glazes also work well with butter cakes, and they are less rich than a buttercream frosting. You can use any citrus you want, or a combination, including orange, lemon, lime, grapefruit, or any other citrus you prefer. For the glaze:In a medium bowl, whisk or beat together 1 cup (115 g) confectioner’s sugar, ¼ teaspoon (the zest from a small wedge) orange zest (grated), and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of juice from a freshly squeezed orange. Whisk until all the ingredients are incorporated and you have a smooth icing.
 If you made a single round cake or Bundt cake and want to make a layer cake, take a sharp knife and cut the cake in half to separate the top and bottom into two layers.


If you baked more than one cake and are going to layer them, don’t cut them in half.
 Place the cakes in the refrigerator for about an hour before frosting it. This will make the cake stiffer, less delicate, and easier to work with., Place the bottom layer of cake on a cake plate. With a frosting knife or icing spatula (or a regular butter knife), spread a thin layer of icing on top of the first layer of cake. Refrigerate for 15 minutes before proceeding.If you want to add an extra element to your cake, consider adding a layer of fruit, jam, custard, or ganache on top of the icing.Raspberry, strawberry, and cherry are traditional fruit or jam choices to pair with cake.
 Carefully place the second layer of cake back on top of the first layer. With your frosting knife, apply a thin layer of frosting to the entire cake. This is called the crumb coat, and it will keep the final decorative layer of frosting clean and crumb free.If you made a Bundt cake, don’t forget to frost the inner well along with the outside of the cake.
Refrigerate the cake for 20 to 30 minutes before applying the final layer of frosting.
If you are using a glaze, drizzle glaze evenly over the top of the cake one spoonful at a time. Allow the glaze to drip down over the sides of the cake.
 Apply a thicker and even layer of frosting over the entire crumb coat. Use the back of the spatula or knife to even out the frosting and make the surface as smooth as possible.


For an added touch, sprinkle the top with fruit, coconut flakes, cocoa powder, or citrus zest.
Serve immediately, or cover with a lid until you're ready to eat.
