 Laughter helps relieve anxiety and helps your body balance out stress hormones, allowing you to feel better naturally. Additionally, laughter may boost your immune system and help alleviate pain.Don't replace your medicine or a doctor's advice with laughter.;
, Although it may not be obvious right away, most situations have some humorous moments. Being able to find the funny in any situation can relieve any stress or tension you feel. It can also contribute to your overall success and happiness.For example, if you fall and scuff up your elbow, don’t focus on injury or ripped clothing. Instead, say, “Wow, that was graceful,” to yourself. Likewise, if you are in a tense meeting or classroom, maybe you notice that the person raising their voice has broccoli in their teeth. Quietly think, “Oh my, Xavier is so worked up, but I can’t focus on anything but that giant piece of broccoli between his front teeth.”
Remember to laugh at yourself. If you can’t find the funny in yourself, it may not be as easy to do with other situations or individuals.
Think about more serious situations and note things that happened. You may be able to find some laughter in them. For example, remember a funny situation with someone who passed away to focus on your happiness and laughter with them. You could also write down something like, “Ugh, I got fired. At least that means I don’t have to listen to Joe’s musical farting in the bathroom any longer.”
Even if nothing funny happens, you can always make funny faces at your friends and family, which can usually get a laugh. Since laughter is contagious, one person's laughing usually spreads to the group.
 One of the easiest ways to get some laughs is watching a funny movie, TV show, or comedy act. Allotting some time every day to watch funny programming can ensure that you get some much-needed laughter.Rent movies or join a streaming service that has a great collection of comedy films. You can create a watch list that allow you to access the funny programming right away without searching.
Spend time watching a funny show every night. Knowing that you’ll have some laughs later can help you get through a stressful day.
 You might prefer reading to watching the television. Having a selection of funny books, magazines, or newspapers on hand can provide laughs throughout the day.Read serious stories in the newspaper first and then enjoy the cartoons when you’re finished. The “funnies” can divert your attention from often unpleasant news stories. You can even cut out cartoons you find hilarious and pin them in a place where you can frequently laugh at them.
Choose books and magazines that are sure to make you laugh. For example, MAD Magazine and author David Sedaris often poke fun at ridiculous situations.
 The morning commute is often stressful for people. Traffic, news radio and the combination of work or school stress can dampen your mood. Take your morning commute as a time to laugh by listening to comedy radio. This can divert you from the situation around you.Find comedy radio by looking for stations online. Even hard news sites such as the BBC have radio programs categorized as comedy.You can either listen to these stations with a smartphone in the car. Consider connecting it through your bluetooth if your car has this function.
Upload comedy podcasts to your computer or smartphone. You can listen to these at home, in the car, and even at the office.
 Comedic relief almost always induces laughter. If there is a comedy club in your local area, make regular dates to see shows. You can also follow where your favorite comedians are performing and make a trip to see them.Take your friends along to the comedy club, which will make the act even more fun.
 If all else fails, make yourself laugh. It might take a few tries. Eventually, smiling and laughing at something will infect your mood with happiness.Repeat, “Ha ha ha ha,” “Ho ho ho,” and “He he he,” if you are having a hard time finding something to laugh about. Continue saying this until you start laughing or identify something specific to perk up yourself.

