 In some cases, you might decide to have the crowd judge the winners. In this case, you won’t need judges. For more serious competitions, judges with a deep understand of rap structure and delivery will be able to more consistently rate and critique battlers.When using a crowd to judge a rap battle, you’ll need a voting system. Have the audience applaud for the battler they think did best. Print out simple ballots so audience members can vote.
Ask local rappers to judge events. Find judges among poetry or hip hop professors at local universities and community colleges. Invite famous rappers who are native to your region to judge the battle.
 The size of your venue will largely determine how large or small your event can be. Contact local schools, libraries, community centers, bars, concert halls, and similar venues to see if you can host your event at places like these.


When finding a venue, verify that there is a microphone or a sound system available. In large spaces especially, it can be difficult to hear battlers without a mic.
If you have already recruited judges for your event, they may be able to advise you on locations suitable for the venue.
 Rap battles held at family friendly locations will likely frown on profanity and harsh language. You may want to restrict some offensive terms and expressions. You’ll also need to decide on the areas battlers will be rated, the number of points for each area, and the time or length allowed for each battler.


Rap is generally divided into three main areas, which can be used for judging battlers. These areas are: content, flow (rhythm, rhyme, and cadence), and delivery.Dissing during a battle can sometimes get out of hand. Some rap battle leagues ban the use of certain kinds of hate speech, like those that involve rape, violation of privacy, or personal harm., Offer to advertise for a local business at your event in exchange for a prize donation. Inquire about potential donations or fundraising opportunities with literature or hip-hop professors at a local university. Hold your own fundraiser.Be sure to specifically mention any prizes in your advertising. This is a great tactic for increasing interest in your event.
 Make and put fliers up at local grocery stores, community centers, and schools. Spread the word on social media and battle rap message boards. Large crowds add excitement to rap battles.Target areas that amateur rappers and live performers frequent, like at bars or clubs that host live music and venues that have hosted rap battles previously.
Invite your family, friends, coworkers, and anyone else you know who is interested in rap or poetry.

