 This is a difficult yet crucial first step. It's more natural for a beautiful, talented, successful woman celebrate her good traits. Challenge yourself by writing down the less desirable aspects of your personality, behavior, habits, etc. If you need help ask a good friend or ex-boyfriend. This will help you gain better perspective on how you should perceive the world and how potential mates are really perceiving you.;
, You'll probably be tempted to disagree with someone's opinion of you, but try to put yourself in that person's shoes and attempt to familiarize yourself with other people's realities.
 Deal breakers are defined as anything you absolutely cannot live with. In your initial conversation, you should ask his relationship status, job and living situation and whether he has children. Make no exceptions for what you know in your heart you cannot handle forever. He deserves a woman who is willing and able to be compatible with his lifestyle.
 Be mysterious by learning when to speak and how to listen. Don't ramble on inappropriately, as if your good looks will make up for diarrhea of the mouth. Focus on what the other person is saying, instead of what impression you are giving. This is not about celebrating your awesomeness. It's about getting to know whether this person is right for you.
 Be aware of red flags or warning signs, but do not react solely on the insecurities of your own past experience. Make sure the problem doesn't stem from previous disappointments seeping back into your psyche.
 Don't highlight his faults. It will deteriorate the attraction and trust. You are not there to judge, criticize or complain. As you've learned in the previous exercise, you are also imperfect.
 Don't waste time with a hopeless cause. And don't become a relationship martyr. If he's unavailable, unpredictable or untrustworthy, move on. Period.
 Remain humble and thankful. Have mercy on your partner. Don't live in a world of ideals. Instead, live in a world of what is. Ask yourself, "Can I be happy with him as he is right this moment and not who I hope he will be in the future?" If the answer is yes, then you're good to go.

