 If you have trouble getting the ball down the lane at high speeds, certain ball types can improve your speed, though it will be at the expense of your hook. As a rule, balls that are shinier produce less friction and thus can move faster. Balls that have a dull appearance produce more friction and thus are easier to hook.To hook a ball is to cause it to swing to the right or the left after tossing it. This creates the optimal trajectory for a strike, but it is a technique that typically only skilled bowlers can perform correctly
Urethane balls are good for players who want to increase speed, but retain some hook in their throw.
Resin, reactive, and particle balls are better for grip and hook than speed. These are good for experts who have built up a good ball speed and now want to master their hook.
Plastic balls are good for beginners because they tend to go straight without losing control. They are not optimal, however, for either speed or hook.At a pro shop, balls made of any substance can be polished to reduce friction, thus increasing speed and decreasing hook. 60-80% of a ball's performance depends upon its coverstock (the hard exterior). This is the most important customizable feature of the ball.
 Next to the cover, the most important feature of a bowling ball is its core. The heavier the core, the quicker the ball will begin to hook. A lighter core will cause the ball to hook further down the lane. There is no best core, just the core that fits throw.


Core design varies significantly from one ball to another, making it a complex issue. You should talk to an employee at the pro shop about the core design of any ball that you are interested in.The core is an area inside the ball that offsets the weight imbalance created by the finger holes. Because this is inside the ball, you can't actually see it and it can be difficult to understand what effect it has on your throw. That is why it is important to consult a professional about the core of your ball.
 Determine whether your bowling lane is dry or oily. This will help you decide whether to pick a polished or rough ball. An oily lane will cause more skidding and, if your ball has begun to skid out of control, you should switch to a ball that is less polished. Resin, reactive, and particle balls have the grip necessary for oiled lanes.There is no easy way to determine how the lane is oiled. You can ask the staff, but often your only real recourse is to toss the ball a few times and see how it skids.
Typically lanes will be oiled unevenly. Often they are oiled more around the center than the edges. This will help the ball retain control before sliding into the gutter. Sometimes, the lane is oiled more in the front than the back of the lane, causing the ball to skid earlier. Thus, whether you switch to a ball that produces more friction should also be determined by whether the position of the oil is throwing off your game.
Wipe down your ball before every throw if your lane is oily. Use a dry towel to wipe your ball.
 Bowling balls are available in a wide variety of colors. Some balls are available in multiple colors, swirl patterns or even glow-in-the dark designs. The color of a ball won't physically affect how the ball travels, but a ball that makes you proud can give you the confidence you need to play a better game.