 A traditional IRA has many advantages. For example, they often have more investment options than employer-sponsored plans, such as a 401(k). You might also want to consolidate in a traditional IRA for the following reasons:You anticipate your retirement income will be lower in retirement than it is now. If the opposite is true, you might want to choose a Roth IRA.
You want to continue to contribute to the account. There are no income limits for a traditional IRA, unlike with a Roth IRA.
 You might already have an IRA you want to roll other accounts into. However, you can also shop around and find an IRA that suits your needs. Search online or contact an investment professional and talk about which traditional IRA will suit your needs best. Look at the following when analyzing an IRA provider:Account fees. Ideally, they should be as low as possible.
Diversity of mutual funds without transaction fees.
Variety of exchange-traded funds without commissions.
Account minimums and fund minimums. An account minimum is the minimum needed to set up the account. However, some funds within the IRA have minimums. For example, an international equities fund might have a $1,000 minimum.
 You can set up an account with a large provider usually online or over the phone. You’ll need to provide the following personal information:name
Social Security number
contact information
date of birth
employment information

, Now you need to get money out of account A into account B, which is your traditional IRA. There are generally two ways you can transfer funds:


Indirect rollover. You can withdraw money from a plan, which will send you a check in your own name. You then have 60 days to transfer the money into the new account. If you wait too long, you generally must pay taxes on the amount and may also pay a 10% early withdrawal penalty.Direct transfer. With a trustee-to-trustee transfer, you don’t ever touch the money, so you don’t have to worry about depositing the money before a deadline.You can also make an unlimited number of direct transfers. By contrast, an IRA is limited to one rollover each year. You should choose a direct transfer if possible.
 Call up the plan administrator for the plans you want to roll over into the IRA. Give them the information about the IRA you want to rollover your account into, and instruct them to make a direct transfer.


If you chose the indirect transfer method, you’ll need to deposit the check promptly.
If for some reason you miss the 60 day deadline, you may be able to self-certify that you qualify for a waiver. The IRS provides a model letter you can use.Present it to the provider that will receive the late transfer.

