 Some erasers are intended for a specific purpose. For example, if you are using an ultra-firm eraser that’s intended to scour deep marks, like those made with soft lead pencils or pen ink, your eraser might be fine. In this case, you should switch erasers to one that more suits the kind of writing you are doing.


Rubber erasers can come in many sizes, shapes, and colors. The most common of these is the classic pink eraser that you are likely familiar with seeing at the end of your pencil. These work decently for graphite pencils.
Gum erasers are softer than normal rubber erasers. These have a tendency to crumble when used, but this is completely natural for this kind of eraser. Gum erasers are often brown or semi-transparent in color. These are ideal for graphite pencils.
Vinyl erasers are sometimes called plastic erasers. This kind is ultra-tough and can tear through paper rather easily. You can expect this kind of eraser to remove most markings from paper – including ink. They are most often white and erase very cleanly., Some erasers, like those designed to remove pen or soft lead from paper, will naturally be harder than gum erasers or other soft types. However, over time, your eraser can lose elasticity and become so hard that it simply will no longer erase. Press the nail of your finger into the eraser. If it resists you firmly, it may be time to get a new eraser.


To further test your eraser’s ability to do its job, you can take a piece of normal paper and write a short message or doodle in pencil. Then use a clean looking patch of your eraser to attempt and erase the writing. If it smears or does a poor job, your eraser might be at the end of its life.
Before decided your eraser has outlived its usefulness, you may want to use some medium-fine grit (180 grit should suffice) sandpaper to take off the outer skin. Sometimes the inner parts of the eraser will keep potency even after the outside of the eraser has hardened.
 Some erasers are made with cheap rubber or are poorly formulated for erasing. It might seem strange, but the composition of specialty and high quality erasers is a closely guarded trade secret by many companies. If you ever come across an eraser that just doesn’t seem to cut it, save yourself some time and frustration by tossing the cheap one away and finding one that will do the job you need.