 High school science classes include classes in biology, chemistry, and physics. Here, you can develop a basic understanding of science topics and also identify which of the sciences interests you most. English classes will help you develop and sharpen your writing skills, particularly if a journalism class is available coupled with the opportunity to work on your high school newspaper.;
, Magazines such as Discover, National Geographic, Popular Science, Science, Science News, and Scientific American, as well as newspaper science articles can give you an idea of the breadth of science writing content and styles. Some science fiction magazines, such as Analog, Asimov's, and Omni, have also included science articles along with their science fiction stories.
 You'll need to continue taking both science classes and journalism classes in college. You can major in the science you plan to write about and minor in journalism, major in journalism and minor in the science, or go for a double major. Either way, you'll have plenty of writing opportunities, both in upper-level science classes and in journalism classes, as well as opportunities to become familiar with computers and multimedia.


If you find yourself more interested in being a scientist than in being a science writer at first, you can go the usual route of getting your bachelor's degree, followed by your master's and PhD. You'll do a fair amount of writing in upper level science classes, and you should take a number of English classes as well to enable you to write for various audiences.
 An internship will give you practice as a science writer so you can see if the career is for you, as well as provide you with samples of your work to present to a prospective employer after you graduate. You can intern with your college news office or as a stringer with the local newspaper in the city you're going to college in.


Another option is to write for an Internet news service such as Examiner.com. Check to see if the service you're interested in has a need for science writers and the level of experience required.
 Joining a science writing association provides you the opportunity to network with other science writers about science writing jobs and internships and be listed in the association's membership roster. Science writing associations include National Association of Science Writers (NASW) in the United States and the Indian Science Writers Association in India. Many associations offer memberships for both established science writers and students.
 Even if you decide not to become a scientist before turning to science writing, you may still want to consider a graduate degree in science writing or science and technology communication. If you pursue an advanced science degree instead, you can also apply for internships in science writing as a graduate student. Not every science writer position requires a graduate degree, however, although an advanced science degree is helpful if you want to write for other scientists and make you a better science writer by making you a better researcher.

