 You can adjust some of your notification settings directly in the Messenger app. Tap the "Settings" tab in the lower-right corner to get started.;
, This will open the Messenger notification settings.


Note: You cannot change the Messenger notification sound on iOS.
 Tap the "Mute" slider to turn on a temporary mute. You can set a duration of up to 24 hours, but you can't permanently turn notifications off this way. Use Mute if you need a short break from notifications., This will prevent Messenger notifications from displaying the name or message that you received.
 When the Messenger app is open and active, it uses special sounds and vibrations. You can toggle these off in this menu.
 You can disable Messenger notifications completely, as well as adjust other notification settings, from the Settings app on your iOS device.
 This will open the notification settings for Messenger.
 This will turn off every notification for Messenger, as well as disable the additional notification options underneath the slider.
 If you decide to keep Messenger notifications enabled, you can adjust some options for them in this menu:


Tap "Show in Notification Center" to toggle whether Messenger notifications appear in the pull-down Notification Center.
Tap "Sounds" to turn notification sounds off or on.
Tap "Badge App Icon" to turn the unread message count on the Messenger icon off or on.
Tap "Show on Lock Screen" to hide or show notifications when your device is locked.
 You'll be able to set some of your notification settings from this menu.
 This will allow you to adjust some of the in-app notification settings.
 You can't turn them off completely using this switch, but you can temporarily disable notifications for up to 24 hours.
 When previews are turned off, you won't see any information about the sender or the message in a preview on your lock screen.
 If your device does not have an LED light, you may not see the "Light" option.
 You can select any notification sound that you have loaded onto your Android device. See Add Ringtones to an Android Phone for instructions on adding new sounds to your Android.
 These are the sounds that play while you're using Messenger, such as when you refresh your Recent list.
 If you want to block all Messenger notifications, you can do so from the Settings app on your device.
 This will display a list of all of the apps installed on your Android device.
 Make sure you select the correct app if you have multiple Messengers installed.
 This will completely disabled notifications for the Messenger app.
 If you don't see the "Show notifications" box here, you're likely running Android 6.0 or newer, which has moved the notification options:


Return to the main Settings app menu and select "Sound & notification."
Scroll down and tap "Apps."
Select "Messenger" from the list of app.
Toggle "Block" on to disable notifications.
 You can turn off notifications on a conversation-by-conversation basis, which can be useful if you don't want to be bothered by a busy conversation. The process is the same for both iOS and Android.
 This will open the conversation details.
 You'll see several different intervals you can mute notifications for.
 You will no longer be notified when you receive new messages in that conversation until you turn the mute off.


You can select a shorter interval to have notifications turn back on automatically after a time.

