


You may dye your hair if you wish, but you must remember that she is a cartoon, and dyed-red hair often looks unnatural on normal people who are not born with it. However, if you can find a suitable colour, don't hold back: Jessica wouldn't be Jessica without those flaming locks, right?;
,


Normally, this look would be quite boring but to add the volume that Jessica sports, use rollers at the roots of your hair whilst drying to give them a lift. Not forgetting the famous front curl that falls over one eye. This adds great amounts of mystery and sex appeal, so pop a roller in a long piece of fringe if you have one. Remember to keep it smooth and styled so that it remains in place. Jessica's hair stays put and does not fall too far forwards into her face, this would make her look silly.



The lips are red but enough to suit her skin and hair tone. Go to a local beauty counter and ask an assistant to help you find one of the darkest red colour you can pull off. For the eyes, Jessica has a shade of smokey purple. Apply a similar colour to the edges of your eyes and into the outer socket to maintain the large 'cartoonish' eye. Too much shadow could close your eye in. Lastly, the eyebrows are very strong and defined. Don't change your eyebrow shape as this could lead to disastrous consequences, but keep them very neat and preened. Fill in the brow with the darkest eyebrow pencil or filler you can pull off.



If anyone was really made like that, they would fall over! Don't go through plastic surgery like some other Jessica fans have done. It is a permanent change and will you still want to look like Jessica Rabbit when at a respectable 60+? The decision is up to you, but this guide focuses more on the natural way to achieve her essence and style.
Investing in a good push-up bra, no matter what bra size you are, will greatly improve your confidence and resemblance to Jessica. If you wish, you can purchase chicken fillets to put in your bra to give them a bit more of a boost but try to remain true to what you've already got. Jessica is all about confidence in her own self; you should radiate this too!

,


Her style is very classy and glamorous. It takes practice to mix the two. You must feel like you are not exposing too much or too little skin, you must reveal a little but cover the rest with form-fitting clothes. Make sure that nothing is too tight; retaining elegance and class is essential. Wear clothing that is classic but will catch the eyes of those around you. Wearing low heels out and about will draw attention to your legs and give you a bit of height, a lowish-cut top will draw attention to there, nice fitting jeans will emphasize your body shape, etc.



Find a perfume that is sensual, with maybe a hint of floral tone. Make sure that it is not too girly but still has a sexy, feminine feel to it. Something mysterious and alluring would be perfect. Ask at your local perfume counter for some expert advice. It goes without saying that regular showers and personal hygiene should be meticulous.



As a character, Jessica Rabbit is very cool and collected and generally does not let small things sway her out of her comfort zone. Bend to problems and deal with them calmly. She would not be one to break down whenever an issue might arise. She is headstrong and knows what's best for her, and often does not let anyone tell her otherwise. This does not mean you must be stubborn and closed to advice, just stick to your morals!
Being a bimbo is just not very appealing. Clapping and giggling at the smallest of things will end up being rather irritating. Give yourself a sense of mystery; don't give yourself away to a stranger all at once. Allow them to come forwards to you. If you open yourself up in one go, they will not be tempted to dig deeper and find out more about you. This is one of Jessica's best tricks; mystery. Don't, however, become stuck up and seem like you don't want to be spoken to. Just keep them guessing!...

