 Whether you are coping with your own breakup or the breakup of someone close to you, keeping your feelings bottled up will have negative effects on your mind and body. It’s better, especially right after a breakup, to let your feelings out in some way.When there is a bad situation after a breakup it’s even more important to express how you’re feeling about the things that are going on.


Keep a journal about what is going on. Write about the events, your feelings, your hopes, and your fears. Try to write in your journal every day.
Express your feelings creatively through music, art, or some other medium. For example, you could paint a picture depicting your feelings or write a song about the breakup.
Talk to someone you trust like a close family member or friend. You could say, “Can I talk to you about how I’m feeling about everything that’s going on?”;
, Coping with a bad situation after a breakup, no matter what the circumstances, can have a negative effect on your health if you don’t take care of yourself.Make the time to do things that will keep you healthy.


Stick to a regular sleep routine. Go to bed at the same time each night and try to wake-up at the same time each morning.
Make time to eat healthy. Your body needs all the nutrients it can get to keep your immune system stronger during this bad situation.
Do something active. Even if it’s just taking a brief walk or doing some stretches, physical activity can help calm you, clear your mind, and boost your energy.
Avoid alcohol or drugs as a way to cope. This will just lead to much bigger problems.
 There may be times when you are feeling upset or anxious. In these situations, it is important to find a way to soothe yourself. A good way to do this is to learn how to practice some self-soothing activities that work well for you. Some things you might try include:


Using a relaxation technique such as progressive muscle relaxation, meditation, or deep breathing.
Engaging with a favorite hobby, such as knitting, playing video games, painting, reading, or writing.
Pampering yourself, such as by taking a bubble bath, giving yourself a manicure, or experimenting with makeup or clothes.
 Your friends and family want to help you during this time. They can help you cope with a bad situation after a breakup by listening to you, distracting you, and just being there for you.Turn to them for support and encouragement.


Let them distract you from the breakup. Do something fun with them like take a bike ride or go for coffee.
If you are feeling upset, you can ask a friend to just come sit with you.
You might say, “This breakup has me feeling pretty down. Could you just come over and sit with me? I don’t really want to talk or anything.”

, If you are having a really difficult time coping with a breakup, consider talking to a professional. Also, if you are dealing with other stress, such as a mental illness, the recent death of someone close to you, or the loss of a job at the same time you are trying to cope with a breakup, you should talk to a therapist or counselor about what you are going through.


They can help you deal with the breakup as well as any other issues in your life right now.
A counselor can teach you coping techniques and methods to help reduce your stress, depression, and anxiety.
They can also give you strategies for dealing with other people involved in the situation.

