 This simple recipe for sugar cookie icing only takes fifteen minutes to make. It yields enough icing for twelve to fourteen cookies. Bake your sugar cookies before you start on the icing. They must be completely cool before you can ice them.Corn syrup is optional. It can be substituted with granulated white sugar.;
, Measure out the ingredients and place them into a small bowl. Mix them together until the mixture is smooth. You can mix them together manually by stirring or you can use a mixer on its lowest setting.
 Measure out the ingredients and add them to the bowl. Use your mixer to blend it all together. Keep beating the icing until it appears smooth and glossy. Stop mixing and test the consistency of it.


The icing needs to be thick enough to stay on the cookies and thin enough to easily paint onto the cookies.
For a slightly different taste, replace the ¼ teaspoon (1.2 ml) of vanilla extract with ¼ teaspoon (1.2 ml) of almond extract.
 Use a few of your pre-baked sugar cookies as testers. They must be completely cooled before you try to ice them. Paint a small amount of icing on the edges of the cookie. Allow it to dry for a few minutes, then check to see if the icing dripped over the edges. If there is no dripping, your icing is ready to use.


If your icing is too thin, mix small amounts of powdered sugar into the icing until it thickens up.
If you can’t easily paint the icing onto a cookie, it is too thick. Add small amounts of corn syrup to the icing and stir until you reach the right consistency.
If you're planning on dying the icing and making multi-color cookies, make some of the icing slightly thicker to use as "border icing" (the icing used to trace around the cookie). Use slightly thinner icing as "flood icing" (the icing that fills in the middle area of the cookie). The thicker border icing will help to keep the thinner flood icing on the cookie., Place small amounts of the icing into separate bowls so that you can add the food coloring. Add a different color of food coloring to each bowl. Use a few drops at a time and then stir together well.


If you want the color to be darker, add a few more drops and stir.
 You have a few different options for application. You can dip the cookies into the icing. You can also paint the icing on with a clean paint brush or spread it onto the cookies using a knife or the back of a spoon. You can also use a piping bag to apply the frosting.


Squeeze bottles and using spoons to pour icing are two additional methods that will yield excellent results.
Using a piping bag will give you the most professional-looking results. Dipping the cookies is probably the easiest way, but painting will allow you more control.

