 Although you can buy special strawberry pots that have multiple openings, it isn’t absolutely necessary; strawberries can grow and produce fruit in any container that has good soil and gets enough sunlight.


Place broken terracotta or ceramics at the base of the container, or large pebbles/small rocks. These will help ensure good drainage.
 The strawberry pot should have at least an 18” diameter. Even though strawberries have shallow roots, they do produce runners that need some space to extend.


Strawberries thrive in soil that has a pH between 5.3 and 6.5, so select a potting soil with that ratio. It’s a good idea to keep your soil rich by adding a handful of compost to the container once a month.
If growing in a tall and narrow unglazed strawberry jar, add a quarter peat moss before adding the soil, to increase the moisture-retaining ability of the jar.
If growing in a hanging basket, line the basket with sphagnum moss and use peaty soil. Again, this is to retain moisture for the plants. Sphagnum moss will also allow for the plant to grow out the sides of the pot, which looks nice.
 Then make 5 or 6 mounds of soil about 1” (25.4 mm) tall. Space the mounds at least 6” (152.4 mm) apart so that the runners will have room to roam. The mounds themselves shouldn’t be more than 3” (76.2 mm) wide.
 If necessary, cut the pot with scissors if the plant is wedged in too tightly. Carefully shake off the extra soil while separating the delicate roots with your fingers.
 Soak the strawberry roots for an hour, so they can absorb enough to keep them hydrated.
 Arrange the roots so that they extend down the sides of the mounds.
 The stems emerge from the crown, so don’t bury it under the soil.
 Continue to gently water until the pot begins to drain. (Add more soil if necessary—the thorough watering will often collapse air pockets and reduce the soil level.)


Use a watering can with a sprinkler attachment to avoid eroding the soil.
 The container can now be placed outside (hanging or sitting on the ground), or in a warm and sunny spot inside.
 Wait for a few to accumulate or simply eat them as they ripen. How many you'll get per harvest will depend on the amount you've grown and the container's size.

