 Be strategic. In addition to making larger payments as often as possible, paying off the right loans first is an important factor. If you're paying on more than one loan at a time, apply the higher payments only to the loan with the highest interest rate while making minimum payments on the loan(s) with the lower rate(s). Do this until you've paid off the higher-interest loan, and then attack the loan with the next-highest rate while maintaining minimum payments on the other loan(s). Do this until everything is paid off. Repay any private loans first. These are almost certain to have high interest rates and will have less-flexible repayment plans compared to government loans.
Next pay off unsubsidized federal loans, followed by subsidized federal loans.
Contact your loan servicer directly to ask how to specify which loan you wish to pay off first.
If you have other debt that has an even higher interest rate (such as credit card debt), you should pay it off before the loans referenced just above. , If you want to pay off your loans as quickly as possible, keep payments as high as you can. Although they will lower your monthly payments, some repayment programs (such as “Pay As You Earn”) stretch your repayment period out to as much as 25 years! This leads to greater debt overall. These programs are especially unproductive if you have high-interest loans, as they impede your ability to pay those loans off quickly.
 You can consolidate loans in order to make a single monthly payment at one interest rate. This is not always the best option. However, under certain circumstances you can qualify for a lower, fixed interest rate than you’re currently paying and wind up paying off your loan(s) more quickly and paying less in interest. Pursue consolidation of federal loans through the Direct Loan program. Use the U.S. Department of Education’s online calculator to find out what your consolidated interest rate would be.
Don't consolidate federal loans through a private loan servicer. You will lose benefits that apply only to federal loans, including deferments for unemployment or eligibility for loan-forgiveness programs. Consider refinancing federal loans into a private loan only if you are absolutely certain you will never want to claim these benefits.
Consolidating two or more private loans is usually beneficial, but make sure to factor in origination fees. Don't consolidate unless your new loan has a lower, fixed interest rate overall. Your annual income should be higher than your loan balance, and your credit score should be high enough to attract a better interest rate.

