 It can take months to find the ideal rug. Even if you’re not a hardcore interior design perfectionist, it’s best to accept the fact that you may not be able to find your ideal rug in a single shopping session. Check multiple stores for your rug, and allow yourself ample time in each one.
 If you’ve found a rug with a beautiful front, don’t forget to look closely at its back, too! Rugs can be knotted a few different ways, which influences their lasting power and (to a certain extent) their value. In general, hand-knotted rugs are valued above all, though hand-tufted and machine-knotted rugs are respectable, too. Here’s how to tell the difference between them.Hand-knotted rugs have no trimming or backing to hold the knots in place. They may have small imperfections, if you look carefully.
Hand-tufted rugs have a cotton backing glued to the underside. They are slightly less durable than hand-knotted rugs, but they can last a while as well.
Machine-knotted rugs have an dulled version of the rug’s pattern on their backs. They also may have additional fringes that are sewn on (instead of being incorporated into the weaving).
 Area rugs are much more inexpensive than wall-to-wall carpeting, but a good one doesn’t come cheap. Some interior decorators offer a rule: for consistency in interior decorating, your rug should cost about the same as your sofa did. If you’re strapped for money, it’s good to check vintage stores and eBay for diamonds in the rough., Unfortunately, many rugs are produced in factories that benefit from child labor. This means that if you’re making an effort to resist child labor, you may need to do a little research on where your rug comes from. There are many nonprofits that can help--like Good Weave, which stamps ethically-produced rugs with a special symbol., If you want your rug to stay looking its best, get a rug pad of the same size at the time of purchase. In general, thin pads made of materials like rubber and jute are the best choice. Stay away from thick, waffle-type pads, which will make an area rug look wrinkly. The pad will keep the rug looking good longer, and will prevent it from skidding on a hardwood floor.