 This is where a color wheel will come in handy. Choose primary colors that you think match your miniature, and then mix the primary colors in equal proportion to get secondary colors. Choose complementary color pairings - these are colors that lie directly across from each other on the color wheel. Avoid using too many colors. If you're painting historical miniatures it could be a good idea to look at pictures or history books to get an idea of what that character would look like. If you're painting miniatures from a game, try searching on the internet for your character. This only applies if you want to paint the character as accurately as possible. Feel free to use your imagination.
As a general rule of thumb, don't use more than three major colors in your miniature or it will end up looking messy.
 Once you’ve chosen your color scheme you can add your first coat of paint over your primer. Remember that you won’t be adding details yet. Start with the hardest to reach part of the model part and paint a thin coat with the base color of that part. Continue painting the parts with the correct color from most difficult to to the largest least difficulty part of the miniature. Apply several thin coats rather than one thick coat.
 This is a technique done to bring out the shadows. Mix your base coat with brown or black and then dilute it. Now apply a layer of paint to an area filled with detail. This will bring out shadows and make the miniature look much more detailed and interesting. Let dry.
 Try using oil paint when you go to paint the face and skin areas of your miniature. Oil paint dries slower and blends more smoothly, so you can add more detail. Use a smaller brush to add smaller details like the eyes or fingernails. Try to keep a steady hand and make sure your miniature has had time to dry off after the dark washing. You don't want your details to drip.
 After your miniature is dried, and if you’re happy with it, you’re ready to dry brush the miniature. Mix the base color with a bit of white and then apply a small amount of this mixture to your paint brush. Wipe a little off on a rag or paper towel. Now use the dry brush on the model. The idea is to imagine a hypothetical light source and use this mixture to simulate how the light would hit the miniature. Build the area up with lighter colors.
 These can be found in arts and crafts stores. Spray in a well ventilated area with a clear coat. Again, several thin coats are best. Let varnish dry between coats.

