 Write these down and look at how they influence your way of thinking and acting. These might be theories on anything, such as why we are here, how we are here, what is right and what is wrong and so on.;
, Did you get them from your education, from your relatives, friends or mentors. Did you get them from mainstream society or are they your own theories?

, If you have ever had someone else disagree, or offer an alternative idea to one of your own, examine that one and why you select your own above another persons.


Try to see if the other persons ideas are valid, sometimes one person is right and one is wrong, but sometimes both can have different but valid points of view and sometimes theories are right in some conditions, and wrong in others.
 Try not to have any bias or prejudice to another persons ideas or your own, but just see how ideas give you and another person advantages and disadvantages.
 Many theories or views often are relevant in some cases, but not relevant in others and that an opposite idea might have merit. Look for any points of view that are applicable in every case, how rare are they?


If you can find some, explore why they are 100% consistent and if they have an opposite. If you can find none, Try to find out why that it is by looking a little deeper and asking more questions.
 Ask other people their ideas and examine wisdom and culture generally. Is there some ideas that become redundant in changes of technology?


Some examples of old ideas might be that the world is flat, or that diseases are caused by magic. By sailing around the world it was shown the idea of a flat world was incorrect and today is no longer relevant. In the same way, it wasn't until the microscope was invented to see viruses and bacteria that cause many illnesses that we know that its not spells and curses.
, As well as how we perceive and remember events and the strength of how we feel and react to events and impulses.


Consider this analogy. A persons mind is like the room we live in, ideas and beliefs are like the wallpaper or paint we put up to personalize our room. Is it possible that with so much wallpaper we have papered or painted over the windows and doorways so we cannot see beyond our own mindset?

, Are you or other people prisoners in a gilded cage of ideas and beliefs?

, If you feel that you are a prisoner, start to let go of some ideas and see if you can live without them. You don't have to abandon them all, although try to see if it is possible to live without them entirely and if that does in fact set you free.


If that gives you benefit or well-being, tear down some of that wallpaper and let the light in.
If that makes you feel nervous, Try to see why. Is there a loyalty to that theory, or something you identify with? Or are you fond of a particular idea above what is really happening?

,


There is a true honesty in admitting you don't know the things you don't rather than making up something in order to be certain. If things change and it is possible for the truth to be known, then a truly honest person would not be ashamed to examine it and accept it.
 That things are true or that they aren't. What is true does not belong to anyone, any society or any idea, but is relevant to everyone, anywhere. Try to find the truth that applies to everyone beyond ideas, theories and cultures and how that can help yourself and other people.

