 Most homes are equipped with conventional water heaters that store hot water in tanks. Water is constantly reheated as it cools down naturally. This is an inefficient process that leads to considerable costs, but there are a few steps you can take to improve your water heater’s efficiency. For instance, you will save 3-5% on your water heating costs for every 10°F (12°C) reduction in the tank’s standing water temperature.Since water heaters are usually set to 140°F (60°C), you’ll likely be saving a good amount just be taking this step.
Don’t trust the heater’s thermostat. (Some won’t have numbers anyway.) Instead, carefully hold a thermometer beneath the faucet farthest from the water heater and turn the hot water on full blast. After a few seconds, read the thermometer. This will establish the tank’s temp.
Go back to the hot water heater and check it's thermostat. If it’s accurate - great. If it’s not, write down the actual temperature next to a mark at the level shown.
Using the temperature you found as a guide, turn down the water heater’s thermostat to whatever you think will bring the actual temp of the water’s tank down to 120°F (49°C).
Wait two hours or more and take the water’s temperature at the faucet you tested earlier. It may take a few adjustments of the water heater’s thermostat to get the tank’s temperature to 120°F (49°C). Once you do, mark the water heater’s thermostat at the level that maintains this temperature.
 Your water heater’s tank will gradually build up deposits. Fortunately, you don't have to drain the entire tank to keep these deposits from accumulating. Drain a quart of water from the tank every three months to keep the heater working at its peak efficiency.To do so, turn off the water running to the water heater, as well as the heater’s power. For gas units, set the burner on “pilot.” Connect a hose to the spigot at the tank’s base, and run the other end to a drain. Lift the pressure-relief valve on the tank and open the spigot. Take care not to let the water touch you or anyone else.
 Make sure the pipes that hold your hot water are well insulated. This will keep the water several degrees warmer, preventing unnecessary reheating. You can use self-sealing sleeves that cost a few dollars each and can easily be slipped onto pipes.In particular, look for exposed pipes in your basement or crawlspace.
 Many hot water heaters are equipped with a layer of insulation wrapped around the water heater’s tank. However, many older tanks did not include this feature. If your tank does not have insulation on it, or is rated with an R-value lower than 24, wrap it in an insulation blanket and seal it with heat-resistant tape.A roughly $20 insulation blanket can easily be installed and will reduce heat loss from the tank by as much as 45%. This can save you as much as 9% on your water-heating costs.
 Do not cover the top and the bottom of the water heater. Further, take care not to block a thermostat, or the air inlet/exhaust on a gas unit. See the manufacturer’s warning for specific locations.Do not insulate a unit that already has insulation on it. This will not improve the unit’s efficiency.
 Timers can turn off your water heater at night, or any other time you know hot water won’t be needed in your home. Some places also charge more during periods of peak demand, and you can set the timer to turn off for this period to save money as well.