 A minimalistic torch is ideal when you don’t have access to many resources, such as when you're in the woods without the right equipment. To make this kind of fast-burning torch in an emergency, you'll need:Green stick or branch that’s at least 2 feet (61 cm) long and 2 inches (5 cm) thick
Cotton cloth or birch bark
Fuel, such as kerosene, naphtha-based camp fuel, lighter fluid, or rendered animal or vegetable fat
Matches or lighter;
, A torch needs a wick, just like a candle does. You can use strips of cotton to make the wick, such as from an old cotton t-shirt. Cut or tear the fabric into strips that are 1 foot (30 cm) wide and 2 feet (61 cm) long.


Alternatively, you can use a strip of birch bark if you don’t have fabric. Find a birch tree and peel a strip that’s about 6 inches (15 cm) wide and 2 feet (61 cm) long.If you're using bark, you'll also need twine, rope, string, or some reeds to tie it in place.
 Position the widthwise end of the cotton strip at the top of the green branch. Wrap the strip snugly around the top of the torch, wrapping in the same place to form a thick bulge. When you reach the end of the fabric, tuck the end underneath the wrapped fabric to secure it in place.For birch bark, wrap the bark snugly around the end of the torch. When you get to the end of the bark, hold the bark in place and tie a string or reed around the top and bottom of the wick to hold the bark in place.
 A cotton wick needs to be soaked in a flammable liquid before you can light the torch, because it’s actually the fluid that will burn and not the fabric. Place the wick end of the torch into the fuel and let it soak for a few minutes to ensure the fabric is saturated.


With a birch wick, you don’t have to soak the wick because the bark contains natural resins that will burn., Use a light, matches, or a campfire. Hold the torch upright and hold the flame to the base of the wick until the wick ignites. This may take about a minute. Once lit, the torch should last at least 20 minutes, and could burn as long as an hour.A birch wick may only burn for about 15 minutes.


Don’t burn your torch in dry, heavily wooded areas, as you could set the surrounding wood on fire.
Don’t burn the torch inside houses or buildings.
Hold the torch at arm’s length to avoid burning yourself.

