 Set a deep roasting pan on a rack in the bottom third of your oven. Grease the inside of a 9-inch (22.86 -centimeter) springform pan with nonstick cooking spray, then line the bottom with parchment paper. Lastly, wrap two sheets of aluminum foil around the bottom and sides of the springform pan. This will prevent any water from getting into the cake.Cut the parchment paper into a 9-inch (22.86 -centimeter) circle to prevent gaps.
Make sure that the roasting pan is big enough to fit a 9-inch (22.86 -centimeter) springform cake pan.
You will need to chill the cheesecake layer for several hours, so plan ahead!;
, You can do this using an electric mixer, a handheld beater, or a food processor fitted with whisks. This will make the cheese cake layer in the middle of your cake., Scrape down the sides of the bowl often so that everything gets mixed in evenly., Crack open your first egg and add it to the bowl. Beat the mixture until the egg is blended in and no streaks remain. Repeat with the second egg., Beat one last time until everything is smooth and no streaks remain. Scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often so that everything blends evenly., Use a rubber spatula to scrape the bowl clean so that you don't waste any batter. If you need to, use the spatula to help guide the batter across the bottom of the pan. You will not be adding a crust like for a traditional cheesecake., Open up the oven and set the springform pan into the center of the roasting pan. Fill the roasting pan with hot water from the kettle. Stop when the water is about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) deep.Keep the aluminum foil around the springform pan.
 The cheesecake is done when it has set in the middle and is no longer jiggly., Once the cake has finished baking, take the springform pan out of the roasting pan and set it down on a wire cooling rack. Let it cool off completely, then place it in the fridge for 4 hours to overnight., Grease the inside of two 9-inch (22.86 -centimeter) round baking pans. Dust the inside of each pan with flour, then tap out the excess flour.Make sure that the baking rack is in the center of the oven.
 Place the flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt into a large mixing bowl. Whisk them together until everything is evenly mixed. This ensures that everything gets distributed evenly throughout the wet ingredients.

Make sure that you are using unsweetened cocoa powder and not Dutch process.
 Add in the eggs, oil, buttermilk, food coloring, vanilla, and vinegar into the mixing bowl. Beat everything together on a medium-low speed setting for 1 minute, or until everything is blended together. Scrape the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula, then blend on a high speed setting for 2 more minutes.

You can use an electric mixer, handheld beater, or a food processor fitted with whisks.
 Be sure to distribute the batter evenly between both pans. Use a rubber spatula to scrape the bowl clean so that you don't waste any of the batter., They are ready when a toothpick poked in the center comes out with a few crumbs. If your oven is small, you will need to bake the cakes on two racks. Halfway through the baking, switch the racks that the cakes are on: move the top rack cake to the bottom rack, and the bottom rack cake to the top., Once the cakes are baked, place the pans on a wire cooling rack. Let them cool for 10 minutes, then remove them from the pans. Let them finish cooling the rest of the way.

It may help to run a knife around the inside edges of the pan first, before removing the cakes.
 Beat the cream cheese and butter together first until they are smooth and creamy. Add the powdered sugar and vanilla, and beat again until combined.You can use an electric mixer, handheld beater, or food processor fitted with whisks.
Sift the powdered sugar to get rid of any lumps.
 Take the cheesecake out of the freezer. Remove the sides of the pan first, then slide the cheesecake off of the bottom. Peel off the parchment paper., Check the cheesecake layer against the cake layers. If one of the layers is too big, trim it down with a knife until it fits. Discard the scraps or eat them.

If the cake layers did not bake flat, trim off the top "bump" until they are flat., Place one of the cake layers down on a plate. Set the cheesecake layer on top. Finally, place the second cake layer on top of the cheesecake., A "crumb coat" is a very thin coat of frosting. It helps lock in the crumbs and make it easier to apply the second, thicker layer of frosting. Use a long, thin, cake decorating spatula to apply a thin layer of frosting to the sides and top of the cake.

Wipe the spatula clean each time before scooping up more frosting. This prevents any crumbs from getting into the frosting., Once you have your first, thin coat of frosting, place the cake into the fridge. Leave it there for 30 minutes. This will set the frosting and keep it in place during the next step., Once the crumb coat has set, take your cake out of the fridge. Place a large dollop of frosting on top of the cake, then spread it around using a cake decorating spatula. Once the top is covered, spread the frosting down the sides of the cake., You can add some texture to the cake by taping the sides with a spoon. You can also pipe little "roses" using a star-shaped decorating tip all around the top of the cake. Another option would be to add some white chocolate curls on top of the cake.