 If he's not part of your circle of influence, then you're not going to see anything at all. In order to see his activities, you must add him. If you don't want him to know that you like him, don't act suspiciously, add other people after adding him, so, he will know that you went on an adding spree, not that you just wanted to add him in particular, also, make sure to have mutual friends, you do not want to come across as a creep.;
, As you know, you cannot see who goes to your wall as Facebook does not allow it, but you can know who looks at the stuff you have on your wall. For example, you like a new found artist and you decided to Like the artist's page, on your activity log will show that you liked the page.
 If the guy likes you, he would most likely pay a couple of visits to your wall, knowing that you might Like a couple of things and to show you or impress you, he will Like the same thing or something similar.
 A lot of the time, a nice, maybe even "winky" comment can show some feelings of affections. If there's any comments such as 'Hey beautiful!' you know that he finds you attractive. If the comments read more like 'This is a nice picture of you! :)' he probably likes you for more than your looks.
 A lot of :) or ;) usually means that there's something there. If he compliments you and it's a conversation killer, it's probably a good sign.
 If he adds comments to your statuses often, he probably likes talking to you and wants you to notice him. Comment on his statuses and see how things go and how he responds.
 If you talk to him, comment on his photos, etc, chances are his real self will be unraveling, and he might even reveal his crush on you.
 Seeing him in person might make him shy if you're not too close, but if you develop a relationship outside of Facebook, it will be much better and healthier.
 You cannot really be sure unless you talk to him. Start with a simple hello or poke him. You can also check out the pages he Liked that are similar to yours and ask him things like "Hey. Do you know the band "Halestorm?"."

