 It is important to keep in mind that taking medications without also participating in therapy will not be as effective as doing both or even just therapy alone. It is important to talk to someone about your experiences so that you can work through your PTSD and find a permanent solution. Medications, on the other hand, can treat the symptoms of PTSD, but may not permanently treat the issues you are experiencing.Treating your PTSD symptoms without getting to the root of the problem through therapy might have negative side effects later. For instance, you might think that you have overcome your PTSD through taking medication, stop taking your meds, then re-experience the negative feelings the medication had been treating, leaving you right where you started.
In fact, cognitive behavioral therapy is so effective in treating PTSD that patients testing the efficacy of Zoloft were not allowed to begin therapy during the trial because it would have such a strong influence on the results.It follows that, though medication can be very helpful, therapy is essential to treating PTSD.
Be aware that antidepressants may not work for everyone. They are often helpful in minimizing symptoms of PTSD, but may not eliminate them completely.This again highlights the importance of therapy, as symptoms may persist even with medication.
 This medication is an antidepressant that can also control symptoms that you experience when you have PTSD. Paxil is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), meaning it works by blocking the re-uptake of serotonin, effectively increasing levels of serotonin in certain parts of the brain. Studieshave shown that Paxil (which is more formally referred to as paroxetine) can help to improve symptoms of PTSD.

Paxil can help treat symptoms of depression and anxiety, as well as difficulties with sleep and concentration., Zoloft is also an SSRI, which means that is an antidepressant that may work for people suffering from symptoms of PTSD. Zoloft and Paxil are the only two drugs FDA-approved to treat PTSD.Zoloft (which is also referred to as sertraline) can help to improve symptoms of PTSD including:


Depression, anxiety, and sleep problems.
 While these medications can be very effective in improving your symptoms of PTSD, they can also create other side effects that you should be aware of.The side effects include:Nausea. This symptom often goes away in two to five days.
Headaches. This is also a common complaint of SSRI users. Generally, you will stop feeling headaches in a few days.
Anxiety. In other words, feeling jittery or agitated.
Drowsiness. This is often a sign that the dose that was originally prescribed by the doctor is too much. Sometimes a simple change in the time of administering the drug can be enough to address this issue.
Insomnia. This can also be a problem with SSRI. Reducing the dose can often fix this problem.
Reduced sexual drive. SSRI’s are known to cause sexual problems like reduced pleasure in lovemaking and reduced sex drive.

