 This should be your number-one priority. Don't ever go out to a bar, or a club, or wherever, just because you want someone to pay attention to you. The night is not a failure if this doesn't happen. If you're not having fun, it shows.;
, Make sure it's someone you're attracted to, and aim high. You won't stay interested in gaming an unattractive person.
 He should be in a group, because approaching a man by himself is like ambushing him. Most men are secretly petrified of women. Make him feel more secure (comfortable) by giving him security in numbers.
 Men are naturally competitive creatures, and throwing pheromones around a group will encourage interest in you. Start by asking a question that will get them all involved, but that will keep the competitive juices flowing. "I'm trying to solve an argument between my friends. My friend has a boyfriend, but she's still really good friends with her ex. If it was your girlfriend, would you be okay with that?" Palm readings are fun, and everyone wants to be involved in them.
 Being "funny" doesn't work, because it's silly and contrived. Being "witty" is key, because it shows you're intelligent, quick, and have a sense of humor. Witty girls also have great self-confidence.
 Obvious flattery will get you NOWHERE. Men are naturally predatory creatures and they need a chase. Backhanded compliments are key. They flatter him in a sly way, and encourage him to work for your approval. A great example is, "Wow, I love your hair. It's really going to suck when you start losing it."

, Remember, you're witty, you're fun, and you can't spend all night talking to these guys. You're in high demand. You need to buy yourself another drink. Let him know this, but tell him that you hope you'll keep running into him. Make an offhand gesture in the direction you're going, and mention you're going back to join your friends. He will keep looking for you all night, if not invite himself along.
 Don't ever be afraid to walk away. You have other friends to attend to, and you have more friends to make.
 You're comfortable with him, and he can now be comfortable with you.
 Let your eyes linger on him a little longer. Slightly angle your hips in his direction. When you speak to him, give him visual cues such as tucking your hair behind your ear (one side only, let it fall back down), or touch your chin near your bottom lip each time you say something that you want him to remember.
 A great trick is called "triangular viewing." Let your gaze move from right eye-left eye-mouth. This should be very subtle and it shouldn't linger too long on any point. By making the connection from his eyes (you're interested in his intellect) to his lips (you're interested in his...everything else) gives him a powerful subconscious suggestion that he can kiss you. And he will.
 If you've made a good impression (witty! fun! great kisser!), he'll want to see you again. But he might be shy. If you need to take the initiative, a good segue is, "It's a shame I don't give out my number...I guess I'm just an ultra-modern girl, because I'd prefer to give YOU a call sometime."

