 Try to make three passes in a row. Start out slowly, simply seeing how the three work together in the air in one rotation. Juggling three is often a matter of understanding the balls' trajectories and how they intertwine. For the majority of the time, one will be in the air while each hand has the other two.









First hold two balls in right hand and one in left-hand. (Vice versa if you are left handed.)
Begin with passing from the right hand. (Again, vice versa if you are left-handed.)
Throw the ball to your left hand and when ball 1 is at the peak, throw ball 2 (the only one in your left hand) under ball 1 to your right hand.
When ball 2 is at the highest point (at this point, you should also catch ball 1 in the left hand) throw ball 3 under ball 2.
And when ball 2 is in the right hand just catch ball 3 and this should be it. That's all you do! Repeat away.

If you can't seem to get the hang of it, work with light, small scarves. They'll give you the time hanging in the air to understand how it all comes together.
 Now that you've got the simple three-ball cascade down, start juggling "over the top." This is the name for scooping in the opposite direction with one hand. Instead of scooping under and releasing the ball, you catch it, scoop to the outside and throw it over, hence the name.









You can start by juggling a normal "Three Ball Cascade," and then letting one of the balls do an over-the-top all the time, so that 1/3 of all throws are over-the-top throws. If you make one hand throw over-the-top throws every time, you are juggling a "Slow Shower," and if every throw is an over-the-top-throw, you are juggling a "Reverse Three Ball Cascade." When you have learned this, you can advance onto things like cross hand juggling, columns (one in the middle, two on the sides), and "Mills' Mess."


, Learn to juggle two in one hand, then do two in your left hand and two in your right hand at the same time. For some, juggling four is simpler than three!


Juggling five balls is just like juggling three, but you have to move your hands a lot faster and you need to throw the balls higher. Keep practicing –– it takes time and patience to master.

