 Diphthongs are two vowels that combine to make a single sound in one syllable. Canadians typically emphasize a single syllabic vowel sound, rather than moving from one vowel sound into another.In this way, words with an “ou” or “ue” are typically pronounced “oo.” For example, “about” becomes “aboot” and “Tuesday” becomes “Tooz-day.”;
, Canadian English is quite similar to British English in many ways. Some Canadians pronounce the word “avenue” as “avenyew,” which is similar to the British pronunciation. Canadians often say “mum” instead of “mom.” They say “pardon me” more often than “excuse me.”Canadians even maintain the British spelling of many words. For example, “neighbour,” “flavour,” “labour,” “centre,” and “theatre.”
Canadians also use the metric system for most measurements.
, Try listening to news and culture podcasts from Canadian creators. Watch Canadian movies and television shows.A few examples of movies that provide great examples of Canadian accents include The Shipping News, One Week, and Goin’ Down the Road.Some good Canadian podcasts to listen to for news and entertainment include Canadaland, Ottawhat, Taggart, and Torrens, Never Sleeps Network and The Night Time.
The English Teacher Melanie podcast discusses everyday life in Canada, while also teaching Canadian English lessons.,, Canadians call their one-dollar coins “loonies,” and the two-dollar coins “toonies.” A five dollar bill is often called a “fiver.” And a ten dollar bill is often called a “ten-spot.”The loonie was given this name because of the loon featured on the coin. The toonie is a combination of the words “two” and “loonie.”

, In general, Canadians have very similar greetings to other English-speaking countries. However, they do often run some of the words together so that “How are you doing” often becomes “How ya doin?” And “What are you up to?” becomes “Whadder yup to?”Instead of “How’s it going?” some Canadians say “How’s she bootin’er?”

, Canadians have quite a few variations when it comes to food names. For example, they call Canadian bacon “backbacon.” They call American cheese “processed cheese.” For a Canadian, whole wheat bread is “brown bread.”Canadians call whole milk “homo milk” – short for homogenized milk.
A “double double” is a coffee with two creams and two sugars.
The Canadian word for non-dairy creamer is “whitener.”

, Canadians have a lot of words that they use regularly, but don’t occur in other English-speaking countries. A “toque” (pronounced “tuke”) is a winter hat. A “snowbird” is someone who goes to warmer southern climates during the winter.Canadians call themselves “Canucks.”
Some Canadians call couches “chesterfields.”

, Canadians are well known for their helpful and polite nature. While this may be a based on a stereotype, many studies have shown that Canadians actually are nicer than their American neighbors to the south. If you want to talk like a Canadian, you need to increase your levels of politeness.Always hold the door for people. Smile at people on the street. Apologize if you bump into someone. Avoid overt sarcasm unless you’re speaking to people you know well.
 Canadians are friendly people, but they like their personal space too. Studies have shown that Canadians generally prefer at least 14 inches between themselves and the person they are speaking with.Don’t crowd people or get in too close to their personal space.
