 People usually point to specific causes like stress or disagreements regarding money, work, the kids, or sex as the reasons for a faltering relationship. Deeper down, however, general issues like an unbalanced level of commitment are usually at play.If one party lacks an adequate commitment level to an important aspect of the relationship — such as pinching pennies to pay of debts or setting aside time for family activities — the resulting friction can make every day seem like a recurring battle.
By talking to each other and working together to identify weak links for either or both of you, you can begin the process of smoothing out these spots of friction. So yes, you both have to commit to work on your committment.
 A shortcoming in either area can spoil a fresh relationship.Ask yourself if you are hiding things from your partner, be it out of selfishness, fear of hurting him/her, or whatever other reason it may be. Is the constant evasion and excuse-making causing strain on your relationship?
If being honest is not your problem, then consider whether your manner of truth-telling is too blunt or judgmental. Can you speak your plain truths with more kindness?

, While it is important to retain an individual identity and sense of self within a relationship, both parties also have to be willing to share many things, including the problems facing you. Most of the time, it cannot be “my” problem or “your” problem, but “our” problem.If your partner is between jobs, for instance, a money problem can seem more like his problem than yours, especially when addressing his spending habits. Regularly assigning fault and blame, however, will sour just about any relationship.
Like a baseball club, when there is an “error” in a relationship, the entire team has to deal with it and work to overcome it.
 Whether you are six months, six years, or six decades along the line in your relationship, the odds are good that you don’t look longingly into your partner’s eyes and say either “I love you” or “thank you” as often you did at the start. Over time, the focus in relationships tends to shift from showing affection and appreciation to solving problems — shuttling the kids around, paying the mortgage, etc.Solving problems together is indeed essential to keeping a relationship functioning, but be aware of whether this focus is getting in the way of expressing the true appreciation each of you feels for the other.

