 You’ll need to think carefully about what your planting conditions are like when selecting which purple flowers to grow. Think about the type of soil you have, the average temperatures your area experiences, and what you want to get out of your flowers.


The following steps list out some common purple flowers that are grown in rows.
 For stunning, long lasting flowers and a heavenly scent, lavender makes an excellent choice for mass planting. In the fields of France’s Provence region you’ll see fields of them growing in neat clumps. You’ll need a Mediterranean type climate for lavender to really thrive but the plants will grow in US zones 5 through 9, which means that they can survive temperatures that drop down to -20 degrees Fahrenheit (-28.9 degrees Celsius).If you are in zone 5, try the hardy variety Lavendula angustifolia (English lavender).
Lavender requires really well-drained soil such as chalk or sand; avoid growing in clay or poorly drained soil.
If you are keen to get oil from your lavender, Lavandula x intermedia yields well.

Lavandula stoechas is a good choice if you are in zone 7 or warmer. Zone 7 means that temperatures do not drop below 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-17.8 degrees Celsius)., Irises are easy to grow from bulbs in zones 4 through 9, which means that they can handle temperatures that drop down to -30 degrees Fahrenheit (-34.4 degrees Celsius). They are also drought resistant. These flowers will make a good choice in an area with lots of deer, as deer generally avoid eating irises.


If you grow bearded iris you may get a second flowering period later in the season. You’ll see the foliage year-round but it can look a bit messy.
These plants will need dividing every few years.
 If it’s early color you want in your field, rows of tulips or hyacinth are ideal. These will return year after year and require little attention. They do, however, need a well-drained soil and possibly a protective mulch to help shelter the bulbs over winter.


Keep in mind that if you grow these flowers, you’ll have a bare field for much of the year unless you plant another crop above them.
 A field of sweet peas is a joy to behold and the scent is divine. Sweet peas are usually annuals but there are perennial varieties. Lord Anson's Pea is a purple perennial. Most varieties will require support and you may need to help train them up their stakes. Sweet peas are great for taking cut flowers as the more you cut the flowers, the more they produce. The plants will look very messy by late summer and need clearing away after blooming. The field will then be bare for the rest of the year unless you plant another crop.
 Before you plant an entire field of one variety of plant, it’s an excellent idea to test out your local conditions by planting ‘pilot’ plants of the same variety. This means planting a small number of the plant you intend to grow and seeing how they thrive in your conditions.


For example if you plan to grow a field of lavender, try growing three plants of the variety you are considering. You might also grow two substitute varieties (or a different plant species altogether) just in case your first choice doesn’t thrive quite as you wished.

