 Measure the pipe and draw a line where you will cut using a maker. Use a PVC pipe cutter or a hacksaw to cut the PVC pipe., One set of holes will be used to attach the base. The other set of holes will be used to hang the bag.
 Trace the outline of where you will be cutting with a compass. You can also trace the bottom of a 5-gallon bucket. Use a saw to cut a 10” diameter circle out of the plywood. Then draw a 4-inch diameter circle and cut that out of the plywood.
 Place the plywood inside of the PVC pipe so that it’s even with the holes you drilled. Drill screws through these holes to secure the plywood to PVC pipe.
 Place the 10-inch piece on the bottom of the pipe where the 4-inch piece is. Drill screws through the 10-inch and 4-inch pieces of plywood so that they are connected.
 You want the carpet to roughly match the size of the PVC pipe. You want to leave about four inches of pipe uncovered at the top of the punching bag so that the holes you drilled are exposed.
 Start by taping one edge of the carpet padding to the pipe and then slowly roll the pipe until the carpet padding is completely wrapped around the pipe. Once all of the carpet padding is on the pipe, tape down the loose edge of the carpet using duct tape.


Make sure you wrap the pipe as tightly as possible as you want the bag to be solid when you punch it.
 Take the roll of duct tape and attach a piece of tape to the carpet closest to the base. Start rolling the tape around the carpet padding on the PVC pipe. Make sure you overlap as you tape so that you have very tight layers. You will cover every bit of exposed carpet padding that runs the length of the pipe with tape.


Apply as much tape as you can to the top of the carpet, but don’t worry about completely covering it.
 Make sure both ends of the rope are equal in length and then tie them together.
 Find out where you want to hang the bag. If you are hanging the bag from the ceiling, be sure to hang it from a stud so that the bag does not fall and injure you.

