 You will see your avatar standing in the middle of the map.;
, PokéStops will look like blue cubes on the map.
 When you get close enough, the blue cube should turn into a blue Poké Ball.
 It will show a photo of the PokéStop in a circle. With your finger, “spin” the circle. It will release things for you in bubbles. Tap the bubbles to add the things to your Items.
 You cannot control what you get from a PokéStop, so you may need to go to several PokéStops before you get an Egg.Your Eggs can be 2km Eggs, 5km Eggs, or 10km Eggs. 2km Eggs are the most common, 5km Eggs are less common, and 10km Eggs are rare.
 Lucky Eggs are different from other Eggs because they do not “hatch.” Instead, they double the amount of experience points you earn for 30 minutes., You will see a map and the red and white Poké Ball in the bottom center of the screen.
 You will see the buttons for Pokémon, the Shop, Items, your Pokédex, Settings, Tips, and an "X."

, It will be in the bottom left hand corner of the screen.
 You will see Pokémon in the top left corner and Eggs in the top right corner. Use these two buttons to toggle between the Pokémon you have and the Eggs you have. For now, tap the Eggs button.
 A 10km Egg has the capacity to give you a rare Pokémon, but it could also give you an extremely common Pokémon. A 2km Pokémon will most likely give you a common Pokémon.It is a good idea, though, to hatch all of your Eggs. They can only benefit you.


You only have a certain number of Incubators. You begin the game with one Incubator, but you can buy more in the Shop. If you already have Eggs in all of your Incubators, you will need to hatch those Eggs before you can incubate new Eggs.
 Keep the app open while you walk so that it tracks your motions. If you close the app, it will not track your movements.


You can incubate your Eggs in small increments. If you want to hatch a 2km Egg, you can walk 1km, 0.5km, and 0.5km all on different days, and your Egg will still hatch.
 Without your doing anything, the app will open a screen that says “Oh?” The Egg will then crack, and your Pokémon will appear!, When your Egg hatched, it vacated its space in the Incubator. Take advantage of the empty space. Put another one of your unhatched Eggs in the Incubator.
 Flip a bike upside down and attach your phone to the inside of one of the wheel's spokes. Pedal the bike with your hands and the Pokémon GO app will register movement, allowing an Egg in your possession to hatch as if you were walking.
 With duct tape, secure your phone very carefully to the blade of a standing fan or to the top of a ceiling fan. With the fan on, Pokémon GO will register movement and make it possible to hatch your Egg.


If you are using a standing fan, make sure that its base is secure and can handle the weight of the phone without falling over.
The farther from the center of the fan you tape the phone, the more quickly it will cover distance.
 With the record player turned on, your phone will spin around the perimeter and cover distance on the Pokémon app as if you were walking.
 Doing this can cause the game's location function to glitch, making your trainer avatar "walk" erratically near your location without you ever moving around.

