 Your tic or twitch could be associated with Tourette syndrome if it persists over time, changes in severity, or is associated with both complex movements and vocal grunts or other utterances.A facial tic or twitch could indicate Bell's Palsy, a non-specific diagnosis for sudden paralysis, weakness, or other symptoms associated with nerve damage in the face.You should see a doctor if any of these factors apply to rule out more serious issues.
A Bell’s Palsy is a medical condition that causes sudden onset unilateral facial paralysis. Facial Palsy can also be caused by a herpes simplex virus infection. Treatment involves either glucocorticoids or antiviral therapy.
 You should contact your PCP or visit a health clinic if home remedies don't work, or if your symptoms don't go away or worsen over time. You should also see your doctor to confirm a potential cause, such as diet or drug use, prescribed or otherwise. Your doctor can also refer you to specialists, such as a neurologist or mental health professional., This should be an early step if you’ve recently suffered head or neck trauma or any potential nerve damage in the twitch’s region that could be its cause. See your PCP for a referral, visit a local clinic, or consult the internet for help finding one. A neurologist can order an MRI and identify physical problems with your brain and nervous system., If you suspect anxiety or a related psychological factor is the root of your facial twitch, consult a psychologist, psychiatrist, or licensed therapist. Triggers can either be situational, like a break-up or stress at work, or more global in nature, such as a diagnosed mental health disorder.


Note any history of such diagnoses with the mental health professional you consult.
Remember, no two people have the same emotional and psychological lives. Do not feel shame in seeking help or seeing a therapist. The twitch might go away as soon as you get your stress off your chest.
If your nose or mouth tic is related to drug or alcohol abuse you should talk to a mental health or substance abuse professional.
Look online for county or state programs that offer free or income-based counseling programs.

