 Here are some recipe ideas:


Chocolate cupcakes
Vanilla cupcakes
Strawberry cheesecake cupcakes
Vegan cupcakes

Banana and chocolate cupcakes.;
, Use sugar paste, fondant or marzipan to make small owl figurines. Color and decorate the owls. Frost the cupcake and add the owl figurines to the topping.
 Make chocolate cupcakes. Decorate as follows to create the owl:

Pipe chocolate frosting in two large blobs or flatten out two large circles of black/brown fondant for the base of eye holes.






Make two white circles in sugar paste. Place these on top of the chocolate frosting blobs.






Using frosting as glue, stick one brown M&M or chocolate drop to the center of the sugar paste circle to form the pupil. Do for each eye.






Using frosting as glue, stick on a cashew nut on as a beak. Place the large end of the cashew nut down between the two eyes, with the smaller end facing down the owl's face. For a cashew-free version, use a round candy for the beak and simply push in half, letting the other half poke out.






Add two small curled pieces of licorice or raisins above the eyes to form eyebrows. Position to form a wise expression!







, Make chocolate cupcakes. Then create the owl as follows:

Frost the cupcake with chocolate frosting.






Pull apart some Oreo cookies. You'll only be using the half that keeps the cream intact (use the other half for making a cheesecake base or similar).






Stick two Oreo halves onto the cupcake to form the base of the eyes.






Using the frosting, stick on a chocolate covered raisin on each Oreo eye. This serves as the pupils. Also use droplets of icing as an alternative.






Use a white chocolate drop for a beak. Slip the beak chocolate in halfway, leaving the other half sticking up as the beak.






Break off little chocolate sticks and insert at the top for the owl's eyebrows.
 Cut out owl shapes in black or brown sugar paste. Frost the cupcakes and attach an owl to each cupcake.


You could also cut out a twig shape for the owl to sit on and a moon for above the owl's head.







