 A big part of acting drunk is to embody the feelings and emotional outlook of someone who is drunk. Typically when people get really drunk, they try to act sober to fit in. This can be difficult because you'll need to assume the perspective of someone who does not want to appear to be drunk while still convincing people that you are.Look like you're trying to keep your composure but slip up occasionally and act drunk. You can say something silly or outrageous and then tell everyone that you're sorry and you didn't mean to say it. Don't go overboard or overact. This may tip people off.


Lean against a wall and then stand upright, as if you're trying to regain your balance.
You can say something like "No, no, I'm totally fine. I don't think I had enough to drink."
Being loud and socially inappropriate does not necessarily equate to being drunk. However, being accidentally inappropriate can make you look drunk.
 The effects of alcohol can lead to increased aggression, self-disclosure, and sexual inhibition.Be more open and honest than you normally would. Say things that you wouldn't say regularly. Go off on tangents and talk about your childhood. If you're going for the "angry drunk" act, then get angry in response to minor things. Act more flirtatious and be more willing to talk about your history and childhood.


You can say things like, "Onion rings. I remember when I ate my first onion ring. I was seven--no, I was six years old."
Touch people more often. Touching someone's arm or pushing their shoulder is an act of flirtation.You can make sexually suggestive or inappropriate comments to appear drunker. Just remember not to cross the line and harass anyone.
 Cognitive and problem-solving skills are reduced when there's alcohol in your system. Often, it will take drunk people longer to understand things.Act like you don't understand simple things. You can accomplish this by asking repeated questions or repeating what a person is saying. When asked to do something, take twice as long as you'd usually take, and constantly ask the person for help.


Changing the channel on the TV or a song on a mp3 player is a great opportunity to seem like you don't know what you're doing.
When trying to change the channel you can say, "I don't get it. It keeps going to the menu. I don't know what I'm doing."

, Move erratically and go from energetic to drained in minutes.The more inconsistent you are, the most natural you'll appear. Act randomly and surprise people. The more you change your mood, tone of voice, and volume, the drunker you'll look.
 A common theater technique to act drunk involves you envisioning the floor moving under you while you walk.Make sure not to overdo it and lose your balance and fall over all the time because it can come off as fake. Act as if you are slightly off-balance constantly.


You can also lean against walls when you're stationary to give off this effect.
Another approach is to roll back on your heels and act as if you are trying to get back on your toes., You can swish liquor in your mouth, or put it on your clothes. If you don't drink, try drinking a non-alcoholic beverage because they still smell like alcohol. Smelling like liquor will give people the impression that you've been drinking.


Examples of non-alcoholic beverages that still smell like they have alcohol include Miller Sharp's, O'Doul's Premium, Beck's Non-Alcoholic, and Clausthaler Golden Amber.