 Soaking your feet and lower legs in a warm Epsom salt bath can significantly reduce pain and swelling.The magnesium in the salt is thought to help the muscles relax. If inflammation and swelling is a problem for you then follow the warm salt bath with an ice bath until your feet feel numb (about 15 minutes or so).


Always dry your feet thoroughly before you get up and walk away from your foot bath in order to prevent slipping and falling.
Epsom salt baths are thought to be helpful for alleviating restless leg syndrome at night, which negatively impacts sleep cycles.
 Get a massage therapist or sympathetic friend to give you a foot and calf massage. Massage reduces muscle tension and promotes better blood flow.Start rubbing from the toes and work towards the calf so you help the venous blood return to the heart. Using a wooden roller under your feet will give you a decent massage by yourself without straining your hands. Consider applying peppermint lotion to your feet also, as it will tingle and invigorate them. After the massage, perform a few foot and calf stretches on both legs.


Stretch the calf muscles by leaning against a wall with one knee bent and the other leg straight out behind you with both feet flat on the floor — hold for 30 seconds and repeat a few times.
Stretch the bottom of your foot by wrapping a towel around the end of your toes and then trying to extend your leg — hold for 30 seconds and repeat of few times.
 Orthotics are custom-made insoles for your shoes designed to provide arch support, shock absorption and better foot biomechanics, which can translate into less foot/leg/back pain and reduced risk of various foot and leg conditions.Orthotics are particularly helpful for treating and preventing plantar fasciitis, a very painful condition of the bottom of the foot, and flat feet. Custom orthotics can be expensive without medical coverage, but off-the-shelf insoles may provide benefit also.


It's estimated that about 2 million people require treatment for plantar fasciitis in the United States every year.You may have to buy shoes a little bigger than you normally would in order to accommodate the orthotics.
 In general, people who are overweight or obese suffer more foot problems because of the increased amount of pressure on their feet.Flat feet, fallen arches, severe pronation, and "knock knees" (medically known as genu valgum) are more common among the obese. As such, do your feet a favor by losing some weight. Lose weight by increasing cardiovascular exercise (such as walking) and decreasing your caloric consumption.


Most people who are relatively sedentary only require about 2,000 calories per day to maintain their body processes and have enough energy for mild levels of exercise.Reducing your calorie intake by 500 calories daily will result in about 4 pounds of fat tissue loss per month.