 If the forum in question has an Introduction sub-forum, introduce yourself, include your hobbies and interests in the post.;
, Being polite is not only for the admins or popular users of the forum, it includes everyone. If you appear to be a polite person, people will think of you as mature and kind.
 Work hard to help people solve problems, if that's what the forum is for. People really appreciate it when someone goes out of their way to help them, and will remember it for a long time.
 Do not become involved in huge wars. When a bunch of users are arguing about, for example, the best Linux distro, and the debate has gone past being rational and is at the point where everyone is just attacking each others comments, do not take sides. You will likely lose the respect of the users on the side you didn't take.
 Don't make posts that are vague and have no real point to them.
 People who frequently make posts riddled with spelling mistakes will be viewed as juvenile by other members of the forum.
 Slang makes more sense with live chatting, such as IRC or Windows Live Messenger. When posting in forums, people don't expect you to respond instantly, so there is not point in posting "brb" (Be right back) when you need a bathroom break. Just go and come back and no one will realize you left.
 Its fine to have the occasional "LOL" or "OMG", but making posts that are comprised largely of acronyms will make you look juvenile.
 When a user takes the time to talk to you specifically, don't let them down, respond right away, especially if you told them to PM you.
 People universally dislike a show-off, on the internet or off. People will be more impressed of your achievements if you are modest about them.
 Not only will people laugh at you, but you will lose the respect of the person you threatened, and likely others as well.
 You can make your posts look more professional if you can use the styling syntax your forum supports. An example of this is the "code" tag some forums support. It usually is used to surround text that is a computer programming language (i.e Flash or C++) in a box and give it a separate font and color than ordinary text. Some forums simply allow posts to be made in HTML to allow full customization of posts, but many turn this feature off due to abuse.


Do not however, abuse the BBCode/HTML post features to draw attention to your posts. An example of an annoying habit that is unfortunately common is users constantly coloring their entire posts a different color than the forum's template, just to seek attention.
 Some forums have out of the ordinary rules, or are stricter in certain areas than others. It's best to know what kind of posts are considered annoying or inappropriate to prevent your account from being banned in the even you make an unknowing mistake.
 Some forums allow the user to set a 'signature' in the control panel. The user can enter some text and sometimes pictures that will appear beneath every post they make. Forums that do allow this feature usually have limitations on its use, the most common being:


No ridiculously large images.
Some forums do not allow links in the signature.
Nothing should be put in the signature that wouldn't be allowed in a standard forum post.
If the forum has HTML enabled for posts, do not insert text and use HTML tags to make it huge or in an annoying color.
 This will make you appear petty and mean.
 If you make a few useful tutorials, you will gain many peoples respect and notice.
 A person who can recognize their mistakes and apologize for them is infinitely more deserving of respect than someone who holds a grudge.
 If the forum is centered around a single topic or group of topics, know them well.
, Despite how interesting it may seem to you, most people will likely bore of hearing how much your boss sucks, or how annoying your ex is.

