 Business is just creating something valuable and then delivering it to the world in exchange for money. So, what is it that you have, know, or do that people in the world want? When your friends, family or colleagues call you up and ask you for help with something, what is it about? Do they ask for your beauty tips? Do they ask for help with their relationships? Do they ask for help laying down a new floor in their kitchen? Everyone has something that people ask for their help with. Write out what that is for you.;
, Get on Social Media and start discussing it with people who are interested in it. For example, if people ask you about how to raise great kids, go into some parenting groups online, on social media or attend conferences or networking groups that are specifically for parents. Start talking to these people about your topic and do so with a mind toward understanding what problems they have that you can use your knowledge, experience and resources to help them with. What can you teach them or provide to them that that would solve those problems? Remember, this is an area where people already come to you for help with, so don't undervalue what you can offer!

, It doesn't have to be anything big or complicated. Maybe you start with a simple training video or an electronic document that outlines your solution to their problem. And at this point, you don't charge money for it yet. As you provide that to people, take down their name and contact information. Connect with them on social media. Make sure you have a way of continually staying in contact with them.
 Now, you have established credibility and through your conversations with these people who are interested in what you have to offer, you have gained an understanding of what problems you can address for them. It's time to create your first product to actually sell. Create something that takes what you gave them for free to another level. Create something that will solve a painful, burning problem they have or helps them to get to a big goal they have. Approach these people on the list you've created and sell them what you have just created. You created something that addressed either their problem or desire, so they'll definitely be interested!

