 Take two candy canes and glue them together where they touch. This would be at the bottom of the cane and at the tip of the hook. Do this for the rest of the candy canes so that you end up with ten hearts.

For a nicer looking wreath, take the candy canes out of their wrappers first.
Candy canes don't have to be just red and white. You can use ones in different colors too, such as pink, blue, or rainbow!

, The long, straight edges of the hearts should be facing one another. Don't worry if the straight edges don't completely touch one another; as long as the candy canes are all touching at the bottom, you will be fine., This will be mostly along the long, straight edge of each heart. Don't worry if the candy canes don't touch all the way along the straight edge; focus on the center of the circle.

For a fancier touch, tie a piece of red or green ribbon around the candy canes where they join, near the top. Tie each ribbon into a pretty bow., Take the mini candy canes out of their wrappers first, then glue them together to form six mini hearts. Glue the hearts together to form a circle with the points facing inwards., Make sure that the centers of both wreaths match up., Take the peppermint out of its wrapper first, then cover the back with hot glue. Gently press the mint into the center of the wreath.The best type of mint to use for this would be the red-and-white "starlight" kind of mint.

For a fancier wreath, hot glue more mints onto the top of each large candy cane "heart," right where the two arches come together.
 This is a must in areas that get hot and humid. It will prevent the wreath from getting sticky.Spray the front first and let it dry, then flip the wreath over and spray the back. If you need to, do this step twice for more coverage.

Be sure to spray outdoors or in a well-ventilated area. The fumes from the spray can get strong and cause headaches.
 Thread a red or green ribbon through one of the hearts, then tie the ends together to make a loop., Even though you sprayed the wreath with sealant, you might still want to avoid hanging the wreath in areas that get hot, damp, or humid. When the holiday season is over, store the wreath between two sheets of wax paper.