 You'll need to download the IMVU software which is part of registration.;
, Your new avatar will appear on a small screen.
, Here you can style your avatar with the clothes you've bought from the shop, IMVU gives you some default clothes to start out with so don't sweat it if you want to just jump right into the chat rooms.
 This one is pretty self-explanatory but I'll explain it to you anyway, In shop you can buy clothes, hair, accessories, rooms, and much more. Now all of the things you find in shop are not free, They cost Credits which are the currency of IMVU, You can purchase credits on IMVU's website.
 Here you have the option to buy credits.
 If you click on this button, you'll be taken to a Chat Mania, Here you'll find a vast number of chat rooms with a vast number of people for you to connect with and a chat room for almost any topic. You can also create your own chat room here.
 Clicking on this button will send you into your own house, You can buy different houses in the shop, but you can wait if you'd like, Everyone starts out with a default house that IMVU provides free.
 Here is where you can check your Friend Requests,Send and receive messages,and check those Chat Invites that you missed.
 This is a new game on IMVU, Stop by and check it out if you'd like.
, On IMVU you have your very own camera, You can take millions of photos with this camera and your photos end up in this tab. You can click it to remember the memories by looking at the photo's you've taken.
 Here you can search for people.
 This allows you to see and edit your profile, You can edit your tag line,Interest, and you're preferences. You can also buy badges to spruce it up a bit.
 Here you can pick from a number of games to play.
 Everyone has the option to play with this pet, You can earn credits by keeping your pet happy.
, By clicking on this button you will be taken to the IMVU website where you can purchase music to blast with your friends.
 Groups are forums for a specific topic where people can chat about that topic.
, A bit like Twitter, Here you can update your status and let everyone know what's happening with you.
 Here you can do Surveys and Offers from sponsors to earn credits to spend on your account.

