 Sure, you should look good when you plan to tell your crush how you feel. Just don't dress up to the nines if you normally rock a casual look, or put on a brand-new outfit if you're always seen in cozy clothes. You don't want your crush to think that you're trying too hard to send them the right message. Just try looking a bit more dressed up and well groomed than you normally do -- this will boost your confidence when you share your feelings.
 If you want to get the best results, then you have to pick a time when you and your crush can be fairly alone in a stress-free environment. You may not want to do it between classes, when your crush may be caught off guard or worried about the math test they have to take next period. Instead, pick a time when you know you can be alone, like after school, or at a group event when you know you can pull them away to chat for a while.
 Don't make a big deal about it -- make it sound like you could be asking for help with your homework or something. Let your crush know that you wanted to talk about something in a one on one setting, but that there's not a lot of pressure to have a serious conversation. The more casual you can be without making it sound too casual, the better. Just say, "Hey, I wanted to talk to you about something after school, do you have a minute?"

, You shouldn't immediately spit out the words, "I like you!" because your crush may still be a little uncomfortable or confused about why you're alone. Instead, put them at ease by making a silly joke, poking fun at yourself, or laughing extra hard at something they say. Laughing will put your crush in a positive frame of mind, and it'll make them more receptive to whatever you want to say.
 There's no need to delay. Once you're alone and have made your crush comfortable, you should just tell them how you feel. The sooner you do it, the better, and the less likely you'll be to make yourself more nervous or likely to ramble on about something unrelated. Just be simple and direct. Say, "I wanted to tell you that I have a crush on you" or "I really like hanging out with you, and I want you to know that I have feelings for you."


When you tell your crush, look them in the eye and relax your body. Don't stand too close to them or look at the floor, or you'll look either too eager or too withdrawn.
Use your crush's name when you tell them how you feel. "Michael, there's something I want to tell you..." sounds more personal than just saying, "I want to tell you something."
Don't build up to the thing you have to say too much. This will only put pressure on yourself.
 Don't immediately put pressure on your crush and say, "So what do you think?" It's likely that your crush is thrown off guard and needs some time to consider your words, whether they share your feelings or not. Take a few deep breaths, step back, and wait for your crush to respond. Your crush may immediately say that they return your feelings, but it's more likely that your crush may need more time and will say, "Cool, thanks for telling me," or "Can I have some time to think about it?" That's perfectly natural. If you want to increase the chances of your crush liking you, you should play it cool after you put your cards on the table.

