 Supporting organizations that care for the education, health, and welfare of Indian children will help the next generation desire to save its tigers. Education helps to break the cycle of poverty by giving Indian children a chance to get employment in fields that pay adequate living salaries. You can do this wether you live in India or abroad.


Most of the same organizations listed in Method 1 perform some sort of education work to keep the next generation of Indian citizens motivated to care about their tigers. For example, WWF-India hosts awareness programs specially designed for schoolchildren, in schools located both near tiger reserves and in cities., Poverty is a major cause of dwindling tiger populations in India. The problems the tiger faces are those of ignorance and poverty: people in surrounding villages are living hand to mouth, and many give in to the temptation to make money by supplying tigers to the black market.


There is a market for tiger organs to be used in Chinese folk medicine. For example, tiger brain is used to treat pimples and laziness.There has been a rise in Asian upper class affluence, a class that can afford the expensive Chinese medicinal treatments. As this class has grown in size, so has the demand for tiger organs. The Environmental Investigation Agency believes one tiger is killed each day for its use in Chinese medicine.You can help relieve Indian poverty through organizations like the India Village Poverty Relief Fund, which starts social justice projects for villages in India.If you already live in India, you can find local poverty relief organizations like churches and give money to assist their efforts.
 If you live in India, it is easy to find organizations that you can volunteer with to help relieve poverty or educate those who live near tigers. If you don't already live in India, there are opportunities for people to go teach and do relief work there. You can join these relief organizations and do work as a volunteer to help relieve poverty, sickness, and any number of other issues. Your work will help the impoverished in India to feel less pressure to get a quick buck through tiger poaching.


You can join the medical relief efforts of Foundation for International Medical Relief for Children.You can join Sankalp Volunteer and choose from a variety of projects.If you work for a corporation in India, you can encourage your executives to partner with WWF-India through their corporate partnerships program.Perform a search in Google to find other volunteer opportunities in India, whether you already live there or not.

