 Also get your friends to join you. This will have them happy about what's going on.


If they add you on Facebook (or whatever), respond to something they say. Write them an introductory message, at least.
Go out of your way to speak to them, if you're out with a large group. Acknowledge them, and laugh at their jokes and steer the conversation toward them. Or, pick up on their topic and personalize it toward yourself, and introduce friends that you know that they don't. Especially if your other friends might like to know them.
Hint about a food on the face problem after eating, look at their mouth or check and wipe your mouth with your hand. Don't make this look like a lusty licking-your-teeth movement. To make sure it does not look like the above; so, try not to, even slightly, open your mouth when you wipe it.
Remember the acquaintance's name the second time you see them, or if it's an ex, remember about happy events that happened. Like if your first date was to a movie, say that you have seen that film in front of him/her. If they try to discuss with you by explaining the story line, just nod and go, "yeah..." and change the topic by saying something like, "But, do you know what film was actually good? Anchorman. What a classic." Then get into quoting it with your friends.
"—and then make it clear you're not so annoyed by not being quiet or acting moody all day, and not snapping at them over silly unrelated things. The idea is to make sure that they don't have to spend every ounce of their ability and energy to guess what is upsetting you by relaxing, acting normal.
 Never blow your top or have a fit of anger, where you mention every peevish, small annoying thing that someone has done to you; so instead, flip to the bright side including the main original problem and throw in a compliment—e.g.: "I appreciate that you believe in and help me, and you always do things properly!"; also, don't make annoying noises when you are watching TV together. You will get on their nerves!

, If you have to ask someone for something, do it in such a way that it seems like you appreciate it, if they pass it or offer it, e.g.: "I wouldn't mind if you handed me some of that candy." or just say, "I love that kind of candy!"

