 Puppies will be ready to learn basic commands at around 12-16 weeks old. Prior to that, you can prepare your puppy for this training by teaching it about praise at around 8 weeks old. Offer it ample affection and encouragement anytime it does something you ask (e.g. coming to you when called)., This training should be done using the correction and reward method. Correction involves speaking firmly without yelling or any physical punishment. The reward component should involve giving your puppy anything that it enjoys upon completing a task, such as favorite toys or treats when it sits upon command., Teaching your puppy to come to you on command is a simple but important training step that can keep your dog out of trouble (e.g. to keep your puppy from running off or approaching a dangerous situation). Start by squatting down in front of your puppy, opening your arms, and saying "come here". If your puppy moves toward you, offer it ample praise as well as a pat on the belly or head.If your puppy does not come to you, gently approach it, attach its leash, and guide it towards the spot you called it to, praising it along the way to create positive associations.
 Kneel in front of your puppy and hold a treat in front of it. Slowly lift the treat above its head, which should prompt it to sit. Praise your puppy and give it the treat.If your puppy doesn't sit, place your hand on its behind and gently guide it into a sitting position, immediately offering praise along with the treat once it's sitting.
 Once you've taught your puppy how to sit on command, you can teach it to stay. Have your puppy sit, with its leash attached, and turn around to face it. Holding the leash slack, gently back up while holding your hand (palm up) to your puppy's face, saying "stay".If your puppy gets up before you say a release word (e.g. "ok" or "go"), gently repeat the step.
 Kneel next to your puppy and gently place on hand on its shoulders. Hold a treat in front of its face and give the command "lie down", slowly lowering the food in front of its face towards the ground and guiding it downward with the other hand. Once your puppy is all the way down, praise it and give it the treat., Teaching your puppy to heel means ensuring it stays by your side when out for a walk. Use a squeaky toy to keep your puppy's attention during training by holding it in one hand, and your puppy's leash in another. Cross the hand with the toy across your body to hold the toy above your puppy's head, and praise your puppy for following the toy (and you) at the pace you set., Your puppy will learn better and faster if you are consistent. Talk to everyone who interacts with the puppy to make sure they use the same commands and signals for the same thing. If, for example, "down" typically means lie down, make sure other's don't use it to mean get off the furniture. Keep your puppy's practice consistent.It's also important to consider your puppy's limits. They will have a shorter attention span and need to sleep more than older dogs. Try to keep training fun and upbeat, and try to avoid getting angry while your puppy is still learning. Be patient and consistent, and the rest will follow.

