 Contrary to popular belief, you do not need a clicker to do clicker training. A clicker is simply used to mark a behavior. You can use anything to mark the behavior that your animal can hear (i.e. a whistle, a bell, a kazoo). A whistle would probably be too loud for your parakeet. You know if you have found a good marker if it can make a short and sharp sound.;
, You will need to choose a treat that is small and doesn't take long to chew. Then, give it to your parakeet through the bars of the cage. (Start in the cage for this training so your pet will feel more secure.) If your parakeet readily accepts the treat, whatever it may be, then you are ready to start.
 At the start of your training session, have a handful of treats ready. Give your parakeet one treat for free to start the training session.
 (We will be using a finger for the target. You can use whatever you want, as long as your parakeet is not frightened of it.) Your parakeet will react one of two ways: It will run away, or it will inspect your finger with its beak. If it runs away, obviously you need to gain its trust more first. If it inspects it with its beak, then click (or do whatever marker you have chosen) and treat. Your "click" must be exactly when the behavior is performed, not before and not after. Be accurate.
 There is a third way your parakeet might react. If your parakeet just does nothing, do nothing as well. Don't try to move closer. You may take your finger away for a few seconds and offer it again. If your parakeet looks at the finger (or target) click and treat.
 Do it until your parakeet gets the message. It will probably come towards your finger after a while. If it doesn't, stop clicking when it looks at your finger. It will try to figure out what you want it to do.
, Stop the click if your parakeet makes no more progress. It should figure out that it needs to go farther.
 After a while of reinforcing this behavior with treats, your parakeet will catch on very quickly.
 You can now try the behavior outside the cage, leading your parakeet farther and farther distances. Soon it will learn to follow the target.
 You may, if you like, add a cue to the behavior. Only give a click and treat if your parakeet performs the behavior while you are giving the cue. Of course, the target may already act as the cue for you, which is just as good.

