 You may have teachers, family friends, or neighbors who you admire. Think of a few women for whom you feel a natural admiration, and look more closely at their accomplishments, their characters, and the way they relate to others.Make a list of admirable women you know. Write what it is you admire about each of them. This list could include women who influenced you in the past, such as while you were growing up.;
, It can be hard to idealize family members, because you know them too well. However, this can actually be a good thing—if you think someone is perfect, you'll never fully understand their character and the way they make choices. If you can see someone's struggles and flaws, you can also see how they compensate and overcome.


Find things you admire about every one of the women in your family. Ask older siblings, parents, and other family members for stories about these women.
Look to the women in your family who have accomplished things you admire, even if you don't want to be exactly like them.
 Look to political and religious organizations, local companies, and public works that you appreciate in your community. Whatever it is you are interested in—be it business, community organizing, art—there are people behind it, and many of those people are likely to be women.Go to the websites of local organizations you admire and read about the staff.
You can also consider the traits that you admire in certain women. It might not have anything to do with their professional accomplishments and more to do with their personal qualities, such as determination, intelligence, and assertiveness.
 Asking strangers to mentor you may not work, but you'll find mentors by growing closer to people you admire and work with well. Position yourself so that you are close to women who you consider role models, and say "yes" to any opportunities they offer you.Contact an organization you admire to see if you can volunteer, get a job, or apply for an internship.
If you admire an artist, athlete, or other highly-skilled professional, ask if she gives classes.

