 The large end of the cable should fit into your computer's USB slot, while the smaller end should fit in your iPhone's Lightning port (the charging port).


Use the USB cable that came with your iPhone for best results.;
, While the iTunes program should open automatically after you plug your iPhone in, you may have to manually open it.
 The bar at the top of your iTunes window will tell you how many steps remain in the process; after your iPhone finishes syncing, you can back up your iPhone.
 This icon resembles an iPhone and is located beneath the "Account" tab; clicking it will open your iPhone's summary menu., This will back up your phone's data. When it comes time to restore this data, you'll use this backup to transfer your phone's data over to a new device.


If you have automatic backups enabled, you don't need to back up again--your phone will have done so when you plugged it into your computer. Check the date of the latest backup under the "Backups" section to confirm that your phone's data backed up.
When backing up your phone, you can choose either iCloud, which backs up your phone to your iCloud account, or "This computer", which saves your phone's data on your current computer.
 Now that you've backed up your data, it's time to sign out of your iCloud account.
 The Settings app resembles a grey gear.
 You'll need to scroll down to reach this option; tapping it will open the iCloud settings menu.
 This is located at the very bottom of the iCloud settings menu.
 This will confirm that you're ready to sign out of iCloud., This will definitively sign your iPhone out of iCloud, erasing all of your iCloud-stored notes from your iPhone in the process.


You'll be able to get these notes back when you sign into your iCloud account again.
 If your backup is in iCloud and you're still signed in when you erase your iPhone, you can inadvertently erase your backup file.


If you don't see your name or an Apple ID at the top of the iCloud settings menu, you've successfully signed out of iCloud.
 This will return you to the Settings main menu.
 You'll find this toward the top of the Settings menu.
 This should be at the bottom of the General menu.
 This will prompt you to enter a passcode if you have one enabled.
 This will prompt a warning regarding the ramifications of deleting your iPhone's data.
 Before doing this, you should have backed up your iPhone to iTunes or iCloud and then signed out of iCloud.
 This will begin erasing your iPhone's data.


If you have "Find My iPhone" enabled, you might need to enter your Apple ID and password before your iPhone will begin erasing your data., The best way to remove your SIM card is to take your iPhone to your current carrier; if that isn't an option, you can remove your SIM card with a paperclip. Holding down the Lock button is the first step in powering down your iPhone.
 This should be at the top of the screen; doing so will turn off your iPhone.
 You'll need to access the SIM card slot, which is beneath the Lock button on the right side of your iPhone when looking at the screen.The SIM card slot is also on the right side of iPhones newer than the iPhone 3, regardless of Lock button placement.
 You should see a small hole on the right edge of your iPhone. The SIM card holds all of your carrier data, so you'll need to transfer your card over to your new smartphone.
 The SIM tray should pop open.


You can also use any similarly-proportioned item, such as a needle, a pin, or a SIM removal tool.
 Be gentle when doing this, since the SIM card is fragile.


Until you have a new phone, store your SIM card in a ziploc bag or an airtight container for safekeeping.
If your new phone uses a different SIM card model than the one you're selling, you'll need to take your SIM card into a carrier store and have them transfer the data for you.
 Again, be careful when doing this--don't force it back into place. You are now ready to sell your iPhone!

