 Throughout the U.S. there are different regulation authorities, i.e. Department of Justice or Highway Patrol. Learn if you need a permit or license to own a firearm, where you can carry it and whether you can conceal it. Most states allow concealed carry, some require you to pass a firearms class and demonstrate proficiency with your firearm on the shooting range.;
,


Revolvers are easy to use and malfunction infrequently, but they are bulky and difficult to reload quickly.






Semiautomatic pistols are sleeker, making them easier to carry concealed. However, they are complicated to operate and more prone to malfunction. Semiautomatics are loaded by attaching a magazine. If you carry additional magazines, you can typically reload in seconds.
 Try several to find the one that suits you best. You may want several kinds of holsters so you can carry concealed no matter what kind of clothing you wear. There are many different potential ways to carry. Some people prefer to carry a small pistol in the pocket. Some like a shoulder holster because it allows the carriage of a larger frame pistol. The choice is up to you.


The most popular holster for carrying concealed is the inside waistband (IWB) holster. It attaches to your belt with the holster partially or completely hidden between your pants and your body. You can wear an IWB holster in a number of positions, from the small of the back to the front of the hip.






Shoulder holsters allow you to carry your firearm under one arm. It requires that you wear a jacket to conceal your weapon.






Other holsters for carrying concealed include: ankle holsters, which can be concealed under pant legs; belly bands, which allow you to wear your weapon under your shirt; and pocket holsters, which allow you to carry your gun safely in a front pocket.
 You should be able to smoothly and safely remove it from the holster and re-holster it. Do not practice with a loaded weapon so you won't accidentally fire it.
 Be prepared to leave your weapon behind at home, in the office or in your car when necessary. Be sure that your gun is safely stored behind a lock wherever you leave it behind to prevent accidents or theft.


State or federal laws may ban you from carrying concealed in certain places, like schools or bars. However, many states allow private businesses to post signs banning handguns on their premises.
 Generally, neighboring states will recognize a concealed carry permit issued by your state, but there are important exceptions. Don't assume that you will always be able to carry your weapon in other states. This is a very complex environment that is changing everyday. Be sure to consult the state that you are entering and if they honor your particular license.

