 You can wash pearls in warm, soapy water, but it’s important to use a mild detergent. Add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of soap to 1 quart (946 ml) of warm water to dilute it, and mix well to create a soapy solution. Ensure that the water is warm and not hot because it can damage the pearls, especially if they are real.A gentle dishwashing liquid or a laundry detergent meant for delicates works well for washing pearls.
You can also use a cleaning product meant specifically for jewelry. However, be sure to check the label to ensure that it’s safe for pearls. Consult you jeweler for further confirmation.
Don’t use an abrasive detergent because it may scratch your pearls and rub off the nacre, which is their outer coating. Also don't use a home ingredient like lemon or vinegar, since they have a pretty high pH range, and can cause long-term destruction to the pearl.;
, Once you’ve mixed the detergent and water together, submerge the pearls in the solution. Allow the jewelry to sit in the soapy water for 10 to 15 seconds.If you’re not comfortable soaking the pearls, dampen a cloth with the soapy water and use it to wipe over the jewelry.
 After you’ve removed the pearls from the soapy water, wet a clean towel or cloth with warm water. Rub the cloth gently over the jewelry to rinse away the dirt and soap that's left.Use a cotton towel or cloth to wipe the pearls to ensure that the fabric isn’t too abrasive like a dried towel.
 When you’ve rinsed the pearls with a damp cloth, use a clean, dry cotton towel to carefully dry the jewelry. Next, lay the pearls on a flat and soft surface and allow them to dry completely.If you’re cleaning a pearl necklace, bracelet, or other strung variety, make sure that the string is completely dry before wearing the jewelry. Moisture can weaken the string.
It helps to lay your pearls on a towel to dry. Once the towel feels dry, your pearls are most likely dry too.
 Residue from makeup, perfume, hairspray, and other cosmetics can make your pearls look dull. To keep them clean and unscratched, always put your jewelry on as the last step when you’re getting ready to go out.If you accidentally get any cosmetics on your pearls, wipe them down with a clean cloth dampened with warm soapy water. Immediately follow up with a cloth dampened with plain water to rinse them.
 Cosmetics aren’t the only thing that can take some of the luster of your pearls -- perspiration can dull your jewelry as well. Make sure that your pearls keep their glow by wiping them down with a soft, cotton cloth after each time that you wear them.If you forget to wipe your pearls clean after wearing them, just be sure to do it before you store them again.
 Leaving pearls in storage for a prolonged period of time may seem like a good way to keep them clean and safe, but it can actually dehydrate them. That can leave them dull and more prone to scratching. Try to wear your pearls often so they’re exposed to moisture on a regular basis and can maintain their luster., If you just throw your pearl jewelry into your jewelry box after you take them off, it can wind up scratched, which makes it easier for them to get dirty. Instead, be sure to fasten all of the clasps and pins before storing it so the hardware won’t damage the nacre.Take the time to untangle necklaces and bracelets before storing them too.
 While it’s important to keep your pearls free of dust, you don’t just want to throw them in any jewelry box. Look for one that has compartments, so you separate each pearl piece and lay them out flat. That way, they won’t wind up scratched by other items in the box., If you’re traveling with your pearl jewelry, it’s important to keep them in some type of case so they’re protected from dirt, dust, and scratches. However, don’t keep your pearls in a plastic pouch, which may damage them. Instead, use a cotton pouch, which is soft enough not to scratch the jewelry.When traveling, be sure to separate your pearls from other jewelry in your travel pouches as well.

