 When we see those we care about in trouble or pain, we instantly want to fix the situation. Overcome the urge to "fix" her problem or rush her into talking about it. The best case scenario is to just be there. When she's ready to talk, she will., The best listeners don't listen to reply, they listen to understand. Active listening is the process of focusing your attention on her message and responding so that you can achieve mutual understanding.Active listening involves four key principles:Seek to understand before being understood. You must collect information about what she is saying before you can adequately provide a response to her.
Be non-judgmental. Refrain from expressing any judgment about her circumstances. Demonstrate unconditional positive regard and emotional intelligence. You can be with, talk to and provide support without necessarily agreeing with everything she says.
Provide undivided attention. Make eye contact within a ratio that feels comfortable to you, typically about 70% of the time you're listening (about 50% when you're speaking).Turn off your phone. Turn to face her with your arms and legs uncrossed.
Make appropriate use of silence. Sit quietly no matter how much you would like to interrupt. She may have an important revelation that never comes out because of an untimely interruption. Offer feedback by nodding, smiling, or saying short remarks such as "Umm hmm" or "Go on" to let her know you're listening.
 More than likely, if she is overwhelmed by stress or emotion, she may just want to feel heard and accepted. When loved ones are upset it can be terribly easy to overlook their core feelings in an effort to resolve the situation. When she calms down a bit, ask her to describe her feelings to you without minimizing her circumstances or offering unsolicited advice.Helpful validating statements may sound like:


"Aww, that sounds terrible."
"I'm so sorry you're having such a tough time."
"I can see why you're upset. That doesn't sound fair."

, Only after actively listening to and validating her feelings may you move into the resolution stage. And, still, you should only try to help her with the situation if she expressly asks for your help. Otherwise, your job is done. If she asks for advice or help solving an issue, work together.


Clearly define the problem. Then, ask her ideally what she would like the end result to be. Once you've identified her goals, then outline a list of possible solutions that can meet them. Go over each solution aloud and consider the pros and cons of each. Allow her to make the final decision. Remember, you are there to be a source of support, not to take over her life.If her problem is too big for you to help with alone, offer to go with her to talk to her parents, another adult, the school counselor, or a professional counselor.

