 Rather than trying harsh exfoliants on scaly patches, use a nourishing cream to repair and protect your skin.This will create a smoother, healthier surface for makeup. Avoid brands that use the ingredient bismuth oxychloride, which can be irritating.


Try companies like W3LL PEOPLE and Alima Pure.
Avène Recovery Cream and Le Roche-Posay Toleriane Teint Fluid have been recommended to give good coverage without clogging pores.
 Pat or dab your makeup onto your skin with your fingertips. Makeup brushes can hold germs that can worsen your skin, and brushing makeup over scaly patches can leave makeup caught in flakes. Use your fingertips for better control and a cleaner application.Always wash your hands first!

, Powders can get caught in flaky areas and highlight skin problems. Use cream foundation and concealer instead, which can be better blended over problem areas.Apply your moisturizer or recovery cream base first, then use your fingers to gently apply cream foundation. Follow-up with small dabs of concealer blended over problem areas.
 To cover or neutralize red patches, use a bronzer on areas that would normally catch the sun – especially your cheekbones. Blush can heighten the visual effect of redness, but bronzer will give you a sunkissed glow.


You can also try a green color-correcting concealer over red areas. Green tends to cancel out redness., Use a gel liner rather than a pencil so you don’t have to pull on your skin as much, which can cause irritation. Use a flat liner brush to push the liner into your lashes.Your eyelids are very sensitive. If you use eye shadow, choose lighter colors with a matte finish – these are less likely to be irritating.Consider using only eyeliner and mascara and avoiding eye shadow altogether.
 If possible, choose a lipstick that contains hyaluronic acid. This keeps moisture in your skin without causing irritation. Stay away from lipstick with a matte finish if you have eczema around your mouth.A gentle alternative to lipstick is natural lip balm.
 If you have eczema on only one area of your face, highlight the rest! If your problem areas are around your eyes, invest in quality lip liner and lipstick and accentuate your look with a pouty mouth. If you have dry, flaky skin on your chin, go for a more dramatic look on your eyes.