 You don't need to completely change who you are, but if you're the gloomy or rude type, know that this is not acceptable in the kawaii scene society. Also know that, since you are trying to have an innocent personality. Your attitude needs to have one or more of the following attributes: cuteness (of course), sweet as sugar, playful, child-likeness (aka- child-like wonder, child-like happiness, child-like giddiness, child-like mischievousness etc.) If you are more of an introvert, you can go for the ultra shy/sweet type. You MUST be kind toward everyone you meet. Yes, even your worst enemy. But don't be fake or too overly nice or goody-goody as this might annoy people. Be an optimist. Have a positive outlook on life, like that of a child. Always remember to look for the best in people.;
, Brush your teeth, have a shower regularly, clean your nails, keep them dirt free, never let your hair become greasy (it looks trashy and gross), etc.
), blue, purple, and some yellow into your wardrobe and accessories. Some red can be good too. Pastels, and bright colors are great. You should think of white as your fashion foundation. A certain amount of black is fine, but try not to have too much of it. Rainbow is also very good.
When it comes to fashion, besides going for the "young" look, the main thing to remember is to do anything you want. Anything unique is great. Mismatch colors and patterns. Layer things. Wear giant boots with high furry socks peeking out of the top if you want to. Do something no one does. Do something that expresses your individuality.



Tops: You must have at least one amazingly cute, mega-over sized jacket. Remember that you are a scene kid after all and don't forget about band shirts. These are very important in the scene community. Make sure that your tops are skin-tight. Try some ribbed tank tops in various neon/bright colors or animal prints. Get some hoodies: branded, animal print, or just solid colors. Cartoon characters are sometimes worn. Such as Invader Zim, Pokémon, and Hello Kitty. Don't wear to much of them, though. And, don't stock up on Hello Kitty. Some Hello Kitty is good. Anything else from the Sanrio company is great. Disney princess shirts are good. Tinker Bell is especially good. Cartoon characters are good. Especially anime. Any top that has a young, cute, or girly style to it is what you're looking for.

Pants: Get many pairs of colored skinny jeans. Try colors like dark blue, purple, hot pink, red, etc. but make sure you get one pair of black and one of white. Skinny jeans with patterns or animal print on them are amazing finds. The same goes for leggings and tights. Tiny shorts are very cute.

Dresses and Skirts: Dresses galore. This should be the main ingredient in your wardrobe. Ruffles, frills, lace, bows, anything feminine or cute will do. Lolita dresses are highly acceptable. White dresses are wonderful. Pastels are fine too. Whatever dress you can find that looks like it's more suited for a porcelain doll than for you, GET IT! Skirts should be fairly short. You can wear your leggings or tights underneath. Tutus are NICE. Neon colored is perfect.

Shoes: Vans, converse, flats, ballet shoes, giant black boots, go-go boots, any shoes with thick, chunky heels, uggs, flip flops (only if they're ultra cute), Japanese geta (wooden sandals), and doll style shoes (black or white) are all kawaii scene. As long as they're cute, you could even get away with tennis shoes. This is only a guideline; wear whatever shoes feel right for you.
 Two ponytails, braids of any size, and any "cute" hair style is good. Your hair needs to be layered up top and either slightly or majorly teased. Use hairspray to hold your hair in place. Make your hair look "messy" and like you just rolled out of bed. Don't ask why, just comply. It's sexy in the book of scene. Also, you'll need either bangs, long side bangs, or a fringe. You can dye your hair black, platinum blonde, or an "anime" color such as red, pink, blue, dark blue, purple, etc. You can also dye colored streaks or chunks through random sections in your hair. Coon tails have become quite popular. For the kawaii look, colored coon tails are best. Finish your hair off with a little girl headband and/or a giant bow. Ribbons, clips, and other accessories are also good.
 For eye shadow, any bright color in the rainbow will do. Black is a popular shadow. Pink, purple, or blue, are especially good for the cute look. The best way a kawaii scene girl can do her eye makeup is to wear the doll-eyed style. It's rather simple, but the results are adorable. YouTube.com has good videos on how to do this. You can make your eyes look rounder and bigger by making eyeliner above your pupil thicker. Extend the eyeliner beyond the outside corner of your eye with a slight flick to make your eyes look longer. For mascara, apply lengthening mascara to all of your lashes and volumizing mascara to your outer corners, do this on both top and bottom lashes. You may want to consider false eyelashes. Make sure that they look realistic. Apply just a touch of blush. If you want, you can go for the anime look and brush little horizontal ovals on the tops of your cheeks. Lip color should be either pale (if you want to look sexy) or pink (bright or natural).
 Listen to anything that you like! Sweet, soft music to hard rock. Hip-hop to techno. Japanese rock (J-rock) to classical. It's up to you. Get white, huge headphones for your iPod, (if you want) and pull them down around your neck with the volume still on while talking with people. You should probably keep up to date with the music world.

