 Choosing an appropriate, high-quality food for your boxer is essential to his health. There are many high-quality commercial foods, but some dog foods may not provide the best nutrition for your pet. Some things to keep in mind when choosing a dog food include:


Look for a statement that the dog food meets AAFCO (Association of American Feed Control Officials) requirements.Get a food that is appropriate for your boxer’s age. For example, if your boxer is still a puppy, then make sure that you are feeding him puppy food. If your boxer is a senior, then get a senior dog food.;
, It is important to maintain a regular feeding schedule for your boxer. The number of times that you will need to feed your boxer each day depends on his age. For example:puppies between eight to 12 weeks require four meals per day
puppies three to six months old require three meals per day
puppies six months to a year old need two meals per day
dogs older than one year old only need one meal per day, but you may want to feed your boxer two meals per day since most boxers are more prone to bloating, Dogs need to have access to clean, fresh water at all times.Provide a large water bowl for your boxer and change it a couple times per day. Check it now and then to make sure that it is full. You should also wash it once per day to ensure that it is free of bacteria that may make your boxer sick.
 Treats are a great way to let your boxer know that he is being good and to show him that you care. Provide your boxer with a couple of treats each day. Just make sure that treats do not make up more than 10% of your boxer’s total food intake.Some good treats to give your boxer include:


dog biscuits
bones
cooked eggs
sweet potatoes
cottage cheese

, Some foods are toxic to dogs, so you should avoid these foods. These foods can cause your boxer to get sick, have seizures, experience kidney failure, or even die. Foods that you should never feed your dog include:alcohol
citrus fruits
caffeinated beverages
macadamia nuts
chocolate
grapes
raisins
raw meat
raw eggs
raw bones
onions
garlic
chives
xylitol
yeast
salty foods

