 If you have tried ignoring the issue and the bully is still taunting you, you might need to address the situation head on. Go to them and ask to speak to them in private. Try to have this conversation within a day of them teasing you.Say something like “Hi, Frank. I would like to speak to you today in private at some point. Could we talk some time after lunch?’
If you are afraid of what they’ll do, have a friend nearby to intervene if necessary.
 Be open and honest and avoid being overly emotional. Though emotions are necessary in some settings, a bully will use them against you. Be direct about your feelings on their negative comments and ask them to stop.Say “Jess, every time I see you and my hair is curly, you always make a negative comment about it. I never make comments about your hair, because it is none of my business. I would appreciate if you would stop with the teasing.”

, If confronting them doesn’t work or if you prefer other solutions, try defusing their insult. If a bully feels that their words don’t affect you, they may stop the teasing altogether.

Say things like “Oh you don’t like my freckles? That’s okay because I love them! I get compliments all the time actually and there are lots of makeup tutorials of girls drawing them on now.”

, You can also try owning the insult that they throw at you. Even if you are insecure about the thing that you’re being teased for, it is still a part of you. Make a joke about it, too, and work to improve the things about yourself that you don’t like.The bully might tease you for having braces and call you names. In reply, say “Metal mouth? Yea, I guess that’s me.”

, If this person taunts you over very obvious things or about the same things each day, call them out on it. A bully who cannot come up with any new material is both not very clever and also very repetitive. Use that weakness against them to get them to leave you alone.Try saying things like “Really, Roger? You just noticed that I have glasses? I have had glasses for three years. Perhaps you need some because your vision is clearly off.”

