 There should be space at the top of the affidavit for you to include your personal information, such as your name and the other parent’s name.You should either write neatly or, if your handwriting isn’t neat, then use a typewriter.
 The form should also ask for the names of your children and their dates of birth. Some forms may want you to include the names of all children in the home that you are legally obligated to support, even if they are not your biological children., Since you are trying to get child support, the court needs to know what kind of job the other parent works and where he or she works. Provide the following information in the space provided:the other parent’s job
the other parent’s employer
the employer’s address

, You will need to report how much money you make annually. This will require that you report the income on your most recent W-2 form. However, you will also have to report other sources of income, so go through your papers and look for the following:unemployment benefits
worker’s compensation
Social Security
retirement income, such as a pension or annuity
disability
alimony
rental or mortgage income
commissions, tips, and bonuses
interest or dividends

, Some affidavits will ask you to drill down and report the value of your assets. Give yourself plenty of time to find this information so that you can report it accurately. You may be asked to provide the current value of the following:real estate
cash, bank accounts, and CDs
retirement plans, IRAs, and 401(k) pension plans
vehicles
stocks and bonds

, On the affidavit, you may have to report your current debt load. Look for information on the current balance of the following debts:mortgage
loans
credit cards
other debts

, You also have to report your expenses. Each state will request different information. However, you generally will have to report the following expenses:support you pay for other children
weekly child care costs
monthly health insurance cost, for yourself and the children
extraordinary medical expenses, such as care for a disabled child

, The other parent will get to respond and tell the court how much he or she makes. Nevertheless, some affidavits may ask that you provide an estimate. For example, you may have to provide the following:other parent’s income before taxes
how much the other parent pays for health insurance
cost of dental and/or vision insurance
amount spent on child care expenses
other child support obligations

, You need to sign the affidavit under penalty of perjury. You will probably have to print your name and then provide your signature. Also include the date.


You will know that you are signing under penalty of perjury if you see language like the following: “I state that the above is true, signed under penalties of perjury.”If you knowingly provide inaccurate information, then you could be in legal trouble with the state. For this reason, always double check your information before submitting the affidavit.
Some affidavits need to be signed in front of a notary public.You should wait to sign until you appear before the notary. There is probably a notary at your courthouse. Bring acceptable forms of personal identification, such as your driver’s license or passport.

