 Do you have the game yet, and how far have you played?


If you do not have the game yet, download it for free from the App Store.
If you have the game already but have not progressed far, you may want to delete the app and redownload it. This way, you can have a fresh start.
If you have played quite far into the game already, you may want to continue where you are.;
, Playing without spending real life money depends very much on patience. Over the course of the game, you will be pushed to get things accomplished faster by spending gems, and to acquire more gems by spending real life money. Realistically, a game played without spending money will take at least several months.
 The game will push you to spend your gems on 'rush jobs' or to keep yourself alive during the battle. But if you are patient, you can wait the set amount of time for a building to be completed. And if you are losing a battle, you can always refight it later.
 These include:


You will start the game off with 25 gems.
After completing a level, you will receive 5 gems.
Some quests, if completed, will include a reward of 2 gems.
Every day, you will receive daily rewards. These could include coins, wood, stones, iron bars, vines, a house, or gems. Be sure to log in at least once a day, or else you will miss the rewards of that day, which could be 3-7 gems.
By opening a treasure chest. Some chests will contain gems. You may have to spend gems to open some chests, but you will get at least as many in return.
By fighting battles on the pirate ship for gems. These battles cost 8000-10,000 coins each to fight, and if won, yield 4-5 gems. In order to be able to win these battles without spending gems, you will need heroes with very strong weapons and shield, possibly the strongest available.
By watching an advertisement. At times, the software will allow you to watch a 30-60 second commercial in exchange for receiving one gem. Often, the software will allow you to watch the commercial multiple times, sometimes as many as 50 times in succession. This can be a great way to earn gems.
 These allow you to buy stronger weapons and shields and win tougher battles.


You will find as the game goes on that you will need a lot of these, at times more than you will need gems. Especially vines will come in need and will be harder to obtain.
You can earn iron bars and vines by clearing certain types of debris.
Super knockouts can earn you iron bars and vines. To achieve a super knockout, press the icon of a specific hero as it is about to kill an enemy. This can only be done once before the hero recharges.
Some daily rewards will be iron bars or vines. Be sure to claim your daily rewards every day by logging in, otherwise you could miss one of these.
The smelter can produce up to 50 iron bars every 12 hours by converting 10x as many stones, and Ropeworks can produce up to 50 vines every 12 hours by converting 10x as many pieces of wood.
 These enable you to make more iron bars and vines.
 Use these heroes to fight all the battles early on.


After building up maximum weaponry and shields in these heroes, you can work on building up other heroes.
Do not worry about buying the top weapons/shields if they can only be bought with gems unless it is a quest. Many of these require up to 66 gems. Instead, focus on those that require just iron bars or vines (sometimes they require one gem).

