 Maybe you regret not finishing your Arts degree. Or perhaps you are looking to get better at public speaking. A class environment, with a teacher, other students, and deadlines, may help to give your life a sense of order and discipline. You’ll also work on improving your self esteem by studying subjects you are invested in and looking to get better at.Many universities and colleges offer adult classes in a variety of subjects.
There are also many adult learning classes available online. If you decide to do an online course, you will likely have limited face to face contact with a teacher and other students. You will also not get the benefits of in class discussions.
If you are currently enrolled in a degree or field of study, but are looking to explore another subject, talk to your program advisor about an independent study. These types of courses can be set up in many departments and can focus on almost any subject you are interested in.
 Healing your life can also be an inward journey, where you take time to be alone and be immersed in great writing or a great story. There are many lists out there of what is considered the greatest classic novels or works of literature. Several titles will always be considered “classics”, such as Harper Lee’s To Kill A Mockingbird or John Steinbeck’s The Grapes of Wrath. Work your way through these lists at your own pace, or set a challenge for yourself to read 50 books in one year. Look at:


TIME Magazine’s 100 All-Time Greatest Novels.Modern Library’s 100 Best Novels.The Guardian’s 100 Greatest Novels of All Time.10 classic novels that won’t put you to sleep., This doesn’t necessarily mean you need to have a firm belief in God or a clear idea of what it means to be spiritual. In fact, a good spiritual guide will be willing to listen to your problems and offer advice, regardless of your beliefs.Look online for spiritual words of wisdom, forums where others share their life advice, or websites devoted to spiritual guidance.
You can also seek out a spiritual mentor by visiting your local church or contacting a local spiritual leader in your community.

