 While bird seed will likely be your bird’s main diet, seeds do not offer all of the nutrients your bird needs. Make sure to balance your bird’s diet with either canary-specific pellets or “egg food.” Both of these can be found at your local pet store or online. Supplement your canary’s diet even further with finely chopped leafy greens, vegetables, fruit, and grain.Include Vitamin A in your canary’s diet to help bring out the color of their feathers. Carrots and sweet potato are great options to provide this nutrient to your bird.
Provide two separate food bowls. Place seeds and pellets in one bowl and fresh fruits and veggies in the other.
Do not be fooled by fortified seeds. Though additional nutrients have been added to the exterior of seed, your canary may leave this fortified hull behind, eating only the contents inside.
Avoid feeding your canary anything sugary or fried, as well as avocado.
Take any food out of the cage that is not eaten within 24 hours.
 Aside from nutritional sustenance, your canary also needs mental and physical stimulation. Play and exercise are necessary to maintain health, as well as contentment. Meanwhile, boredom may contribute to negatively effect your bird's mood, which may keep them from singing. Keeping multiple male canaries together will keep them entertained, but may lead to fighting. Toys and perches are additional options to keep a canary active.Hang strips of leather or sturdy string for your bird to play with.
Mount perches made of various different materials at different locations in the cage. Include at least three different types, as perches of different thicknesses help prevent foot injuries.
 Temperature is extremely important to your canary. Fortunately, normal room temperature is perfect. Make sure the temperature never exceeds 78 °F (26 °C). If you only have one canary, house it in a cage that’s at least 18 inches wide, 18 inches tall, and 18 inches long. For two birds, choose a cage that’s at least 24x18x18 inches. The bigger the better, and additional horizontal space is better than additional vertical space.(Note: 1 in. = 2.54 cm)


Make sure the space between the bars of the cage are less than 3/8 inch.
Place the cage in your living room, or whichever room is most often occupied during the day. Do not place the cage in the kitchen.
Position the cage with one side against a wall, and in a place that receives only a bit of direct sunlight, if any.
Consider covering the cage at night to help your canary rest.
 Canaries enjoy grooming and depend on good hygiene to stay healthy. Use a water spray bottle with room temperature water to mist your canary a few times a week. Further, provide a bowl with 2 to 3 inches of water in it so your canary can wash itself. Remove and replace the water after a bath, which will likely occur about twice per week.Aim the spray above the bird so that mist descends onto the bird like rain.
Do not spray a canary directly with a stream of water.
If you bird does not clean itself, take it to the vet.
Ensure that there are no drafts that reach your bird’s cage. Drafts can cause a bird to become dangerously cold while they are wet.

