 Cat wheels can be a great way to prevent feline obesity and boredom. However, they generally cost between three and nine hundred dollars (US).If you see a product in a pet store, look online to see if it’s cheaper to order it directly from the manufacturer.


Keep an eye out for sales at your local pet stores.
You can also look online for gently used products.;
, The cat wheel market is a relatively new phenomenon. You might come across an online campaign to crowdsource a new product. Check a campaign’s list of perks and see if they offer a cat wheel as a reward when you pledge a set amount of money.Try visiting the homepages of crowdfunding sites like Kickstarter and Indiegogo. Enter "cat exercise wheel" into the search bars on their pages to see if there are any active campaigns. You can also run a Google search for "cat exercise wheel crowdfunding."
You might be able save hundreds of dollars on a cat wheel by donating to a crowdfunding campaign. Just keep in mind that some campaigns, like those hosted on Kickstarter, only offer the reward if the funding goal is met.
You’ll also have to be patient, as it’ll take much longer to receive the wheel from a crowdfunding campaign than to purchase one from a pet store or manufacturer.
 Some cats simply won’t tolerate running on a wheel. Since they usually cost hundreds of dollars, check a product’s warranty or store’s return policy before you make a purchase.Many products come with a 90 day return policy, but you might have to pay shipping and a restocking fee.
Since they’re prone to wear and tear, you should also make sure the wheel’s bearings are covered by warranty for at least a year.
 Most cat exercise wheels have a weight limit of 25 pounds (about 12 kilograms).Most wheels have a four foot diameter and 10 inch (25.4 cm) wheel width, but some manufacturers offer wheels with diameters of either three or four feet (about one meter or a meter and a quarter).A four foot diameter is designed to fit even the longest cats. However, you'll want to make sure your cat is within the weight limit. You can also contact your cat's vet if you have any concerns about your cat's size and safety when using an exercise wheel.
 Cat exercise wheels are most stable on hard floors and thin carpeting. If you have thick or soft carpeting throughout your home, you could place a wood slate beneath the wheel. This will add a uniform, stable surface for the wheel., You'll likely have to assemble the base of your new exercise wheel. Typically, this involves attaching two footed parts with bearing wheels to both ends of a supporting rod. The footed ends sit on the floor, and the wheel sits on top of the bearing wheels.Your product will come with instructions if the base requires home assembly.

