 High flavonoid foods have anti-inflammatory properties, which may help with your allergies.These same foods are high in the substances quercetin and rutin. Quercetin and rutin are natural antihistamines. High flavonoid foods include:


Berries
Red peppers
Citrus fruit
Bananas
Pears
Apples
Onions
Almonds
Leafy green vegetables
Olive oil
Almonds
Green tea
Herbal teas such as parsley, nettles, and sage

, Some naturopaths believe that a weak immune system may make it easier for allergens to affect you. Incorporate some daily supplements into your diet to help strengthen your immune system.


Add a multi-vitamin. Find a high potency multi-vitamin and take it every day with food and a glass of water.
Add probiotics to your diet. Have one container of yogurt (with active cultures) every day or take a probiotic supplement
Add Vitamin C to your supplement list. Vitamin C is another antioxidant and can help reduce reactions to allergens.Add Omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids are anti-inflammatory agents and can help to reduce the symptoms of allergies

, Talk to a knowledgeable healthcare professional first, especially if you are taking any medications, including antihistamines. Herbs can either increase or decrease the effects of some medications, so it is important to check with your physician first.


Dong quai (Angelica sinensis)
Eyebright (Euphrasia officinalis) — especially for allergic reactions affecting the eyes
Stinging Nettles (Urtica dioica)
Quercetin and rutin can be taken as a supplement, usually starting six to eight weeks before allergy season. Don’t take quercetin or rutin if you have liver disease., Exercising for 30 minutes three to four times a week has been shown to be effective in reducing allergies. Exercise indoors on high pollen count days and take precautions to reduce your exposure to allergens on days that you exercise outside.


Swimming in chlorinated pools can make allergies worse.Listen to your body and be aware of your symptoms. For some people, exercise may induce allergies and asthma attacks.