 Elderberry is often used to treat respiratory infections, so it might be helpful for pneumonia.You can take elderberry as a tea or as a syrup. Make sure that you follow the manufacturer’s instructions for use.


To make a cup of elderberry tea, you will need about three to five grams of dried elderberry flowers. Place the dried elderberry in a mug and then pour boiling water over it. Steep the tea for about 10 to 15 minutes and then strain the tea. You can drink up to three cups of elderberry tea per day.If you purchase an elderberry syrup, then make sure that you read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions. A typical dose is four tablespoons taken three times per day.;
, Echinacea is often used for colds because it has both antibacterial and antiviral properties.Keep in mind that you should not use Echinacea for more than seven days at a time.


Try taking 300 mg of powdered Echinacea three times daily for about one week. Do not take Echinacea for more than 10 days., Garlic has antimicrobial and immune-boosting properties, so it may also help with pneumonia.Fresh garlic is best, so try adding a few cloves of minced garlic to your chicken soup and other foods.


You can also try making a garlic tea if you like the taste of garlic. Mince a few cloves of garlic and place the garlic in a mug, then pour eight ounces of boiling water over the mug and steep for about 10 to 15 minutes before drinking the tea.
 Ginger is a warming herb, so it may help to loosen up mucus and speed your recovery. Ginger also has antiviral properties.Try making a ginger tea by peeling and chopping a one inch piece of fresh ginger. Then, add the ginger to a mug and pour boiling water over the ginger. Let the ginger steep for about 10 to 15 minutes and then sip the tea slowly.


You can drink a few cups of ginger tea every day until you are fully recovered. Ginger is also safe for pregnant women and children when taken as a tea.
 Taking a daily multivitamin can provide you with some extra nutritional insurance while you recover from pneumonia. Try to find a supplement that provides at least 100% of your recommended daily allowance of vitamins and minerals. A higher percentage of some vitamins may be appropriate, as you are recovering from an illness and may need more of a boost.


Be careful with fat-soluble vitamins, such as vitamins A, D, E, and K, as they are stored in fat and may remain in your body for a long time, making it possible to overdose. This is not common, as it takes time and very high doses for the vitamin to reach toxic levels, but you should be aware.
If your multivitamin contains minerals like zinc, make sure you take no more than 200 mg daily to avoid toxicity.
 Your doctor can prescribe n-acetyl cysteine for you to use in a nebulizer. N-acetyl cysteine is a natural antioxidant that can help to break up mucus; however, Mucomyst requires a prescription, so you will have to talk to your doctor.