 Studies show that hypnosis engages pleasant memories and reduces pain perception in the brain by 50%.However, for hypnosis to work, you must be open to it. If you’re skeptical, you won't be able to relax into what your hypnosis partner is suggesting. Hypnosis works better for people who are considered “highly hypnotizable."Someone who is "highly hypnotizable" has a high level of hypnotic ability. This basically means that they fully believe in the hypnotic process and do not have many doubts about hypnosis working on them.
A person's ability to be hypnotized is usually classified as high, medium or low.;
, The most important part of a hypnosis environment is trusting the person you’ve recruited. Opening your mind up to someone is a vulnerable thing, and you don’t want someone who might take advantage of this.


Make sure you find someone who doesn’t like playing practical jokes. Even though you trust someone, if they enjoy playing tricks, chances are they may use your hypnotic state as a joke. This can induce mental stress.
You may be called upon to hypnotize someone else to help them sleep. Try to be someone whom others can trust implicitly.
Have your partner read up on hypnosis practices, like guided imagery and breathing exercises.
 High levels of adrenalin make it difficult to sleep, so mulling over your day’s anxieties right when you’re about to undergo hypnosis does not work. Sweep anxiety away by having your partner suggest things that trigger feelings of happiness.Your partner should ask questions to help you push fear, anxieties, and stress out of your mind focus instead on happy thoughts. For example, a good starting question might be, “What is an object that makes you feel relaxed when you touch it?”


The questions your partner asks should help you reach a positive mental state. For example, your partner might ask you to visualize going to your favorite place. This place can be attached to a memory, or it can be a place you create purely from your imagination. Picture yourself walking to the place, opening the door, and stepping inside.
It helps to picture your body being located in a soothing position, such as suspended in water, floating in space, and so on.
If you can’t get to a relaxed state with guided questions, have your hypnosis partner describe in great detail a place that is peaceful, such as someone walking through a forest and finding a soft place to rest.
 A focal point can be a memory or thought that has arisen from your hypnotist’s questions, or it can be an object in your room. Use this focal point to dismiss negative or wandering thoughts. Let your mind fill with the memory or object, dismissing all other thoughts and worries.


For example, when a stray thought surfaces, repeat the name of the focal point object in your mind until the unwanted thought disappears.
If your focal point is a memory, repeat the name of the place or people involved until the unwanted thought goes away.
Verbalizing your mental experience will ground you in it and create a deeper zone of comfort.
 After your mind is settled in your favorite place, let your hypnosis partner guide you through breathing exercises. These help your body purge negative emotion and muscle tension, further relaxing you.


One breathing exercise is to pretend you have holes in your feet. Imagine hot air blowing up through these holes, visualizing the air flowing up through your legs and filling your lungs. When you release the breath, imagine the air flowing back down through the same holes., The ability to “let go” in your mind is essential for entering a hypnotic state, otherwise known as a trance. This is why you’ve selected someone you trust and are very comfortable with. You feel suspended between wakefulness and sleep, often feeling like you are hovering above your own body.


In a trance, you aren’t exactly unconscious of your surroundings, but you’re disconnected to the point of not being aware of them.
In other words, your mind is awake while your body is asleep. The less mental activity you perform, the deeper your trance will be., Bring your awareness inward. In a trance, you are able to use your imagination without being shackled by your inward critic.As you begin your journey toward a trance, you will probably hear a negative voice in your mind get louder. This is your "inner critic," and if you are not already a highly hypnotizable person, this critical voice will increase. This is because your doubts about hypnosis will try to stop the process from happening.
Silence the negative voice by concentrating on your focal point. The critical voice should fade to the background as your trance deepens.

