 It is essential to always start with a clean face, removing any oil or dirt that may be on your skin. Moisturizer will keep the makeup from drying out your skin. Wait at least 20 seconds after applying moisturizer, or until your skin feels dry and not dewy.If the moisturizer is still wet it can interfere with the application of your primer.
 While you want the primer to cover your eyelid completely, too much primer can completely backfire. It can cause your makeup to pill, clump, appear chalky or shiny.Too little, and your eye makeup won't stay.


This amount of primer should be enough for both eyes.
It's always better to start with less product and build layers if you need to instead of starting with too much and trying to wipe it off. Remember: less is more when it comes to primer.
 You want to gently dab, pat, smooth, and blend (but not rub) the primer into your skin.You can start near the inner corner of your eye and spread out and up toward the brow bone and outer corner of your lid, or you can start at the center of your lid and blend outwards and upwards. Whatever works best for you.









A (clean) finger is a perfect tool for applying primer, and most of the time it's all you will need. You can easily control how much product you are applying, and the warmth from your fingertips can help you spread the primer.
A small makeup brush can really get into the little corners and edges by your tear duct and lash line and usually helps you get an even application.
Always be gentle and never pull on the skin around your eye, as this can lead to sagging and wrinkles later in life.
Really work the primer into the creases of your eyelid. The primer's job is to fill the fine lines in your skin so that your makeup doesn't settle into the creases.If you are applying makeup to your bottom lid, use a thin brush or your finger to gently dab it along your lower lash line.
 If it appears cakey or clumpy, you used too much primer and should use a little less next application.Try using the primer on your eyebrows to keep brow powder in place, too.,