 Gather a small packet of proof, paperwork, and reasons why you need a car. If you can clearly outline how having a car will positively impact your life, people might be more likely to give to you. Consider including:


Proof of your disability. Medical records, doctor's notes, or Social Security Disability Income check stubs would all be appropriate.
Proof of your expenses. Tally up how much housing, utilities, food, and other necessities cost you each month, and compare it against your disability income (if you're on SSDI). This can help you demonstrate that you can't afford a car on your own.






A list of reasons why you need a car. Write down the reasons why you need reliable transportation. If public transit is not an option for you, note the reasons why.






Brainstorm on how you'll afford insurance, gas, maintenance, and registration expenses. Unfortunately, getting the car itself for free is only half of the expense — the rest will come from daily upkeep. Keep in mind that your car will have to be insured, as well as registered through the state. You'll also need to take it in for servicing every 4 to 6 months, as well as purchasing gas. If you cannot bear these expenses, be sure to note that when you're requesting a free car.





;
, Free Charity Cars accepts people's old cars as a charity donation (so they can have the tax write-off) and redistributes them to people in need. Here's how to know if you're eligible. You must be a US citizen living in America. You might qualify for a free charity car if you are also:


A victim of domestic violence






Medically needy






A victim of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane or tornado






Transitioning from public assistance to working






Living in a transitional shelter






Working poor (that is, working and living under the national poverty line, which is $23,050 for a family of four in 2012)






Part of an active-duty military familyApply online. Visit the Free Charity Cars website (listed in References below) and make a profile. Try to tell people your story in a compelling way (using the information you gathered in Step 1) and wait for the votes to come in! If you can, ask your online friends to make a profile and vote for you.
 Most churches are non-profit organizations, meaning that if someone donates a car to the church, that person can claim it as a tax write-off. If the members are made aware of your situation, perhaps one of them will consider donating a car to you through the church.


If you already attend a church regularly, start there. Make your case to your ecclesiastical leader using the information you accumulated in Step 1, and ask if he or she can do anything to help you.
You shouldn't join a church just to get a free car. A good church won't try to "trade" a car for your beliefs, but if you want to be a good person, it would be honorable to at least consider the merits of an institution that displays such generosity and helpfulness to you.
 If the person you talk to is not aware of any existing programs for free cars, try to speak to a few different people to make sure (without being disrespectful towards the first person you spoke to). You can also check their website. If it's not free, they may have a low-cost program, or a payment program with little or no interest.
 Since they know how to fix vehicles, they might come across a car that can be fixed for a low price and that would fit your needs. Perhaps a church or a generous person will pay for the repairs for you, or they'll give you a loan with little or no interest. Or, someone might have an old car that they don't want to go through the trouble of repairing, but it has sentimental value for them. You could try to convince a mechanic to fix it for you for a discounted price.
 The more people you have a connection to, the better the chance that someone will empathize with your plight and find a way to help you. If you're not a naturally sociable person, this may feel very awkward for you, but it's important, and sometimes necessary, to step out of your comfort zone. Also, if you have any feelings of shame or pride that get in the way of asking for help, you must overcome them. See How to Be Humble. Everybody needs help sometimes, and there is no shame in asking for it when you truly need it.

Look for ways you can help people. Can you tutor? Babysit? Fix something? Rake a yard? Practice Random Acts of Kindness. You never know when someone you've helped might end up helping you back.






Use social networking to your advantage. In addition to networking in person, you'll be able to reach out to more people through the Internet. Create accounts on Myspace, Facebook, and Twitter. Share your struggles and efforts.
 Have you read How to Live Without a Car yet? Can you get by on renting a car once or twice a month (see How to Get a Discount Car Rental Rate) or using something like a Zipcar?

