 Monitor the weather by watching the local forecast on TV, checking the newspaper, searching online, or signing up for text message notifications from your local government. With the advancement of technology, most thunderstorms can be predicted more than a day in advance. The more warning you have the more time you’ll have to prepare for the worst.


Cancel any outdoor plans during a thunderstorm. Even if the weather doesn't seem bad you could still be hit by lightning.
 The lighting from thunderstorms can cause power surges that can damage or destroy electronics. This is especially important for computers and expensive electronics. However, make sure you unplug the electronics before the storm approaches. If you’re touching an appliance during a power surge you’ll get electrocuted.If you have electronics that you don’t want to unplug, purchase a surge protector power strip from an electronics store.
 Avoid taking showers, washing your hands, or bathing. The metal pipes in bathroom fixtures can conduct electricity. If you’re showering when lighting strikes, you may be electrocuted. Similarly, stay away from pools as water conducts electricity as well.


Avoid indoor pools. Some indoor pools have metal fixtures that can conduct electricity. Play it safe and stay out of the pool.
 The National Weather Service recommends that you stay inside for at least thirty minutes after hearing the last peal of thunder. Even if you’re sure that the worst of the storm is over it’s better to wait than to go outside. Lighting can still strike you even if the storm has moved.Avoid swimming in water for at least an hour, if not for the rest of the day.
 Shelter inside a safe building or get into a hard-topped vehicle if you can. If you can’t, avoid all open fields and tall, isolated trees. Stay away from water, metal objects, and hilltops. If possible, shelter among a lower grouping of trees. This will slightly reduce your risk of getting hit by lightning.If you’re camping, leave the tent to find shelter. Tents do not offer protection from lightning.
 If you’re driving in a hard-topped vehicle during a lightning storm, stay in your car until the storm passes. If your car is struck by lightning, the current will flow over the body of the car and into the ground. Watch out for flooding on the road as well. If there’s a lot of water on the road in front of you, pull over and wait for the storm to pass.Golf carts and convertible cars don’t offer any lightning protection.
Your car may sustain damage to the tires or the electrical system if struck by lightning.

