 A clock is divided into 12 sections. On top of the clock, you will see a "12." To the right of the "12", you will see a "1." If you follow the numbers, going right or "clockwise," they will move from "1" to"12."The numbers marking each sections are the hours.
The sections between numbers are divided into five minute segments. Sometimes, there are tiny lines running along the clock dividing these segments.;
, Clocks have two hands: a little hand and a big hand. The little hand marks the hour. Whichever number it's pointing at is the hour of the day.For example, say the little hand is pointing to "1." This means it's in the one o'clock hour.
 The big hand counts minutes rather than hours. Use it to determine how many minutes it is are into any given hour.When the little hand points to 12, it's the top of the hour. If the big hand was pointed to one, and the little hand was pointing to 12, you would say it's "one o'clock."
Otherwise, multiply the number the little hand points to by "5" to get the minutes. If the little hand is pointing to 3, for example, it's fifteen minutes past the hour. If you don't know how to multiply, add five minutes for every section on the clock. If the hand is pointing to one, it's five minutes past the hour. If the hand's pointing to two, it's ten minutes, and so on.
If the big hand is between numbers, estimate the rough time. For example, if the big hand is halfway between three and four, it's seventeen to eighteen minutes past the hour.
 Once you've found the hour and the minutes, you can tell time. For example, if the little hand is pointed to one and the big hand is pointed to three, it would be one fifteen (or 1:15)., You can't tell AM or PM by reading a clock. You have to know the time of day. From midnight to noon the next day, the time is in AM. From noon to midnight, the time is in PM.For example, say it's early in the morning and the big hand is pointed to nine and the little hand is pointed to twelve. Given the time of day, it's nine o'clock AM.

