 Bach, Mozart, Tchaikovsky, Wagner, and of course Beethoven are great composers to start with. In the way of popular music, the Universal Music Group publishes a series of CD compilations called 20th Century Masters, which accolades "the best of" great modern artists, such as Louis Armstrong and Chet Baker.



 


Read regularly, especially the news and literary classics. Know what is happening in the news (subscribe to and skim through TIME magazine or The Economist) and read contemporary novels geared towards society and your generation. Read poetry and also visit book stores and pick up novels by the great authors. (Tolstoy, Dickens, Hemingway, etc. are all respected but look for things that interest you.)






Get a basic understanding of the visual arts, including painting, sculpture, and architecture. Learn about aesthetics, art theory, criticism, and other related topics. Travel to see famous paintings and buildings in person if you can spare the expense.






Attend presentations of the performing arts, such as theater plays, ballets and operas.






Learn about the art of film. Purchase a movie guide. Rent (and possibly buy) films of all genres. The cable channel Turner Classic Movies generally airs unedited, commercial-free classics, and The Criterion Collection distributes digitally restored DVDs of authoritative motion pictures.






Pick up side interests in other arts that pique your curiosity, such as, for example, culinary art (cooking and cuisine), decorative arts (furniture arrangement), and calligraphy (handwriting).





;
,,,,,,,, If you can't afford a designer sport coat, check out higher-end mall stores which sell tailored, classic looks. Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers and Calvin Klein are good starts. Go with a neutral color.
 Do not break the other person's hand.
 It takes time but being able to pair wines is a well respected talent.
 Try something new when you go to a restaurant. Never order anything cooked over medium!

, If you smoke, do not smoke cigarettes unless others openly are smokers. Consider a cigarette case, but eschew the out-of-place cigarette holder.
 Bodily functions such as flatulence should be conducted as privately as possible; if it is obvious, excuse yourself.
, A good cologne goes a long way, but do not apply too much.
, Excuse yourself to the restroom if you must. Carry a handkerchief if possible. Buy them in packs and carry a clean one every day. Like underwear, these mustn't be reused without washing.
 Make sure not to stare.
, A subtle stroke on the arm or holding her by the small of the back makes the woman feel connected, but be appropriate and use discretion with physical contact.
 Sometimes, a simple vocal exercise in the morning facilitates easier conversation during the day.
 You know which smile of yours looks good and which one is goofy.
 If you have business cards, carry them with you.
 Living as if you are still in college is not manly. (If you are still in college, it's that much more impressive to keep a well-groomed dwelling.)

,


Remove drunken photos and photos that aren't flattering. Also remove photos of friends behaving badly. You can now be guilty by association.
Monitor the post your friends send to you and delete anything that could appear too risqué or inappropriate.
Delete friends that are too provocative, such as the the obviously fake profiles of lingerie-clad women who send friend requests out to thousands of men.
Remove yourself from groups that are no longer appropriate for your new image. Replace them with more social or economic associates.
Adjust your background images and pick something non-offensive and more mature. The same goes for any headlines or positioning statements about yourself.
Remove excessive personal information and never include an annual salary. Misleading information seems immature and it really isn't anyone's business anyway.
 The real movers and shakers will pay higher covers and higher drink prices to be seen with a better class of people.


Instead, get your friends to ditch the casual t-shirts and get dressed up to meet you at higher end locations. Remember, it isn't about getting wasted with your friends anymore, it's about being seen, networking and getting to know other people.
 Your days of getting the most cheap beer for the buck is gone!


Instead of going for low quality domestic beers you should look to nice imported beers or a classic cocktail like vodka tonics, martinis, or a well drink.
Try some different cocktails and find one you like and can sip. Not all bars have a great wine selection so you should have a backup cocktail preference.
As your income increases you can improve your preference to higher quality beverages and top shelf cocktails.
Avoid getting into drinking contest. Shots are for getting very intoxicated quickly. The more sophisticated male will be content with enjoying the beverages and spending time with old friends and making new ones. Hopefully you will even remember these friends and be able to plan future meet ups.
If you're in a place known for an excellent imported beer selection you should try the beer. Ask the bartender or server for their recommendation. If the restaurant is known for wine or their vast collection of quality liquors you should discuss it with someone who knows. Don't be afraid to discuss the menu. Make notes in your phone when you find something you really like.
 You should be a gentleman from within too. Keep your thoughts clean like you clean yourself.

