 Although this method will cost money, it's nothing that 20 dollars won't solve. All that you need to do is find a good book that's already on fantasy or fictional topics. The 'ology' series is a good one. Although they may resemble children's books, they have great titles such as "Dragonology", "Wizardology", "Egyptology", and "Pirateology". You can probably find archives of myths and folklore, or you can pick up just an old book about medieval ages and magical creatures.
 You can get a lot accomplished by simply rebinding an old tattered book with some leather or other material. Give it a good name like Dark Magic 101 or Fire Elements Basics. Then give it a jeweled cover and scribble some names on the inside cover. Then let your imagination take over on the pages, even if it's Moby Dick, you can still make it whatever you want. You can check out Bind a Book.
 If none of the above works try the following to make your own.
 Any good bookstore has a shelf dedicated to journals, notebooks, or planners. Check them out. Look for one that has a cover that fits the theme of your school and has a good amount of pages on the inside. Choose one that has an appropriate size. If it's size is too small then it won't pass for a textbook, but don't go too large or you'll just create more work. Make sure you'll be able to write on the cover with a sharpie too, fabric covers never last anyway.;
, Using a Sharpie or label maker, label the cover of the book with the name you want it to be. Make sure it fits the class it will be in. Remember that a lot of classes will using 101, 102, Basics, or Advanced for titles also. After you have done that, go on to label the spine of the book with the same title as the cover.
 If the pages aren't already numbered, go through with a fine tip sharpie and number each page. You can get creative and use roman numerals too. Don't skip a page or this step will end in ruin. When you get to the end, leaf through it to make sure that it's legible.
 If you've ever seen a textbook, it's likely to have a student name box, using a ruler and pen, create this box. All you need is three columns and a couple rows. Make one column about 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm) and the last two 1 inch (2.5 cm). Label the longest one as 'Student Name'. And the smaller two 'Date Received' and 'Date Returned'.
 Print out pictures or information on dragons or write down recipes for spells. Make the ingredients added in. Write verses to spells or incantations and a dictionary in the back. Throw in assessment questions or study guides scattered throughout the chapters.
