 Some adults may interpret being different as being inferior. Avoid setting up norms of behavior based on how you witnessed the growth of earlier-born children and judge a newborn infant in those terms. If the earlier-born children cried very little at night or was easier to nurse and keep down their nourishment, do not be upset or panic if your new infant behaves the opposite. If you express your concerns through your treatment of the infant, this in turn may affect to the infant's adjustments to postnatal life and can have a tendency to increase the severity of the problems.;
, Whether the child was prematurely born, injured at birth, or was a healthy, full-term infant that continued to lose weight or stay stuck at a plateau with no improvement, such lags can be tackled. Regardless of the cause, as a concern to you, it can affect the way you handle the infant's needs. To keep things in perspective, try the following:


Make sure the mother's milk is adequate and if formula is substituted, that it suits the nutritional needs of the infant.
Stimulate the infant by talking to it, picking it up and rocking it. Exercise the arms and legs regularly at different times of the day. There is a growing evidence that having moving objects to look at, singing and talking helps to overcome some of the developmental lag in vision and hearing., Anxious parents will transmit their anxiety by the way they treat the infant.Feeling that the infant is too delicate to be handled any more than is absolutely essential, this reduced handling will result in a failure to stimulate the infant; this intensifies developmental lag and, in turn, can reinforce the unfavorable parental attitude.
 Parental blues often play havoc with the infant's adjustments to postnatal life. The newborn can sense the tension of the parents, especially that of the mother, and it makes the infant nervous and prone to crying.Look at the other parents. Some people started to build families in spite of very complicated situations. Not every person in the world has a good job. No one is perfect. Everyone has their own capabilities and inabilities. Keep in mind that most families overcome hardships to keep their families stable, despite the hardships.
Remember that fears and worries will never help you. Just do what your instinct tells you and believe that you can take care of your child well. Everything is just a matter of mind-setting and confidence.
Focus on your child. Consider that the infant feels whatever you feel. Every parent wants their child to feel happy and free from negative experiences and the best way to do it is to foster happiness and positivity in yourself first.
 Providing a rich social life is the best thing you can do to guarantee a good mind, especially for twelve- to fifteen-month-old children.It is very important that you show children what they should follow, for the following reasons:


Children may fail to follow all the things that the older ones say, but they will never fail to imitate their actions. The best way to teach children how to be a good person is to always show them what a good person looks and acts like. People who interact daily with children should take full responsibility for their actions.
Contrary to tradition, children do not outgrow undesirable traits as they grow older. Instead, patterns established early in life often persist, regardless of whether they are good or bad, harmful or beneficial.If an undesirable pattern of behavior or unfavorable beliefs and attitudes have started to develop, the sooner they can be corrected, the easier it will be for the child.
Since early foundations quickly develop into habits through repetition, good habits will have a lifelong influence on a child's personal and social adjustments.Because learning and experience play dominant roles in development, they can be directed and controlled so that the development will be along lines that will make good personal and social adjustments possible.
 Attitudes of the parents, siblings, grandparents and other relatives are important not so much for their immediate effects but rather because they are likely to persist beyond the period of infancy when their contacts with the children will increase. Those attitudes, in turn will influence the attitude of your child.
 Rapid development of body control enables the child to sit, stand, walk and manipulate objects, and with this decreased dependency, comes a rebellion against being "babied". If they are not permitted to try to be independent when they want to be, they protest. These protests may take the form of angry outbursts and crying, which can soon develop into negativism., Egocentrism is a common characteristic of babies, which gives way to a desire to become a part of a social group. They may tend to protest when left alone for any length of time and often try to win someone's attention in any way they can. Failing to respond to this cry for attention may cause them to lose confidence and may later on become shy or a loner., Always follow your values and trust your own instincts and conscience as to how to best treat your child. Everything that you do has its effects on your child. By being good, thinking clearly and doing good things, your child will eventually grow good and be a good person too.