 Before you do, increase the line spacing so there is space to write comments. If you print it, take out a pen or pencil. If you don't think you'll have enough space, get some extra lined paper. If the copy you were given is an actual printout (hard copy), make a photocopy or write all your suggestions on another sheet so they can read the original copy in the end. You can also use a highlighter pen, yellow is often good because it does not affect photocopying.;
, If you find a spelling error, circle it or write it down. Spelling is the easiest thing to notice in terms of errors. You can run spell check on a digital copy if unsure or you can look up unknown words in a dictionary. Remember that the spell-check on computers isn't perfect (e.g. they're, there, their).
 Punctuation is a good place to start. If your friend used a comma in the wrong place, for example, take note of it and explain it to them later. If you are not going to see them later or the essay is due before you can really talk to them about it, write why the comma is wrong and what to do about it. Other grammatical things to look for include misplaced words and confusing or run-on sentences and starting sentences with the word but. Again, a computer program or dictionary can help you locate these things if your friend missed them.
 Once you're finished with the grammar check and are positive that the essay is perfectly spelled and organized, read it again for sense! Look at your friend's reasoning and thesis statements. Do they make sense? Can you follow their arguments? Are any points off-topic or difficult to understand? Make notes about this! This part is absolutely the most important since content is usually what scores you the most points on writing assignments. The number one thing to remember about this is to never "change" your friend's writing. Even if it's tempting to put in a synonym you think sounds better or alter the order of a sentence, it is their work and it is in their own voice. If you truly think something they said is wrong/badly explained, perhaps underline it and tell them why it is cloudy or jumbled.
 Before you hastily send it away, read it over, check on your own corrections, and maybe add some compliments! You want your friend to feel like you're looking over their work and kindly nudging it in the right direction, not stabbing it to death with a red pen.


"Nice transitions!" "Fabulous intro!" or "Haha!" at a funny part that you particularly liked can make all the difference in you and your friend's communication about their essay.
 For example, "The Revolutionary War EDITED." Attach both the original and the new to the email and send it to your friend.
 Perhaps you can talk on the phone or IM (outdated, but useful for fast and clear conversations) with them about what you recommend they do to improve their work. If you see them in person, have a talk about your corrections. This is important! If they don't understand what you meant by "synonym wrong!" they can't fix it and you edited it for nothing.
 If they got a good grade, they'll be grateful and your bond will be stronger. You'll also have become a better editor! If they didn't do so well, maybe you can look over what they got wrong with them.
