 A large paint chip is usually the size of a quarter or even larger. Large chips can be the most difficult to repair because the area that you will need to repaint will be more visible. If the chip reaches a few inches in diameter or continues to flake into a larger and larger chip, you will probably need a body shop to repaint the entire body component or even the whole car. Make sure the paint damage is something you can handle with touch up paint before beginning.Touch up paint should only be used on chips in your paint that are smaller than a few inches in diameter.
Do not attempt to apply paint over existing paint that is chipping, as it will flake off and ruin the repair.
 Larger chips are more apt to accumulate debris that you must remove before moving on to the next step. Use your fingers or tweezers to remove any large debris and try blowing on the area or using canned air to remove any sediment. Large chips may result in the surrounding paint flaking. Make sure to remove the paint that flakes, as it is no longer bonded to the metal and will eventually come off anyway – taking your new touch up paint with it. You can use your fingernails, tweezers or a dental pick to remove flakes.Be careful not to remove any good paint from the area surrounding the chip when removing flakes.
Make sure you don’t scratch the good paint with any tools you are using to remove flakes or debris.
 Because large chips expose more metal to moisture, there is an increased risk of rust. Remove rust by applying some CLR to a Q-tip and swabbing the metal. If the rust has penetrated deep enough to create a hole through the door or your Q-Tip penetrates the metal, it means the rust has ruined the body component and cannot be repaired by simply painting over it. A body shop can determine if rust of that magnitude can be removed and repaired or if you will need to replace that component of the body of the car. If there is no deep penetration of rust, simply apply the CLR with different Q-tips until they start coming up clean.Once the Q-tips start coming up clean, wipe the area you applied the CLR to with rubbing alcohol to remove the chemical and any grease or oil that may remain.
Failing to completely remove the rust will result in the new paint you apply flaking off with bits of rust.
Stopping the progress of rust can prevent you from having to pay for expensive repairs to the body of your car in the future.
 Use fine grit sandpaper (2000 grit should suffice without causing further scratches) to round off the edges of the paint around the chip to reduce visibility of the repair. Hard defined paint edges surrounding a large chip can make the repair obvious to the naked eye, but by rounding off the edges you can help the new paint blend with the old more effectively. Do not wet the sandpaper as you might when wet-sanding automotive paint, as this can cause rust to begin to form on the bare metal. Instead use dry sandpaper and replace it often as the paper becomes clogged with paint.Gluing pieces of sand paper to small craft sticks or dowels can help you to control the angle in which you sand, but it is not necessary to complete this step.
Sand the edges of the chip until they are rounded off and less distinct to the naked eye.
Wash the area after sanding it to remove any new sediment.

