 Don’t try to “cram”, or study all the material at one time right before the test, because this has been shown not to help improve your test score. Cramming is also mentally exhausting, so you are better off studying small amounts of material each day for several months before your standardized test. This way, you will build your test-taking skills over a long period of time.


Some middle school students are naturally good test-takers, while others are not. You can speak with your teacher (or ask a parent to speak with your teacher) to find out if she has any personalized suggestions to help you prepare for your standardized test.
Ask your teacher for any tips and tricks for preparing for your standardized test. He may be able to offer you some methods (such as activities, or books, or computer games) that can make your test review more effective and more enjoyable as well.;
, You will want to make sure you know all of the material that was covered by your teacher in each of the different subjects. This should include basic concepts in mathematics and verbal comprehension, including phonics and reading comprehension.Review old concepts while practicing new concepts. You need to review old material that you may have covered in class months before the standardized test is given so that you can refresh your memory. Make review of old class material one of your top priorities.
 Make test review a consistent part of your schedule. Aim to review one to two times a week (or more often if you’d like to have shorter review sessions). If you can, set aside a set period of time at the same time each day. For example, you may want to review from 4:00-4:30 in the afternoon. That way you can come home and have a snack, do your review, and then relax before dinner.


Attempt to schedule these review sessions at a time when you feel that you will best dedicate his or her energy and attention to the task at hand. Don’t try to study very late at night when you might be tired, or right before dinner when you might be very hungry.
 Seeing progress in a visual way will help you feel that this standardized test is manageable.
 The best way to prepare for a standardized test is to practice taking a standardized test. When taking a practice test, you should try to take the test in the most realistic way possible. This means that you shouldn’t take breaks or get up and walk around whenever you feel like it. Instead, you should pretend that this is an actual standardized test. It will help you feel more comfortable with the experience that you will have on the day of the actual test.


Search online for practice tests. A Google search will lead you to example standardized tests and test questions that cover different topics that may be helpful for constructing a practice test. Alternatively, you can ask a parent, friend, or teacher to help make up an appropriate practice test.
Simulate real test taking situations. Standardized tests are strictly time and have instructions that must be followed precisely.When you give practice tests, make sure that you time yourself to make sure that you take the test within the time limit.
Practice answering different question types.This should include multiple choice questions, fill-in-the-blank questions, and questions that follow reading passages. You can read about different strategies for answering each type of question by searching online for test-taking strategies.

For example, you may want to eliminate answers given as options for a multiple choice question that you are certain aren’t true, even if you don’t yet know the correct answer. Simply drawing an “x” through the option or crossing it out will help you remember that you are certain that one answer isn’t true, and will give you a better chance at guessing the right answer.
 Reviewing for a standardized test will probably not be high on the list of things you want to do. In this case, making test review as fun as possible to help ease yourself into test review sessions. Try to start each review session with a small game or use fun study techniques as a motivating tool to review for the standardized test.


Try a quiz-show format.Practice for your standardized test with a friend, parent, or teacher using the same format as in the TV show “Who Wants to be a Millionaire.” To make it extra special, dim the lights and add music to make it a real game show experience! This is a great way to practice multiple choice questions.
Reward yourself. Rewards are an excellent way to review for her standardized test. You can ask your parent to provide a small amount of money or some candy, and keep track of how many rewards you earn for each question you get right on a practice test. Alternatively, you can talk with a parent or guardian abut receiving a larger reward for successfully completing a set number of review sessions each week.
 Remember that the standardized test is supposed to challenge you and make you think about everything you’ve learned so far in school. Try not to get frustrated by the test. Instead, remember that by doing preparation before the test, you are helping yourself to get the best possible score.
 Standardized testing is a little bit different in each state. In addition to covering basic skills, some states will include sections on specific content areas, such as a section about science. Ask your teacher what will be covered on the test, and see if he can make you a list of topics that you should review.


You can also do a Google search for the specific test you will be taking to find out more information about what will be covered on the test. This will form the foundation of your study plan to help with preparation for the upcoming test.
In addition to learning what material will be on the test, make sure you understand the scoring of the test as well. For example, are points taken off the score for a wrong answer or a skipped question? Make sure you the test’s system for scoring so that you know whether it is better to make a guess or leave a question blank., You might want to ask an older sibling, a friend who has already passed through middle school, your parent or guardian, or your teacher about the test. This includes small details, such as what to bring into the test, and larger topics, such as the worries you might have about the test. Talking to someone who has taken the standardized test already can help you feel much less worried and anxious.
 Here are some expert suggestions that will help with test-taking.Always read the directions carefully. Following the directions is an important part of being successful on a standardized test. You should read the directions more than once if you need to.
Read each question more than once. This will ensure that you understand the meaning of the question and don’t get tricked by a confusing sentence structure (which you will probably encounter on a standardized test).
Underline or highlight important words when you read. This can be especially important when you read a long reading comprehension paragraph. Highlight things such as the main focus of the paragraph or key words.
Skip hard questions and come back to them. Doing easy questions first will ensure that you answer as many questions correctly as possible (that is, you won’t run out of time thinking about hard questions and not get the chance to answer easy questions that are later in the test). This is a good strategy for getting the highest score possible on your standardized test.
 Ask your teacher what you may need for the test. Some tools you might need include a pencil, eraser, and calculator. Make sure that you have an adequate supply of any needed equipment before he or she goes to take the standardized test- for example, you don’t want to run out of lead in your pencil during your test.


Avoid the temptation to purchase an overly complex calculator. Make sure you feel comfortable using his or her calculator before going in to the standardized test.
 While your child will likely not want to spend a great amount of time reviewing for his upcoming standardized test, adequate preparation for this test is crucial for success. Being involved with your child’s test preparation will help him to do as well as possible on his upcoming standardized test.


Be available to answer questions. If you child can’t figure out the answer to a question, it will be helpful to him to have you around to help figure out the correct answer. Even if you don’t know the right answer, you can show him how to look it up in a textbook or using an online resource.
Help locate or create practice tests. Practice tests are the best way for your child to prepare for a standardized test. Help him to locate age and school-level appropriate tests online, or make up one for him if you are familiar with his curriculum and with the types of questions he will be asked on the standardized test.
Speak with his teacher if you have any concerns about his academic performance or readiness for this standardized test. As his teacher may be as or more familiar with his academic work and performance in the classroom as you are, he can be a great resource for helping you recognize how much additional preparation your child needs to do for his standardized test.
 Having a good night of sleep the night before (and preferably, the week before) the test and eating a nutritious breakfast the morning of the test will help to ensure that your child has the energy and focus needed to take her standardized test successfully.
 Reassure your child that the standardized test is one part of school, and that he or she will not be judged solely on the result of this test. Many people believe that standardized tests are not a true reflection of intelligence, since individuals vary so greatly in test-taking ability. Ensure your child that as long as he tries his best, you will be proud, and remind him that the scores do not reflect what kind of person he is.
 Listen to your child’s worries and fears about the standardized test, and acknowledge that test-taking stress is real, but remind them that there is nothing to be worried about or fearful of.If possible, put the standardized test in perspective for your child. It is important that they try their very best, but this test is not the most important academic venture they will undertake! Having an open conversation about the stress associated with test taking is an important part of testing success.
 Provide your child with some ideas of ways that he can relax if they start to feel anxious during the test.This can include taking 10 deep breaths, or thinking of a favorite memory or a beloved pet. You can even provide a “secret word” that they associate with something calming or pleasant to help him get through the test.
 Use classroom games as a way to review content that will be covered on the standardized tests. Games will help your students to stay engaged with the review and will work to solidify the information that you worked so hard to teach.Make a game similar to Jeopardy, where you are Alex Trebek and your students are the contestants.If you think that the format of Jeopardy (where the contestant answers in the form of a question) would be confusing to your students (or too difficult for you to create), make each column a different subject (such as grammar, geometry, mathematics, etc.) and ask a different question of increasing difficulty as the prize amounts increase.
 As the week of the test approaches, give your students some “brain breaks.” These can be short sessions which you play games, do art projects, or run around outside. You’ve probably been fitting in as much review time as possible in the past weeks, so as the test date rolls around, allow your students’ brains to have a rest before they are required to perform on the standardized test., No teacher particularly enjoys standardized testing, but it is important not to let your students see what may be your true feelings toward the testing system. Instead, be their cheerleader (extra points if you actually bring in pom-poms and make up a cheer for them!) Get them excited and enthusiastic about the test, remind them of their skills and preparation, and assure them of your confidence in them.


Create a test countdown. Countdown the number of days and hours until the test begins and they get the chance to show everyone how much they have learned over the last year in school.
 Let your students know that they can come and talk to you if they have any concerns about the upcoming standardized test. Offer to listen to questions, anxieties, or worries, and do your best give advice and guidance as the test date approaches. You may find that students you never expected to be concerned about a standardized test are the ones that come to you with worries about their performance.


Provide an opportunity for an open question and answer session at the end of a class period where your students can ask questions or express concerns about the test that might be shared by other students as well. This is a good way to get some of the more common questions out of the way in front of an entire class instead of having to deal with the same question repeatedly.
In addition to an open question and answer session, provide “office hours” during which your students can come talk to you one-on-one about any personal concerns they might have about the test that they do not feel comfortable talking about in front of their whole class. This gives any students who may have a situation such as a learning disability or a personal issue a chance to express any anxiety surrounding the test.
 Incentivize your students to get through their standardized testing by having a reward waiting for them on the other side. Think of a fun activity like a movie in class or a pizza party, so that your students will have something to look forward to at the end of the standardized testing period.

