 Find the company that owns your mortgage and call them.Explain your situation and ask for a loss mitigation packet.


Speak generally. For example, you can say, “Hi. I’m Dianne Smith and I have a mortgage with you for my home. I’ve lost my job and can’t make payments anymore. I’d like to look into a deed in lieu of foreclosure.”;
, You’ll need to show the bank many financial documents, which you should gather as soon as possible. For example, find the following:recent tax returns
proof of all income, such as two recent paystubs or a profit-and-loss statement
proof of monthly debt payments for car loans, student loans, and credit cardslist of monthly expenses
two recent statements for all bank accounts
mortgage statement

, You’ll only qualify for loss mitigation if you have suffered a hardship beyond your control. For example, the following are common hardships that cause people to fall behind on their mortgage payments:lost job
reduced income
illness
medical expenses
death of a spouse
divorce
natural disaster (such as an earthquake, landslide, tornado, etc.)
adjustable rate mortgage that increases

, You’ll need to submit one of these documents to your lender as part of your application.Your lender may have a printed affidavit form that will ask you to check off certain boxes.Alternately, you might need to draft a letter in which you summarize your hardship. If you are struggling financially, explain how this is likely a long-term hardship.A nice touch is to mention how drawn-out and expensive the foreclosure process can be., Although you want to go ahead with the deed in lieu of foreclosure, you should at least consider your other options. Talk to the loss mitigation department about other options such as short sales, forbearances, and loan modifications.


You can also meet with a HUD counselor to discuss your options. Find a HUD-approved counselor here: https://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hcc/hcs.cfm. Click on your state.
You may be eligible for the deed-for-lease program if Fannie Mae owns your mortgage. Under this program, you can stay in the home for up to 12 months and lease it at the market rate., Go over your paperwork and check to make sure the information is complete and accurate. Then make a copy for your records. Mail the application and copies of supporting documents to the address provided.
 After you submit an application, the bank will order a broker’s price opinion, which determines the fair market value of your property.Look at this opinion closely. It will determine whether the bank can sue you after accepting the deed.


For example, you might owe $200,000 on the house. If the fair market value is only $150,000, then the bank may want to sue you for the difference--$50,000. It can seek a “deficiency judgment.”
However, if the house is worth $220,000, then there is no reason for the bank to sue you.
 Before negotiating with the bank, you’ll want to know your state’s laws on a bank seeking a deficiency judgment after accepting a deed in lieu of foreclosure. Washington, for example, prevents banks from seeking deficiency judgments.You can find your state’s law online or by meeting with a HUD approved-counselor or private attorney.
 Historically, banks used to relieve borrowers of any deficiency after accepting a deed in lieu of foreclosure. However, more and more banks are suing today for the deficiency amount. You need to negotiate an agreement with the bank that they won’t sue you for any deficiency.


Have solid reasons why the bank shouldn’t sue you. For example, you may have no money. If the bank sues you, they won’t get anything because you have no valuable property they can foreclose on.
 Consider the following. Hammer out an agreement with your lender before agreeing to sign your deed over:


Ask the lender not to report negative information to the national credit bureaus.If they report a foreclosure, it can stay on your credit report for years.
Choose a date when you need to leave the property. You may need to leave the home immediately after transferring the deed, or you might be able to stay for several months.
 Realize that the bank has most of the leverage in negotiations: they don’t have to take your property from you. Accordingly, you’ll benefit from an attorney’s expert advice if the bank resists your proposals.


You can find an attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral to a real estate attorney.Call up the attorney and schedule a consultation. Ask how much they charge.
 Some lenders will require that you try to sell your home for the fair market value before they will go ahead with a deed in lieu of foreclosure.If this is a requirement, you should make your best efforts to sell.


Get your home close to move-in condition. This means fixing obvious hazards, such as exposed wires, holes in the floor, and rickety stairs. But it also means giving your home a thorough clean and possibly a fresh coat of paint.
Commit to reaching potential buyers. You can work with a real estate agent, but that costs money. Instead, think of advertising online at websites such as Craigslist. You can also put up fliers at your local grocery store and library.
You probably can’t negotiate with buyers if the bank wants you to sell the house at market value. However, document your efforts to sell your house. You want to show the bank that you tried your best to find a buyer.
 Generally, a bank will accept a deed in lieu of foreclosure only if there are no other liens on the property, such as a second mortgage, mechanic’s lien, tax lien, etc. If you have other liens, your bank might give you a chance to pay them off and have them removed.


An exception exists if the same bank happens to own the other lien on the property.
This can be a complicated process. You’ll need to call up the person with the lien and negotiate payment. Then you must confirm that they have released the lien by filing appropriate paperwork.
 This document will explain whether or not the bank is reserving the right to seek a deficiency judgment against you. Accordingly, you should read it carefully and not sign until you agree with the terms of the agreement.You want the document to say the transaction is “in full satisfaction of the debt” or that the bank agrees not to sue you for a personal judgment.Show this document to your lawyer if you don’t understand it. You only want to sign if you agree with everything in the affidavit.
 This document transfers the property from you to the bank.The bank should prepare this document, though you can show it to your lawyer as well.


The deed in lieu of foreclosure process takes about 90 days to complete., You shouldn’t trash the house or leave it in terrible condition. Although you don’t need to do a total rehab to your home, you should do the following before leaving:remove debris
clear out all trash, inside and out
perform basic repairs, such as fixing holes in the floors and walls
remove all personal belongings

