 Make a decision based on experience, education, and career goals. There are three main levels of dental assistants in Texas: a qualified, registered, and certified dental assistant. However, according to the Commission on Dental Accreditation, there are no formal education requirements to enter into the dental assistant profession. If you have no experience or professional degree, then you can begin at the entry level by getting on-the-job training under the supervision of a dentist. At this level, assistants cannot use much of the equipment and no credential is awarded.
Regardless of whether you start at the entry level or have higher aspirations, Texas requires dental assistants at every level to receive on-the-job training and to successfully pass a hands-on practical examination performed on a typodont (a model of the oral cavity, including teeth, gingival, and the palate used for practice before performing procedures on live patients).
 This class is available on-line and covers the procedures for positioning and exposing dental x-rays, jurisprudence, and infection controls. These classes typically are conducted over the internet, on the weekend, or short term, but do not usually include on-the-job training.
Once you complete this course successfully, you can apply for a certificate to become a Registered Dental Assistant (RDA). This certificate officially permits the expanded responsibilities of taking dental x-rays and assisting the dentist in laboratory work.
 Most job advertisements will seek to employ dental assistants that have one to two years of experience or a qualified education substitute. By going to college, you can earn an associate degree or an accredited certificate. Once completed, graduates can become a Certified Dental Assistant (CDA) after passing an exam. A dental assisting certificate is often a one-year program that trains students how to assist with treating and caring for patients. Oftentimes, in addition to the standard requirements, schools will provide hands-on clinical training. Once the program is completed, students often take the Dental Assisting National Board exam (DANB) to earn a certificate as a CDA.
An Associate degree in Applied Science in Dental Hygiene is another option. Since this is a degree and not a certificate, it’s a multi-credited program that goes beyond the basics of becoming a dental assistant. The curriculum often focuses on preventative dental hygiene, periodontology, radiology, and oral pathology to train students in the basic performance of dental procedures. These classes prepare students to take the National Board of Dental Examination opening the door to ultimately register as a dental hygienist. 