 An extended-reach lighter, also called a wander lighter, is used to light hard-to-reach places, like the pilot light in your oven. The fluid resevoir inside an extended-reach lighter is very similar to a normal BIC lighter. You can modify a regular bic lighter slightly and use it as a replacement reservoir for an extended wand lighter. This may be cheaper than purchasing a new lighter each time your extended-wand lighter runs out of fluid. To start, gather your materials. You will need the following:


A new bic lighter
A Philips head and flat blade screwdriver

, A single screw holds an extended-reach wand lighter together. Remove this screw. This will allow you to open the lighter. If the screw does not come out immediately after you unscrew it, gently tap the lighter against a flat surface so it falls out. Make sure to keep the screw in a safe place, as you'll need to reinsert it later.
 This will break the seal holding the case together. Once you've broken the seal, you can open the extended-reach lighter slightly, allowing you to remove the canister.
 Reach into the extended wand lighter. Remove a small device that looks like a regular bic lighter. This is the fluid reservoir.
 You will need to modify your bic lighter first before inserting it into the extended wand lighter. You can disassemble the lighter with your fingers.Remove the windscreen. This is the metal casing circling the top of the lighter.
Remove the flint wheel. This is the bumpy, circular part you press your thumb against when lighting the lighter. You should also remove the spring tip and flint, which are attached to the wheel. Once you pull the wheel out of the lighter, these parts should come out as well.
Remove the fork, which is the plastic part, often colored red, lining the tip of the lighter. You press down on the tip of the fork when lighting a lighter. You should also remove the spring and jet off the lighter. These are two long devices, one metallic and the other a spring, sticking into two holes in the canister of the lighter. You should be able to see the spring and jet easily once you remove the fork.
 Just as you disassembled the new lighter, you can disassemble the fluid reservoir. The fluid reservoir should have a fork spring as well, although it may be lightly colored, with a spring and jet underneath. You’ll see that they are very similar, but that the jet from the extended-reach lighter is slightly longer.
 Now, you can modify the new lighter. Place the fork and spring into the two holes on top of the old lighter. Then, snap the fork on top of the new lighter.
 Make sure that the button is in line with the trigger of the case. In other words, make sure you can draw an imaginary line running from the extended wand lighter's trigger to the button, found on the edge of the fork, of the new lighter. Check that the lighter works, and then you can reseal the lighter.
 Reinsert the screw you removed in the beginning back into the outside case of the lighter. You may want to run a line of acrylic or superglue along the edges of the lighter to reseal it further.







