 Sometimes your peers will try to convince you to do something you don’t want to. For example your friends may want you to skip school, have sex, or try alcohol or drugs. Don’t let it stress you. Instead, ignore their attempts and stick to what you believe is right.For instance, if your friend wants you to go to a party where you know there will be beer, you can say, “No. I’m not going. I’m too young and that’s trouble waiting to happen.”
If someone is pressuring you to have sex when you're not ready, then let them know that you aren’t interested and they need to drop the subject.
You might calmly say, “I’m not doing that and, really, I’m not even talking to you about that.”;
, You know the rumors aren’t true and the people who really know you and care about you won’t believe the rumors, either. Don’t waste your time getting stressed about it, just hold your head up and keep doing you.Remind yourself that you can't control what other people say and do, and if people are going to talk and gossip, there's little you can do to change that. Spending time worrying about something over which you have no control is just going to exhaust you, stress you out, and ultimately accomplish nothing.
When you can, just ignore it when someone says something about the rumor. They are probably just trying to stress you. Don’t let them.
If you feel you need to address it, then it’s okay to calmly explain that the rumor is not true.
For example, you might say, “No, that’s just a silly rumor. I didn’t eat 12 ice cream cones.”

, It can be hard when your friend has done something wrong, has been hurt in some way, or is hurting themselves.You can deal with this stressful situation if you support your friend and ask for help with the situation.


Listen to your friend and let them know that you care and want to help them out.
You might say, “I feel bad that you are going through this and I want to help you with this situation.”
Even if your friend asks you not to, it will be less stressful for you and more helpful for your friend if you ask an adult you trust to help with the situation.
Tell your friend, “I think we should let someone who can help us know what is going on.”
You can even talk to an adult without using your friend’s name, if you need to. For example, “Mrs. Carter, can I to talk to you about a friend who’s hurting himself?”

, There will be times that your teacher, principal, or even your parents stress you out. They may be nagging you about grades, getting onto you about something you did (or didn’t do), or just being generally annoying. You may want to ignore them, walk away, or say something smart, but that will just get you in trouble. You can deal with authority figures stressing you out in school by staying calm and respectful instead.


Listen to what they are saying to you. There may be something useful in what is being said.
You can tell them that they are stressing you by saying something like, “I’m sorry, but this situation is really stressing me out right now.”
Take a few deep breaths to calm yourself down and remember that adults are here to help you.
If you need to respond to a question or explain something, then don’t interrupt, keep your tone calm, and remember to say "excuse me," "please," and "thank you."
For example, if your teacher yelled at you for talking when you didn't, you could say, “Excuse me, Mrs. Peters, it wasn’t me talking.”

, Although having a boyfriend or girlfriend can be fun, it can also be stressful when you are also trying to balance school. Don’t feel rushed or pressured to be in a relationship. Just take your time, focus on school, and focus on having fun when you do get into a relationship.


Learn to set boundaries when in a relationship. This means defining — first for yourself, then communicating to the other person — what you are and are not willing to accept in a relationship. You can set physical boundaries (such as what you are ready to do sexually); boundaries about your time (making sure the other person knows you have softball practice on weekdays and must study afterwards, so you can only hang out on weekends); boundaries about behavior (if the person insults you or becomes abusive in any way, you will end the relationship); and so on.
Make your boundaries clear to the other person. If they continually violate your boundaries or pressure you to do things you have stated you will not do, then you can feel confident that this person is not respectful and is not a very good partner.
You never have to be in a relationship with someone just because they, or anyone else, wants you to. For instance, don't go out with someone you don't like just because all your friends are coupled up and you feel left out.
Make sure that being in a relationship doesn’t interfere with getting your schoolwork done. Learning to prioritize is an important skill that you can practice now.
While you may want to talk to the person for hours each night, ask yourself if this is really necessary. Focus on the quality of the time you spend together rather than the quantity. For instance, send a sweet, heart-felt text as opposed to spending hours texting about nothing.
 Spend some time with your friends and classmates outside of school. Being around people you can talk to, who support and encourage you, will help you handle a lot of the stressful situations you deal with in school.


Hang out with people that make you feel good about yourself and encourage you to be a better person.
Get to school or class a little early so that you can chat a bit with your friends and classmates.
Spend time with your peers doing activities or something not related to school. For example, you could meet one of your friends from class for coffee or tea, go for a bike ride together, or take a pottery class.
Make sure you are socializing at the right time. During class or other quiet times is not the right time and can get you in trouble.

