 A boil typically appears as a red, firm bump on your skin. Over time, it can increase in size and eventually form a head, meaning that the top surface becomes filled with pus, which can be very painful. The boil can break open, draining and weeping pus.


The pus is a mixture of blood cells, bacteria, and fluids., There are a number of different types of boils. Furuncles occur in hair follicles and can have more than one opening onto the skin. These may be associated with chills and a fever and can become chronic problems. You may also develop a carbuncle, which is generally larger than furuncles and can also become chronic. Carbuncles can also form hardened lumps under the skin. Cystic acne is both a type of acne and a type of boil that is associated with more severe forms of acne.


Other forms of boils include hidradenitis suppurativa, which occurs when there are many boils forming in the underarms and in the groin. This is an inflammatory condition of sweat glands. Hidradenitis suppurativa is resistant to antibiotics and often requires surgery to remove the affected sweat glands.
You may also get pilonidal cysts, which are relatively uncommon and result from an inflamed hair follicles located at the top of the buttock crease. Pilonidal cysts can occur after long periods of sitting., Boils are most often the result of infections with the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus, though other bacteria and fungi can result in boils. MRSA can cause boils as well. If your boil is not healing well or if you get recurring infections, talk to your physician to determine if MRSA or another bacterium is the cause of the boils or if your immune system is suppressed. Boils can be found anywhere on the body but are most commonly found on the face, neck, armpit, buttocks, and inner thighs.Boils can happen to anyone at anytime. There are also some other factors that can increase your risk. These include:


Caring for or having close contact with someone with a boil or a Staph infection.
Diabetes can suppress the immune system and can lead to increased risks of infections.
Any condition resulting in a suppressed immune system.
Other skin conditions that weaken the barrier function of the skin, which can include eczema, psoriasis, and acne., Boils are most commonly diagnosed by appearance and can be medically treated by lancing them, which is when a doctor pokes a hole in the top of the pus-filled head of the boil and drains the pus.


Topical or oral antibiotics may be used in some cases, though most often, draining the boil is sufficient for healing to begin. Antibiotic treatment is usually reserved for large boils or for those that last longer than two to three weeks.
Medical treatment may also be necessary if the boil is on the face or spine, is particularly painful, or if it is associated with a fever. , Although boils are mostly benign, there are other issues that can be associated with boils, especially if they are left untreated. In rare cases, the infection associated with a boil can spread causing infections in the brain, heart, bones, blood, and spinal cord.


They should not be ignored, especially if they are recurring. , There are some situations where you need to see a doctor. Make sure you see your physician if the natural remedies recommended do not help within two to three weeks, if you are running a fever, if the boil is very painful or limits movement or sitting, if the boil is on your face, or if you feel over-fatigued.


Also seek medical help if, during home treatment of boils, you see reddish streaks coming from the boil, if it gets worse, or another boil develops. This is particularly important because of the recent rise in antibiotic resistant infections that may require more intensive medical care.