 The company may give you the freedom to choose a topic; however, you should consider narrowing down your options in reference to the position you are applying for. If you are being considered for a position in customer services, you may choose to write on how to handle a disgruntled customer.


Read the topic you have been given, if the company selects a topic for you. Some companies may give you a topic. In this scenario, you are required to read and understand the topic as thoroughly as possible. Your essay should be highly professional and in complete alignment to you career and background.
You should be mindful to not include your personal life elements such as your age, medical condition (if any) etc, since by doing so, you are leading the employer to make unintentional judgments even before meeting you in person.;
, Once you have read the topic or selected a topic to write about, consider what the company is hoping to learn about you through your application essay. At this stage in the application process, employers are generally looking for people who match the criteria in their person specification and people who can follow instructions.


Job application essays are like a secret code; you may be the perfect person for the role but if you don’t write your supporting statement correctly, you will never be shortlisted for an interview. The key is to make it as easy as possible for the employer to see you have the relevant skills for the job.
 It isn’t recommended that you use the exact verbatim of the company’s mission statement but your job application essay, regardless of the topic you are given or that you choose for yourself, should have a few ingredients that blend well with the personality of the company.


For example, if the company you are applying to is all about making the world a greener, more eco-friendly place, you should discuss experiences you have had while working to protect the environment, as well as the skills you refined during those experiences.
 It is extremely important that you structure your essay well by making an outline prior to starting the actual writing. It should have a proper introduction, body and a conclusion.


Ideally the starting and ending portion should not be more than a paragraph or two. The body of the job application essay should follow the requirements and length that the company requires, if they give you instructions. If the instructions mention to include a specific number of examples pertaining to the any particular scenario, you should follow the specific directions.
 There should be clear and concise statements instead of vague phrases. By ensuring clarity, you will put your potential employer in a position to assess the magnitude of your performance. They will also be able to predict your future performance to a certain extent.


Example of a vague statement: I am a very good employee and I love to work.
Example of a clear and concise statement: I showed the love for my work by serving as the project lead of my previous company’s problem solving initiative. I developed a cross functional team that worked to devise a leadership development program that had the element of problem solving as a key performance indicator which earlier wasn’t a part of performance criteria.
 Begin by writing a draft based on the outline you have created. Try to touch upon every skill or requirement that the company has deemed important for a person hoping to get this position should have.


Remember to give plenty of examples that reflect just how perfect you are for the position you are applying for.
 Once you have written your first draft, give it to someone to read over as if they were your potential employer. Ask them whether or not they think your essay reflects the skills and experiences that the company is looking for.


Make the revisions that your proofreader recommends.
Reading the essay out loud may also help you to identify any awkward sentences or grammatical errors you made while writing. Correct any mistakes you find.

