 You will need two different pieces of fabric, each 1 meter (1.09 yards) long. Choose two different colors or patterns that work well together. Great fabric choices include knit jersey (t-shirt fabric), flannel, and cotton.

Consider using a print for one side and a solid color for the other.
 Fold the fabric in half from top to bottom first. Then, fold it in half again from side to side.Do this step for both pieces of fabric.
 Pin some string to the corner where all folds meet. Measure 20 inches (50 centimeters) and tie the string around a dressmaker's pen or pencil. Use the string like a compass to draw an arc from corner to corner.Do this step for both pieces of fabric.
 Use a sharp pair of fabric scissors to do this, and be sure to cut through all layers of fabric. Cut the two circles out separately. Do not attempt to cut through both pieces of fabric at once; it will be too thick. Discard the scraps or save them for another project.

Keep your scissors at a slight angle and make smaller cuts. It will take longer, but your circle will be neater in the end., Pin one of your fabric circles to the batting of your choice. Make sure that the right side of the fabric is facing up. Use a sharp pair of scissors to cut around the batting. Do not remove the pins just yet., Make sure that the right side of the fabric circle is facing up, and the edges are aligned. Use a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance., Set your second circle down with the right side facing up. Measure out your desired trim, and pin it around the circle. Make sure that the trim's edges are aligned with the circle's edges, and that the fancy part is facing inwards. It may look weird now, but when you are down sewing, the fancy part will be sticking out., Use a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Be sure to remove the pins as you sew., Place the first circle down on the floor, right side up and batting side down. Place the second circle down on top of it, right side down. Make sure that the edges match up and that the trim is tucked inside. Pin the circles together.

It may look weird at the moment, but the batting will be on the inside once you turn the circle inside out.
 Use a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Leave a 3 to 4-inch (8 to 10-centimeter) gap for turning. If you'd like, you can go over the edges again with a zigzag stitch, but don't go over the gap. Be sure to remove the pins as you sew.If you are using jersey knit fabric, use a ball point needle. This will prevent the needle from pulling on the fabric and breaking the thread., If you'd like a neater finish, cut notches into the hem all the way around the circle every couple of inches/centimeters. This will help reduce buckling and bulk., Focus on the edges of the circle, and try to avoid the fringe. When you reach the gap, tuck the hem inside; secure it with sewing pins if needed. Be sure to use a setting suitable for the type of fabric you are working with., Sew ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeter) from the edge of the circle (where the trim begins). This time, go over the gap that you made. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing so that the stitching doesn't come undone.