 Identify the place you would like to visit based on the purpose and interests. Try to identify nearby places of interest. Plan the activities that you will undertake at those places.;
, Plan the days required for completing the travel related activities taking into consideration the down time to rejuvenate and relax. Calculate the total number of days required to travel from your home base to the destination and back. Do include the time for any delays in the transportation. Make a list identifying the day and time you would be spending traveling, staying at the hotel, visiting local places of interests. Calculate the amount required for traveling to your destinations.
 If traveling by train or planes do make the bookings at least 2 months in advance for getting confirmed tickets and early bird discounts. Ensure there is a break of at least 4 hours each between multiple forms of transportation (like plane > train > bus) so that any delays can be handled as much as possible.
 Visit multiple hotel booking sites depending upon the price range and the traveler reviews to identify the best option for your stay. Ideally a 3 star and above hotel provides most of the comforts and cleanliness desired

, Keep one copy with a family member and carry 2 copies with you.
 Make a folder containing the tickets, reservations, photo identification xerox along with the original

, It is always advisable to carry general medications in addition to your regular medication for any travel related emergencies such as antacids, anti inflammatory tablets, band aids, tablets to control a stomach upset, pain relief gels, hand sanitizers, tissue papers, hand towels, etc

, The number of clothes should roughly equal the number of days you are traveling. Pack 2 additional clothes in case of any emergency. Carry as few accessories as possible. Always ensure there is extra space in the luggage for the return journey and the souvenirs. Carry an emergency light, phone with roaming facilities and battery charger always. Pack some emergency money in a separate place.
 Ensure you confirm the place of boarding the transportation and the time of boarding at least 2 days in advance. Ensure that the vehicle driver phone number and vehicle numbers are noted down and sent via sms to a family member prior to boarding.
 Do pack some snacks and a bottle of water for the journey in case outside food is unavailable.
