 While superior technique may give you the ability to beat a larger opponent, having good physical fitness is also critical. Make sure to weight train to build up your muscle. Work on your cardio and endurance by doing drills, running, swimming, or biking. If you are in a prolonged fight, it’s important that you have the endurance to overcome your opponent.


Building muscle and building strength are two different things. Concentrate on building strength by doing a greater amount of reps with smaller weight.
10-15 reps per set is a good starting point for those trying to build strength.Read how to Bench-Press, Do-Bicep-Curls, and Do-a-Squat to learn the most common strength building exercises.
 Calisthenic exercise is exercise that’s performed without any gym equipment and uses your own body-weight as resistance. This is a great alternative for those who can’t get to the gym, or want to get stronger while they are at home. Try to drill and chain your calisthenic exercise together in order to simultaneously work out your cardio and endurance.


Calisthenic exercise increases your lean muscle and improves mobility, flexibility and strength.Some of the most common exercises include pull ups, squats, push ups, lunges, and crunches., Staying physically active or joining a sports team will ensure that you maintain good health, thereby equipping you with the tools to defeat a strong man. Doing this in conjunction with working out will allow you to be physically fit enough to beat a strong man.


Doing a physical activity or participating on a sports team can boast a variety of other health benefits like an improved cardiovascular system and can prevent chronic diseases like cancer, diabetes, and hypertension.Being on a team may motivate you further than if you were working out alone.
Some physical activities include rock climbing, dance, or hiking.
You can join a community baseball or flag football team to stay active.
 If you’re totally new to working out, a personal trainer may be able to assist you in developing a meaningful training program. Many personal trainers have trained for years themselves, and have knowledge over a variety of different types of workouts.A physical trainer may also be able to give you a better eating regimen so you can build strength and increase how much energy you have when you’re working out.

