 Whiteheads are small, white bumps on the surface of the skin. They are usually the least severe type of acne, but may also occur alongside other types. Whiteheads and other acne breakouts can have a variety of causes. Understanding how whiteheads form can help you decide on treatment.


Hormonal changes in the body, such as those that occur during puberty, pregnancy, and menopause, can cause breakouts. Nearly 85% of people between the ages of 12 and 24 develop acne of some sort. Changes in medication such as hormonal birth control and certain psychiatric drugs can also trigger a breakout.
Excessive sebum production contributes to whiteheads and other types of acne. Sebum is an oily substance produced in hair follicles that can cause whiteheads and other acne breakouts when too much is absorbed by your skin. Most of the hair follicles on your body produce sebum, so it is possible to get whiteheads on other areas of your skin besides your face.
Some people are more genetically likely to develop whiteheads. Caucasians are more likely than people of other races to develop whiteheads and other acne, and the tendency to get whiteheads can also be passed down in families.
Whiteheads have many causes, not all of which you can treat on your own. If your skin does not respond to at-home treatments, it's best to see a doctor even if your condition isn't severe. You may have other underlying health issues that are contributing to your whiteheads.
 If you've been treating your whiteheads at home and haven't seen improvement after 4-8 weeks of using topical medication, it is probably time to reassess your situation. The American Academy of Dermatology has an online guide to help you understand your acne symptoms, but this should not replace professional advice.
 If your whiteheads are severe or do not respond to home treatment methods, your general practitioner can prescribe both oral and topical prescriptions that are stronger than over-the-counter medications. These usually work in a few weeks. If your whiteheads continue to be a problem, talk to your physician about getting a referral to see a dermatologist.

Your general practitioner can prescribe medications that also include antibiotics to decrease the presence and growth of acne-causing bacteria (P. acnes) on your skin. Some common oral antibiotics include erythromycin, tetracycline and derivatives, and (for women) oral contraceptives. Your doctor may also prescribe topical antimicrobials such as benzoyl peroxide or azelaic acid.Some health insurance programs in the US require a physician's referral for you to see a dermatologist, and dermatologists are usually more expensive than visiting your general practitioner. To avoid surprise costs, check with your health insurance provider before scheduling a visit.
 Topical retinoids are derived from vitamin A and unclog pores, which helps to clear whiteheads and prevent them from recurring. Minor side effects like skin irritation may occur, and some of them (such as tazarotene) should not be taken by pregnant women..

Some over-the-counter skin creams contain retinoids, but your doctor can prescribe prescription-strength topical medications that are specifically for fighting whiteheads and other acne. It’s best to seek a physician’s advice.
 If your whiteheads do not respond to at-home or general prescription treatments, you will need to visit a dermatologist. You should also visit a dermatologist if you find acne nodules or cysts. Nodules are hard, raised bumps under the skin, and cysts are blocked pores that are usually large, red, and sore to the touch.Both can cause permanent scarring if left untreated by a professional.

A dermatologist has many treatment options that are not available for at-home treatment. In addition to topical and oral medications, your dermatologist may recommend laser treatments, chemical peels, or even surgical procedures, depending on the severity of your acne problem., Your dermatologist can physically remove whiteheads and blackheads using a sterile extraction device to dislodge the material clogging the pores. They may also provide a microdermabrasion peel to help remove dead skin and open smaller clogged pores.You should never try to remove whiteheads on your own. Squeezing, picking, popping, or using an at-home extraction device on your own can worsen your whitehead problem because it may force the contents of the whitehead further into the skin. Attempting to extract whiteheads at home can also cause serious infection and result in permanent scarring., Isotretinoin is a prescription medication that works by reducing your body’s production of facial oil (sebum), one of the substances responsible for clogged pores that cause whiteheads.It also reduces inflammation and the presence of the skin bacteria P. acnes.In about 85% of patients with severe acne, isotretinoin treatments produce permanently clear skin in 4 to 5 months.

Isotretinoin goes by the brand names Absorica®, Accutane®, Amnesteem®, Claravis®, Myorisan®, Sotret®, and Zenatane™. It is also available in generic form and is usually administered orally.Isotretinoin has some possible severe side effects, such as the development of inflammatory bowel disease or psychiatric disturbance, that present potential risks. It is likely only to be prescribed in severe cases.Because of the severity of some side effects, people who are prescribed isotretinoin must enroll in the ipledge™ program created by the FDA. Among other things, women who take isotretinoin must not become pregnant, and they should not begin isotretinoin treatments while pregnant. People taking isotretinoin should also not donate blood while being treated and should stay out of the sun., Even oral and topical whitehead treatments prescribed by a medical professional take time to work. Comedo extraction is faster, but also rather expensive. In all cases, you will need to continue to maintain your treatments in order to keep your skin clear.

