 Try to be punctual for your appointment. Your dog will notice your stress if you are running late, which will increase its anxiety. However, you do not want to be too early and sit in the waiting room for an extended amount of time. This increases the likelihood that your vulnerable animals will catch some illness at the vet’s office.Try to get the clinic 10 to 15 minutes before your appointment.
 When you get to the veterinarian, make sure that you have your dog’s full health records. This includes all of its immunizations and past medical conditions. You should also be prepared to explain your dog’s diet. This is particularly important for gauging the health of your nursing mother dog.You should also let the staff know if your dog has a history of being aggressive. If your dog is aggressive, she may need to be restrained and/or muzzled.
 While the veterinarian is examining your animal, you should ask questions about the health of the mother and the pups. This is the time to bring out the list of questions that you wrote earlier. You should also ask the veterinarian questions in the moment and respond to their inquiries about the delivery and the health of the animals.Ask things like “When should I get the pups vaccinated?” “When should I spay the mother dog?” "How can I keep the puppies healthy?" "When should I start transitioning the puppies to puppy food?" "What kind of puppy food should I feed them?" "Does my mother dog require additional walks?" and "How can I keep my dog's nipples healthy?"

, After the visit, you should arrange for follow-up visits. If your animals are in poor health, your vet may want to do a follow-up to see how they are doing. Your puppies will also need to get a series of vaccinations once they reach 6 weeks. In addition, unless you are a professional breeder, you will likely want to arrange to get the mother dog spayed. Talk with the veterinarian and the clinic staff about scheduling these appointments.Once your puppies reach 6 weeks, it is important that you get them immunized. A puppy’s immune system is particularly weak and vulnerable to a number of dangerous illnesses.
 If your vet does give your dog a medication, ask them how to administer it and how it will affect your dog. Find out when you should call the vet if you're having trouble getting your dog to take the medication and what side effects you should watch for.

Ask "What's the best way to get my dog to take her medicine?" "How do I know that my dog's condition is worsening instead of improving?" and "Can my dog still nurse while she's taking the medication?"
Ask when to come in for a follow-up exam.

