 One of the best ways to encourage others is to offer genuine praise. When you see something positive in other people, let them know. Praise is a great way to reinforce positive change, because when people feel good about themselves, they are encouraged to do good as well. Positive praise creates motivation and helps sustain motivation.


You might say, “I’ve noticed that your writing has really improved, Samantha. What’s your secret?” or “I admire the effort you’re putting into learning the violin, Jeremy.”

, Encouragement shouldn’t consist of blanket statements that you toss out to anyone who’s willing to listen. Offer genuine praise that relates to the individual and where they are in the change process.For instance, if someone is just beginning a new behavior, you should focus on highlighting any positive benefits. Say, “Jose, I can tell that you are really committed to raising your math grade. Great job!”
Once they are further along in the change process, you might begin to offer negative feedback, too. This is effective because people are less likely to be motivated by total positive messages as they get closer to reaching a goal. They need some constructive criticism to help them better refine the behavior.
 A common approach to giving constructive criticism is sandwiching the negative statement between two positive statements. Some experts believe this negates a person’s ability to learn from criticism. The helpful feedback is often lost by the padding around it. Instead when you do offer negative feedback, wrap it using five basic ingredients.The context: “I was reviewing your progress over last the few weeks and trying to see how I can better train you.”

The observation: “I noticed that you haven’t shown much improvement in weight-lifting since our last update.”

Your feelings: “I am surprised because I thought you had gotten the hang of the workouts.”

The value statement: “It’s important to me that you reach your fitness goals.”

The suggestion: “We can revise your plan to better suit your current fitness level or increase the number of trainings per week. Let me know how I can help.”

, As you cheer on others in their behavior change, be sure to urge them to dream big. Developing lofty goals helps people dismiss any shortcomings and increase their self-motivation. However, you should also encourage the person to create smaller, short-term goals, too.


Sit down with them and help them map out both small and big SMART goals. Such goals are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound.
In the midst of working towards larger, long-term goals, the completion of short-term goals helps build momentum and boost self-confidence.