 Ask around your personal network to find friends, family, coworkers, or neighbors who study a martial art. Look online to find a local martial arts center or YMCA that offers adult classes. Look for an instructor who has proven experience working with people in your specific age group.Take the time to learn about particular martial art forms. Decide your priorities, like learning self defense or improving concentration, and find out what’s available in your area.  
Before enrolling in a class, consult with an instructor about which options might be best for your particular state of health and goals.
Ask potential instructors about their background, training priorities, how long they’ve been teaching, and how they’ve put self defense into practice. Look for a trainer who fits your personal goals. For example, if self defense is a priority, go for an instructor who stresses defense, has a solid history of tournament competition, and demonstrated combat experience.;
, When choosing the best martial art to learn, keep your current physical condition in mind. For older adults who aren’t used to strenuous exercise, tai chi offers health benefits without putting too much stress on the body. It involves slow, deliberate movements and deep breathing, and classes are typically available in most areas.Tai chi can improve joint health, flexibility, concentration, coordination, stress management, and aerobic health.Since it’s non-competitive and low impact, it might not be the best choice if self defense is a priority or if you’re at a higher level of fitness.
 Kung fu focuses on balance and incorporates relaxation techniques, so it’s a great way to improve coordination and concentration. It’s not the best choice if you have slow reflexes, since it primarily incorporates rapid strikes and quick forward motions.While it’s great for the forearms and upper body, it doesn’t involve many kicks. If you’re looking for a full body workout, you might want to consider another option.
 Muoy Thai is a form of kickboxing, and includes knee, elbow, fist, and foot strikes. It might be a good choice if you’re at a higher fitness level and flexible to begin with, and is a demanding, full body endurance test.Once you’ve learned how to execute strikes, sparring becomes a standard part of training. This makes it a good choice if self defense is high on your priority list.
Muoy Thai can be tough on the shoulders and hips, so you’ll want to go with another option if you have a history of problems with these joints.
 Commonly referred to as “hard” arts, karate, Judo, and Jiu Jitsu are becoming common choices for older adults. Recent studies have shown that they can enhance attention, resilience, and motor reaction.Since they’re so popular, these are the best choices if tournament competition is of any interest to you. While each are good choices for self defense, Judo is the most practical option of the three if defense is your primary goal.It’s best if you’re already in good health before signing up for a more demanding martial art form. You can also find a local karate class tailored for older adults at a more modest fitness level to avoid routines that are too strenuous or otherwise uncomfortable.
 Since Tae Kwon Do has the most practitioners and is such a broad form, you should take a little extra time to learn about a particular class before enrolling. Ask a potential instructor how they train their students and what their focuses are. Some instructors will emphasize relaxation techniques and cardiovascular exercises, while others will stress sparring or breaking objects like boards and bricks.Go for a class that centers on sparring if you’re looking to learn self defense. Choose an instructor who stresses aerobic exercises and concentration techniques if you want to improve your overall health.
Sparring in Tae Kwon Do typically involves full gear, so it can also be a costlier commitment.
Since so many people practice this martial art, it’s a great choice if you’re interested in tournament competition.
 In addition to punches, kicks, and other strikes, Krav Maga involves practical skills like disarming an attacker. It also involves groin kicks, throat punches, and other strikes that are banned in other martial art forms. These attributes make it the best choice of all for self defense, but be sure you’ll have bruises at the end of every class.You won’t have much luck finding a Krav Maga tournament, so go with another choice if competition is on your list of goals.

