 This app resembles a white clock on a black background. You'll likely find it on the Home Screen.;
, This tab is at the bottom of the screen and one tab over from the bottom-left corner.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will create a new alarm.


If you have existing alarms you'd like to edit, you can tap Edit in the top-left corner of the screen and then tap an alarm instead.
 This will set the hour at which your alarm goes off.
 These numbers pertain to the minute at which your alarm will go off.
 Doing so will select "AM" or "PM".


If your iPhone uses 24-hour time, you won't have this option.
 Below the time section, you can customize your alarm by tapping the following options:



Repeat - Tap each day on which you want your alarm to go off. If you don't want your alarm going off unless you purposefully set it beforehand, skip this step.

Label - Assign a name to your alarm. This name will display on your iPhone's lock screen when the alarm goes off.

Sound - Select a sound from the list of stock ringtones or pick a song from your library to play when the alarm goes off.

Snooze - Slide this option right to enable snooze (it will turn green) or left to disable snooze (it will turn white). You can snooze by tapping the "Snooze" button on the lock screen when your alarm goes off.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Doing so will save your alarm and turn it on by default.


You can turn an alarm on or off by sliding the switch on the right side of its tab right or left respectively.
 It's a tab at the bottom-middle of the Clock app page. Introduced in iOS 10, the "Bedtime" feature allows you to set a consistent alarm in an effort to maintain a consistent sleep schedule.
 This option is at the bottom of the "Bedtime" page.
 You'll do so by swiping up or down on the hour and minute values to set a specific time.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen.
 Do so by tapping the initial of each day you wish to de-select.


By default, all days of the week are selected.
 To do so, swipe up or down on the "hours" wheel.
, You can select one of the following options to get a notification:


At bedtime
15 minutes before
30 minutes before
45 minutes before
1 hour before

,, Doing so will play a sample of the song.
, It's in the top-right corner of the screen. Your Bedtime preferences are now set up; you'll receive a notification before or at the time at which you intend to go to sleep, and your custom alarm will go off on any days you didn't de-select.


Tapping Options in the top-left corner of the "Bedtime" page will let you change your settings.
Disable "Bedtime" by sliding the Bedtime switch at the top of the page left to the "Off" position. You can turn it back on again by sliding the switch right.

