 If you spot behavior that is different from the norm, monitor the hamster even more closely. This could be your first hint that he is about to become sick. Look for signs of the following:


Is your hamster sleeping longer than usual? Keep in mind that old hamsters naturally sleep longer.
Has your hamster lost his appetite?
Does he no longer groom himself?
Is he irritable?
When awake, is he slow moving, or does he have a hard time getting around?
Has your hamster lost any of his fur, or have bald spots? Keep in mind that this is normal for older hamsters.
Does he have a wet chin or throat? This can be a sign of dental problems.
Does he have difficulty eating, such as dropping food out of his mouth?
Does he have a runny nose, teary eyes, or wet bottom?
Do his droppings look different? Hamster droppings should be rod-shaped. Watery droppings indicate too much fresh fruits and vegetables. Hard, dry droppings indicate not enough.;
, There may be situations where you hamster just feels unwell. There are some general things you can do to help nurse your hamster back to health. Make sure to keep him warm. Sick hamsters often lose body heat and feel cool to the touch. You can try standing the cage on a hot water bottle so that he gets under floor heating. Also try wrapping a small hot water bottle in a towel and rest the hamster on it. Be careful to do this in an escape proof box so the hamster doesn't run off.
 If he is not eating or drinking, or if he has wet tail, he will quickly become dehydrated. You will get a clue this has happened if you gently pinch his scruff and let go. If the scruff stays in a peak, then he is dehydrated. You can give him ordinary water, or purchase a fluid-replacement powder designed as a supplement for people with diarrhea, such as Pedialyte or Dioralyte.


Make this up as advised on the instructions., If your hamster won’t drink this on his own, obtain a 1 mL syringe. Hang a drop of the fluid on the end of the syringe and hold it to the hamster's lips. Hopefully he will lick it off. If he doesn't, then wet the fur around his mouth so that he grooms himself and takes in the fluid.


Be extremely cautious about syringing fluid into his mouth. His small size makes it likely you will flood his mouth and he may inhale the fluid, taking it down into his lungs, which can cause serious pneumonia.