 New Texas residents may continue to drive on their out-of-state license for up to 90 days. Within that time, you must apply for a Texas driver's license.This 90-day rule applies to drivers from other U.S. states, U.S. territories, or Canada. Some special provisions apply to drivers from other countries. Drivers from other U.S. states, territories, or Canada, are not required to take the written knowledge test or the driving skills test and will get a Texas license upon surrendering their out-of-state license.
Drivers from France, Germany, South Korea or Taiwan can get a Texas license in one of two ways:

Surrender their out-of-country license, and get a Texas license without taking any tests; or
Keep their out-of-country license, and then the written knowledge test and driving skills test are required.


Drivers from any country other than the U.S., Canada, France, Germany, South Korea or Taiwan must take both the written knowledge test and the driving skills test in order to get a Texas license.
 As an experienced driver from another state, you will not have to take the written knowledge test. Even so, you will want to become familiar with any information that is unique to Texas. The Handbook is available onlineor in any driver license office., The application form is available online so you can download and print it,or you can pick one up at any driver license office.
 When you are ready, you will need to take the following information with you to your nearest driver license office:


Your out-of-state driver’s license.
Proof of identification. This can be a U.S. Passport, or a birth certificate together with a social security card. There are some other documents that could be used instead, but these are the most common.Proof of Texas residence. This may be a mortgage, lease, home insurance policy, credit card statements, or similar items. You need to bring two separate items of proof.The completed application form.
If you own your car, you need to bring proof of registration and insurance. If not, then you need a statement that says you do not own a car.License fee. The fee for a license for anyone ages 18 to 84 is $25. You can pay by credit card, cash, check or money order.After age 84, the fee drops to $9, but the license must be renewed every two years instead of the previous six.
 You will be directed to pay the fee, if you haven’t done so already. Then you will be given a vision test. If you pass the vision test and all your paperwork is complete, you will have your picture taken for your new license., You may not keep an active, valid driver’s license from more than one state. When you surrender your out-of-state license, you will be issued your Texas license.New Texas residents from other countries are not required to surrender their non-Texas license. However, keeping the original license will require you to take and pass the written knowledge test as well as the driving skills test.

