 For maximum use, place the posts where the cat is going to get "value" from using it as a territory marker. Good places for a scratching posts include near entrances or exits, near a window, or in front of an object she already favors as a scratching post.Do NOT place the post in an inconspicuous, out of the way place. Your cat will ignore it.
Make sure that the post is positioned in a way that your cat likes to scratch. For example, if your cat prefers to scratch vertical surfaces, like the side of the sofa, make sure that the post is in a vertical position.Cats often like to scratch after waking up, so place a scratching post near your cat’s favorite napping spot as well.
 If your cat likes to scratch furniture, consider wrapping the part she likes to scratch in tin foil or double sided sticky tape. Cats hate the feel of tin foil and sticky surfaces so it should discourage your cat from scratching.You can also cover the sofa with rugs, but this can be an imperfect solution because your cat may just start scratching the rugs.
 If you catch your cat in the act of scratching something she should not be scratching, clap your hands loudly to interrupt the behavior. Do not yell at your cat or punish her physically. Just pick up your cat and take her to the scratching post. Doing this will give her the idea that you want her to scratch there., You can make scratching posts more attractive to your cat using her own scent or some catnip. Try showing your cat how to use a post by rubbing her paws on it or rub some catnip into the scratching post to draw her attention to it. Encourage your cat to use the post by making gentle scratching motions with her paws on the post. Doing so will help to add her scent to the post make her more likely to use it. Make sure that you praise your cat while you do this.
Try spritzing the scratching post with Feliway. Feliway is a synthetic feline pheromone that makes cats feel safe and secure. It also amplifies her scent signals, which she will appreciate.