 Use a flat iron to straighten your hair if you want to achieve a simple, sleek look. Straightening hair only takes a few minutes, and as long as it’s not too humid outside, it will save you the trouble of having to constantly check for frizz, kinks and sloppy waves. Simply straighten your hair in small sections from root to tip, seal the deal with a little hairspray and go confidently forth.If you have a lot of thick, curly hair, straightening will take longer and may be more difficult.
Straightening can make an excellent fallback plan on unsalvageable bad hair days. If all else fails, just straighten it out.;
, For a more bouncy, playful look, curl your hair into sweeping waves of tight ringlets. Curling your hair can be time consuming, so make sure you get started early enough to allow plenty of time. One good thing about curling is that you can get as tight or as loose a spiral as you want, allowing for a more customized look. Curled hair also has the appearance of being thick, full and voluminous.You can decide how you want your curls to look by changing your curling technique. For tight curls, use a higher heat and leave the hair wrapped around the curler longer. For more relaxed curls or waves, use a low heat and only curl the middle portion of the hair briefly., Sometimes you just don’t want to mess with a head full of hair first thing in the morning. On days like these, just pull your hair back into a ponytail or bun and be done with it. High ponytails and intentionally messy loose buns are actually in style, so you’ll be able to pull off a fashionable look with minimal effort.Even though it doesn’t require a lot of work, pulling your hair back still gives you many options to choose from.
 If you want to look a little more put together than a basic ponytail or braid but don’t want to spend hours styling, arrange your hair neatly into a braid. An ordinary plait or rope braid, or more sophisticated French, Dutch or fishtail style, will be all you need on low-maintenance mornings. You’ll look classy and put-together, and, best of all, once it’s braided it will hold tight, meaning you won’t have to worry about messing it up throughout the course of your day.Braiding is quick, and can be done as soon as you get out of the shower.
If you don’t know how to braid your own hair, have a friend do it for you when you get to school.
 Girls with short hair have lots of options for when they want to look good for school. After washing and conditioning your hair, sweep it to one side in a neat, sleek part, or work in a little styling product and comb it up to achieve some spiky height with a modern flourish. A traditional pixie-style cut will give you a mature look without a lot of work. Undercuts, bobs and wavy curls are also popular choices for ladies with short to mid-length hair.Find a style that works for your specific hair length, texture and face shape.
Short hairstyles can save you a lot of time showering and getting ready in the morning., Take advantage of the natural body of extremely curly or afro-textured hair. Natural hair lends itself to many different fun styles. Longer hair can be plaited, moisturized and ironed for gorgeous ringlets or simply shaken free for maximum volume. If you have shorter hair, you might choose to twist it into sections or wear it like a close-cropped perm. The number of styles you have to choose from is nearly limitless.Afro hair tends to dry out quickly, and can get kinky when it loses moisture. Use a deep conditioner when you wash your hair or treat it with moisturizing oils to keep it looking healthy and full.Because of it's texture and shape, natural hair is one of the most versatile of all hair types.
 Add a little flair by using various accessories to complement your hairstyle and accentuate your features. Things like headbands, bows, scarves, scrunchies, clips and flowers will boost your visual appeal and impart some extra personality to your outfit. Just make sure to choose a pairing that works well together, like a headband with light, wavy curls or a flower poised alongside a messy bun.Cute, versatile accessories may be just what’s missing from your daily wardrobe choices.

