 A Luxury Ball will give a bonus point to every Friendship-boosting activity. You can buy Luxury Balls from most stores.
 If Pichu is holding this item, it will gain an additional Friend point for every Friendship-boosting activity. This stacks with the Luxury Ball, meaning if you use both Pichu will gain 2 extra points every time you perform a Friendship-boosting activity.


You can find a Soothe Bell at the Pokémon Fan Club.
 The walking requirements for gaining Friendship were cut in half for Generation III, meaning you'll get a point every 256 steps. This offsets the lack of grooming options for your Pokémon in the Generation III games.
 Vitamin items give you a 2 - 5 point boost depending on your current Friendship level (the higher the Friendship, the lower the boost). Vitamins include all of the vitamins in Generation II, as well as the following additions:


Zinc
PP Max

, If Pichu has less than 100 Friendship, it will get a 5-point boost every time it levels up. This drops to a 3-point boost over 100, and a 2-point boost over 200.
 If you are deep into EV-training, you may be using EV-Berries on a regular basis. Any EV-lowering berries will give you a 2-point boost. These include:


Pomeg
Kelpsy
Qualot
Hondew
Grepa
Tamato

, If Pichu faints during a battle, it will lose a Friendship point. Switch Pichu out if it looks like it's going to get knocked out soon. Don't use any healing items either (see the next step).
 Healing items have the largest negative effect on Friendship in the game. Do all of your healing and reviving at a Pokémon Center.Energy Powder: -5 points
Heal Powder: -5 points
Energy Root: -10 points
Revival Herb: -15 points

, While you can't see an exact number for your Friendship level, you can talk to a special Friendship checker character to get an approximation of your current level. You can find her in Verdanturf Town, in the house in the bottom-left corner. Make sure Pichu is the first Pokémon in your party and she will say a different phrase depending on your Friendship level.


50 - 99: "It's not very used to you yet. It neither loves nor hates you."
100 - 149: "It's getting used to you. It seems to believe in you."
150 - 199: "It likes you quite a lot. It seems to want to be babied a little."
200 - 254: "It seems to be very happy. It obviously likes you a whole lot."
255: "It adores you. It can't possibly love you any more. I even feel happy seeing it."

, If Pichu's Friendship is 220 or higher, it will evolve into Pikachu when leveling up. If Pichu doesn't evolve, it means its Friendship isn't a high enough level.

