 Boswellia is an herb used to treat joint pain in Ayurvedic medicine. Several studies have also shown that this herb can reduce inflammation due to arthritis, reducing pain and swelling.Turmeric is often found in Indian cooking but it can also help reduce inflammation due to arthritis when taken as a tea.Both Boswellia and turmeric have been shown to interact negatively with blood thinning medication so talk to your doctor if you are on blood thinners before trying these teas.;
, Ginger has been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties and can sooth sore joints when consumed in tea form. It is also safe for pregnant women.Ginger tea may increase your risk of bleeding, especially if you are taking blood thinners like clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (Coumadin), or aspirin. Talk to your doctor if you are on blood thinners before having ginger tea., You can also drink green tea to help relieve your arthritis symptoms, as the antioxidants in green tea have been found to be effective on inflammation.Try to consume caffeine free green teas as caffeine can cause other health issues.
 Devil’s claw tea is good for arthritis in general but it is especially effective on gouty arthritis, which is a form of arthritis that occurs due high levels of uric acid in the blood.Devil’s claw tea should not be taken by individuals on diabetes medication or blood thinners. If you have gallstones or a history of gallstones, you should not consume this tea.
 White willow bark contains the same class of chemicals that are in aspirin, but it does not cause stomach upset or negative affects with blood thinning medication. It is a good option if you are trying to numb any pain or discomfort you may be feeling due to your arthritis.This tea contains chemical properties similar to aspirin so it should not be consumed by anyone under 18 years of age.
 Licorice tea has potent anti-inflammatory effects and can be a good option for treating your arthritis symptoms. You can find licorice tea at most health food stores and online.Consult your doctor before taking licorice tea if you have high blood pressure or hormone-sensitive cancers like breast cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, or uterine cancer. If you are taking any medications, you should talk to your doctor before having licorice tea.
 You can find many of these herbs in tea bag form at your local health food store or online. You should check the ingredients list on the package to confirm that the tea is made of all natural ingredients and a high herbal content.To prepare herbal tea in a tea bag, steep the tea bag in boiled water in a mug with a cover for five to ten minutes. You can then add honey or lemon to taste.
If you are preparing green tea, only steep the bag for one to three minutes. Steeping green tea for too long can result in a bitter tea with less pronounced flavors., You can also find these herbs in loose form and steep them in boiled water. Add one heaping teaspoon of dried herb to one cup of boiled water and let the herb steep in the water for 5 to 10 minutes.

You can then add honey or lemon to taste. Some of the loose herbs may taste very strong when steeped in water and you can mask this taste with honey or lemon.
 These roots can be prepared by peeling a 1 inch section and cutting it into fine pieces. You can then add one teaspoon of the root to one cup boiled water.Let the root steep in the water for 10 to 20 minutes. You can then add honey or lemon to taste.
 To reap the benefits of tea for arthritis, you should try to have at least four cups of tea a day. Prepare a fresh cup, especially if you are using tea bags. You may be able to get away with reusing loose herbs or cut roots a few more times before they lose their flavor and medicinal properties.If you are pregnant, only have ginger tea and limit your consumption to two to three cups a day.
Keep in mind herbal teas are more effective if they are using in tandem with medication and therapies for arthritis. Talk to your doctor before adding herbal tea to your diet.
 Most doctors will prescribe anti-inflammatory medications like oral glucocorticoids, hydroxychloroquine and sulfasalazine and methotrexate (MTX) for rheumatoid arthritis. Your doctor may also suggest other drugs such as anti-tumor necrosis factor agents and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).

The side effects of MTX include fever, fatigue, coughing, difficulty breathing, and liver issues.
 Your doctor may suggest over-the-counter pain medication like ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) for osteoarthritis. She may also recommend acetaminophen (Tylenol) to manage inflammation and pain.
 If you are experiencing intense pain due to your arthritis, your doctor may prescribe steroids to treat your condition.You may also get a prescription for tramadol (Ultram, Ultracet) and narcotics containing oxycodone (Percocet, Oxycontin) or hydrocodone (Norco, Vicoprofen).

