 There are a lot of things that can trigger migraines. Anxiety, stress (emotional, mental, or physical), changes in sleep patterns, activity levels, and even changes in weather can all trigger migraines. Some people experience only one trigger, while others can have several before developing a migraine.Usually, your migraine triggers will remain the same over time, so once you identify them you can avoid them or learn to cope.;
, Write down everything you eat and drink, what the weather is like, what physical activities you do, how well you slept, if you're stressed, and if you're menstruating. Do this until you can see a pattern emerge about what triggers your migraines. If you get them, be sure to write down any warning signs (known as auras) that come before you get a migraine.Track this information for as long as you like or until you've had several migraines. This way, you'll be able to use the information from the days leading up to the migraines to determine your triggers.
 Warning signs (auras) are what you experience right before you get a migraine. It can help to write these in your daily journal. Auras can be visual (like flashes of light or blind spots), auditory (like ringing in your ears), or physical (like tingling in the arms or legs). You may also have problems speaking.Some people get warning signs in the days before getting a migraine. These prodromes are unique and might include constipation, food cravings, irritability, frequent uncontrolled yawning, hyperactivity, depression and stiffness or discomfort in the neck.
 Unfortunately, you may have a migraine trigger that you can't avoid or control. For example, you can't change the weather, but if you know your migraines are triggered by weather changes, you can prepare for them by making certain no other triggers are around when that weather changes from dry and warm to cold and rainy. Focus on avoiding the triggers you can control and learn to cope with the triggers you can't avoid.


When you know you can't avoid a trigger try to cope by spending some time relaxing in a dimly lit room, putting an ice pack on your neck or head, and massaging your head.
 If you suspect a particular food is triggering your migraines, check your journal. If you developed a migraine within 24 hours of eating the food and you notice that that food triggers migraines more than half of the time you eat it, then it is a trigger. Try to avoid eating trigger foods. Common trigger foods include:Foods with nitrates: processed foods, cured meats, deli meat
Foods with monosodium glutamate (MSG): Chinese food, soy sauce, food seasonings
Alcohol: especially wine and champagne
Caffeine: coffee, soft drinks, energy drinks
Foods with food additives and artificial sweeteners

, If your trigger is a medication you're taking, continue to take it until you can talk to your doctor. Your doctor may be able to prescribe an alternative medication or lower dosage. If your migraines are triggered by hormonal shifts, your doctor may be able to give some advice particular to your situation (especially if you're pregnant, have an irregular period, or have had a hysterectomy).If you get infrequent migraines (less than 9 a month), try taking an over-the-counter pain reliever designed for migraines at the first sign of a trigger., Unfortunately, most people who are sensitive to light triggers react most strongly to sunlight. If you find that going from dim, interior lights to bright outdoor sun triggers a migraine, try putting on sunglasses before going out. Filtered or fluorescent lights can also trigger migraines. You may want to switch to incandescent bulbs or use curtains instead of blinds.If the flickering light of an older computer triggers your migraines, wrap the screen with an anti-glare screen.
 Noise is another sensory stimulus that triggers migraines. The noise can be very loud or just repetitive. Use your journal to determine if specific noises or situations trigger your migraines. For example, listening to music through headphones or listening to the music while you're on hold during a phone call could trigger your migraines. Cope with noise triggers by going somewhere quiet.If you can't go somewhere quiet to get away from the noise, always carry earplugs with you so you can at least try to mute the noise until you can get away from it.
 Sleep is a well-known trigger for migraines and headaches. To reduce your risk for migraines, get 7 to 8 hours of sleep every night. But, try not to oversleep or sleep in quick short shifts since these could increase the severity of your headaches. It may take up to 4 weeks of regular sleep before you notice a reduction in migraines.People with migraines are 2 to 8 times more likely to develop sleep disorders than people who don't get migraines.
 Being dehydrated can easily trigger migraines. This is because your blood volume drops causing less blood and oxygen to be delivered to your brain. Your brain might even be more sensitive to pain. Men should drink 13 cups of liquid a day and women should drink 9 cups. You can drink water, juice, or tea. Caffeine and alcohol do not count towards your daily intake.Pay special attention to drinking enough water during the summer. Research shows that migraine risk increases by 8% for every 9 degree increase in temperature.
 The neurons in the brains of people who get migraines are more sensitive and easily excited. When you smoke tobacco, these neurons can become hyper-excited which triggers your migraine. Research has shown that smoking more than five cigarettes a day can trigger a migraine.Ask your doctor about cessation programs. Your doctor may be able to prescribe a medication or offer an effective strategy to help you quit.
 Some people experience weekend headaches or tend to get their migraines only after the work week. This may be because your weekly routine of sleeping, eating, and consuming caffeine may be very different on your days off. Since what you eat, drink, and how much you sleep can all trigger migraines, try to keep to your schedule even on your days off.This doesn't mean that you can't enjoy your weekend. For example, just because you wake up at 6am doesn't mean you have to wake up at 6am on the weekends too. You should just avoid large differences in routine (like waking up around noon).
 Since stress and anxiety can trigger your migraine, teach your body how to respond to stress. Try a relaxation method like deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, or visualization as a form of meditation. Coping with anxiety can prevent or treat your migraine.Choose a place that's comfortable and where you won't be interrupted. Make sure you can feel relaxed and close your eyes. Remember a favorite place of yours and try to picture it in your mind. Breathe deeply as you consider the details of that place and feel yourself relax.

