 Traditionalists prefer to see the same menu items every year. If you are traditional, then you should have a good idea about what to include on the menu--whatever was on the menu last year. You may want to experiment, and that's O.K. too. Most people include some traditional items and try a new twist on one or two things every year. The basic framework includes: - appetizers, hors d'oeuvres or soup course; -bread, biscuits, rolls, or cornbread; -potatoes or rice; -a green vegetable (for example broccoli or green bean casserole); -winter squash and/or sweet potatoes; -stuffing or dressing; -the big bird; -gravy and cranberry sauce or relish; and -pie for dessert.;
, Ask your parents, aunts, uncles, and grandparents for traditional recipes. You can get new ideas from looking at various cooking websites, watching cooking shows, and checking other ideas in wikiHow for Thanksgiving cooking. If you want to try new things, look for a central theme, like Native American foods, early American cooking, or focusing on crops that originated in the New World. Talk to your older relatives to find out what foods they usually had or brought to America with them. Make sure to select only a couple of new things, and try them out before T-day so that you are certain that they should be included in your menu. Don't try to do too many new things or too many complicated things at once, though. Preparing a big meal, even a simple one, is a challenge in itself. It's easy to get in over your head if you don't stick with a basic menu of things that you can easily prepare. Don't think that you can't use prepared foods or ingredients either. For example, cornbread mix is fine either by itself or to make cornbread dressing, and bakery items are just fine, too. Many successful cooks get by with a little homemade and a little help. Also, make sure that you have added something to the menu for any vegans, vegetarians, or people with food allergies or sensitivities. If you are clueless, you may want to ask them for a recipe or to bring a dish. You may want to make the whole meal a potluck, assigning types of food to different people -- after all, that's what happened on the first Thanksgiving.
 If you are making a meal for many guests, you will want to prepare what you can in advance and spread out the phases of preparation over several days. After you have prepared your menu and selected your recipes, you should have some idea about what can be prepared in advance. Also, check with family nearby to see if they would like to help prepare a particular dish. If you prepare it together, you can start a new family tradition or learn about your heritage, or if not, at least you have some help getting the meal ready. You can enlist help by reminding a relative or friend how much everyone enjoyed their special dish last year before asking them to make it again. Think about things that can be prepared a day or two ahead, too, like pie fillings, cranberry sauce, and the like. Note that Thanksgiving seems to be a time when there is never enough oven space available at the last minute. Take some of the pressure off by making the sweet potatoes or stuffing in a slow cooker. Lots of good slow cooker recipes are available on the Internet, or take your own recipe and adjust it according to manufacturer's directions or other information you can get on some cooking sites. Slow cookers are also great for keeping gravy, mulled cider, or other dishes warm.
 Check to see if you have enough flatware, plates, serving ware, and a carving knife and fork (and a gravy boat, platters, etc.). If not, ask some of the people who are coming if they can bring anything. Do you have enough chairs? Do you need to borrow card tables? It's best to assign particular items so that you know in advance what you will have. Decide who is best suited to carve the turkey or ham, if you are serving it. Some families carve at the table, some take care of it in the kitchen -- do what suits you best. Do you like a festive table? When people ask what to bring, you may want to suggest that they have their little ones prepare seasonal centerpieces, collect leaves, make handprint turkey drawings, or bring some other centerpiece. If your family likes a particular beverage, like wine or cider, that is something else that people who offer to bring something might add to the meal.
 You could: -go around the table saying what you're thankful for; -start up a soccer or touch football game before dessert; -take a walk around the neighborhood or in the woods; -look at old family pictures or slides and reminisce; or -some other activity that brings people together and makes happy memories.

