 A lot of times we fail to ask how our partner is because we often times so wrapped up in ourselves that we neglect each other. When you notice any differences in your partner's behavior, ask how they are; are they happy, tired, etc.? Relationships provide countless opportunities to learn from and encourage each other, and this ability will increase with time and intimacy.;
, Openness is crucial to a relationship; building emotional walls will weaken a relationship and shut your partner out of important aspects of your life. It’s important to be emotionally vulnerable with your partner; be honest, share your sincere feeling, hopes, and concerns.You should also expect the same level of openness and vulnerability from your partner. You can start a vulnerable conversation by saying something like:


“I’ve been having a hard time at my job lately; can I talk to you about it?”
“I’m worried about a direction that our relationship is taking. Can I talk to you about us?”
“I haven’t been very happy lately; it’s a struggle to get through the day & I’m concerned about it. Do you mind if I open up to you about this?”

, Rather than idealizing your partner or holding them to unrealistic standards, enjoy and respect them for the human they actually are.

Every person has flaws and strengths, and it is important to understand and accept all the parts of your partner’s personality., Treat your partner with the same patience and respect that you would like to be treated with, and forgive them when they offend you. Holding grudges and records of offense will only create suspicion and mistrust in your relationship.
 Although healthy physicality in a relationship will often include sexuality (which should develop in a way comfortable and fun for both partners), physical contact can be much more than sexual acts. Even the slightest physical touch can show affection and dedication, and makes a relationship feel fresh and exciting. You can try some simple ideas like these:


Hold your partner's hand.
Put your arm through theirs when you're walking together.
Rest your head on their shoulder when watching a movie.
Make direct eye contact while you're talking with your partner.
 Don't waste each other's energy on the things that don't matter. It’s easy to let the day-to-day concerns (which are part of any relationship) drown out the pleasurable, fun parts of being together; they can even detract from your commitment to the relationship. Maintain your relationship health by focusing on long-term goals and permanent aspects of your relationship, like:


Things that first attracted you to your partner.
Fun activities that you and your partner have done together.
Long-term goals and plans for your future.
Ways you and your partner have grown closer, and ways you can continue to grow closer.
 Don’t strive for an idealized relationship—based off of romantic films, novels, love songs, etc.—or expect your partner to be perfect or more than human.Show one another grace and forgiveness when your partner makes a mistake or annoys you, and expect the same treatment from your partner.
 One of the most important aspects of any relationship is to take plenty of time to genuinely understand who your partner is as a person. Often relationships start on a superficial level; they can be spurred by a common interest, a random meeting at a bar, or a common friend. To maintain and strengthen the bond of your relationship, you need to understand your partner on a deeper, more personal level. Continue to ask and learn more about their deep-seated beliefs, desires, and plans for the future.This will also allow you and your partner to grow and develop together as a couple. Try activities like:


Ask your partner about their childhood. You could say, “What are some of your favorite memories from growing up?”
Share thoughts about your family with your partner, and ask about theirs. Try asking, “What are some of the things about your family that make you the most happy? What about them makes you the least happy?”
Tactfully ask your partner about their political and religious beliefs—and be prepared to share yours, as well.
 In any relationship, people will make mistakes and occasionally annoy one another. When these situations arise—which they inevitably will—be patient with your partner; give them space to make mistakes and grow from them.


Rather than jumping in with an angry response, try saying, “What you said yesterday hurt me, but I’d like to hear your side before I jump to a conclusion.”
You could also say, “You may not realize that you offended me; I’d like to explain why I feel the way I do.”

, Communicating often is the best, and most necessary, way to maintain a strong, deep connection in a relationship.Check in with your partner about their needs, and make sure that your personal needs are known as well. Discussions and conversations can include:


Ask about your partner’s day. You could try saying, “Did anything interesting happen at work today?” or “Did anything happen today that you’d like to talk about?”
Share a story or something that happened to you.
Flirt—even years into a relationship!
Find out something new about your partner.
Make your partner laugh; keep it light sometimes. Try telling a joke or being silly with your partner.
 A great way to do this is by taking time to understand your partner’s plans, ambitions, and goals, and finding ways to encourage them. Supporting your partner in their plans and goals will help you understand them better as a person, and will bolster their emotions.A relationships partner is often the first place that people look to for emotional and personal support; let your partner rely on you to encourage them, and look to them for support as well.
 Acts of kindness do not need to be grand romantic gestures; they don’t need to be expensive, or particularly unique. Rather, focus on small, meaningful, intimate acts that will show your partner you’re thinking about them and that you care about them throughout the day.

Acts of kindness can include:

Buying your partner flowers or chocolate.
Sending your partner love notes—or love emails, texts, etc.
Do a household chore for your partner.
Make your partner breakfast in bed.
 If your partner is behaving or speaking in a way that bothers or confuses you, do not leap to a conclusion about what their actions mean. Instead, ask them—directly but politely—about whatever is concerning you.

This will help you better understand how your partner works emotionally, and increase intimacy and trust in the relationship.