 At work, you need to minimize external distractions. If you don't have your own office, this might be difficult. If this is a problem, try to see if there is an empty conference room where you can work, especially if you have a big project you're working on that needs to get done. If you can't, change your work space to make it more conducive to work. Move your desk to face the wall, keep clutter off of your desk, and stay away from chatty coworkers.


If it still is a problem, see if it's possible to use noise-cancelling headphones or a sound machine to drown out all the other distractions., ADHD can make large projects seem daunting and overwhelming, which often causes adults with ADHD to look for an escape route. Instead of giving in to the panic, break down your task into manageable chunks. You can break them up into units as small as necessary to make you more comfortable. If you boss or professor gives you a project that is due in a month, break it up into daily tasks that need to get done. Write down what has to happen each day and highlight them once you are done.


If daily tasks are still too daunting, try giving yourself hourly tasks instead. Write them out in the same way and do them as they come up.
Once you've completed each task within the time frame, congratulate yourself and give yourself a small reward. Make sure it is brief and doesn't interfere with the task at hand, but acknowledge your good work., It may be easier to cope with projects and maintain schedules if you make yourself accountable to another person. At work, find a trusted coworker, supervisor, or mentor to help keep you on track. If you are using any other coping strategies, let them know so she can ask you about your progress. At home, ask your partner, spouse, a family member, or trusted neighbor to help.


Make sure you break down what exactly you need her to do. If necessary, give them lists of the things you are working on to make sure you have to answer to someone about them., Whether at home or at work, you need an organized area to help combat your impulsive, inattentive tendencies. Think about what you need on a daily basis in all the different areas where you work and live. Designate specific areas for the things you need, such as keys, bills, office supplies, or other things that might easily be misplaced. Try to keep them in those places as you work and go about your life.


As for the things that you use less often, find proper storage places, such as bins, closets, or drawers, for them. This will keep them close by but not in the way of the items you use every day., Either at home, at school, or at work, you have a lot of paperwork. Bills, files, or other important papers can get piled up and overwhelm you. Start a filing system in all aspects of your life. Find a system that works for you and will help you stay organized. In order to keep this system working, don't avoid opening your mail everyday. Open anything you receive and file it in its appropriate place right away.


Try to go paperless on as much as possible. That way, all of the information is stored on your electronic devices and much easier to keep up with., Adults with ADHD often forget about appointments or other important events. Put all of the most important dates, such as business meetings, doctor's appointments, or dinner dates with friends, into your day planner. Make sure you read it every day to prepare for what you have ahead of you.


If you know you won't keep up with a hand written day planner, use the calendar app in your phone. As soon as you make an appointment, automatically put the date in your phone and set a reminder for yourself.
This works well for other things that must be done in a timely fashion, such as paying bills., Since many people with ADHD have trouble remembering to do certain things, it can be difficult to remember to pay your bills. In situations where it's possible, set up automatic payments for your bills. This way, they will come out every month without you having to remember to pay them.


Keep up with your finances with online banking, which is easier to handle and keep track of than paper banking., Many areas have a support group for adults with ADHD. In the sessions, you can discuss your issue's with people who understand you. They may also give you some great management ideas. Look online or ask your doctor about a local group you can join. Organizations such as Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD) have support groups all over North America.


If you can't find a support group in your area, try to start one or try online groups.