 If you are in the US, you may contact the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases for advice about where to find a doctor near you.Rheumatologists are specialists in arthritic diseases.
Chiropractors, osteopaths, and nutritionists are alternative specialists who treat diseases or injuries to the muscles and skeleton and help patients make lifestyle changes for better overall health and well-being.
You might choose to see one or many types of specialists when developing your treatment plan. Many types of specialists can help you manage your pain and give you advice relevant to your specific situation.;
, Your doctor might request a number of tests to determine the extent and exact location of your chronic back pain. The doctor can use this information to better provide treatment and help you manage your pain. You might get:A number of diagnostic tests, many involving a blood test, biopsy, joint fluid test, or skin sample, may be used to confirm diagnosis of more common types of arthritis.A magnetic resonance image (MRI), a painless procedure involving magnetic fields and radio waves to form a 3D image of the inside of the muscles and bones of your back.
An x-ray. X-rays are painless imaging procedures involving electromagnetic radiation to produce a black-and-white visualization of your skeletal system.
A computed tomography (CT) scan. CT scans use x-rays to create a layered image of your spine.
 Your doctor may also suggest a prescription, but prescriptions are made on a case-by-case basis depending upon the severity of the condition.


Disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), methotrexate, and hydroxychloroquine (marketed under the brand name Plaquenil) are some of the most common prescription drugs.
Over-the-counter medications like ibuprofen, as well as some supplements natural remedies, may be effective at reducing pain and inflammation as well.If you have trouble paying for your medications, contact the Patient Access Network Foundation or the Medicare Rights Center. Both organizations are involved in helping people pay for the medicine they need.
Always use medications as directed.
 Unless your surgery is absolutely necessary, you should manage your back pain in less invasive ways.

