 This piece of software cracks open the Xbox’s programming and gives you full control. Because of the legal gray-area that console modding exists in, these files are not easily found through websites. Instead, you’ll need to connect to IRC (Internet Relay Chat) and download the files directly from the community with an FTP (File Transfer Protocol) client.


Download an IRC client. mIRC is the most widely-used client. After installing, you will be prompted for a Nickname and Alternative when you first start the program. Select any name you want, but avoid using any real names.
After selecting your name, you will be greeted with a blank console. Type “/server irc.efnet.net” and press Enter. This will connect you to a chat server. A list of rooms to join will open; close this window.
In the console type “/j #xbins” and press Enter. This will take you to a chat room for the Xbox modding community. On the right will be a list of all the users in the channel. Towards the top, you should see a user named “xbins”.
Type “/msg xbins !list” in the channel’s console. This will open a private message with xbins, which is an automated messenger. You will receive a private message containing login info for the FTP server. Keep this window open.;
, FlashFXP or FileZilla are two of the more popular clients. Once you are in the FTP program, click the Connect or Quick Connect button.


Login to distribution.xbins.org with the username and password provided by xbins. The port should be set to 21 by default. This login information works once, so if you get disconnected you must message xbins again.
You will see a list of folders in the right frame of the program. Navigate to /XBOX/Console Based Applications/exploits/_Packages/Softmod Installer Deluxe/. Browsing through folders using FTP is much like navigating folders on your computer.
Download the Softmod.Installer.Deluxe.v2.0.Xbox-Hq.rar file. Drag it from the right frame to the left frame to download it. Open the .rar file with WinRAR. The archive contains several different files. For this process, you will need SID.Splinter.Cell.v2.0.NTSC.Xbox-Hq.zip and SID.Splinter.Cell.v2.0.Xbox-Hq.zip. These are save game files that will act as the installer for the new dashboard.
 Plug the Pro Action Replay into your computer and install the necessary software. Insert your Xbox memory card into the Pro Action Replay. You can now access the contents of the card from your computer.


Click and drag the .zip files onto the Xbox memory card.
Remove the memory card from the Pro Action Replay and insert it into the Xbox. Copy the gamesaves from the Xbox memory card onto the Xbox’s internal hard drive. There should be two save files that need to be copied. One is 4 blocks and the other is 489 blocks. You will need both on your Xbox’s hard drive to proceed with the installation.
 Splinter Cell is an exploitable game that allows custom software to be loaded through it. This process will not work with Pandora Tomorrow or Chaos Theory; it must be the original version of the game.


From the Main Menu, select Start Game. In the Profiles screen select “Linux”.
In the Load Check Point screen, select Check Points. Selecting Levels may cause the system to crash.
The screen will turn black and a few seconds later you will see the UnleashX intro screen, followed by the control panel.
 Do not turn off the console during this process, or your machine will most likely become useless. When the status bar disappears, the installation process is finished.
 Included in the Softmod install are two different custom dashboards, Evox and UnleashX. Both have the same basic function, so install whichever appeals to you more.


There are other dashboards available online. Be sure to check reliable sources. The #xbins IRC channel that you connected to earlier has a wide variety of homebrewed dashboards and applications.
 Once the install of the dashboard is complete, you need to turn off and restart the Xbox. If the installation was successful, you will see your new custom dashboard instead of the Xbox dashboard.

