 Using a jamming device is illegal in many countries, including the United States.If it is legal in your area, all you need to do is buy one and turn it on close to the source of the network. However, in most areas, you will need to resort to the more complex, legal methods below. Alternatively skip to the section below instead for legal ways to prevent neighbors from using your signal, and reduce nearby signals' effect on your own network.


Jamming can interfere with emergency radio communications and other vital communications. Even if it is legal in your area, it's best not to use a jamming device in a densely populated area.
Don't assume jamming devices are legal just because someone in your area is selling them. These merchants may be breaking the law.;
, Assuming jamming devices are illegal in your area, you'll need to use a more targeted method. Each wireless device sends signals on one or more frequencies. To drown this signal out, you'll need to operate on the same one. Look up the name of the device you're trying to jam, or use this guide to WiFi frequencies:WiFi routers that follow the 802.11b or 802.11g standards operate at a frequency of 2.4GHz. This is a safe bet if you can't identify the router.
WiFi routers with the 802.11a standard operate at 5GHz.
The 802.11n standard can operate at either 2.4 or 5GHz. You may need to jam both frequencies. Some modern routers with this standard can alter their frequency automatically, which will make it much harder to jam.If you don't know the type of router being used, try downloading a program or app for viewing nearby wireless networks. Some of these will identify the frequency and channel being used, but the free versions usually do not.
 You can block a 2.4GHz wireless signal by operating a microwave, an older cordless phone, a Bluetooth advice, and many other wireless devices. As long as it's labeled 2.4GHz, it should interfere with a nearby 2.4GHz network. The effect can vary between a slight slowdown and a complete shutoff, but unfortunately there's no way to tell in advance which it will be.


The device must be broadcasting a signal. For instance, play music into a phone, or tape down the number buttons so they're being pressed continually.
Do not run a microwave with nothing inside.
To improve the jamming ability of a 2.4GHz cordless phone, expose the circuitry, then attach the antenna leads to a wire taped to a CD.This may violate laws where jamming is illegal.
 If your WiFi router operates on the same frequency, you can fine tune its settings to cause intentional interference. Start by accessing your router's settings. To do this, open an internet browser and enter the address of your router in the URL bar. Try the following common options, until you see a page of router options:


http://192.168.0.1
http://192.168.1.1
http://192.168.2.1
http://192.168.11.1
If none of these work, search for your router model's IP address online, or try to find it listed in the Network or WiFi settings of your computer or mobile device.You may need to log in before you can view the settings. Refer to your router manual if you do not know the password.
 A router does not use its entire range of possible frequencies at once. Instead, the range is divided into 14 channels in the 2.4GHz range, and 23 channels in the 5GHz range.Depending on your router, you may not have access to all these channels, or you may have limited ability to change this setting. Do your best to use as many channels as possible. If you can only use one or two channels at a time, switch between each channel and test whether the nearby network's signal strength has dropped.


At 2.4GHz, most routers operate on the 1, 6, and 11 channels. Use these channels as well to interfere with the other network.
Nearby channels overlap with each other, causing some interference. Using channels 3, 7, and 11 will slow down almost any nearby WiFi network, at least a little.
At 5GHz, there are many more channels available.
 There's no standard settings menu for all routers. You may not have access to all these settings, or your router may use different names. Look at your router's documentation for more information. If you do see any of the following settings, make these changes:Set "Channel Width" or "Bandwidth" to the largest possible range.
Disable automatic channel selection.
Boost power output to maximum.

