 Thank you cards are a more formal and old-fashioned way to say thank you, and it can be tricky to know exactly what to write in them. Thank you cards are perfect for thanking your professors or teachers for helping you with your work, or thanking your wedding guests for their generous gifts. Here's how you do it:


Whether you're writing or speaking, you should always remember to be sincere and to show how grateful you are.
If you're thanking your professors or teachers for a great year of school, leave a specific note about how their hard work has influenced you and made you a better person.
If you're writing thank you cards to your guests at your wedding, party, or other social event, you may not have enough time to personalize each note, but you can try to call the person by a nickname, or write a quick line about the specific gift he or she gave and how it's a big help to you.
Pick a meaningful card. If you really mean it when you say thank you, you should pick a serious and subtle card to help you communicate this message.
Send your thank-you card as promptly as you can. If you want to say thank you, don't delay it. If you thank someone months after they did something wonderful for you, it may look like you were putting it off or don't really care that much.
 An email is less formal than a thank you card, but it should still communicate your feelings with sincerity, clarity, and honesty, and should be sent in a prompt fashion. Here's how to say thank you in an email:


Be direct. Write "Thank you" as the subject.
Address the person as "Dear (name)" and sign off by saying "Sincerely, (your name)." Even if you're only sending an email, you should follow the conventions of a letter to show that you're taking the process seriously.
Choose your words carefully. The person should know that you spent a lot of time crafting complete sentences that clearly state your feelings.
Show the results of the person's gesture. For example, if the person gave you an amazing sweater, send a picture of yourself wearing it. If the person gave you a lot of money for your birthday, send a photo showing the amazing new kitchen table you were able to buy with it.

