 To make a birthday card with washi tape, you'll obviously need several rolls of washi tape. Make sure that you have at least two different colors or patterns. You'll also need a piece of cardstock to serve as the card itself, and a craft knife to trim the tape.


You can find washi tape at craft stores and various online sellers.
You may also want to have additional supplies on hand, such as a rubber stamp and ink and markers, for finishing off the card.
 Choose a piece of cardstock in a shade that you like, and fold it in half to create a card. Think about which way you want to create your design, so you can decide whether you want to hold the cardstock vertically or horizontally.Depending on how large you want to make the card, you may want to cut your cardstock to form a smaller card.
 Washi tape is ideal for decorating birthday cards because it comes in a variety of colors and patterns. Choose two or more patterns, and rip off pieces of tape to crisscross them over the cardstock to create a striking design for the card.You may want to practice your design on a scrap piece of cardstock so you can figure out the best way to arrange the tape without ruining your card.
You aren’t limited to crisscrossing the tape. You can also place pieces side by side to create stripes.
 You don’t have to worry about the pieces of tape fitting the card exactly. Once you’re done placing it on the cardstock, use a craft knife to trim off any excess along the edges. You can trim as you go, but it’s usually easier to wait until the end and cut all of the pieces at once.Make sure that you’re cutting on a surface that you won’t damage with the knife. You can use a cutting mat from the craft store or work on a cutting board from the kitchen.
 Once the washi tape is in place, you can personalize the card by using a marker to write Happy Birthday in a free space on the front of the card. Be sure to write a message on the inside of the card as well.If you don’t have neat handwriting, consider using a rubber stamp and ink to add a message to the card. You can find one that says “Happy Birthday” and add it to the front or inside of the card.

