 First, you should check whether it is still available on ThomasKinkade.com, because this will tell you whether it is sold out at the publisher. Find out which of the following categories describes your painting:


Original canvas paintings. These are originals of later published and produced pieces by Kinkade. They are arguably the most valuable of all his paintings.
Original plein air paintings. These oil landscape paintings were landscapes painted in a day. They are unpublished so the price can vary greatly.
Original paintings on paper. These oil paintings are rare and more valuable than the sketches.
Original sketch. These are usually charcoal sketches on paper. They sell highly especially if they include color and/or they are preliminary sketches for paintings that sold very well.
Studio and renaissance proofs. These include highlights and extra brush strokes to make them look more likely the originals.
Gallery proofs. These manufactured paintings include highlights and an embossed remarque. They are worth more than an artist proof.
An artist proof or examination proof. These are manufactured paintings based on Kinkade originals. They are highlighted by a master highlighter.;
, Call your art appraiser to ask if they can appraise Kinkade paintings. Get a written appraisal from them so that you can show it to people when selling, if need be.
 Make sure to use good lighting. Take photos of the painting from all angles, including a gallery shot, with your painting framed and hanging.


An art broker will charge a fee to sell your painting or ask for a commission on its selling price.
 Devoted Kinkade galleries often hold various paintings on consignment. You will likely be asked to sign a consignment agreement that states you will receive a percentage of the sale value minus any costs.


For example, the Thomas Kinkade Signature Gallery gives the consignor 70 percent of the sale price minus any costs.
 If you have a certificate of authenticity, you may be able to get a good price for the art on eBay. Research what other Kinkade paintings are selling for and set a minimum bid before starting an auction.
 Paintings that are still available through the Thomas Kinkade publisher may need to be offered below market price in order to sell.
 Take your painting or photos to local art sellers to see if they want to display your painting. If they choose to take on your Kinkade consignment, they are likely to have similar terms as an online consignment house.
 These art professionals make their living selling artwork. Look for brokers who have experience selling Thomas Kinkade paintings, because it is likely they already have a client list that may be interested.

