 Deep breathing can bring much-needed oxygen back to your system. In addition to getting fresh air, doctors recommend that you practice deep abdominal breathing to help manage nausea.


Place one hand on the center of your abdomen. Place the other hand on your chest.
Inhale through your nose at a normal pace. You should feel that the hand on your abdomen moves outward more than the one on your chest. Your lower chest and belly should fill with air.
Exhale slowly through your mouth.
Take a slow, deep breath in through your nose. Hold it for as long as you are able.
Exhale slowly through your mouth again.
Repeat this cycle at least four more times.
 Aromatherapy involves inhaling scents from plant extracts and other chemicals. Apply 1-2 drops of these extracts to a clean gauze pad and inhale. Scientific research has shown that the following essential oils and chemicals can be helpful for nausea and vomiting:Peppermint oil. Peppermint oil may be helpful in reducing feelings of nausea.Ginger extract. The smell of ginger can help settle your stomach and may prevent vomiting.Isopropyl alcohol. Commonly known as rubbing alcohol, isopropyl alcohol may help reduce the urge to vomit when inhaled in very small quantities.Do not use more than 1-2 drops! Using more or inhaling too deeply can cause nasal irritation.
 Ginger is helpful in fighting nausea and vomiting when inhaled or consumed. In addition to its fresh form, it is widely available as a powder, tablets, or tea.Drinking ginger ale may make you feel better, but ginger supplements or fresh ginger are more effective than ginger ale. Most commercial ginger ales do not contain significant amounts of the compounds found in natural ginger. The carbonation in ginger ale may also aggravate nausea.Make ginger tea/tisane. There are many recipes, but a simple one is to grate a few ounces of fresh ginger root (one good-sized “knuckle”). Add ½ teaspoon of grated ginger root per 8 ounces of hot water. Allow to steep for 5-10 minutes.You can add a little honey if you like. Slightly sweet beverages may help calm an upset stomach.The maximum safe dose of ginger supplements is 4 grams (about ¾ of a teaspoon).Pregnant women and breastfeeding women can drink ginger tea safely.However, pregnant and breastfeeding women should not take more than 1 gram of ginger per day.Ginger can interfere with some blood-thinning prescription medications. If you are taking blood thinners, consult your doctor before taking ginger., Other common herbs recommended for nausea and vomiting include clove, cardamom extract, cumin seeds, and baikal root extract. However, these have not received much clinical study. You can try them to see if you feel better, but they may not be effective.
 Unlike acupuncture, which involves needles and professional training, light acupressure can be performed at home. The P6 acupuncture point at the inner forearm can prevent nausea and vomiting when stimulated. This stimulation sends signals to your spinal cord and brain that release chemicals into your bloodstream that fight nausea and vomiting.Locate Pressure Point P6, aka “Neiguan.” Position your hand so that your palm is facing you and your fingers are pointing upward.Place 3 fingers of your opposite hand horizontally across your wrist. Use your thumb to feel the point just below your index finger. There are two large tendons in your wrist in this area.
Press on this point for 2-3 minutes using a circular motion.
Repeat the process on your other wrist.
You can also use an acupressure band, such as Sea-band® or ReliefBand®.
 Bismuth subsalicylate (Kaopectate, Pepto-Bismol) can be used to treat mild vomiting due to food poisoning or overindulgence.You can sometimes treat nausea with antihistamine medicines such as meclizine and dimenhydrinate. These are especially helpful for nausea due to motion sickness. They may cause drowsiness.Do not take more than the recommended dosage.

