 One of the easiest ways to connect with people is to radiate a positive energy. Smiling conveys that in the most simple way possible and it takes very little effort. If you’re not the kind of person who smiles a lot, you may be giving off negative energy to people who don’t know you without even meaning to. The next time you see a person you don’t know or pass an acquaintance, make an effort to smile a bit more, showing those pearly whites. Not only will people be more likely to connect with you, but research shows that smiling actually makes you happier, so everybody wins!Make a goal of smiling at 10 people today and take it up from there. Not only will you be projecting more friendliness, but you’ll be making other people smile and feel happier in the process.;
, Another way to connect with new people is to have body language that makes you look approachable and easy to talk to. If your body is open to new people, your mind will be, too, and they’ll be much more likely to connect with you and to enjoy a conversation with you. Just make eye contact with people, smile at them, and turn your body toward them instead of away. Keep your hands at your sides instead of folding them over your chest, and look straight ahead of you more than at the ground.


Also, maintain good posture, whether you’re sitting or standing. This makes you look more energetic and accessible to others.
 When you first meet people, the best way to connect with them is to make them feel like they’re remarkable. This doesn’t mean you should lie and give them false compliments, but that you should look out for whatever makes the person unique and stress that to him or her. It’s not about being fake, but about finding opportunities to make people feel unique. If people feel special in your presence, they’ll find it easier to connect with you because they’ll be less self-conscious.


If the person mentions having four children, for example, you can say that you’re impressed he or she is able to balance his or her family with her career; if someone tells you he just ran the San Francisco Marathon, mention that you’re amazed that he was able to run up all of those hills.
Give people lots of smiles, laughter, and affirmation. You don’t want them to think of you as a tough audience or they won’t be likely to open up to you.
 Another way to connect with people right away is to find something you have in common. Though you may not want to question new people about all of their favorite interests too much, you can listen carefully to see if hear the person mention something that you have in common. This can help you find something to bond over and to get excited about together — what’s more, if you do find an instant connection, then the person will remember you and will want to spend more time with you the next time you see each other.


You can bond of sports, music, hobbies, backgrounds, TV, film, traveling, pets, favorite neighborhood spots, favorite comedians, or many other subjects.
If you happen to come across something you and the person deeply disagree about right off the bat, whether it’s your political persuasion or your sports affiliations, try to steer away from these conflicting feelings until you know the person better. Of course, if you think you can have a jovial argument about your favorite sports teams, then that can help you connect, too.
 Studies show that people are forming real connects less than ever in today’s world — in fact, in one study, 25% of Americans said that they have no one to confide in.Part of the reason this may be happening is because, with all of the technology we have, many people are much more focused on checking their phones or emails than in engaging with the person right in front of them. If you want to break this mold and stand out to people upon a first meeting, then make sure to be present in the moment and to give them all of the attention they deserve. They’ll be impressed that you care so much, and will feel happy to be in your presence.


Don’t talk about the meeting you have to go to or the dinner you’re having in an hour. Focus on enjoying what you’re doing in the moment.
Making eye contact is key to being present in a conversation. Don’t let your eyes dart around the room or it’ll look like you have something better to do.
 People are drawn to people who have a positive energy surrounding them. Everyone wants to feel happier in their lives and they naturally want to spend more time with people who are happy about who they, where they are, and what they do; on the other hand, people don’t typically enjoy being around people who are constantly complaining or only talking about the worst things that happened to them that day. If you want people to feel like they can connect with you, then focus on talking about positive goals, positive mutual interests, or just the random, funny things that happened to you today.


If you hear yourself making a negative comment, counter it with two positive comments.
Talk about the good things around you, from the weather to the sandwich you’re eating. Never forget all that you have to be grateful for.
 Another way to connect with people at first is to learn how to quickly read people. You should really pay attention to what people say and do when you first meet them, so you can try to figure out as much as you can about them from their body language, sense of humor, or any indications of their background or where they came from. This can help you get a sense of whether or not they’d like to talk about sports, work, children, or whatever it is you bring up. It’s important to tailor your comments to the person you’re talking to so you show them a side of yourself that would be most appealing — and least offensive.


You should also be able to read whether or not the person you’re talking to is getting bored. If he’s shifting on his feet, not saying much, and looking around, then you better change the subject.
Study how people react to others. If the new person you’re talking to laughs loudly at a raunchy joke someone else makes, then you’ll know it’s okay to exhibit your bawdy sense of humor.
 As you move past the first impressions, you should work on actually showing that you care about the people you’re connecting with. This means that you should care about the person and his goals, hopes, and interests. Being genuine is the most important thing you can do to make a real connection; talk to people because you want to know how they’re doing, not because you want to use them to get ahead, and they will be able to see the difference.


Let them see that you really care who they are and what they’re about. Spend much more of your time talking about other people instead of yourself.
If people are telling you about something that happened to them, whether it’s a job interview or a camping trip, ask a few follow-up questions to show you’re interested.
If you read a news story about something a person was talking about, send him an email with the link to say he might find it interesting.
 As your friendships with people progress, you should work on asking them questions to show that you really want to get to know them. While you may want to stick to easy topics such as hobbies or pets at first, you can move on to asking people about their jobs, or even about their backgrounds or their relationships with other people. Let your relationships progress at a natural pace and ask questions when they seem relevant.


It shouldn’t feel like an interview and you shouldn’t ask too many questions at once. As your relationship progresses, you can ask more and more questions to get to know the person better.
You should open up about as much as the other person if you want to connect. While the person should feel like you care about him, he shouldn’t feel like you won’t reveal anything about yourself.
 One way to build deeper connections with people is to find something that you can do together to strengthen your bond. If you know that three of your co-workers are voracious readers just like you are, start a monthly book club with them. If a few of the guys in your class love watching football as much as you do, invite them over to watch the game next Sunday. If the neighbor you’re starting to build a friendship with loves yoga as much as you do, suggest that you attend a workshop together. Finding an interest to bond over can take your relationship to a new level.


You may have to take the initiative to invite the person to explore the interest with you, but don’t be shy about it. If the person likes you and cares about the mutual interest, it’ll make for a fun time where you can connect.
Once you explore one interest with a person, then you may find that you have two or more other things in common, and your bond will continue to grow.
 You want people to feel like they can come to you if they’re struggling, and like they’re not competing with someone who is perfect. While you don’t have to complain about all of your insecurities or problems at once, as you get to know people, you can open up to them about things like your current questions about your job as well as your latest fight with your sister. Making the effort to reveal things about yourself will show people that you’re a person who is open to connecting.


You may think that people will like you more if you seem perfect, but in reality, they’ll be much more open to connecting with you if you prove that you have flaws. It’ll make you seem more human.
 Another way to connect with people is to make sure to stay in touch with them. Check in with them about hanging out over the weekend, or call or text them to see how they’re doing if you knew that they had a big event coming up, like a job interview or a big exam. This shows that you’re thinking about people when they’re not around and that you really want to know how they’re doing. While you don’t want to check in on them so much that they feel like you’re on their case, do it often enough that it deepens your bond.


Checking in with people builds a more natural and more lasting rapport and will make easier for you to keep hanging out.
Just a simple text message wishing a person good luck the evening before a big event can help him or her feel like you care.
 Another thing you can do to make people connect with you is to really pay attention to the things they tell you. From remembering their names from your first meeting to remembering where they’re from, what their hobbies are, or what their favorite book is, committing these things to memory will make you a more caring friend who is easier to connect with. If people feel like everything they tell you will go in one ear and out the other, then they’ll be less likely to want to open up to you.If you can remember the name of the person’s sister, where he went to college, where in Florida he lived as a kid, or any number of details he only mentioned once or twice, then he’ll see that you really care.
You should also focus on a person’s facial expression and body language to see how he or she is really feeling. The person may say that everything is fine, but you’ll know that something is wrong, and you’ll be a better friend for knowing.
Make the effort to listen when people tell you when their birthdays, anniversaries, or other special events are so you can congratulate them at the right times.
 Another way to deepen your connections with people is to make an effort to really listen to them when they talk to you. You should look them in the eye, put away your phone and other distractions, and make an effort to really absorb the words they’re telling you. Let them finish talking instead of interrupting and offering your own opinion. Hold back your judgment and reserve your advice unless it is asked for. Listening to people shows them that you really care about them instead of just talking about yourself.


People are notoriously bad listeners in today’s world of technology and multi-tasking. You can make yourself stand out by making an effort to really care.
When people talk to you, turn your body toward them and have open body language so they are more comfortable talking to you.
You don’t have to nod or say, “Uh huh” every two seconds to show that you’re listening, either. Your eye contact, body language, and focus will do that for you.
 Another way to connect with anybody is to find people who have similar interests. Join a hiking group, a road-runner’s club, a short story writing workshop, a local theatre, or a number of other organizations geared toward people with similar interests, and you’ll be surprised by how quickly you’ll connect with new people. Since you’ll already have a common interest and have made an effort to commit to it, you and the people in these organizations will already have a lot to talk about.


If there’s nothing you feel really passionate about, try a beginner’s class in something completely new. You’ll be able to bond with people over your goals to try something new and exciting.
People tend to be friendly in clubs and organizations because they’re there by choice. It may be easier to connect with them there than it would be in school or on the bus commute home.
 Another way to put yourself out there and to connect with people more is to make the effort to introduce yourself to new people. Whether there’s a new co-worker in your office or you and the girl next to you at the coffee shop are reading the same book, don’t be shy about reaching out your hand and introducing yourself. A lot of people are shy and they’ll feel connected to you because you made the effort to speak to them. Just be friendly, make some small talk, and ask the person a question or two to get a conversation going.


If you get in the habit of introducing yourself to new people, then you’ll find it easier to meet new people because you’ll let go of your reservations. Though you can’t connect with everyone, helping get your guard down will make this much easier.
If you’re in a group setting and there’s someone you don’t recognize there, take a chance and introduce yourself and you may find that the person you’re talking to has a lot in common with you.
 People love connecting with people who are disarming. If you act like you take yourself too seriously or like you’re Mr. or Mrs. Perfect, then people won’t feel like they can really talk to you or open up to you. Instead, show that you know who you are, and you’re okay with laughing at your own foibles, whether you spilled coffee on your pants or managed to lose your cell phone for the third time this year. If you can laugh at yourself a little without being too self-deprecating, then people will think you’re easygoing and will be more comfortable talking to you.


Though you may feel like you’re too insecure to go out on a limb like this, take a chance and make a joke about yourself. You’ll see that other people will be impressed that you’re putting yourself out there and they’ll be more likely to connect with you.
 A lot of people don’t connect with others because they’re full of excuses for why it won’t work. You may think that you’re new to a neighborhood and no one will want to be your friend because you have no idea where to go or what to do there. You may think that no one will talk to you because you’re a teacher living in a neighborhood full of lawyers. You may think people won’t talk to you because you’re shy. Whatever excuses you’re making, if you want to connect with people, you have to toss them aside and get out there.


If you spend your life making excuses for why people won’t like you, you’ll be missing out on some incredibly meaningful connections.
Of course, not everyone will be able to connect with you and vice versa. But you have to at least be willing to make an effort if you want it to happen.
 Another way to put yourself out there is to help people. You can volunteer in your community, help your neighbor carry her groceries to her home, or even help an acquaintance study for an exam. As long as you’re not letting people completely take advantage of you, people will appreciate the effort you’re putting in and will want to help you out in return. This is a great way to connect with people because you’ll be showing a selfless side of yourself and will be open to new experiences and connections.


If you help people, even in a small way, then they’ll think you’re a kind, friendly person who is worth knowing.
Of course, you should help people because this is something you really want to do, not just because you think it’ll help you get friends.
 The best way to put yourself out there is to get in the habit of connecting with people or trying to connect with them on a regular basis. Make sure you have at least a few social events on your social calendar at all times, and that you’re friendly and open to new people and new experiences. If you don’t close yourself off and always look for the next opportunity to socialize with people, then you’ll be much more likely to connect with them.


Think of it as a rule of numbers. It’ll be harder to connect with people if you only interact with a handful of people, won’t it?
Connecting with people is all about being in the right mindset. If you believe you can connect with them, and have gained experience socializing and meeting new people, then you’ll be much more likely to build deep, lasting bonds.

