 If you're still in your own country, this shouldn't be too difficult to find at local churches, community centers, municipal parks, etc. If you're traveling overseas to another country and you're in a country with Christian traditions, there should be a lot of similar opportunities available, subject to local traditions. And when attending church services and Christmas events, even if you don't speak the local language, it's still a great chance to soak up the atmosphere and see how other parts of the world celebrate Christmas.;
, An online search is a good place to start, as is speaking to locals., You can still make the day festive by doing special Christmas related things including reflecting on the occasion., It's a lot more enjoyable if you can celebrate with someone else at Christmas time. This might include your travel companion(s), people you've recently met and made firm friendships with, family and friends you know in the country you're in, etc. Just do your best not to spend the day alone but to share the occasion with at least one other person.


If you are alone that day, look at ways to be around people, such as attending church services, having a restaurant meal, etc.
 If you know you'll be traveling at Christmas time, it can be heartwarming to have a small memento from home that represents Christmas, such as a fabric ornament, a card, or a Christmas message from your family. Take it out on Christmas Day and display it or wear it as appropriate, to give yourself a little personal Christmas cheer.
 With Skype, emails, and other technological marvels, it's very easy to keep in touch by video for Christmas and to say your hellos and greetings, however short. Making this connection will help make it feel like a true Christmas.
 It's Christmas, so give in to your desire to buy something or do something that you've been holding off on. This can help to make the day feel more special and can reward your anticipation about something that you might not otherwise get or do.
 If you're celebrating Christmas overseas, it's worth enjoying the fresh take on Christmas. Take photos of the displays and other Christmas elements, and take time to walk around seeing what other people are doing.
 Find a way to do something good and important for someone else, a friend or relative, or perhaps a person you don't know so well in your Christmas location. You will not go to bed feeling you haven't had your Christmas. Guaranteed.

