 Make sure that your face is clean and makeup-free before you start a steam treatment. Do not apply any jojoba oil as a moisturizer until after you have washed your face.
 Many essential oils have antibacterial and/or antiseptic properties, meaning they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that infect the skin and cause pimples. Using these oils can help prevent the formation of pimples. Try one of these types of essential oils:


Spearmint, or peppermint. Both peppermint and spearmint contain menthol which has both antiseptic and immune-boosting properties.
Thyme boosts the immune system and has antibacterial properties. It also increases circulation of the blood by opening up blood vessels.
Calendula accelerates healing and has antimicrobial properties.
Lavender is soothing and can help with anxiety and depression. It also has antibacterial properties.
 Before using essential oils, always pre-test an area of skin with the oil. Since these herbs are plant-derived, and since people can have allergies and sensitivities to plants, you can have a reaction to the essential oil. The reaction is often a mild rash that may or may not be itchy.


To test the oil on your skin, place a single drop of the oil on your wrist and wait for 10-15 minutes. If there is no irritation, you should be able to use the oil.
 Heat the water until it reaches a boiling temperature. Then, turn off the heat and add 1-2 drops of any of essential oils to the hot water. Never put your face over a pot of boiling water!, After you have added the oils to the water, then cover your head with a towel and place your face over the steaming pot. Make sure to close your eyes and keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water.You want the heat to dilate your blood vessels and open up your pores, but if you are too close to the steam then it may damage your skin.


Breathe normally and relax!
Keep your face over the steam for 10 minutes.
Rinse your face with lukewarm water and pat dry with a cotton towel. Don’t rub your skin, just gently pat it dry.
 Use as much as necessary to cover your skin. Work the oil into your skin using your fingertips and small, circular motions.


At first, you can use this method twice a day. After two weeks, you should notice an improvement in your skin. At this point you can do the steam treatment once per day.

