 Insert the needle through the fabric at the starting point of your stitch line, A. Poke through from the back of the fabric to the front.


Pull the needle and thread completely through so that the end knot lies flush against the back of the fabric.
Your A point should be at the bottom right edge of your desired stitch line.;
, Cross over the front of the fabric and insert the needle at a position directly above your A point. This new insertion point will be point B.


Pull the needle and thread completely through to the back of the fabric, creating a flat vertical stitch between A and B. This stitch must be straight, not slanted.
The distance between A and B will be the width of your stitch. Unless otherwise specified, a width of 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) should suffice.
 Insert the needle through the fabric at A again. Pull the needle and thread through from back to front.


Tighten the thread until it creates a flat vertical stitch at the back of the fabric, mirroring the one on the front.
 Cross the thread over the front of the fabric and insert the needle at a point lying even with B and to the left. This will be your C point.


The horizontal distance between B and C should roughly match the stitch width. In this example, it should be 1/4 inch (6.35 mm).
Continue pulling the needle and thread through to the back of the fabric until a flat diagonal stitch connecting A and C appears on the front of the fabric.
 Insert the needle through the fabric from back to front, bringing it through at a point vertically beneath C and to the horizontal left of A. This newest point is point D.


Pull the thread through completely, creating a flat vertical stitch along the back of the fabric from C to D.
With this step, you have completed a single zigzag stitch.
 Repeat the steps used to create the first stitch down the entire length of your stitch row. End the row with a vertical stitch.


Reset your stitch labels at the end of each complete zigzag stitch. In other words, the C point of your first zigzag becomes the B point of your second, and the D point of your first zigzag becomes the A point of your second.
For each stitch:

Stitch a vertical line between A and B on the front of the fabric.
Stitch a vertical line between B and A along the back, inserting the needle through to the front at A again.
Stitch diagonally across the front of the fabric from A to C.
Stitch a vertical line along the back of the fabric from C to D, inserting the needle through to the front at D.


End the row with a vertical stitch across the front of the fabric between the D and C of your final zigzag.
Make sure that you maintain the same stitch width and length for each zigzag.
 Rename your stitch labels so that E is the bottom of your last vertical stitch and F is the top point of that same stitch. Cross over this final vertical stitch so that the needle comes out to the front of the fabric at E.


If done correctly, the stitch prior to this should have gone through to the back of the fabric at F.
To complete this step, make a vertical stitch along the back of the fabric from F to E, inserting the needle through E.
 Cross over the front of the fabric and insert the needle at the top point of the adjacent vertical stitch, now identified as point G. Pull the thread through to create a flat diagonal stitch.


This newest diagonal stitch should cross over the center of the last diagonal stitch made during your first trip down the length of the row. The resulting stitch will be x-shaped.
Note that G lies to the horizontal right of F.
 Insert the needle through to the front of the fabric at the bottom point of the current vertical post you're resting on. This point can now be referred to as point H.


Point H is directly beneath point G and to the right of E.
 Zigzag your stitches down the length of the row, working from the left edge to the right edge. End by overlapping the very first vertical post you made.


These stitches should be nearly identical to the ones you created down the first pass, but they will slant in the opposite direction (left to right instead of right to left).
For each stitch:

Stitch a vertical line between E and F on the front of the fabric, overlapping the vertical post already there.
Stitch between F and E along the back of the fabric, inserting through to the front at E again.
Stitch diagonally across the front from E to G.
Stitch between G and H along the back of the fabric, inserting through to the front at H.


The end of the row should conclude with a vertical stitch between your final H and G points.
 If done correctly, the needle and thread should be at the back of your fabric. Knot the thread here and cut off any excess thread to complete the zigzag row.


To knot the thread:

Bring the needle through the front and back of the fabric at a spot directly next to your current insertion point.
Before drawing the thread flat, insert the needle through the loop you just created. Do so two or three times, then draw the loop closed. This should create a secure knot.



