 Going into a fight blind will never end well. Assess why your adversary is picking a fight and if he is alone, intoxicated, or armed. If possible, defuse the situation by keeping calm and backing down. It is better to keep a fight verbal as opposed to physical under most circumstances.;
, Take the argument outside, which not only puts distance between you two, but will draw a crowd. You need witnesses to testify that you didn't start the confrontation or escalate it into violence. You will also lessen the probability of him having easy access to a weapon of opportunity (pool stick, bottle).
 Keep a halo of around 3 feet (0.9 m) around yourself, which will keep you out of striking distance. Move around, walk around, but do not allow yourself to be backed into a corner. Don't walk backwards, which can lead you to trip or fall, but instead walk sideways so you can see where you are going while still keeping your opponent in your sight.
 Shouting and clenching your fists is pretty much asking for a fight.
 As soon as he breaks your halo, strike and strike decisively. Do not give him the opportunity to hit you first. Landing the first blow gives you a semblance of control over the situation and will put your opponent off guard and on the defensive.
 If the opportunity presents itself, strike below the belt. A solid kick to the groin followed by a knee or fist to the face of your bent over opponent will end the fight. Do not worry about looking pretty or trying to box. The idea here is to incapacitate your opponent and to stop him from causing you harm, not to show off.
 Assume you will get hit. It will hurt. It will scare you and put your body into survival mode. The best thing you can do is take the punch somewhere where it will not take you out of the fight or cause you real harm. Take a punch to the top of your head, your arms, or your forearms. Get in close to lessen the force and the impact of the blow while giving yourself leverage to counter-attack.
 Attempting complex holds, chokes, or strikes without proper training will only leave you open should your opponent have a working knowledge of counters or reverses. Always assume that your opponent is trained to fight. Never underestimate him.
 The idea is to buy yourself time to get away from a potentially serious conflict, not to beat your opponent senseless. Once he is out of the fight, get away and stay away. If you are stopped either during the fight or immediately after by law enforcement, you have a much better case for self-defense if you only used the necessary force to secure your safety.

