 Boys are born hunters. It’s also just human nature. People are more likely to prize something they had to work hard to win. At the same time, you don’t want to play games to such a degree that you seem manipulative. So it can be a fine line.You can seem like a prize if you boost your own self-esteem. Never be arrogant, but do act confident. Understand your worth, and don’t beg or plead. Don't seem desperate by clinging or always making the first move or following him around too much.
Let him text you first. Don’t always be available for him – have your own interests and friends, too. Don’t always respond immediately every time he calls or messages you. This doesn’t mean you should ignore him completely. You could go too far and he might lose interest or think you don’t like him. There’s nothing wrong with going up to him with a simple hello.

Be mysterious. One way to do this is not to reply to every question. So, if he asks, “What’s your favorite color?” you could say, “Guess.” Or: Look into his eyes for three seconds, and then look away. That will make him try harder to see if he can look into your eyes again.;
, You do need to give him hints that you like him. This will actually MAKE him chase you. It’s all about giving him clues without being too obvious. That way he will build up enough confidence to let you know he likes you too. Some contact is key – eye contact, physical contact, mental contact – just not too much.


Look at him, then look away or down, as if shyly, and then look at him again. Don't hold his gaze for too long with a stare. That can seem creepy. But eye contact is really important.

Touch him. Although you don’t want to seem too clingy or desperate, you can make brief physical contact with him in a way that intrigues him or gives him hints that you like him. For example, you could brush your arm or leg against his, or touch his shoulder as you pass him in the hall.
You could playfully punch his arm while joking around with him – just do it softly! You could also talk more quietly, so he has to lean in to hear you. Playing with your hair will give him signals you like him. Make the touches seem unintentional.Click "like" on a few of his photos on Facebook or Instagram. Not too much – just one or two so that he notices you and realizes you have noticed him. Text him a joke or casual comment. Use emojis.They are flirty.

Talk to him! You need to build a friendship first. If you always ignore him, he will probably think you don’t like him, and he might never make a move. So you do need to strike up a conversation now and then.
 You should keep it light in the beginning. Something like “Wow! That was some storm last night, huh?” or “Hey, you’re pretty good at basketball! Do you play?” is the tone you should have. Do NOT follow him around like a lost puppy.


Strike up conversations with him – but not all the time. Make eye contact with him – but not all the time. Show interest in what he likes to do – but not all the time. Text him sometimes – but not all the time.
Treat him like he’s a good friend in the beginning, while giving him subtle hints there could be more (through body language, a smile, a flirty text). Just be chill around him, and hang out.
Get to know him in a group. Maybe a bunch of friends go out to a movie, and you see if he wants to come along. Slowly, get to know him better by including him in activities with other people.

