 Over time, bedrooms have a tendency to get cramped and cluttered. Try breathing new life into your room by removing unnecessary furniture until you're left with the "bare necessities." The extra space can make your room seem like a whole new (much larger) place.


You may also be able to simply move the furniture around to get a similar effect. For instance, if your bed takes up lots of space in the middle of the room, push it against the wall to free up floor area and create the impression of open space.
 There are many exciting ways to give your room a new lighting setup. For example, you might try stringing holiday lights along the ceiling for a festive glow at night. If you find that your room is a little dark and dingy at night, put a retro lamp from the local thrift store in the corner to give your room a little more light.


Changing your lighting can also mean changing your windows. For instance, a new set of curtains can be a good investment. Thick drapes can keep your room dark in the mornings to help you sleep in. Thinner curtains can let the light shine through, casting a colored glow across your room.
 Painting is messy and takes time, but it can make your room look like an entirely different place. Pick a light, neutral color for your bedroom. Shades like white, grey, light blue, sea foam green, and lavender tend to be best. Darker, more bold colors can be distracting and make your bedroom look more like a hotel room than someplace you actually live.


If you don't own the house (like if you're living at home or renting), ask for permission before you start painting.
See our painting guide for help.
 If you're willing to put in the effort, coordinating all the colors in your room can make it look like it's been professionally-designed. Pick two or three of your favorite colors, then pick furniture, curtains, and bed linens that mostly match. Again, lighter, more neutral shades tend to work best here.


wikiHow's guide to matching colors can help you pick colors that look appealing together.
 Building your own furniture takes time, energy, and know-how, but it will make your bedroom uniquely your own. The most difficult, time-intensive option is probably to build your furniture from raw materials like lumber, etc. A much easier option is to buy old or damaged furniture and fix it up, modifying it in the process. An added benefit of this approach is that worn-out furniture is usually quite cheap. Try looking in the "free" section of classified sites like Craigslist for great deals.


One fairly easy example is to make a backrest for your bed. In its most basic form, this can be made by nailing wooden boards together in a square panel. Paint or decorate the side that faces the rest of the bed, then connect it to the bed frame.
 Pets that can spend most of their time in a small enclosed area make good choices for bedroom companions. These sorts of pets require daily work to feed, clean, and care for, so they're semi-major responsibilities. However, with diligent care, they can make great companions for years (and you'll always have something to talk about when someone new your bedroom for the first time).


Fish, lizards, insects, and small mammals like hamsters are examples of animals that can be kept in a bedroom in a cage or tank.

