 Sodium bicarbonate, commonly known as baking soda, is an effective remedy to eliminate foot odor as it neutralizes the pH of your sweat and reduces the amount of bacteria on your feet.


Add baking soda in warm water (one tablespoon for every cup of water) in a tub or foot basin.
Soak your feet for 15 to 20 minutes every night for about one week. To add a nice smell to the soak, squeeze the juice of one lemon into the baking soda and water. Make sure you dry your feet completely after the soak.You can also sprinkle baking soda in your shoes and socks to fight any odors.;
, The acid in the tea kills bacteria and closes the pores in your feet, keeping them dry and bacteria free.Pour several cups of very hot or boiling water into a tub or foot basin.
Add 4 bags of black tea, or two tea bags per cup of water.
Let the bags steep in the boiling water for 10 minutes. Then add a few cups of cool water to bring the temperature of the water down until it is comfortable for your feet.
Soak your feet for 20 minutes. Do this once a day, making sure to thoroughly dry your feet after each soak.
 Vinegar does a good job of getting rid of odor and creates an acidic environment that discourages the development of smelly bacteria.Fill a tub or foot basin with 5-8 cups of warm water. Add ½ cup of white distilled or apple cider vinegar.
Place your feet in the basin, swish the mixture around and let them soak for 15 minutes, twice a day.
Make sure you clean and dry your feet completely when you finish soaking them by rinsing them in cold water and towel drying them.
 Epsom salt minimizes the bad odor on your feet as it fights microbial infection and neutralizes most odors. As an added bonus, it’s also great at soothing aching or sore feet.


Mix two cups of Epsom salt into warm water in a foot basin or tub.
Soak your feet for 15 minutes, twice a day. For the best results, do this soak before you go to sleep so you do not have to wear socks or shoes for a few hours.
 Lavender oil will not only make your feet smell good, it will also kill bacteria on your feet, thereby preventing them from smelling bad.Before trying this remedy, always check to make sure the oil won’t irritate your skin by putting one drop on a small area of your body. If there is no reaction or itchiness after several minutes, use the oil.
Rub a few drops of the oil onto your feet and massage it in right before you go to bed.
You can also create a soak with lavender oil by putting a few drops of oil into warm water in a foot basin or a tub and soaking your feet for 15-20 minutes, twice a day.
 Sage is a bit of a wonder herb, as it is has antibacterial, antiviral and antifungal properties, and is also an astringent. Rosemary is also an astringent that has antibacterial and antifungal properties, which means both herbs help to minimize the production of sweat from your sweat glands.Less sweat on your feet means a less ideal environment for smelly bacteria. Plus, these herbs will leave your feet smelling pleasant and feeling refreshed.
Fill a tub or foot basin with several cups of boiling water. Add 1 teaspoon of dried rosemary and 1-2 teaspoons of dried sage to the water.
Let the herbs steep until the water is cool enough to put your feet in, but still warm.
Soak for 30 minutes, one to two times a day.

