 One of the easiest ways to put your furniture to work is to select pieces with built-in storage. Bed frames, ottomans, and even sofas can all be purchased with built-in storage for anything from clothes to books, or anything else you may own.








Consider whether an item’s built-in storage will fit your needs. If, for example, you are looking for more space for your clothing, a small ottoman may not be the best solution. Instead, opt for a platform bed with storage drawers underneath.;
, Help eliminate some of the mess in your life by choosing pieces that are meant to work with contemporary technology. Look for nightstands with wireless charging capabilities, for example, to help minimize cord clutter while keeping your devices powered-up.Such pieces are especially common in modern design, from high-end boutiques to budget outlets such as Ikea.
 Some items, such as a sleeper sofa or extendable console tables, are meant to serve more than one purpose. Other pieces you may assign your own second purpose, such as doubling up a desk as a vanity. Either way, look for items that can serve multiple purposes in your home.








Multi-functional items help reduce clutter in a space. They are particularly useful when they stand in for a piece you won’t use often.
A sleeper sofa, for example, gives you regular seating and provides another bed for when you have guests, but does not take up the same space as a guest bed.
 Look for furniture that is meant to tuck away neatly when not in use. Many kitchen and dining sets are available that can store chairs within the table. Likewise, many contemporary furniture design stores and warehouses offer pieces that looks good when out, but can fold away to store.








Wall-mounted tables that fold up to function as poster frames or mirrors are popular choices for both dining spaces and desks.Furniture on wheels, such as a coffee table on casters, also makes moving and storing furniture easy.
 A well designed stool, whether a country-style ceramic piece or a modern, minimalist painted wood piece, can do a lot for just one piece. Stools can function as props on which to stand, end tables, plant holders, seats at a kitchen table, and much more. A few good stools could serve a number of changing purposes in any home.








Look for stools that are both decorative and functional. Plastic step stools may work to help reach high places, but opt for something that you would want sitting next to your sofa when you’re not standing on it.
If you have a small space, stools also have the advantage of being stackable and easily stored when not in use. Use them instead of chairs around a dining table, then tuck them aside when you’re not eating.
 If you are looking for furniture that will transition with you over multiple styles and decorating trends, look for classic furniture with clean lines and minimal embellishments. This will allow you to keep a quality piece and dress it up to meet your current aesthetic with items like throw pillows or new linens.Look for neutral colors, as well. Black, white, shades of gray, and earth tones such as brown and taupe are versatile and can transition from one style to another with just a few accessories.
Try to avoid loud colors or bold patterns for your major furniture pieces. These may become dated, and reupholstering is much more expensive than buying a few new cushions.
 Furniture made of hardwood such as oak can be painted, sanded down, and repainted to fit your ever-changing needs. Look for unfinished hardwood coffee tables, end tables, bed frames, and more to get a durable piece that can easily transition styles.Remember that pieces should be stripped and refinished every time you want to change their finish. Do not simply paint one color on top of another. This could lead to bubbling, clumping, and peeling.
 One of the best ways to keep your furniture looking good regardless of what design you choose is to invest in quality pieces. Make sure items are screwed or bolted together, instead of being held together by staples, and look for durable fabrics such as leather and canvas.Get under cushions and look closely at how a furniture piece was assembled. If it seems careless or haphazard, move onto a better quality piece.While high-quality furniture may cost more upfront, it may actually save you money in the long run, since you won’t have to repeatedly pay to replace these pieces., Look for pieces that can serve different purposes in different stages of your life. If, for example, you work in an office now but are looking to work from home, you may want to look for desks or bookcases that have built-in file storage or space for your tools of the trade., Take measurements for the rooms in which you want to place new furniture. This not only lets you know what size furniture your space will fit, it also helps you determine whether you need multi-functional items, such as an ottoman with built-in storage.Write the measurements down and bring them with you when purchasing furniture so that you can compare your room size with dimensions listed on the item cards.
You may even check to see if your local furniture store offers an online room-planner that lets you mock-up what your room will look like with new pieces.
 When you are looking for versatile pieces, it is important to not get carried away buying other items that will clutter or clash with your space. Take inventory of what new furniture pieces you want to get, make a shopping list, and stick to it. This will also allow you to see if there are multi-functional pieces that can meet more than one of your needs with a single item.When making your list, consider two main components: what are pieces you don’t have but want in your home, and what pieces in your home are currently in need of replacement.
 This is especially helpful if you are trying to stick with a particular color palette or a specific aesthetic such as mid-century modern. Take pictures of items including walls, art, and other pieces of furniture to help match your new purchases to your current home.You may also opt to bring paint swatches or fabric samples with you while shopping to make sure you get better color matches. Swatches can often be found at home improvement stores.

