 Some people with braces may feel uncomfortable smiling out of fear that there is something stuck between their teeth or braces. Flossing and taking special care of your teeth and braces can help remove that fear, giving you a confident, clean smile. It's important to floss, but some people with braces may find it difficult to work around the wires and brackets. Most makers of dental floss now offer floss with a stiff, straight end, called a threader, which can make it drastically easier to floss between your braces and gums.Look for floss threaders at your local pharmacy or grocery store.
If you cannot find pieces of floss with their own threaders, you can also buy a threader that can be used with ordinary dental floss to accomplish the same task. For this type of threader, use about 12 inches of dental floss to ensure that you can adequately feed the floss through your teeth.Work the floss in a c-shape. As you floss, try to form a c-shape against each tooth. Then work the floss up and down, scraping the sides of your teeth from every angle. This will help maximize the area covered by the dental floss.Floss after every meal to help keep a clean, bright smile., It's important to brush at least twice a day, but many dentists recommend patients with braces brush after every meal.In addition to your usual brushing routine, it's important to remember to brush around each and every part of your braces.Consider using an interproximal brush. It's a special brush built for people with braces that can easily slip underneath the wire of the braces., Mouthwash can be used at home or on the go, especially after meals. Mouthwash helps mask bad breath and may help kill or remove harmful bacteria that cause unpleasant odors.Use the cap of the mouthwash bottle to pour out a "serving" of mouthwash.
Pour the mouthwash into your mouth, but do not swallow.
Rinse vigorously, focusing on each quadrant of your mouth.If at all possible, try to avoid rinsing with water immediately after rinsing with mouthwash. Mouthwash will continue to kill bacteria in your mouth after you've finished rinsing with it, and rinsing with water too soon after you've used mouthwash may disrupt this process., Not only can hard foods lead to chipping or cracking of your teeth, but they're also prone to getting stuck underneath or between your braces. For this reason, it may be helpful to cut or break hard foods into smaller pieces before chewing., Foods like popcorn, hard candies, and licorice can easily get stuck in your braces, and could even cause damage to your braces.Stick with softer foods, including fruits and vegetables, to ensure your smile is in good shape., Sugary foods are known to cause acidic deposits in teeth, and can lead to bad breath, decalcification of teeth, and even tooth decay.Hard candy can also damage your braces.Try to avoid candy and sweets as much as possible to have a healthy, fuller smile.

