 Since the meeting was by your request, you should be the one to control it. To set a good tone, you should thank the members for taking time out of their day to speak with you.


For example, “I understand you are very busy today, so thank you for taking the time to meet with me”.
 Simply explain that you have decided to leave the company. Although it is not required, you can choose to provide a brief explanation as long as it will not create a negative situation.


For example you can say, “I have decided to leave the company to pursue another opportunity” or “I have chosen to leave the company for personal reasons”.
Then, give your last date of employment. As described above, you can provide the standard 2 week notice unless you are required to provide a longer notice.
 Many jobs provide the employee with valuable knowledge and experience that will most likely contribute to their next career move.


It is important to recognize this and convey your gratitude. If you do so, you will leave a good lasting impression.
 If you are leaving on good terms and want to help the company or your replacement, you can offer your assistance.


Offering your assistance in hiring or training your replacement takes a load off of others who may not understand everything you do in a day.
Your employer may not take you up on your offer but the offer itself shows that you are courteous and loyal to the company.
 If you are leaving on good terms, it may be beneficial to ask for a letter of recommendation. This is a good idea even if you do not need the letter at this time.


You never know how many references a future employer will request.
Therefore, it is best to request a letter of recommendation while your work is still fresh in your supervisor’s mind.
 Each company has their own procedures when someone resigns. If during the meeting these procedures are not explained to you, you should ask.


For example, “So what are the next steps?” or “Are there any special procedures I need to follow from now until my last day?” Some important information to obtain includes:

If there will be an exit interview. An exit interview allows an employee who is leaving to provide the company with constructive criticism and other feedback.
What the procedure is to return company property (phone, car, laptop, tablet, etc.).
What paperwork, if any, is needed to be signed.
 Nearing the completion of the meeting, hand over a signed resignation letter. The letter must include the details described above, which you should have also verbally expressed. This letter will be kept in your personnel file.
 You must remain truthful throughout your resignation process. If you do not want to disclose too much information, it is best to provide vague information or not say anything at all.


For example, if you do not want to explain that you are resigning because you do not believe the company is ethical, you can just say you are leaving for personal reasons.
Being vague is better than lying about having to take care of a family member.
 It is best to keep the meeting as positive as possible and not provide your employer with numerous negative reasons for your departure. If in fact you are leaving because of an issue, it is OK to express that.


However, it is one thing to state it and another to go on and on with a list of negatives that contributed to you leaving.
 Don't gloat over your new position or life choice. If you are excited about the next steps in your life or professional career, it is natural to want to discuss with others.


However, during your meeting and before your last day, it is important to keep your expression of these feelings low key.
If you constantly talk about it, you may produce negative feelings surrounding your departure, such as resentment or anger.
 No matter what the circumstances are, it is imperative to remain as courteous and respectful as possible, from the time you have decided to resign through your last day on the job. You never know who knows who or when you will need to interact with these people again.


For your career and reputation, it cannot be stressed enough how important it is to remain professional, even when it is very tough to do so.

