 If you’d like to prepare a raw jackfruit for yourself—whether for the experience or for the fruit—you’ll need to go about it in a specific way. Take a sharp chef’s knife and cut the jackfruit in half.

You’ll see a large, white central stem: cut this into small pieces and remove it.
 To do this, you’ll need to have a firm grasp on the outside of the jackfruit half. Clearly visible segments of fruit will stand out (it’ll look a little like pulled pork); grab a segment and pull it out from the jackfruit body. Tear this fruit segment open, and extract the seed.Repeat this process until you’ve extracted all of the seeds from both halves of the jackfruit.
Jackfruit produces a very sticky sap that will cling to your hands, clothes, knife, and cutting board, and make the process of cutting the fruit difficult. To avoid this, slather your hands and knife in vegetable oil, which will diffuse the sticky sap.
 Jackfruit are flavorful, and taste approximately like a mixture between a banana and a pineapple, with mango-like hints of flavor as well. The seeds are the actual fruit of the plant, and will be the fleshy material contained in cans of jackfruit that you purchase. The seeds are tasty on their own. To prepare them, you can boil the seeds for 10–15 minutes (until soft), and then eat them directly. For a firmer texture, roast your seeds in the oven at 400°F (204°C) for 20 minutes.Jackfruit are difficult to peel properly; the exterior is prickly and thick, and once you cut through it, you’ll find that the interior is gummy, sticky, and difficult to cut apart (as described above). The fruit is in pods which are challenging to extract.
For this reason, it’s easier to purchase already prepared and canned jackfruit from a grocery store or an Asian market, rather than cutting through an entire fruit on your own.
 In Southeast Asian cultures, jackfruit seeds are often cooked on a charcoal grill and eaten while still hot. This gives the fruit a delicious smoky flavor. If you’d like to approximate this method of cooking but don’t have your own charcoal grill, you can roast the seeds in a cast-iron pan. The heat from the pan will cook the seeds consistently through.Cook the jackfruit seeds at 400°F (204°C). Use your oven light to check the seeds every 5 minutes. You’ll know they are done when the jackfruit seeds break open and the fleshy fruit “pops” out from the inside.

