 When shaving, the presence of dead skin cells can cause razor burn and ingrown hairs. It is possible to prevent razor burn and ingrown hairs by exfoliating the skin one to two days before shaving. While in the shower or bath, apply a store bought or homemade scrub to your wet arms. Rub the scrub over your appendages several times and then rinse off the product., If you have long, thick arm hair, shaving with a traditional razor blade will prove to be a long, frustrating, and tedious experience. Before you can achieve a close shave, you should trim the hair with an electric blade. Carefully run the electric clippers over your forearms, elbows, biceps, and shoulders., Haircuts, of any kind, have a tendency to make people feel itchy. Brush off your arms and then hop in the shower. Rinse in warm water to reduce irritation and remove the cut strands of hair from your arms and body.Prior to showering, you may want to clean up the area in which you shaved—shake out the towel and or sweep up the floor.
 You will significantly reduce your risk of skin irritation if you wash your arms before shaving your arms with a traditional razor blade. Remove any dirt and oils that have accumulated on your with a gentle cleanser. Rinse your arms thoroughly with warm water., Lubricants, such as shaving creams and gels, serve as a measure of protection against skin irritation and cuts. While you may coat your entire arm in shaving cream or gel, this may cause you to waste a large amount of the product. Instead, consider applying a lubricant to sections of your arms throughout the process of shaving. Once you have finished with a section, apply shaving gel or cream to an unshaven area of your arm., Divide your arms into small, manageable sections to shave.


Shave from the inside of your wrist, up the top of your forearm, and stop at your elbow. Gradually work your way across the forearm to the outside of your wrist, shaving in straight, even lines. Repeat on the other arm.
Shave the upper part of your arm—from your elbow to your shoulder—in the same manner. Repeat on the other arm.
Bend your elbow to tighten the skin. Slowly move the razor across the delicate skin of your elbow. Repeat on the other elbow.
If you are shaving your arms for swimming, it is recommended that you do not shave the underside of your arms. The hair on this part of your body allows you to feel the water as you are moving through it., After you have shaved both arms, rinse them off under the warm water of your shower. The warm water helps to combat irritation. It may prevent the appearance of razor burn the next day., Razor burn can plague even the most experienced and careful of shavers. If a red rash of little bumps appears on your arms, apply aloe to the irritated skin as soon as possible. Aloe soothes irritated skin and promotes healing. If your arms are in need of moisturiser, select a lotion that contains aloe., In addition to aloe, there are several other natural razor burn remedies for your to choose from:


Apply apple cider vinegar to the irritated patches of skin.
Take a soothing oatmeal bath.
Spread a mashed up avocado onto the rash. It will soothe and moisturise your skin.
Rub coconut oil into your skin., While some individuals may only shave for certain occasions, such as a race or swim meet, others may wish to shave their arms regularly. The average person will need to shave the stubble from their arms every 1 to 2 weeks. If you have heavier hair growth, you may need to shave more frequently.


If you frequently get razor burn, shave less frequently.