 If you want to make a lasting change and become an inspiration you should think carefully about what inspiration really is. When you're inspired, you're mentally stimulated to do or feel something.Usually, you're compelled to be different or better than who you currently are.

Inspiration seems brilliant, creative, and unique, but it's also tricky to understand. What inspires one person may not inspire the next.
There is much written about inspiration itself, but not as much about how to take on this characteristic and act in a way that inspires others.
While you might be able to easily picture someone who is hard working, it may be harder to picture someone who is inspirational.
 While it may be tempting to think that inspiration has to come from a famous or well-known source, don't forget that many things can inspire people in their daily lives. Watch for these little sparks of inspiration throughout your dayFor example, you may be inspired by the customer service someone provided in a stressful situation.
Perhaps you were inspired by the courage of someone standing up to another person's rude behavior.
 Take your time and try to consider everyone. Think about well-known or famous people, as well as people you've encountered in your daily life. Don't forget to consider people that inspired you in the past, as well as recently. Continue to revise your list. As you encounter different situations, ideas may come up when you are at work, at home, with friends, or travelling.

Try to identify what is is about each of these people that have inspired you, and why.
Writing down instances or people that inspire you can teach you about why you want to inspire others.
Be sure to describe how you feel when you realize someone is inspiring you., While the kinds of people that inspire you might be diverse, they probably share similar behaviors or qualities. You may immediately be familiar with common traits that inspire you, but here are a few of the top traits that are considered to be inspirational:Authenticity: Inspirational people usually find their own way to do things. This may mean overcoming obstacles or forging a completely new path.
Focused on others: Inspirational people don't just talk about what's important to them; they act on it. They usually dedicate their lives to helping others.
Great storyteller: Inspirational people have a unique way of looking at the world and are talented at describing their visions. Being able to communicate a compelling story is a big part of being an inspirational figure.