 Smoking and alcohol are two of the prime causative factors for such diseases and cessation. However, it's not enough to reduce your consumption -- it's best to quit altogether.


Smoking and drinking, apart from the health of your fallopian tubes, is not good for your body, organs, skin, hair, teeth, or nails. Quitting these habits will improve your life quality overall.;
, Meditation helps in reducing your stress levels which in turn promotes healing and overall good body health. Ideally, it would be most beneficial to begin your day with 10-15 minutes of meditation or mental relaxation techniques with breathing exercises.


Even just a few minutes of finding your zen ensures a positive start to the day and makes you more capable to handle the stress throughout the day. Less stress means lesser worsening of the inflammation that’s blocking the tubes.
 Yoga is known to channelize the energies of your body in a harmonious way and bring about greater healing potential. The 2 asanas that would help promote fertility in women are Setu bandhasana and Viparita Karani, two poses that utilize the gluteal and pelvic muscles.


To do this first pose (the "supported bridge pose"), lie on your back with the knees folded and use your muscles to lift your pelvis off the floor. Inhale as you lift the pelvis off the floor and bring it down as you exhale after a pause of 2 seconds.
Viparita Karani or the "legs on wall pose" is another asana from the traditional Indian system of Yoga that helps improve blockages of the fallopian tubes. It involves lying on the back in contact with a wall on your side, while raising your leg of that same side straight up against the wall at a 90° angle. After a small pause of 2 seconds, bring it back down slowly.
 Massaging the abdomen, a technique used by natural healers, could help unblock your tubes and improve their general health and functioning. Massage improves the blood circulation in and around the tubes, resulting in break-up of scar tissues and adhesions and decrease in inflammation.You can perform this therapy on your own:


Lie down on an exercise mat with your face upwards and a pillow below your lower back.
Relax and apply almond, olive, or lavender oil on your hands and massage over your pubic bone, as the uterus lies below this bone.
Massage gently lower and lower and pull your abdominal wall towards the navel. Holding this position, count to 10 and release your hands. Repeat this maneuver 10 to 20 times.

Do not do this if you are menstruating or pregnant. Also if possible, visit a massage therapist specializing in abdominal massage for better results.
 Try to avoid things like animal meat as they contain hormones which can affect a woman’s hormones like estrogen. Replace them with foods that are high in anti-oxidants to help promote healing.


Foods that are high in anti-oxidants are fresh fruits, vegetables (all kinds), vegetable oils like sunflower oil, safflower oil, coconut oil, mustard seed oil (olive oil being the richest).
Tea, chocolate, soy, coffee, oregano and cinnamon are high on flavonoids (a type of antioxidant).
Carotenoids are plant enzymes that have anti-oxidant activity and can cut down the free-radical build up in the body. Carotenoids can be stocked up by eating eggs, red-yellow fruits and vegetables like carrots, mangoes, bell peppers, papayas, citrus fruits, spinach, zucchini, etc.
 Vitamin C is required for the absorption of iron. In addition, it boosts immunity and fights infections. If your fallopian tube blockages are due to infections or inflammation, vitamin C may help clear them. Start by taking 1000mg vitamin C supplements 5-6 times a day. Vitamin C especially helps clear fallopian blocks due to mycobacterium tuberculosis.


However, if you experience diarrhea or any other complaints because of this supplement, reduce your dosage or stop completely. And pay a visit to your doctor!

, Certain herbs can help to kill any bacteria like yeast that may cause infection or prevent fertility. Prominent amongst these herbs are Dong Quai, chamomile, garlic, oleander, turmeric, red peony root, frankincense and calendula. Any qualified Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) expert can decide your dosage thorough examination.


Research conducted on the red peony root has shown to be rich in anti-oxidants.As we have seen above, this is probably the reason why it is prescribed in TCM to cure blocked fallopian tubes.
There are various combinations of such drugs available as infusions or supplements. One should not consume any of them without consulting a doctor or a skilled expert in the field and not fall far "miraculous" unverified claims.
 Various herbal tampons are available for the treatment of blocked fallopian tubes. These are tampons soaked in herbs, which help regulate the reproductive organs. However, use of this method should always be with extreme caution, as the tampons are not always sterile, and could lead to infections. In addition, these herbs, when taken orally, produce the same medicinal effects.


Goldenseal root works as an anti-microbial agent, and reduces inflammation and infections, and subsequently prevents scarring and adhesions.
Ginger root improves circulation, thus reducing inflammation and blocks. Hawthorn and Uva Ursi help reduce congestion and excess body fluids, thus clearing fallopian blocks due to fluid or blood collection.
Dong Quai, a Chinese, herb helps release spasms in the fallopian tubes.
 Application of castor oil is believed to help with blocked fallopian tubes by increasing blood and lymphatic circulation around the fallopian tubes. The increased blood supply helps with better functioning and removal of blocks from your tubes, while the lymphatics help remove old cells, scar tissue, and diseased cells.


You could apply castor oil directly on the lower abdomen or you may even use castor oil soaked packs and tissues that are easily available online and in herbal stores. You need to do this daily for at least 1-2 months for good results.
 An activated charcoal poultice when applied over the lower abdomen directly above your uterus and fallopian tubes helps treat infections and reduce inflammation. You can even prepare these poultices at home. Here's how:


Place a few paper towels on a tabletop.
Place a mixture of activated charcoal and flaxseeds onto the towels and cover it with more paper towels.
Place this poultice on the affected area and cover it with a plastic wrap. Use these poultices overnight for better results.
 This therapy uses natural enzymes produced by your body to dissolve scar tissues and prevent fibrosis. Enzymes also reduce inflammation and regulate blood flow to the reproductive organs.Serrapeptase is a widely-used enzyme for this purpose.


Serrapeptase in silkworms helps dissolve their cocoons due to its tissue break down properties. Supplements and other multi-enzyme preparations such as Wobenzym N and Advil are available over the counter. However, always speak to your doctor before taking these enzymes in case you have some underlying medical condition.
 This holistic science cures effectively with minimum or no side effects. Many remedies in the homeopathy pharmacopeia are helpful in the treatment of blocked tubes and infertility. Some of the remedies you may use are as follows:



Pulsatilla nigricans: It is indicated for fallopian blockages with menstrual irregularities and mood swings. Pulsatilla 30 taken twice a day for 2-3 months could help regulate your menstrual cycle and remove fallopian blocks.

Sepia: It is a homeopathic remedy indicated for menstrual irregularities, painful menses, pain in the vagina with a bearing down feeling, and repeated miscarriages due to fallopian blockages. Sepia 30 thrice a day for 2-3 months should help relieve your symptoms.

Thyroidinum: If you have thyroid disorders along with fallopian blocks, or lethargy with sluggishness and tendency to gain weight, thyroidinum 30 twice a day could help you considerably.

Natrum Muriaticum: It helps women who have recurrent headaches, especially after exposure to sunlight, and a craving for salty and sour food items. Fallopian tube blocks with delayed menses, bloating of abdomen with gas, and headaches are an indication for natrum muriaticum. Take 200 twice a day for 2- 3 months.

