 Werewolves are known for their distinctive transformation if they sleep outside with the full moon's light shining directly on their face.


Appear worried on the night of a full moon. Remember, you have to change that night. Do not make people think that something really bad is happening and don't lie. So, just excuse yourself and disappear somewhere where no one can find you. (If you're younger, let your parents know, though or they might freak out and call someone.)
Never stay around other people on a full moon night. If someone calls you when the moon is up, don't answer. But answer every time when they call you at other times during the month. That behavior will make it easier for them to spot that something is wrong with you and you have changed.;
, Just make sure not to thrash out or terribly injure someone. Wolves are always very protective and help the pack in any way they can.
 This will depend on what wolf you want to be. The Alpha? Stand tall and walk with pride. Look up wolves and packs and ranks and how each rank acts. But every rank walks wolf-like. They can't help it because that's their nature. And since you are a werewolf, you're more used to that. It's like walking while wearing high heels. It will be uncomfortable, but it will not harm your feet and you will get used to it as you continue walking this way.
 Werewolves can look menacing and outright scary if they're angry. Practice putting on several different stares to perfect the impersonation.


One for your enemies. Make it deep and aggressive. Look straight into their eyes and charge around them. Smile at them with your mouth open. When wolves do that, it's a sign of challenge.
The other one for your prey. Charge around your prey while observing very slight movement they make. Even if they move their feet a bit or just their finger. Spot it and make that clear. (Do not try smiling with your mouth open with this, since there is not going to be an equal fight. I don't mean that you are going to fight your prey or attack it, but that's how wolves are.)
Last one, for interesting people and friends. Try to make it friendly and playful. Wolves are very playful with their friends.
 If there is no one like that, target your best friend. Creep around in places they are and stalk them, but don't scare them! Think that you are a wolf and you are their protector. Keep a close eye on them and make eye contact. In the beginning, they might be scared a little bit if they don't know you. But prove to them that you are a friend and make them feel safe around you.
 That will give an impression that you have been in the forest. If someone tells you, act scared and excuse yourself.
 Be sneaky. Keep your head a bit low and observe everyone's moves. Charge around them as if they are your prey.
 For example, curl up in a ball in a dark corner. Or lay with both hands and legs straight in front of you, like walking using all limbs. Except this time you're laying on your side.
 Don't break away from friends altogether, but if you were a werewolf you would feel more comfortable around canines. If you are hanging out way too much, you might also start smelling a bit like fur which is very good for your tries.
 Don't be cheesy though! Only do that if you're good at acting.
 Act angry and a bit worried. Give them the "Enemy look" and tell them never to bring up the subject again and leave. Don't get in a fight about it.
 Werewolves are known for their very hairy exteriors. If you want to start producing more hair (and you're a guy), you can try shaving and see if that helps you produce more hair.

