 You can use the DS website to learn about the immigration process, which includes obtaining an immigrant visa. In general, the immigration process starts with you (or a sponsor) filing a petition. Once the petition is approved, you need to collect a visa application and submit it with certain supplemental documents. If everything is submitted properly, you will partake in a visa applicant interview. After the interview you will be told of your visa status. The forms you need to obtain differ based on the type of visa you are applying for.If you are filing for an immigrant visa based on family (i.e., a close family member is either a United States citizen or green card holder), that family member will have to sponsor you and obtain Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative.If you are filing for an immigrant visa based on employment (i.e., an employer wants to hire you into a permanent job), that employer will have to sponsor you and obtain Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker.In addition to your petition, every immigrant will need to file Form DS-260, Application for Immigrant Visa and Alien Registration.The official form can only be accessed once your petition has been approved.;
, You can use the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website to learn about the green card process, which is an extra step in the immigration process.While an immigrant visa is the document you need to physically enter the United States, a green card is the identification document you will apply for once you have entered the country. A green card (a.k.a., a permanent resident card) is proof of your legal permanent resident status in the United States.If you plan on applying for a green card, you will need to obtain a copy of Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status., While the forms already discussed will get you started with the immigration process, they do not cover everything. Whether you're an immigrant changing your address or applying for a green card replacement, there are endless forms you may be required to obtain.


If you are an immigrant in the United States and you move, you need to notify USCIS within 10 days of moving. To notify USCIS, use Form AR-11, Alien's Change of Address Card.If your green card expired, was lost, or stolen, you need to replace it. To apply for a replacement, use Form I-90, Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card.If you are in the United States and fear persecution in your home country, you can apply for asylum in order to avoid deportation or removal. To apply for asylum, use Form I-589, Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Removal., While every immigration form is available for you free of charge, you will have to pay filing fees when you submit them. Filing fees vary depending on the type of form you are filing. Generally, fees range from $0 to $600. For example, the fee for filing an asylum application is $0 while the fee for filing an immigrant petition for an alien worker is $580.If you cannot afford the filing fees associated with your forms, ask for a fee waiver. In order to ask for a fee waiver, obtain and complete Form I-912, Request for Fee Waiver., The USCIS Forms website gives you free access to almost every immigration form you could possibly need. To access this database, visit the USCIS website and click on the "forms" link, which is on the top left-hand corner of the homepage.Once you click on the "forms" link you will be taken to the main forms page where you can search for your forms., At the top of the forms page you will be able to search for various forms using filters. Each filter will narrow your search and make it easier to find what you are looking for. The topics you can search by include adoptions-based forms, citizenship and naturalization-based forms, employment-based forms, family-based forms, green card-based forms, and humanitarian benefits-based forms.For example, if you are looking for Form I-130, you would filter your search by choosing the family-based forms. If you are looking for Form I-140, you would filter your search by choosing the employment-based forms.
 In addition to filtering your search, you can search for specific forms and terms by using the text box. The text box is directly to the right of the filter box on the forms page.For example, if you are looking for an asylum application, you could type in the word "asylum". If you are looking for the fee waiver form, you could type in the words "fee waiver".
 Once you conduct your search, scroll through the results to find what you are looking for. Each result will include the official form number, the title of the form, and the applicable filing fee. When you find the form you are looking for, click on the title of the form or the form number. When you do so you will be taken to the forms entry page (FEP)., Take a few minutes to read through the FEP. In particular, make sure you read the purpose of the form, the edition date, and any special directions. The purpose of the form tells you when you want to use the form and when you may need to use another form. The edition date will tell you what the most recent version of the form is. It will also tell you which versions will still be accepted. The special instructions will give you a detailed description of what to do in order to complete and submit the form (and any related forms) successfully.


The FEP page will also tell you where each form needs to be filed, the number of pages each form contains, and the filing fee associated with it., At the top of each FEP page will be a link to a PDF version of the form. When you click on the link you will be taken to a new page with the form.From there you can download it onto your personal computer.
 While most forms are available through the USCIS website, some forms need to be obtained elsewhere.The most common example of this is the Application for Immigrant Visa and Alien Registration (Form DS-260). This form is available through the DS website after your petition has been approved.
 If you do not have consistent access to the internet you may not be able to obtain immigration forms online. USCIS allows you to order forms through the mail if it is easier and more convenient for you. However, to order through the mail, you will need to access the computer for a period of minutes. To start, visit the USCIS forms page and click on the "order forms by mail" link. Read the directions on the page and click "next".
 The first online page will require you to identify the forms and packages you need. You can select up to five forms and you can ask for multiple copies of each form. If you do not find the form in the pull-down menu, type in the title or number of the form, but not both.Click "next" when you are done with this page.
 Following your request for forms you will need to provide USCIS with your mailing information. They will use this information to create a mailing label so it needs to be accurate. Be aware that forms can only be sent to United States addresses. If you have not yet immigrated to the United States, the forms will have to be sent to your sponsor, who will be required to fill out the forms for you. In the appropriate boxes, include your:Name
Company or title
Street address
Apartment number
City
State
Zip code

, Once you type in your personal information, click "next" and verify your order. If all of the information is correct, complete your order and wait for the forms to be sent to you., If you cannot download forms online or use the online system to request forms through the mail, you can call USCIS to obtain immigration forms. Before you call, you need to gather the following information:The form number for each form you need
The quantity of each form you need
Your name
Your mailing address (must be a United States address)

, To call USCIS, dial 1-800-870-3676. This number is toll-free. Do not call and place an order if you have already asked for forms through the mail or downloaded them online. The phone service is meant for personal use only and high volume orders will not be honored., When you call, follow the prompts to complete your order. When asked provide the form number and the quantity of forms you need. When you give your personal information, you can verbally spell things out if it helps you.


Once you place your order, expect the forms to arrive within five to 10 days., If you need help obtaining or filling out immigration forms, Find an Immigration Lawyer. He or she will be able to help you decide what forms to obtain and how to fill them out. If you do not know an immigration lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few general questions, you will be put in touch with lawyers in your area.
 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) can help you get in contact with an accredited representative who can help you fill out forms.The BIA keeps an updated list of accredited representatives, all of whom have to go through rigorous procedures to get where they are.


To get in contact with an accredited representative, visit the Department of Justice website and download the accredited representatives roster. This roster contains contact information for every accredited representative in the country.Find a representative in your area and contact them.
 While anyone can help you fill out your forms, anyone that helps should only write or translate what you tell them to. Except for lawyers and accredited representatives, anyone you ask for help cannot tell you how to fill out forms. Their advice might end up hurting your ability to immigrate.


Therefore, only use friends as a last resort. Always try to find authorized help whenever possible.