 You can use acrylic paint or spray paint, although spray paint will give you the smoothest finish. Be sure to seal the paint afterwards with a brush on or spray on sealer to protect the paint. You can use a matte, glossy, or semi-glossy sealer.


When working with spray paint, be sure to work outside or in a well ventilated area.
 Cut a circle out of a sheet of colorful paper using a craft knife or a 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wide hole punch. Spread of white glue on top of the bottle cap, then press the paper circle down onto it. You can seal the design by brushing Mod Podge or decoupage over it. You can also spread some glaze, epoxy, or clear, dimensional paint over it instead. Be sure to extend the sealer over the edges of the paper and down the sides of the bottle cap to seal it in.


If you are printing your own design, print it on a laser printer or at a photo lab. Do not use an ink jet printer, or the ink will bleed., After you have punched the holes in your bottle cap, decorate the inside of the cap. When you are done, will the cap with epoxy or clear, dimensional paint/glaze. Be sure not to fill above the hole, or the epoxy/glaze will leak out. Wait for the epoxy/glaze to cure, then finish making your earrings.Here are some decorating ideas:


Cut a circle out of scrapbook paper, a page in a book, or a picture, and glue it to the inside of the bottle cap. Use a 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wide circle punch to do this.Paint the inside of the bottle cap using acrylic paint or nail polish. Let the paint/polish dry before filling the bottle cap.
Cover the inside of the bottle cap with glue, then fill it with some glitter, sequins, or confetti. Tap off any excess glitter, then let the glue dry before filling the bottle cap.
If your bottle cap came with a plastic liner inside, you will have to remove it. Click here to find out how.
 Slip an open jump ring. You can then slip chains onto the jump ring. To add beads, slip some beads onto a head-pin instead, then slip the end of the pin through the hole; twist the end of the pin into a loop (inside the bottle cap) to hole it in place., Before you do anything, drop the bottle caps into a pot of boiling water. Wait until the plastic liner begins to curl up, then pull the bottle cap out with a spoon. Drop the cap onto a paper towel, then quickly pull the plastic liner out.


If there is any liner residue, you can either pop the cap back into the boiling water, or try to scrape it out using a craft knife.Bottle caps cool off quickly, but the water left on them may not. Be careful.

