 There are many different types of visas. You can visit the USCIS website to see the different visas available. Generally, however, tourists who want to stay in the U.S. want to either become a student or to work.



Student visa status. There are two student visas—one for vocational students and their families (M visa) and one for academic students and their families (F visa).Work visa status. There are multiple work visa categories. Some are for religious workers, whereas others are for temporary skilled or unskilled workers. You can get a list from the Department of State website., If you want a work visa, then you need to work closely with the employer, because he or she does all of the work. The employer will have to get certified that they are eligible to request a work visa. The employer will then have to complete a Form I-129 and file it with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).As the employee, you don’t really do anything until a visa becomes available. Only at that point will you visit the consulate and meet with a U.S. official.
If you are offered employment, then talk with the employer and let him or her know that they need to start the process for getting a work visa.
 You might want to study in the U.S. Most colleges and universities have departments for international admissions, which can help you organize your paperwork. Stop into a school and ask where their international admissions office. Ask that they tell you how to apply.


In order to study in the U.S., you should make sure that the school is “SEVP-certified.” You can search at the Department of Homeland Security website., Form I-20, “Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status” is the initial form you will receive after you have been accepted to the school.You should read it closely to see that the information is accurate. If it isn’t, then contact your school’s Designated School Official (DSO).


You will receive a Form I-20 from every school that accepts you.
 You only have to pay the fee for the school you intend to attend (not for all that accept you). You have to pay this fee before a change of visa status can take place. Make sure to get a receipt for your payment.


You can typically pay the fee online at FMJfee.com using a credit card.You may also pay by sending a check or money order. Follow the instructions on your I-20 form.
 Someone wanting to change their nonimmigrant visa status to student will need to complete this form. You can download it and the instructions from the USCIS website.Provide all information that relates to you. If something doesn’t apply, then write “N/A” or “not applicable.”
You must sign your form. If you don’t, then it will be returned to you.
 You need to write a letter explaining why you want to change your status to a student visa. You should set the letter up like a standard business letter. Make sure the letter includes the following:The reason you want to study in the United States.
An explanation of why you didn’t enter the U.S. on an F-1 or V-1 student visa.
The reason you entered the U.S. as a tourist.
Your sources of financial support. Tell USCIS how you will be able to pay for your tuition, books, and living expenses while you are a student.
A statement that you are signing the affidavit under penalty of perjury.
Your signature.
 You should support your affidavit with documents showing how you will pay for your schooling and living expenses. You should get the following, which you can send with your application:bank statements showing how much money you have saved
a signed Form I-134 Affidavit of Support, if family members will support you

, After you complete your form, write your affidavit, and gather documents, get everything in order. Make a copy of the entire packet for your records and enclose the application in a sturdy envelope.


You can find the address for USCIS by calling 1-800-375-5283.
Remember to include the $290 filing fee. You can make a check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.”, After submitting your application, USCIS will send you notice that it has been received. This notice should tell you how much time it will take to review your application. You will receive a final decision in the mail.


If your visa expires before USCIS has made a decision, then you are technically in the country illegally. However, USCIS will defer any removal proceedings until they have made a decision on your application.
 Many B-2 visa holders are denied a change of status to an educational visa.For this reason, you should plan on leaving the U.S. promptly if your request to change status is denied.

