 If you choose to plant a windowsill garden, you will have less space and soil to work with because you will need to grow each plant in a pot. If you want a traditional yard garden, you will need to till soil in your lawn in order to plant the herbs directly in the ground.;
, It is a good idea to start with 4 or 5 and expand after you have used your herbs medicinally and know what you will need. The following are plants that are often found in medicinal herb gardens:


Grow echinacea. Both the E. purpurea and E. angustifolia types are sold in nurseries and used in tinctures and teas to boost the immune system. Both the root and the flowers are valued for their medicinal properties.
Grow chamomile. The chamomile plant may be referred to as matricaria recutita, M. chamomilla or chamomilla recutita. The flowers are used in teas to treat muscle spasm, inflammation and tension. You can dry the flowers after they are picked and plant them in enough soil so they will self-sow for the next year.
Grow Yarrow. Yarrow, or achillea millefolium, is a flower in the aster family. Its leaves and flowers are used to staunch blood flow in cuts and minor bleeding. It can be dried for that purpose or made into tea to treat colds.
Grow lemon balm. Lemon balm, or melissa officinalis, is used to treat insomnia, anxiety and problems with the digestive tract. Lemon balm leaves can be dried and made into a tasty tea.
Grow peppermint. Peppermint, or mentha piperita, is a hybrid mint plant. The menthol oil results in the flavor and also makes it a good treatment for nausea, muscle spasms and fever. Peppermint should be grown in pots because it can be invasive. Harvest leaves for tea.
Other good medicinal options include valerian for nerve relaxation, feverfew for pains and fevers, comfrey for a wound poultice, violets for colds or sore throats, black cohosh for female cramps or asthma, hyssop for congestion, St. John's Wort for depression and gingko biloba for increased brain circulation and memory.
 The warmth and moisture in your area will have a lot to do with what will be successful in your herb garden. If you live in a colder area, you may be able to plant certain herbs on the windowsill and others in an outside garden during the summer.
 Seeds are a less expensive option, but seedlings are more likely to make it through the fragile first few weeks of being planted. Seasoned gardeners, and especially those with greenhouses, may want to start with seeds.

