 On the main entry screen of Hearthstone you will see several buttons to choose from. You will want to click on the “Play” button. This will take you a screen that lets you play against other people., On the left hand side of the screen you will see a list of decks you have created. You can choose from one of these decks or click the left arrow key at the bottom of the screen to choose from among the basic decks for each hero.


It is not recommended that you enter ranked matches using a basic deck. If you have not created a custom deck yet, return to the main screen and click “My collections” to build your own custom deck.
 At the top of the screen on the right hand side you will see the buttons to choose between Casual and Ranked matches. Click on the Ranked button, then click Play Ranked.
 In order to raise your rank in Hearthstone you must first begin by winning matches in ranked mode. You will begin at rank 25 and increase based on your number of wins. For your first win you will receive a star above your player icon. This icon will change as you achieve higher ranks.
 After you win your second match you will get a second star above your player icon.
 This will change your player rank from 25 to 24. You will have a new rank icon which can be seen on your friend’s list, your battle tag, and in versus mode when playing against friends.


It is important to note that different ranks have different star counts and you must earn all stars in a rank to move on to the next rank. As you progress through the ranks the amounts of stars (wins) needed to increase to the next one increases.
 When your rank reaches level 20 you will begin to lose stars if you lose matches. Prior to rank 20, losses do not remove stars. Once you have achieved Rank 20 you cannot drop below that rank regardless of how many times you lose.
 Up to Rank 5 you will receive a winning streak bonus for every three matches won. This means the more you win in a row the more bonus stars you will get. Once you reach Rank 5, this mechanic is no longer available to you and every match becomes vital to increasing your rank. Your winning streaks will carry over from session to session.
 In order to rank up you will need to play regularly during a season if you want to place high in the ranking. The more you play the more likely that you will win and gain stars and ranks. So keep playing and winning!

