 All six candy colors are present in level 245, which can limit your ability to create special candies within just a few moves.


Create wrapped candies by matching five same-colored candies in an L shape, T shape, or + shape.
Create striped candies by matching four same-colored candies in a row.;
, When matched with another candy, a color bomb will clear all candies on the board of the same color, and help increase the number of matches you can make to create wrapped and striped candies.Create color bombs by matching five same-colored candies in a row.
 The candy bombs in level 245 have a 12-move timer, which means the bombs won’t detonate unless you fail to clear them by move 12. Spend more time focusing on creating wrapped + striped matches, and less time trying to detonate all bombs on the board as soon as they appear.


Some players admit that having to watch for candy bombs in level 245 helps identify possible matches that lead to the creation of wrapped candies. Take a moment to scan the playing board after every move to determine whether detonating a candy bomb will help you make a wrapped candy.
 Mystery candies are egg-shaped pieces of candies labeled with question marks that leave behind random mystery items when cleared. Mystery items can either be helpful in the form of wrapped candies, striped candies, and color bombs, or can hinder your gameplay in the form of licorice blockers, chocolate, or layered meringues. Since the goal of level 245 is to collect five wrapped + striped combos, clearing mystery candies could result in the appearance of extra wrapped or striped candies that can help you beat the level., Wrapped candies are often more difficult to make since they require the matching of five candies versus four candies. While you may be tempted to make a striped candy whenever you see the opportunity, check to see if there are opportunities to make wrapped candies, first., This can help prevent you from accidentally detonating other nearby wrapped candies after matching wrapped + striped.