 Cats are frightened by loud noises such as thunderstorms, the vacuum cleaner, hair dryers, power tools and loud voices. When possible, avoid causing a lot of noise or disruptions that will frighten the cat.


For example, have a friend or family member vacuum in a neighboring room while petting the cat. Over time, you can open the door or bring the vacuum cleaner closer to help desensitize the cat and ease their fears.;
, Avoid quick movements such as uncrossing your legs, standing up, or reaching towards them. The cat may interpret these as attempts to interact with them, which cats don’t always enjoy. Make your movements as slow and deliberate as possible until you can ease your cat into feeling comfortable with these behaviors., Find a movement that usually startles the cat, and act it out at a starting speed with which the feline is comfortable. Each time you make this move, reward the cat with a treat when he or she does not react with fear. Up the intensity or speed, rewarding the cat each time they remain calm.


If you notice anxiety, simply reduce the intensity until he or she is no longer afraid.
Repeat until the feline becomes acclimated to your movements.
 Cats use eye contact as a form of dominance, so sustained eye contact can be seen as an act of aggression. If you don’t know a cat well, it’s best to avoid staring or it could make the cat nervous.Instead, try looking at the cat and blinking slowly to win them over.You can tell that a cat is fearful because they will get a “mad look” in their eyes which is caused by dilating pupils.The cat may also wiggle their back legs in preparation to launch. It is best to avert your gaze and to give the cat some space if you see any of these behaviors.
 If the cat appears fearful, try squatting or sitting down so you seem smaller, and less threatening. Allow the cat to approach you instead of attempting to encroach on the animal’s space., Try offering the cat a small reward to win him or her over. Try shaking his or her food bag, opening a can of food, or tapping their dish on the floor. This may coax him or her out for long enough to make them feel comfortable. Even if they remain at a distance, you’re still making progress.Food is often a great motivator for felines, so always give feeding duty to the person who most intimidates the cat.