 The size should be right for you and it is a good idea to try it before you buy it. If it's a backpack, try it on and check the comfort level. If it's a carrying style of bag, carry it around and get a feel for the handle, weight, and balance of the bag. Ask the retailer if it's okay to stuff the bag for trying it so that you get an idea of what it feels like when full (just use items from the back-to-school section to fill it, or stuff in a few other bags from nearby). Walk around a bit and see how the bag performs for you.


Check the stitching or seals. Does the bag look like it can last the next year or does it look like it's about to fall apart with the first fill of books and clothes?;
, Remove all the contents and give the bag a wipe down inside and out. If it is machine washable, give it a spin and air dry. If not, wiping and vacuuming should do the trick. Start with an empty, clean bag.


Take everything out of your school bag, even if you know that you need it. Make sure all of your pockets are empty too.
Make sure all the rubbish such as used tissues, rubbish wrappers, etc., is put in the bin.
 Put your existing items into to two piles, one for things you need and the things that you want. This will help you decide what is essential for school and what's just a preference. Even though some things may not be essential, they may make your studies more enjoyable, so you'll want to make room for them. Also, put aside things that are no longer useful, such as a grubby eraser or dog-eared exercise books with filled pages.
 The typical things to keep in your school bag include:


Books (both exercise/workbooks and texts, as required each day)
Diary
Folders
Two-pocketed pencil case - pencils, pens, ruler, eraser, highlighter, colored pencils, marker(s), sticky notes, tape, scissors, glue, pencil sharpener, compass, protractor, etc. The two-pocketed pencil case for school keeps all of your things in order without being too small.
Calculator (preferably in a cover)
Flashdrive (USB stick)
Lunchbox (with daily lunch essentials, such as your water bottle)
Transport money/ticket/pass
ID card
Cellphone (if relevant)
House key
Tissues, medical needs
Emergency money
Personal items you feel you need for body care (hand sanitizer, sanitary ware, lip balm, etc.).
 It is a good idea to have a locker for sports gear so that you don't have to carry it daily, but do remember to bring it home regularly for washing and return it when ready again. In some cases, you may need to carry an extra bag for sports gear or special activities such as playing a musical instrument, doing art or participating in a club.
 Organize your books in the order. This way, you won't be looking for books while your classmates are working. You will feel much more organized as you pull the books out where you expect them to be.
 Folders are an essential for neatness. You can keep your assignments and assessments, homework, important notices and basically anything important in this folder.


Have three separate folders―one to keep for school (this folder), another to keep your assignment/test grades in, and another to use for old drafts for schoolwork.
 For example, keep your books in one area, your pencil case and related items in another section and your lunch in another. Place items such as your cell phone, money, ID card, house key, etc. in the pockets of the bag. Get used to distinct parts of your bag containing the same items, so that you know where to reach instinctively, even without looking.
 Last of all put in your lunch, a bottle of water and a pack of chewing gum and mints (if using).

