 Use a sharp knife to cut the venison roast into 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes.During this time, you should also trim any visible fat or connective tissue you see.
 Place the flour in a shallow bowl. Toss the venison cubes in the flour, rolling and turning them as needed until all sides are coated.


You could also do this by placing the flour and venison in a large resealable plastic bag. Seal the bag and shake it vigorously to coat all the pieces.
 Pour the oil into a large skillet and heat it on medium-high for a minute or so.


The oil should become visibly thinner. Do not allow it to become hot enough to smoke, though.
For a richer flavor, replace the oil with butter.
 Place the coated cubes of venison roast in the skillet of hot oil. Cook, turning frequently, until lightly browned on most sides.


Browning the cubes of meat before adding them to your slow cooker deepens the flavor.
The oil or butter also adds fat to the otherwise lean meat, which will help the meat stay tender and moist during the cooking process.
 Dump the contents of the skillet into your slow cooker, dispersing the venison evenly over the bottom of the appliance.


Do not drain the excess oil. Pour it into the slow cooker along with the meat.
 Layer the cubed potatoes, diced carrots, chopped celery, and chopped onion on top of the meat.


You can alter or omit the vegetables you use, but you should always include onion since the pungent onion flavor helps mask the "gamey" taste of venison.
 Pour enough broth over the contents of the slow cooker to completely cover the venison.


You do not need to keep all of the vegetables submerged, but the meat itself needs to be submerged if you want it to remain moist.
If you do not have beef broth, chicken broth, vegetable broth, venison stock, or water can be used, instead.
 Cover the slow cooker and cook it on high for 6 hours, or until the vegetables and cubes of meat are tender enough to fall apart.


If you want to prolong the cooking time, switch the slow cooker on low and cook the stew for 8 to 10 hours.
 Switch the slow cooker to warm and serve the venison roast stew directly from the appliance.

