 Like employer sponsored health plans, the plans offered under the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) have an open enrollment period. During the open enrollment period, you may change your plan for any reason. However, if you miss the open enrollment period, you can only make changes during the Special Enrollment Periods, which allow policyholders to change plans under certain circumstances.Circumstances triggering a Special Enrollment Period include the loss of other health coverage, the birth of a child, marriage, gaining citizenship, a change in income, or moving to another state.
 In order to make a change on your plan, log into your account at healthcare.gov or the marketplace exchange your state has set up (if they chose to do so). Find the option for keeping or updating your current plan and click it.On healthcare.gov, the button to keep or change your plan is on the top left of the webpage.
 In this case, you’ll be changing the number of dependents on your plan. This may mean you switch from an individual plan to a family plan, or it may mean you simply add one more dependent on your family plan. Make the changes as the prompts come up on the screen.Also make any changes to income applying to you. If you’re applying during open enrollment, you’ll most likely have to estimate your income for the year, so unless you have a W-2, use a paystub to make your estimate. It can increase the level of premium support subsidies you receive, lowering your monthly premium.
 Once you’ve completed your application, the marketplace website will show you the plans available to you. They’ll be different in two basic ways: the cost and the size of the provider network.The cost of a plan is determined by the size of the deductible and the amount of the premium. The premium the monthly payment, and the deductible sum of the money you’ll be required to pay for your health insurance before the insurer starts to pay. For example, if your injury costs $100 and your deductible is $25, your insurer will only pay $75.
There are four grades of marketplace plans: Bronze, Silver, Gold, and Platinum. Bronze plans pay 60% of the cost of treatment, while you pay 40%; Silver plans pay 70% while you pay 30%, Gold plans pay 80% while you pay 20%, and Platinum plans pay 90% of the cost.
The size of the coverage network is indicated by the type of plan it is—EPO, HMO, POS, and PPO. An EPO, or Exclusive Provider Organization, only allows you to go to doctors within their network. An HMO, or Health Maintenance Organization, usually won’t pay for out of network care outside of special circumstances. A POS, or Point of Service plan, charges you less for in-network care and requires referrals to see specialists, but will allow you to see other providers (with a higher copay on your part). PPOs, or Preferred Provider Organizations, are the most generous. While you may have to pay a little extra for out of network care under a PPO, you can go anywhere.
 Once you find a plan you like, your chosen insurer should contact you. When they do, pay your first premium directly to the. Coverage starts as soon as you pay the premium.


If you miss a payment, you have 90 days to make it up before the insurance company can cancel your plan.

