 Like other meal replacement shakes, you can use hemp protein powder to help you lose weight in a safe and healthy manner.


You can swap in a hemp protein powder shake for one or two meals daily to help you decrease your overall calorie intake and support weight loss.Make your protein shake to taste, however be mindful of the total calories. If the calories of your protein shakes are more than the meals they replaced, you won't lose weight.
You can mix hemp protein powder with water, milk or almond or soy milk. To add some flavor and extra nutrition, you can add fruit or even dark greens.
Hemp protein powder is known to also be high in fiber which can help increase your satiety after meals.;
, You may be limiting calories or carbohydrates during your weight loss journey. This may leave you feeling hungrier during the day, which might make you want to snack. It’s okay to snack! When you snack, choose a calorie controlled snack like hemp protein powder.You can make a snack with hemp protein powder by:


Making a shake. Combine hemp protein powder with fruit and veggies for a nutritious shake. Be sure to keep the calories under 150 calories. This will help give your body a boost of protein and energy for your day without adding excess calories.
Creating high-protein snack foods. You can try making "protein bites", protein muffins, protein bars, protein puddings or even protein cookies. You can find recipes online or in cookbooks that use protein powder to make healthy, high protein snacks. Hemp protein powder can be substituted for other types of protein powder in recipes.
 Regardless of whether or not you are using hemp protein powder to replace meals or to use as a supplement, high protein snack, it’s still important to eat a balanced diet when you're trying to lose weight.


A balanced diet is important in weight loss because you'll need to eat a wide variety of foods from within each food group to ensure you're meeting your daily nutrient needs.If you're using hemp protein powder to make meal replacement shakes, add fruit or vegetables (like spinach, kale or avocado) to help meet your five to nine recommended servings of fruits and vegetables each day.
In addition, make sure that you're getting enough protein in your diet. If you are using hemp protein powder as a meal replacement, that counts as one to two servings of protein for that meal. Also, include a serving or 3 to 4 oz of lean protein at other meals as well.Also include a source of 100% whole grains in your diet. These high fiber foods should be measured to a 1/2 cup or 1 oz serving., When you're trying to lose weight, with or without hemp protein powder, you'll need to cut out some calories to help induce weight loss.


If you cut out about 500 calories a day from your typical diet, you can expect to lose about one to two pounds of weight each week.Generally, if you're substituting a meal or two with a hemp protein powder shake (and they are reasonable in calories) you'll be cutting out calories from your diet which should help you lose weight.Always count calories to keep an eye on how much you're eating throughout the day. This will also help keep you accountable.

