 It can be difficult to determine what everyone owes, but tip calculators can easily split the tip according to the fare, the tip percentage, and the number of tippers.You can download these apps to your phone, or access a tip calculator site through your phone's web browser.


Some such apps give you the option to choose your location to better calibrate the tip amount. This way, if you aren't sure, you can try to base your tip on local factors: the cost of housing, the minimum wage, and the going rate for service tips.
 The taxicab industry is rapidly changing; depending on where you live, you might be much more likely to use a peer-to-peer ride-sharing app like Uber or Lyft than to hire a traditional cab service. The payment process for these services runs entirely through the app, so the tip protocol is murky. Be aware, however, that these drivers do not receive tips through the service unless you give it to them in person. Unless you are using the uberTaxi service, there is no way to tip your Uber driver through the app – so feel free to tip him or her with cash, exactly as you would a traditional cab driver., Make sure that you give the driver something that he or she actually wants – an unwanted gift can be more of a burden than a blessing. Do not present a non-monetary tip as a take-it-or-leave-it ultimatum; instead, if you have something worth offering, give the cab driver the option to take the object instead of a traditional tip. Try to leave a cash tip unless you have spent absolutely all of your available funds on the fare.


For example, if you have an old (but unexpired) $10 gift card to a restaurant you will never visit, offer it to the driver in lieu of money. Say, "I can give you a cash tip for the ride, but I have this Applebee's gift card that I'm never going to use. Would you take that instead?"
Bear in mind that many cab drivers are hustling to pay their bills. They must pay a daily or weekly lease on their cab, plus rent on their house or apartment, plus gas – all out of their own pockets. Card-swipe fare payments don't usually pay out in the same day, so it's common for drivers to take rides on credit unless you pay them in cash. Thus: a non-monetary tip may feel unique and whimsical, but odds are that most drivers will prefer cash.
 Trust begets trust. Tell the cab driver where you want to go as soon as you get into the cab, and respect the vehicle while you're inside. Pay promptly when you reach your destination, and tip the driver before you leave the vehicle. Thank the driver, and perhaps even tell him/her to have a great day. Monetary tips are great, but a few kind words can take your tip to the next level.

