 This form is available at http://www.oregonchildsupport.gov/forms/docs/csf030574.pdf. You will need to provide information about yourself and about the other parent. Check the boxes indicating that a court has not yet established paternity for the child.
 This form is available at http://www.oregonchildsupport.gov/forms/docs/csf110112.pdf. Use the form to provide details about your relationship with the other parent, including specifics of when the child was conceived. Do not sign the affidavit before you have it notarized.
 Sign the affidavit in the presence of a notary public. The notary will notarize your paperwork, verifying that you signed the document in his or her presence. Bring a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license or passport, to verify your identity.


To find a notary online, visit the Notary Public Directory.

You can also find a notary public by visiting your local bank. Most banks do not charge a fee for notary services if you are a bank customer. If you are not a bank customer, you can use the bank's notary service for a small fee.
 Mail your forms to CSP, 4600 25th Ave NE, Suite 180, Salem, Oregon 97301. Alternatively, you can take it to your local child support office. You can find the locations and phone numbers of the child support offices in Oregon at http://www.oregonchildsupport.gov/offices/pages/index.aspx. You will be charged a $1.00 fee for this service.
 The child support office will process your case for you, and will contact you if they need you to provide additional information. The Department of Child Support or District Attorney's office will serve you and the other parent with copies of papers after the case has been initiated.Thus, you will be notified when a hearing is scheduled.
 At the hearing, the judge will ask you to answer any questions he or she has about the request you have submitted. The other parent will have the opportunity to present evidence to try to prove that you are not the child's father. Once your paternity is established, you can request custody and a parenting plan.

