 Art-making is both very personal and cathartic. Whether you are already an artist, or have never tried to create art before, it is an excellent method of developing your thoughts and feelings in a way that you don’t have to fully share with others. Even when they see the final product, they will only know what you are expressing if you choose to share that information with them.


If you do not have a strong talent for drawing, try abstract art. Many famous abstract artists used their art to express their inner feelings and question the world around them. Look at works by Picasso, Matisse and de Kooning for examples of emotionally-charged abstract representational form.
Try non-representational art for expressing feelings without necessarily knowing where they come from. Color Field, for example, relies almost solely on the use of and interaction of color for personal expression. Pollock used the gesture of painting as a release for his energy, rather than the form of the final painting.
 Write a short story or a poem. Poetry can be a useful method of investigating your thoughts in an abstract or personal way. Since a single poem, like an artwork, can mean different things to different people, you don’t have to openly bare your soul to express what you are feeling or thinking. Figurative language can express what you want without being blatantly obvious to others.
 Often, people who self-harm don’t actually feel pain from their actions due to adrenaline. Raise your adrenaline in other ways to avoid hurting yourself when your emotions start to become too much.Make a regular practice of going to a gym or running outdoors. The expenditure of energy can help you when in crisis mode, and the adrenaline from working out acts as a delay mechanism to clear your head before you resort to self-harm.
Join a sports league or start a team with your friends. Active sports that require sprinting or contact sports help to relieve built up emotional energy. Just be careful not to make your aim hurting others instead of yourself, since this won’t address your real emotional issues in a healthy way.
 This is especially helpful if you are not sure why you are self-harming. Record times when you revert to self-harming and what you were feeling or thinking about at the time. Reading your entries later might help you discover your triggers or hidden reasons for resorting to these behaviors., Whether creating new music or listening to music made by others, it can be a great way to relieve excess emotions.


Listen to your favorite songs while keeping your hands busy by cleaning or dancing. Avoid triggering music that may upset you more.Write a song to express how you are feeling.
Learn to play an instrument to keep your hands busy while concentrating on learning a new skill for emotional expression.

