 After cleaning up your roast by trimming it of fat, silverskin, and connective tissue, make several slits into the meat, about an inch wide and two inches deep. Make 10 or 12 cuts all over the surface of the meat. Stuffing the roast with aromatic vegetables and a fat source, like bacon, will help to inject flavor and moisture into the meat.

For aromatics, use whole cloves of garlic, sprigs of rosemary, thyme, or sage.
For adding fat, chopped bacon makes the best addition, but you could also use cold pats of butter.
 Dry rubs are excellent for venison roasts. You can use a commercial dry rub or mix up your own in a variety of flavors. Use what tastes you like and experiment with different dry rubs–it's awfully hard to screw up. Simply take a handful of your dry rub spice mixture and rub it into the outside of the meat.

For a basic dry rub, mix up equal portions of oregano, basil, parsley, paprika, onion powder, salt and pepper.
For a whole-seed dry rub, toast up a quarter-cup each of fennel seeds, coriander seeds, and cumin seeds in a dry skillet. When they become fragrant, remove them from the pan and crack them with the flat side of a kitchen knife. Mix in dried chili powder, paprika, and brown sugar.
Alternatively, you can also brine roasts in a salt brine overnight, which many venison-enthusiasts swear by. Salt-brines can help soften the flavor of the meat and tenderize it. Either way, let the meat refrigerate overnight, or for several hours before baking.
 Lining the bottom of your baking pan with vegetables will help to keep the meat off the bottom, resulting in a more even distribution of heat, as well as adding flavor and fragrance to the dish.

The most-common vegetables for the job are onions, carrots, potatoes, and celery. After rinsing your vegetables, chop them into big pieces–doesn't need to be pretty. You won't need to season the vegetables, since the meat juices will season the vegetables as they cook.
Because venison has such a tendency to dry out, it's also good to add a little water or water and chicken stock to the bottom of the pan. This will help to keep the interior of the oven moist, creating a kind of hot climate that will keep the meat from drying out.
 Set the meat on the bed of vegetables and cover tightly with tin foil. Place into the oven and bake for around three hours, basting periodically with the juices from the bottom of the pan. If you're using a meat thermometer, you can remove the venison when it's reached an internal temperature between 130 F and 150 F, depending on how "done" you like your meat. Any higher and it'll start to toughen.

Remove the roast from the pan, but let the meat rest covered for about 10 or 15 minutes before cutting into slices to serve. You can strain the pan drippings to make a nice gravy to serve with the venison.

