 Her hair is golden blonde in the books, but it's more bleach blonde to light blonde in the movies. You can dye your hair golden blonde if it isn't already. Don't use an at home bleaching kit. It may ruin your hair, and you won't get the color you're looking for. If your hair is any shade of blonde though besides dirty blonde don't bother dying your hair.


Be sure to type your hair the right way. Take some bobby pins, and pull the longest parts of your hair up, and pin them to your hair. Straighten, or curl the bottom part. When that's all done, take the bobby pins down, then pull the very longest part up again, and get the part under it. When that's done, do the top part, then pull half of your hair back. If you don't have much time, just curl your hair in long, romantic locks, as this is Rosalie's normal hair-do.
On I think October 1st, a line of Twilight hair products are coming out. There is a Rosalie hairbrush to get her waves, and hot curls for her curls. Buy these. You can go online to instyle.com to find out more, as they have an exclusive sneak peek about it.;
, Rosalie has perfect skin, so keep it clean. Get a washcloth, wet it with warm water. Get some white sugar and some salt, and some soap. Pour the salt and sugar on the washcloth, then scrub your face every day with this. This works wonders. Do whatever you have to to make sure you don't have any blemishes.
 Rub it in as you apply it, so it looks natural. Next, use a brush to apply similarly-colored powder. To get the "just fed" look, apply the lightest shade of blush available to your upper cheeks.
 You can even get all three, so that yellow/gold means you just fed(animal), and black means you haven't fed in a while. If you don't have time to do this step, you can skip it.
 Next, put liquid eye liner on your top lids. Start in the middle, with a thin line, and then bring it all the way out to the corner of your eyes. But make this look natural. Then fill in the line in the corner of your eyes. Take an eyelash curler, and curl your eyelashes BEFORE you apply mascara, or you will rip your lashes out. Then apply as much mascara as you can to your top lashes, but none to the bottom ones. Get a good mascara that volumizes every lash.
, And pants that are dark, and tight. Wear high-heel shoes with skinny jeans, that looks hot.
 Or black jeans; a white/light Grey top and a light or dark jacket. NEVER WEAR LIGHT JEANS/PANTS AND DARK TOP; it doesn't have a Rosalie style. Great colors to wear are cream, navy, brown, grey, or black as long as you're not very tan. Wear muted, understated colors in your clothes, but throwing in bright red or blue stilettos doesn't hurt. And save up your money for designer brands in stuff like jackets, designer jeans, big name brand shoes, and name brand purses. This makes you look rich- The Cullens are rich.

