 It’s important to start monitoring your thoughts, and to recognize negative self-talk. Just spend a few days becoming aware of every negative thought. Then, after a few days, try squashing those negative thoughts like a bug, and then replacing them with a corresponding positive thought. Squash, “This is too hard!” and replace it with, “I can do this!” It sounds corny, but it works. Really.



Use affirmations. Try telling yourself something like “I’m not feeling super-athletic today, but I’m strong! I can finish this workout.”

, Thinking about how hard something is is a big problem for most people. Waking early sounds so hard! Just thinking about it makes you tired. But instead of thinking about how hard something is, think about what you will get out of it.


Try making a list of all the reasons why you want to accomplish your goal, and what you’ll get out of it.For example, instead of thinking about how hard it is to wake early, focus on how good you’ll feel when you’re done, and how your day will be so much better with the extra time you have. The benefits of something will help energize you.
 Think about why you lost your excitement, then think about why you were excited in the first place. Can you get that back? What made you want to do the goal? What made you passionate about it? Try to build that up again, refocus yourself, get energized.Try reading some inspirational stories. Inspiration can come from others who have achieved what you want to achieve, or who are currently doing it. Read other blogs, books, magazines. Google your goal, and read success stories. You will soon find yourself feeling more excited than ever.
Find an inspirational setting. Some people do their best work sitting in a coffee shop, others holed up away from the world. Find whatever makes you feel energized and make an effort to incorporate it into your routine.
 Every little step along the way is a success — celebrate the fact that you even started! And then do it for two days! Celebrate every little milestone.Take that successful feeling and build on it, with another baby step. Add 2-3 minutes to your exercise routine, for example. With each step (and each step should last about a week), you will feel even more successful. Make each step really, really small, and you won’t fail. After a couple of months, your tiny steps will add up to a lot of progress and a lot of success.
 Motivation is not a constant thing that is always there for you. It comes and goes, and comes and goes again, like the tide. But realize that while it may go away, it doesn’t do so permanently. It will come back. Just stick it out and wait for that motivation to come back. In the meantime, read about your goal, ask for help, and do some of the other things listed here until your motivation comes back.


One way you can do this is to avoid thinking about your setbacks as “failures.” This makes your temporary loss of motivation seem much bigger and more permanent, which drains your motivation to try again.Instead, tell yourself, “Today I had a bummer day and didn’t feel like hitting my goal. It’s okay to have a day like that now and then. Tomorrow I can start fresh. Today’s setback doesn’t have to haunt me tomorrow.”

, Close your eyes, and think about exactly how your successful outcome will look, will feel, will smell and taste and sound like. Where are you when you become successful? How do you look? What are you wearing? Form as clear a mental picture as possible.Now here’s the next key: do it every day. For at least a few minutes each day. This is the only way to keep that motivation going over a long period of time.


Visualization by itself isn’t enough to keep you motivated. You also have to put in the work. However, studies show that people who combine visualization with real work are more likely to succeed than people who only do one or the other., Write down your plan, because once those urges hit, you will not feel like coming up with a plan.One of the most powerful things you can do is to start being more conscious of those urges. A good exercise is to go through the day with a little piece of paper and put a tally mark for each time you get an urge. It simply makes you aware of the urges.
Once you have learned to document your urges, you can figure out when to apply your contingency plan. For example, if you notice that your energy flags after 5 PM and you feel like giving up on your exercise regimen, implement your contingency plan: work out in the morning before work instead!

, No one can stick to something for long if they find it unpleasant, and are only rewarded after months of toil. Studies show that there has to be fun, pleasure, joy in it, or you won’t want to do it.Find those pleasurable things — the beauty of a morning run, for example, or the satisfaction in reporting to people that you just finished another step along the way, or the deliciousness of a healthy meal. Live in the moment. Then think about the steps to your future and how you can smooth your dreams in each moment ahead.

