 Tie an adjustable knot onto the crochet hook near the hooked end.


To form a slipknot, make a loop with the end of the yarn.
Slide the crochet hook into the loop and wrap the long end of the yarn over the hook.
Pull the yarn through the loop.
Tighten the loop onto the hook to complete the knot.;
, Join the beginning and end together with a slip stitch through the first and last chain stitches.


This long, beginning chain will produce the length of the scarf.
To make a chain stitch, grab yarn from the long side (the side attached to the skein) and pull it through the loop on your hook. This completes a single chain stitch.
To make a slip stitch, insert the hook through the stitch.
Yarn over the hook at the back. Pull it back through to the front.
Pull the top loop through the bottom loop on the hook.
 For the first round, you will need to work a single crochet into every other stitch of the original chain.


To make a single crochet, insert the hook through the stitch.
Yarn over the hook from the back before pulling it through to the front again.
Yarn over the hook once more. Pull this newest yarn over through the two loops previously on your hook to complete the stitch.
Work a single crochet into the first stitch from the hook.
Chain stitch once.
Skip the next stitch of your original chain.
Single crochet into the next stitch, chain one, and skip another stitch before continuing. Repeat this pattern around around the entire span of your original chain.
When you get back to the beginning of your original chain, work one single crochet into the first single crochet of the current round. This will turn the row into a continuous, complete round.
 The remaining rounds will follow a similar pattern of single crochets and skips. Including the round you completed previously, you will need to make 40 rounds of single stitches.


Work one single crochet into the first stitch of the previous round.
Chain stitch once.
Skip a stitch before continuing.
Single crochet into the next stitch, chain once, and skip a stitch. Repeat this all the way around until you reach the end of the current round.
Work a slip stitch from the last stitch into the first stitch at the end of each round to keep the rounds even and neat.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm) in length. Pull this tail through the loop currently on your crochet hook to form a knot.


Weave the remainder of the tail along the underside of the stitches in your scarf using a tapestry needle. This will help hide the yarn tail while giving the ends additional security.

