 It's best to ice the cake on the same dish you plan to use to serve it, since after the cake has been iced it will be difficult to transport it to a different plate.;
, If you try to ice the cake before it's cool, the icing may melt, ruining the texture. Let it sit at room temperature until you don't feel warmth when you touch it with your finger.
 For a cake that is 9 inches (22.9 cm) in diameter, you will need a cup or so of confectioner's sugar. You can always mix up more if you need it.









Do not use granulated sugar, as it is not fine enough, and will result in a grainy-textured icing.
Other sugars, such as brown sugar, are also not acceptable to use in icing.
 Pour a teaspoon of boiling water over the sugar, and stir the water with the sugar until it reaches a smooth, spreadable consistency.









If you find the icing too thick or lumpy after the first teaspoon of water has been stirred in, add another teaspoon of water. Keep stirring and adding tiny amounts of water till you get the right consistency.
If you add too much water and the icing becomes runny, add more confectioner's sugar.If it's slightly too runny, add a little more icing sugar.
 If you wish to customize your icing to a certain color or flavor, add a few drops of food coloring and flavoring. Stir them in thoroughly, and continue adding color and flavor until the icing has reached the color and taste that you desire.









Vanilla, almond, hazelnut, peppermint, and other flavored extracts are popular choices. These can be purchased at many grocery stores, and even large selections are offered at baking stores.
Be careful not too add too much, since a little color and flavor go a long way. Add two or three drops, stir it in, and taste and look at before you decide to add more.
 Use a spoon to place some icing on the top of the cake. Spread it evenly with a butter knife, using the same motion you'd use to spread butter onto a piece of bread.









Remember to spread icing around the sides of the cake, as well as the top.
Create a smoother layer of icing by dipping the knife into warm water, shaking off the excess drops, and using it smooth out the icing.
 Add sprinkles, marzipan models, plastic characters, birthday candles and so on. Baking supply stores offer endless possibilities.
 Put the cake in the fridge to give the icing time to completely set. After half an hour, it will be ready to eat.

