 Some prescription-strength retinoids like tazarotene (Tazorac, Avage) can help treat psoriasis flare-ups.This medication reduces inflammation and helps stabilize DNA activity in your skin.Topical retinoids may cause photosensitivity in some individuals. You can reduce these complications by wearing sunscreen whenever you apply topical retinoids.
Some topical retinoids carry a risk of birth defects. Avoid using these medications if you are pregnant or nursing or if you intend to become pregnant while treating your psoriasis.
 This type of prescription medication can help treat mild to moderate psoriasis outbreaks by acting as a topical anti-inflammatory.Be aware, though, that overusing strong corticosteroids or using them for long periods of time can irritate your skin and reduce the effectiveness of this medication.Use low-potency corticosteroids on the face, genitals, and other sensitive areas.
You can use mid-potency corticosteroids on your torso as well as your arms and legs, as these areas are less sensitive.
Corticosteroid ointments work best for dry, scaly skin, but they can be oily and difficult to wash off.
It's generally recommended that you use lotions and gels to treat psoriasis on your scalp and apply corticosteroid creams to other areas of the body.
 Calcineurin inhibitors have been shown to help treat psoriasis in some individuals.This medication works by disrupting T cell activation to reduce inflammation in the skin and prevent plaque buildup.However, calcineurin inhibitors carry a risk of serious side effects. Ask your doctor if short-term use of calcineurin inhibitors may be right for you.


Some common calcineurin inhibitors prescribed for the treatment of psoriasis include tacrolimus (Prograf) and pimecrolimus (Elidel).
Be aware that calcineurin inhibitors may increase the risk of skin cancer and lymphoma. For this reason, most experts advise against long-term or continuous use of these medications.
 Anthralin can help stabilize the activity of DNA in your skin cells. It can also remove scales from the skin, leaving a smoother complexion. This medication is only available with a prescription, so ask your doctor if anthralin may help your psoriasis.Anthralin may cause skin irritation. It can also stain the skin and any surfaces it comes in contact with.Some people have experienced patchy hair loss after using anthralin.Doctors generally recommend short contact anthralin treatment to avoid staining. Leave anthralin on your skin for brief periods of time (generally between 10 and 30 minutes), then thoroughly wash it off., Some synthetic forms of vitamin D are known to slow skin cell growth, which may help certain individuals with psoriasis.These medications are only available by prescription. Be aware, though, that some vitamin D analogues may further irritate the skin.Common vitamin D analogues prescribed for psoriasis include calcipotriene (Dovonex) and calcitriol (Rocaltrol).
Some studies suggest that calcitriol may be less irritating than calcipotriene, but it can be very expensive.
 This medication helps reduce your body's immune system response, which may help improve psoriasis symptoms. It can also slow skin cell growth and reduce inflammation, much like methotrexate.Cyclosporine, like many other immunosuppressant drugs, can increase the risk of health problems. Do not take cyclosporine if you have cancer, compromised immune system, severe gout, kidney disease, high blood pressure, or if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or undergoing radiation treatment.The risk of adverse side effects dramatically increases when cyclosporine is used at high doses or for prolonged periods of time.
 Most doctors recommend taking methotrexate at low doses and for short periods of time, as methotrexate has been known to cause side effects.High doses of methotrexate may cause an upset stomach. Prolonged use can lead to liver damage and reduced blood cell production.
Talk to your doctor about the risks and benefits of methotrexate.
 Biologics are immunomodulator drugs that alter the immune system and improve moderate to severe psoriasis. This prescription medication is administered intravenously, particularly for individuals whose psoriasis has not improved with other treatments.Common biologics include etanercept (Enbrel), infliximab (Remicade), adalimumab (Humira) and ustekinumab (Stelara).
Keep in mind that taking biologics poses a high risk of infection, especially in patients who smoke, are older, have a history of infections, or who have diabetes.