 You would not want to be bothered by a stranger if you were in the middle of an important conversation, would you? Try to wait until the person is unoccupied or until they finish a cell phone call.;
, Smile and introduce yourself gently.
 Do not overly flatter a celebrity, or you will sound phony. Be specific. For example, tell them you thought they were great in a certain role or that you appreciate their work for a certain charity. Do not give a generic compliment, such as “I’m your biggest fan,” and do not critique the person.
 Building a rapport through similarities is a great way to get anyone talking to you.
 If you just want to chat and enjoy the moment, fine. If you want an autograph or picture with them, politely and quickly ask. Be prepared and make sure you have a pen and a paper to autograph handy before you approach them. If they consent to give you an autograph, hand them the notepad; do not make them wait. As well, make sure your camera is ready if you want a picture and never approach them by sticking your notepad or camera in his or her face.
 Body language can clue you in on how they are feeling about the interaction. If they appear rushed or if they keep walking as you are talking, or if they glance at their watch, be sensitive to that time crunch. If they seem distressed, this probably is not a good time to talk.
 Try not to drag the conversation on.
 Some celebrities cannot get enough compliments; they like to hear how great you think they are. In general, too much enthusiasm on your part may embarrass them, or scare them off.
 If they actually engage in a conversation with you, pay attention to what they are saying. Do not interrupt them, but build upon their statements as you would for any good conversation.
 Unless the celebrity brings it up, it is usually best to avoid conversing about his or her family or other private issues. At the extreme, this can seem very creepy.
 Do not draw attention to a celebrity if other people have not recognized them. While one fan may be tolerable, ten or fifteen fans crowding around is certainly not.
 If your camera is handy, either take the picture from a certain distance, or ask them if they would mind if you snapped a quick photo. However, if the celebrity is in disguise, it would be much better to photograph him or her from away, as you should not draw any extra attention to them. Do not take a picture of you and the celebrity, without asking for permission first. But, if the star is friendly, you could ask if they would let you have a picture taken with them.
 Be sure to thank the celebrity for his or her time or for an autograph or photo, and say something like, “It was great to meet you.”

, It is okay for you to ask quickly for an autograph or photo, but it is also okay for him/her to decline. If your request is turned down, do not force the issue. They are allowed to have their personal space. Don’t be pushy.
 Do not call them by a nickname, as that is too familiar! You do not know them, they don't know you. Do not call their names out loudly, unless in a meet or greet situation, where it is expected.

