 Depression affects millions of people. In fact, one out of every ten Americans will suffer from depression at some point.Also, keep in mind that depression is a medical condition, so it is not something that you can control or will yourself to overcome.Depression can affect anyone, but some people are at a higher risk of developing depression. For example, women are twice as likely as men to suffer from depression. People who are unemployed or divorced are at a higher risk. And people who are between the ages of 45 and 64 are also at a higher risk of developing depression.Make sure that you seek treatment for depression as soon as possible. About 60 to 80% of depression cases can be treated with a combination of therapy and medication, but you need to seek treatment to recover. Find a therapist and talk to your doctor to begin treatment for your depression.;
, While shame is unpleasant, realize that is a normal emotion that all people experience, especially those who are suffering from depression.In treatment, it’s common to experience shame, yet it’s important to move through it.When you feel shame, don’t run from the feeling. While it may feel uncomfortable, spend some time understanding your shame. What triggered the shame? Is there a deeper experience that triggered the shame?
If you keep running from shame, it will likely follow you until you face it.
 When you start to think in biases, prejudices, or negative thoughts, refute this with facts. For instance, if you have low energy, it’s not because you are lazy or don’t care, it can be a symptom of depression.


Realize that depression is both environmental and biological, meaning that there are genetic links and situational/environmental factors that contribute to depression., Depression is often marked by negative thoughts about yourself and life in general.If you’re having negative thoughts, it’s likely that you feel bad or ashamed about them or even ashamed of who you are. While it’s easy to get sucked down the black hole, don’t let the negative thoughts take hold. If you’re feeling ashamed, low, or unworthy, note the feelings but don’t hold on to them. If you hold a high bar for yourself, let yourself be imperfect. If all you can think of is negative thoughts, allow yourself to see positives, too.If your thoughts feel polarized or “all or nothing”, question whether this is realistic or true.
When overwhelmed by negative thoughts, find positive thoughts. Perhaps you had an easy commute to work, or packed an excellent lunch, or performed well on an exam.
 Being compassionate toward yourself is not the same thing as feeling sorry for yourself. Compassion means being honest with your thoughts and feelings, and taking good care of yourself, such as by cooking yourself a healthy meal rather than eating something unhealthy or not eating at all.Try to look for little ways to be compassionate towards yourself. For example, you might pamper yourself with a bubble bath once per week, buy yourself a new outfit, or allow yourself to take a break from work if you are feeling overwhelmed.
Imagine how you would talk to a friend or family member who was struggling with depression. You would probably be kind and supportive, but you may be much harder on yourself. Try to talk to yourself as if you are talking to a loved one.
 Talk to people about how you feel. Reach out to other people who struggle with depression, perhaps friends or family members, or support groups.If you begin sharing your thoughts and feelings, you can begin to shake the shame regarding discussing depression.


Find someone you trust and tell this person that you’re struggling with depression. It’s likely this person will want to support you.
Find support groups to help you cope. It can be unifying to reach out to other people who have similar difficulties as you do.
 Depression is not something that people can just "snap out of.” When it happens to you and you don’t, it can be frustrating. While you may feel tempted to motivate yourself, don’t use negative thoughts for motivation or self blaming. For instance, thinking, “I’m so lazy, I can’t believe I’m still in bed” probably won’t help you get out of bed and get ready for your day. Avoid the negative talk, and catch yourself when you start thinking negatively.Instead, stop the negative thoughts you have as soon as you notice them. Then, find different ways to motivate yourself, such as a treat (like an ice cream cone, or listening to your favorite song) once you finish the task at hand.
 Therapists see people with mental health diagnoses all day. It’s unlikely you will say something that will shock a therapist, if you’re worried about that. If you’re looking to talk about your depression in an environment devoid of shame, see a therapist. A therapist can also help you work through feelings of shame regarding mental health.


If you dealt with any abuse or shame as a child, a therapist can help you work through the situation and the resulting feelings., If you feel depressed, it’s likely you feel low energy and less productive at work or at school if you’re suffering from depression. You may feel overwhelmed by tasks and wonder if it’s even worth bothering. When faced with this struggle, break down the task into smaller, more manageable parts. By working on small pieces at a time, you can feel good about each step you accomplish, and work toward completing more and more of the project.Maybe you cannot finish a project in one night, but it’s likely doable over several days. Find ways to motivate yourself by making tasks smaller and more manageable, then reward yourself for each completed task. Take a 10 minute break to play with your dog, take a walk, or watch a funny video.
 While you don’t have to say the words “depression”, you can communicate that you’re in a difficult spot, and would appreciate some help at work or at home. Don’t assume that people understand what’s going on; it’s unlikely people can tell you’re going through a hard time without you speaking up.Say, “I’m going through a difficult time, and I need some help on this project while I’m working toward feeling better.”

, If you want to reach a goal, get support in making it happen. Be a part of an accountability circle, or start one! If you want to start going to the gym, find someone to go with you and take classes together. If you’re interested in going back to school, enlist the help of family and friends to help steer you in the right direction. The more support you receive for completing your goals, the more likely you are to complete them.If you have an idea for something, share it with someone else. Allow other people to support you in your endeavors.

