 Before you buy an Australian Terrier, have the breeder provide you with independently certified health screenings for both of the dog’s parents that verify they are free from any inherited diseases or disorders that could be passed on to your pet. The breeder should also furnish a health guarantee for your dog (stating that they can be returned if the vet finds any immediate defects) as part of the sales contract.Responsible breeders will register the parents of their litters in the Canine Health Information Center database.You can search the database for their records, which should include evaluations for each Aussie’s eyes, thyroid, and knees. Check them to ensure that your dog’s sire and dam do not carry any genetic diseases that are difficult to treat.;
, Register your terrier immediately with a local veterinary practice. Aussies are a generally healthy breed with few genetic ailments, but they still require regular visits to the vet to catch any issues that may come up and ensure that they’re up-to-date with vaccinations and parasite control treatments.
 Australian Terriers, like many small breeds, are susceptible to bone disorders. If your dog is becoming increasingly lame or having consistent trouble moving about in a natural way on all four legs, make an appointment for a veterinary examination.The most common conditions for Australian Terriers are Legg-Perthes Disease, which causes degeneration in the hip joints, and luxating patellas, which cause the knee caps to slide out of place. Both can strike Aussies from a very young age, as early as five months old.
 Aussies are prone to food intolerances and allergies. If you notice them having any recurring symptoms, like scratching frequently, vomiting, or having consistently loose bowels, go to the vet to have them tested and consult on any necessary dietary changes., Australian Terriers get especially bad (and sometimes even allergic) reactions to fleas. Consult with your vet about the best methods of flea control for your pet (from collars to topical treatments), and be sure to keep them up-to-date., A healthy diet for your terrier starts with a high-quality dry dog food that’s formulated especially for the nutritional needs of small breeds (which generally have higher metabolisms than large ones). Aussies are not fussy eaters, so you just want to make sure that they’re getting a “complete and balanced” kibble that’s fortified with vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants.Antioxidants are important for Australian Terriers since they have a longer-than-average lifespan of 12-15 years.
Be sure to select a food that’s appropriate to their life stage (puppy or adult), and follow the instructions on the package with regards to how much you should feed them according to their age, weight, and activity level. Keep the your dog healthy and trim by measuring out each meal and never exceeding the recommended serving.
If you’re stumped as to which brand of food to go with, ask your vet for recommendations.
 A well-hydrated Australian Terrier is a healthy terrier since water is essential to their digestion, nutrition, and joint health. Makes sure that clean water is constantly available, even at night.