 Shy people are often quiet people, especially in the beginning of a new relationship. Don’t worry if she doesn’t seem bubbly or talkative all the time.Many shy people are also naturally introverted, which means they enjoy quiet in general.
They don’t have to talk, be entertained, or have music blasting in order to enjoy your company. They simply like being with you!;
, Chances are, she REALLY likes you, but shy people often have a hard time expressing those feelings right away.


Being in a relationship can be a big, hard step for a shy or introverted person who usually prefers to be alone, so take the quiet and her company as huge compliments!

, Shyness goes away once the shy or introverted person feels more comfortable and open around you. Depending on how much time you spend together, this can take a few weeks or a few months, so just be patient.


The more time you spend together, the faster her shyness will go away and she will have an easier time talking to you.
People who are shy, quiet, or introverted also need alone time and tend to be independent, so be sure to give her space if and when she needs it., Even after she gets to know you and feel more open with you, your shy girl will probably still feel shy in new, busy environments. She probably won’t enjoy a big party every weekend or want to spend the summer at big music festivals with thousands of people in attendance.Try planning several intimate dates that involve just the two of you, like a picnic in a quiet park, a candlelight dinner at home, a trip to a museum, or a walk on a beach.
You don’t always have to skip out on crowded, action-packed events, just try not to overwhelm her with them all the time.
 If you really like this girl, there’s a good chance you’ll want to introduce her to your loved ones as quickly as possible, and they’ll be anxious to meet her, too. However, for a shy person, meeting family and friends can be scary.She’ll have a much easier time with your family and friends once she’s had plenty of time to spend with just you.
When the time is right, introduce her to your family and friends in small doses. Begin with a quiet dinner with your parents. Then maybe a beach day with one or two of your closest friends. Expand from there.
Shy people struggle less in social environments when there are less people to focus on at any given time.
If you feel unsure about timing, just ask her directly if she feels ready to start meeting your loved ones.
 As your relationship progresses and you reach big milestones, like moving in together, getting engaged, or even getting married, she may get shy all over again because the situation will feel new to her.For example, if you’ve just moved in together, she might close the bathroom door to shower or brush her teeth, she might listen to music through her headphones, or go outside to talk to her mom.
This shyness will only last while she adjusts to the new situation. It won’t last forever.
Don’t take her renewed shyness personally. Moving forward with you means she’s committed.

