 You will feel more relaxed and focused in a clean, organized space. Clear off any garbage, used dishes, or similar items, and organize the things you want to keep.

Organize loose paper into categories for blank paper, notes, and handouts.
Put all your pens, pencils, and highlighters into a holder. Mugs are great for this!
Stack your books and folders in the order you plan to use them.
Move computer cables and other cords so that they run behind your desk, not across it.;
, Knowing what to expect on your test will help you relax. Take another look at your notes, the syllabus, or any exam reviews you may have been given. Keep an eye out for information such as the test format, grading scale, overall grade percentage, and any extra credit opportunities. If you can’t find any information about the test in your class notes or paperwork, email your teacher or a classmate for help. , Make sure you have all your notes, writing implements, blank paper, and any other supplies you will need during the test. Put them all together so they are ready to go when it is time to leave for the exam. You’ll feel much more relaxed the day of the test if you don’t have to worry about forgetting anything!, Don’t stay up all night before the exam studying everything for the first time--you’ll add to your stress and it will be difficult for you to understand the material. Instead, after every class, read over what you learned that day. By the time the test comes, you’ll already know everything you need to know!, When you study, eliminate as many distractions as possible. This will let you concentrate entirely on the test material, helping you learn it faster--which means that you’ll be less stressed out about the test!

Close the door to your room and ask anyone nearby to give you some privacy.
Turn off your music and television. Sound in the background can be very distracting!
Put your phone in another room while you study.
If you are having a hard time resisting the temptation to check your text messages or social media, install blocking extensions like StayFocusd or YouMail. These will prevent you from checking social media while you’re supposed to be studying., If you know what kinds of questions will be on the test, try making some up on your own and answering them. Most textbooks also have questions at the back of the book or at the end of each chapter. If you can answer those questions, you are on the right track for the exam!, You may be tempted to set aside hours to do nothing but study, but don’t do it! It’s best to study for half an hour or so, then give yourself a short break of five to ten minutes. Taking a break helps your mind refocus and prevents you from worrying about the same thing repeatedly., Exercising helps your mind to concentrate and relaxes your body. It may seem counterproductive, but taking a break from studying to move around a little will actually help you feel better. When you get back to studying, you’ll feel refreshed, calm, and ready to take on the test!

Do a set of ten jumping jacks.
Jog around the block. You can also jog in place inside!
Learn to do some basic stretching exercises. , Step away from studying and listen to your favorite song, watch an episode of your favorite show, or spend half an hour playing your favorite video game. Be careful not to get too distracted--watching one episode of a show will help you clear your mind, but watching an entire season will prevent you from studying!, It might be tempting to drink lots of coffee to keep you awake and eat quick processed snacks to save time, but overloading on caffeine or sugar can increase anxiety and leave you feeling groggy while you study--or even worse, during the test. Healthy snacks like fruit, vegetables, and whole grains will keep you energized and increase your ability to concentrate on the exam., When you return to preparing for your exam, take a few minutes to breathe in and out deeply. This helps your body feel more relaxed and allows your mind to concentrate on doing well on the exam rather than feeling anxious about it.


Exhale as deeply as you can, until you feel your insides compress.
Inhale slowly, filling every available space in your lungs with air. Lift your head up as you inhale.
Hold your breath for a few seconds. This helps calm your nerves!
Exhale slowly and deeply. Repeat as many times as you need., Sitting in an uncomfortable position can increase anxiety and distraction--if your body isn’t comfortable, it’s very hard for your mind to relax! Spend a few minutes finding a comfortable position to sit in. If possible, try to find a position that you can also use during the actual exam.


Try sitting with one foot tucked under you--many people find this relaxing.
Lean back in the chair until your spine rests against the chair’s back--this prevents back strain that can hurt your concentration.
Use pillows or cushions to sit on or lean against in your chair. During the actual test, try using a folded-up jacket in the same position., Take a few moments to think about something fun you have planned for the days and weeks after the test--a vacation, a night out with friends, a new movie that you want to see. Reflect that regardless of how you do on the test, you will still be able to enjoy events in the future. If you are able to look beyond the exam, you will feel less anxious about it--remember, it’s just one test and your life will go on! 