 They tend to follow a similar format for the most part. If you're writing your speech yourself, you should try breaking it up into sections in order to better organize your points. Even if you haven't written the speech, it's a good idea to know what structural role each part represents. Generally speaking, virtually all speeches will have three parts:


An introduction. This is where you will introduce either yourself or the topic that needs to be discussed.
The main body and supporting points. This is where the details of your argument or discussion are fleshed out. This is by far the biggest part of a speech, and is analogous to all of the paragraphs in an essay between the first and last.
Closing statements and summary. At the end, the audience will be looking for some closure to signal the speech's end. Take this as an opportunity to note the widespread implications of the topic, as well as a to-the-point recap of the ideas you explored in the main body.
 No matter how complex the subject you're talking about is, there should be a line or two from your speech that will be instantly memorable for anyone who is hearing it. This could be the thesis, or central point of what you're trying to say. A take-home message should preferably take the form of an applied request.Telling your audience to do or reflect upon something on their own time will hopefully keep your audience attentive on your subject long after the presentation itself has ended.


Any messages of particular importance should be spoken more boldly, more slowly, or repeated.
 There is no need to have a half-hour speech where all of the same points could be covered in 20 minutes. It's much easier to revise the speech itself than to try to speed through sections of your speech. If you think your speech could be shorter, give it a run through and decide for yourself which lines could be done without.
 Rehearsing your speech is necessary if you want your audience to take something away from your presentation and take you seriously. Perform your speech in front of a mirror and pay attention to the way you look while you're speaking. It also helps to record yourself speaking. That way, you'll be able to see what you're doing right and wrong more clearly.


It's a good idea to give your speech a run-through in front of a friend or family member before going live. That way, the other person can offer you feedback from a fresh perspective.
 For this, they deserve some gratitude. Telling a crowd how much you appreciate lending their time to you will end your speech on a positive note of warmth.

