 Dry, dead skin that builds up on your lips can cause them to look paler than they otherwise would. To bring out your natural reddish hue, you need to exfoliate your lips to uncover the fresh skin underneath. An easy way to do this is by mixing up a homemade lip scrub with ingredients you probably already have on hand. Here's how to do it:


Mix a teaspoon of sugar and a teaspoon of honey (or olive oil, if you don't have honey available).
Scrub the mixture over your lips using a circular motion.
Rinse and repeat until your lips are dry-skin free.;
, If your lips are too flaky for a simple scrub to get through the skin, try brushing them with a soft-bristled toothbrush. Cover your lips in baseline, wet the toothbrush with warm water, and then scrub your lips in a circular motion. Scrub each section of your lips for 20 to 30 seconds before moving on to the next. Your lips will be good as new when you're finished., Now that you've uncovered your natural reddish color, condition your lips with a layer of lip serum to keep them in good shape. Applying a serum overnight will give you even better results; you'll wake up with soft, pink-hued lips. Try using one of the following oils as a natural lip serum:


Coconut oil
Almond oil
Olive oil
Jojoba oil

, Just as pinching your cheeks makes them look rosy, increasing circulation in your lips brings up their natural red color and causes them to look pleasantly plump. You can buy a lip plumper from the store, but it's just as effective to make one yourself. Try one of these natural lip plumpers:


Mix 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon or cayenne pepper with enough olive oil to make a paste. Apply to your lips for five minutes, then rinse.
Mix 5 drops of peppermint extract with 1/2 teaspoon olive oil. Apply to your lips for five minutes, then rinse.
Cut a small piece of fresh ginger, or cut a jalapeno pepper in half. Rub the cut part on your lips for five minutes.
 Keeping your lips moisturized is essential to having good natural color. If your lips get dry, they'll start looking pale and dull again. Use a good natural lip balm to ensure your lips never dry out. You can make your own lip balm using the following method:


Melt 1 tablespoon beeswax together with 3 tablespoons coconut oil.
Add a few drops of your favorite essential oil, like peppermint (as a bonus, it'll also plump your lips).
Pour the mixture into an old lip balm container and let it harden before use.

