 Launch a web browser and visit Google’s My Business page. If you are the business owner, you may log in using your personal Google account. If you'd rather keep the accounts separate, create a new one. Once you're logged in, click Get On Google.


This should work on a mobile browser as well, or via the Google My Business mobile app. However, some advanced features may only be available from a desktop., Type in the name or address of your business into the search field. If Google can't find it, search for another address nearby.
 Take a moment to look through the list of Google's suggestions, as another user may have added your business already. If your business is not listed, select "This doesn't match: Add your business."

, Type in the name you’d like to give your place, its complete address, phone number, and a category you think your listing would belong to, such as Florist or Pizzeria. Click on the “Continue” button to proceed to the next step.


If you are a delivery service and do not receive customers at your address, check the box next to "I deliver goods and services to my customers at their location.", Check the “Terms and Conditions” box, and click the “Continue” button to complete the submission.
 You may need to verify your business before the new place can be found and viewed by other Google Maps users. This may appear immediately after submitting the previous form. If not, log in to your Google My Business account, choose the business you're verifying, and click "Verify now." Follow the onscreen instructions to complete this process.


Google verifies most businesses by postcard. After receiving this postcard, log back in and enter the unique code on your business dashboard.Some businesses have the option to receive a code by text instead. If you don't see this option, it is not available for your business.If you have already used the same account to verify your business website with Google's Search Console, your business should be verified automatically.

