 Sketch triangles, squares, squiggles, and lines. Experiment with different sizes and shapes. Get creative: try odd shapes like trapezoids or octagons to spice up your design.


Before you draw on your shoes, practice on a piece of paper. That way, you'll be ready for the final design.
Vary your lines. Create squiggles, dotted lines, or swirls. The bolder your lines, the better.;
, Decide whether you want thick or thin ones and how big you want them to be. Patterns look best if each dot or line is the same size. Practice drawing dots on your paper. When you're ready, start drawing dots or lines on your shoe.
 For your first project, start simple, then try more intricate designs once you've got the hang of painting. Nature themes look beautiful on fabric shoes. Draw trees, flowers, and your favorite animals. Or, if you're a fan of a certain book, movie, or tv series, try drawing the characters on your shoes. Cartoon characters work best because of their flat and simple design.



Splatter paint can give your shoes a wild design.
 If you can draw something on a flat design, you can draw it on a shoe.Use paper as your practice board and draw your design several different ways. Continue experimenting until you are completely satisfied with your drawing.


Do not draw on your shoes until you have finished your design. Practicing your sketches can feel boring, but you will avoid more long-term mistakes if you plan beforehand.
 Color in your design sketches and experiment with what colors look good together. Avoid creating color patterns that clash or do not look aesthetically pleasing together.


When you've chosen your colors, create a final sketch design and color it in. Your last sketch will be your blueprint as you paint your shoes.
To make colors pop, place complementary colors next to each other. This will make both colors seem brighter in comparison., First, sketch your design in pencil so you can erase if needed. Then, trace over your design using a fine-tipped fabric pen or marker. You will appreciate a bold, clear outline when painting to avoid any mistakes.If you are not confident in your artistic abilities, use a stencil. Stencils are often available at craft stores. You can also create your own stencil, if desired., If any of your design areas are white, trace them on the painter's tape, cut out the design, and place the tape on the shoe.
 You'll want an open space to paint in to avoid inhaling fumes. If you can find a flat surface outside, paint your shoes there. If not, find a room with open windows.


Because most acrylics are water-based, their fumes are usually non-toxic.If you start to feel overwhelmed by the smell, take a break.
 Cover an area wide enough for you to move around and paint without feeling cramped. Tape the papers down with masking or painter's tape.


If you are especially concerned about stains, apply two layers of the paper.
Avoid painting in a carpeted room, as you will be unable to tape down the paper lining.
 If your shoe has laces, remove them temporarily until you have finished decorating them. Laces do not respond well to color, and any paint you apply will flake off.If your shoes are made of soft fabric, stuff them with paper so they keep their shape while you are painting. You risk messing up on your design if your shoes' shape changes easily.
 Stained soles can flake and become uncomfortable to wear. You can also use masking tape as an alternative.
 If you need to mix colors, mix a small amount on paper to test the color ratios. When you've created the right color, mix larger amounts in your palette.Prepare all your colors first so you can work quickly.


Alternatively, use fabric paint pens, which are less messy and often easier to use.
 Without acrylic primer, your design will will begin flaking.Primer takes anywhere from thirty minutes to an hour to dry, so plan accordingly.


You will want a thin coat that doesn't cover the shoe's texture. One coating is more than sufficient.
 While you may be tempted to rush, a slow and steady hand will give you cleaner results. If you forget what color you wanted a certain area, consult your final design paper.


Use a variety of paintbrushes in different sizes. If you're adding delicate lines, use a slimmer paintbrush. Use a thicker paintbrush or a sponge for painting broad areas.For polka dots, dip the end of a cotton bud directly into the paint and press in place on the shoe.
 Allow each shoe to dry thoroughly before finishing. If you want to finish your project sooner, place your shoes in a sunny area and leave them until completely dry.The drying time for acrylics varies depending on brand.Consult the label for exact times.
Avoid touching your shoes until dry. Touching them too early can create finger smudges and mess up your design.
 If you bought glitter, beads, or ribbons, glue them on. Try not to add too many decorations. Too much may distract from your shoes' new design.
 To ensure that the design stays intact and is durable, apply a fabric sealant. Mod Podge Outdoorand Scotchgard work well for fabric shoes, but other brands are available.


Sealant is technically optional but highly recommended. The paint will wear off quickly if it is not protected from the elements and begin to crack.
 If you want a funky or creative look, use a colorful ribbon or a patterned cord instead. Tie them as you would regular laces. Just be sure to choose a ribbon that is durable and will not break over time.


For a cute flair, thread beads onto your shoelaces or ribbons. Avoid adding too many and weighing down your shoes: three or four beads per lace is enough.

