 The most basic requirement of a common law marriage is that you live together. To start your common law marriage, you should move into the same residence.There is no minimum time limit requirement. For example, you do not have to live together for seven years (a common misconception).
Utah, Colorado, Iowa, Montana, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, Texas, New Hampshire, and Washington, D.C., all require this.
Alabama, Kansas, and South Carolina do not require this.;
, This might sound basic, but in several states you must actually agree that you are creating a marriage.This requirement protects someone who only wanted to live together but didn’t want to create a marriage.


You should meet with your partner and discuss whether or not you are entering a common law marriage. Both people should agree that they are.
Simply agreeing to get married at a future date is insufficient.Instead, you must agree that “from this moment on we are married.”
Every common law marriage state requires this.
 Another basic requirement to establishing a common law marriage is to “hold yourself out” to others as a married couple.In particular, tell other people you are married.For example, the woman might take her husband’s name and start using it on correspondence and for business.
Another way to hold yourself out as a couple is to file a joint tax return or to apply for a credit card as a couple.Wearing wedding bands is another way of holding yourself out as married.Every state except South Carolina explicitly require this.
 One sign that you are married is to purchase things together as a couple. For example, you can buy a car or a home together and have both names on the deed.You should realize that if you do not put your name on the deed, then you may have no rights in the house.
For example, if you end the common law marriage without getting a legal divorce, then you will not have any rights in the property unless you are on the deed.
 In several states which recognize common law marriage, you must “consummate” the marriage in order for it to be legal.“Consummate” means to have sex.
 In Utah, you must petition the court and have them recognize your relationship as a marriage.In New Hampshire, a common law marriage will only be recognized when one of the people in the relationship passes away and the other is trying to get their share of the decedent's estate.
 Currently, eleven states recognize common law marriage. Eight states (and the District of Columbia) have a statute authorizing common law marriage, and three more states recognize common law marriages as a result of judicial decisions. The states are:Alabama;
Colorado;
Iowa;
Kansas;
Montana;
New Hampshire;
Oklahoma;
Rhode Island;
South Carolina;
Texas;
Utah; and
Washington, D.C.
 Although the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergfell v. Hodges (2015) made gay marriage a right throughout the entire United States, common law marriages apply only to opposite-sex couples., You should read the state’s statute for marriage requirements. People entering common law marriages must meet the same general requirements as those applying for marriage licenses:Age. Most states require that you be at least 18 years old. Check your state’s age requirements.
Sound mind. You can only be married if you can consent to enter the marriage. Accordingly, you cannot be suffering from delusions or insanity.
Unmarried. You cannot enter a common law marriage if either person is still married to another person. However, if one person divorces while you are living together, then a common law marriage could be formed at that point.
Every state requires that you have the legal ability to marry in order to enter into a common law marriage.
 Once you form a common law marriage, you have to actually get divorced legally.You cannot simply walk out and decide to stop holding yourself out as married.


In other words, although there is a common law marriage, there is no “common law divorce.” You need to go through the divorce process, like other married couples.If you do choose to simply walk away, then you can remain responsible for debts you took out as a couple. You also won’t have rights to any property or to alimony.You also can’t get married again until you dissolve your common law marriage.For tips on finding a divorce lawyer, see Hire a Divorce Lawyer.
 You begin the divorce by filing a petition with the court. Your lawyer can handle this for you. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you can ask the court clerk if there is a printed “fill in the blank” petition you can fill out.


Some courts now have self-help or family law centers which can help people filing for divorce without an attorney.You should stop in and check to see if your courthouse offers this service.
You can also see File Divorce Papers Without an Attorney for helpful information.
 Whoever files for divorce must prove to the court that a marriage existed. In some states, there is a time limit. For example, in Texas you should prove the common law marriage within two years of separating.You can prove the common law marriage in the same manner that you held yourself out to the public. Gather tax returns, bank statements, loan applications, property deeds, and other evidence that identifies you as husband and wife.You can also have people testify that they knew you as husband and wife.