 If you have any reason to think you may have salpingitis (or pelvic inflammatory disease or another reproductive ailment), you should see a gynecologist as soon as possible. Provide a complete medical history and a detailed account of your symptoms.
 Your gynecologist will probably start by performing a standard pelvic exam to check for abnormal discharge, pain or tenderness, and other signs of inflammation. He or she will use a speculum to view the cervix and may perform a pap test to check for signs of cervical cancer.
 Your doctor may want to check your blood for various indicators of infection. A white blood cell count, for example, will help determine whether infection is present.
 Individual circumstances vary, but your doctor may want to perform other diagnostic tests. He or she may test your urine, for example, or perform other tests to view your reproductive organs.
 Depending on the severity of your symptoms and the results of other tests, your doctor may recommend laparoscopy – a medical procedure in which a device is inserted into the fallopian tubes through an abdominal incision. A laparoscopy will allow your doctor to see the fallopian tubes in detail.
 If your doctor decides that your fallopian tubes are infected and inflamed, he or she will diagnose you with salpingitis. If possible, he or she should determine the cause. Salpingitis is further divided into two basic categories: acute and chronic.


Acute salpingitis is a more severe attack, in which the fallopian tubes become swollen and inflamed; they may secrete fluid and stick to the intestines or other organs, and they may fill with pus.
Chronic salpingitis is a lower-level inflammation, which often follows an acute episode. The infection is milder, but it also lasts longer.
 Some women are mistakenly diagnosed with cysts, endometriosis, or other problems before it becomes clear that the fallopian tubes are inflamed. You may have to be persistent. If your doctor thinks you have something else, but you doubt the diagnosis (or still have symptoms after treatment), get a second opinion.

