 Do not travel on an overly full or very empty stomach. Motion sickness is usually aggravated by a full stomach, so avoid heavy meals before travel. Any food that you know doesn't agree with you should be avoided. This includes foods that might make you feel too full as well as foods that are spicy or high in fat.Some people may also have trouble travelling on an empty belly.
Avoid having foods in the car that have strong odors as well, as this can also help prevent nausea.
 Because motion sickness results from a discrepancy between the motion, you feel versus the motion you see, choosing a seat where you do not feel as much motion (or any) could help you prevent car sickness. The front seat of a car usually is the best place.Never sit backwards of the direction of travel—this can activate car sickness.
 Some of the things that can make you get car sick are visual in nature. For instance, you should not read while travelling in a car. The movement can make it difficult to focus on the words, making reading while riding in a car dangerous for those who suffer from car/motion sickness.It might help to keep your gaze focused on a single point as your travel to help minimize the effects of car sickness.
If you are riding with someone else who gets car sick, seeing them get sick—or even talking about it—may trigger car sickness.
 Several over-the-counter medications including anticholinergics such as scopolamine, antispasmodics such as promethazine, and sympathomimetics such as ephedrine are available to help prevent motion sickness. Most of these contain a drug called meclizine, which is anti-nausea, as well as being an antihistamine and antispasmodic. It specifically targets the area of the brain that is related to motion to help prevent motion sickness that people can experience in cars (and other vehicles).If your motion sickness is especially severe, your doctor may prescribe scopolamine, which can be administered orally, intravenously, or topically (on the skin).
Always discuss drug interaction and side effects with your doctor or pharmacist before using prescription medication.
 Ginger can be used as an alternative medication that may be an effective way to prevent car sickness for some people. For prevention, you can mix 1⁄2 teaspoon (2.5 ml) of ginger powder with a glass of water and drink it down or take two ginger capsules 20 minutes before travelling.Keep ginger products on hand to aid in the prevention of car sickness. Carrying ginger candies or ginger cookies in your purse or pocket might come in handy.
 Smoking can be a cause of motion sickness, so it is best to avoid smoking.A small study showed that nicotine deprivation overnight avoided motion sickness susceptibility. If you are a habitual smoker, you may be able to curtail your smoking in a variety of ways. For additional information, check out: https://www.wikihow.com/Quit-Smoking.

