 Only use cheap guitars for stripping and painting. If you've got an old beater that you want to punk-up a bit, that's totally cool. But it's probably not a great idea for the '66 Les Paul Standard your grandfather left you in his will. If you want to change the color of an expensive guitar, buy it in that color, or have it customized at a guitar shop.


It's important to understand that painting a guitar can seriously alter the tone woods and affect the sound that you get from the instrument. You've been warned.
 Before you do any stripping or painting, it's important to get the guitar ready for alteration mode, and get it out of playing mode. Strings can be removed by slackening them completely and then unwrapping them from the tuning pegs. Most tuning pegs can be unscrewed from the headstock using a small Phillips-head screwdriver, and then pulled from the slot.
 Remove the pick-guard and the pickups, if necessary, as well as any toggle switch caps or volume control knobs that you don't want to be colored whatever color you plan on painting the guitar. You can usually just pop these off and snap them back on.


If you break a control knob cap during the process, they're available for cheap from any guitar shop or online guitar retailer, if your guitar is a standard model.
 Depending on the finish on your guitar, you'll need to use a variety of different techniques to get it off.


Most acoustic guitars are stained and finished and will need to be sanded down before you attempt to repaint the guitar. In general, this is the worst idea and the most damaging for instruments. If you have a decent quality guitar, use more minor decorations, or just paint on top of the finish.
Electric guitars need to be heat-blasted with a heating gun to remove the poly finish.If your guitar looks like it has a hard plastic outer shell, that's a poly finish, and you'll need to use a heat gun on low setting to soften it before scraping it off with a putty knife.
Alternatively, of course, you can go the DIY punk route and just paint your skulls and panthers, or your metal band's logo directly on top of the guitar's current finish in acrylic paint or Sharpie marker. Might not look as professional, but that's probably what you're going for anyway.
 Guitars should be painted like other wooden objects, first sanded gently to create a smooth surface from which to work, then primed with wood primer, then covered with at least two even coats of latex or oil-based paint appropriate for use on wood.


Generally, you want to use a high-sheen variety of paint, which is more common for guitars. This also helps to hide the imperfections in the surface.
Allow each coat to dry completely before moving on to the next.
In general, you don't want to use rattle-cans of spray paint, unless you want a super-junky look, which can be cool too.
 After the base coat color is dry, you can use small paint brushes and acrylic paints to add additional details and designs as you want. Keep the additional details as basic as possible. Consider using any of the following designs for a little detail:


Thorn branches
Flowers
Paisley designs
Skulls
Roses
Stars
Your band's logo

, All guitars will get beaten up over time, from use, so it's important to apply a poly topcoat to keep the guitar as safe as possible. This is what gives it that hard, plastic-like finish.


Find a topcoat variety that works well with the type of paint you've used. Some won't work well with latex, for example.

