 When you appeal to your students’ interests, it is easier to engage them in the lesson and get them excited about the concepts.


As an educator, take time to ask your students about their hobbies and interests. If possible, find a way to incorporate these interests into your lesson plans. Also, allow your students to suggest topics and or bring in materials, such as books, games, or apps, that they enjoy and want to share with the class.
As a parent, find ways to merge your child’s interests with educational content. If they are interested in trucks, find books and educational games about trucks. If they are into music, use sheet music to explore fractions.;
, It is irresponsible to assume that all kids learn in the same way and at the same rate. As parents and educators, evaluate the specific needs of each child. Determine if they have trouble sitting still. Examine how they learn best—are they auditory learners, visual learners, or physical learners? Use this knowledge to structure your lesson plans and at-home lessons.


If they have trouble sitting still, give them plenty of breaks to move around.
If they are visual learners, incorporate lots of images into your lessons., When children are placed in charge of their own learning or the learning of others, they are encouraged to learn the material as thoroughly as possible.


As an educator, provide your students with opportunities to teach each other.

Assign each student a topic and ask them to prepare a lesson on their topic—it is now their responsibility to know that topic inside and out. Once they have prepared a lesson, have them present the material to a small group or in front of the class.
Have students work in pairs or small groups. Instead of asking you for help, encourage them to rely on each other to solve any problems they encounter.
Partner a student that is struggling with a student that has mastered a topic. Ideally, the student that is struggling will ask the other student questions.


As a parent, provide your child with the chance to teach you what they are learning. If your child is struggling to solve a problem, don’t give them the answer. Instead, ask them specific questions about the content, such as “How do you know ____?” or “How would you solve ____?”, When your students or kids are studying or taking part in an educational activity, join in. If you become an active participant in their education, you will model study habits, problem solving skills, and the feelings of joy one feels when learning something new. If they suspect that you do not enjoy the activity or the content, they will assume that the activity or content is simply not worth their time.


Spend one-on-one time with them. Most children like receiving individual attention because it makes them feel important. When you meet a child's desire for affirmation, they are more likely to be receptive to the lesson.
When the kids sit down for quiet reading time, take the opportunity to do some reading of your own.