 The number of times you plan on calling France will determine the best method for calling from a landline. That’s because landlines can be significantly more expensive for international calls than other methods.If you have friends or family members in France, you’ll probably be calling more frequently. In this case, you may want to get a plan through your phone company that offers free or low-cost international calls.
If you’re staying at a hotel in the UK and only need to make a short call or two, you may opt to use the hotel’s phone to make your calls. This will likely be very expensive, but saves you the trouble of purchasing a calling card.;
, Calling cards are great ways to make international calls for a reasonable price. They are often available at newsstands, drugstores, and stores that sell mobile phones. They can be purchased for any dollar amount, which will equal a certain number of minutes depending on the card.Make sure that the calling card you purchase can be used in the UK, and that it can call France. This information should be available on the card or on its packaging.
Keep your card safe. If it’s lost or stolen, there’s no way to recover the credit you had on it.
Some calling cards are refillable and you can add credit to them when you’ve used it up.
 Every country in the world has an exit code. This is the number you must dial to signal that you’re trying to call a number outside of the country. The UK exit code is 00. Some other countries share this exit code as well.If using a calling card, you’ll first call the number of the calling card and enter your pin if you have one. Then you’ll dial the exit code.
 Each country in the world has a country code. After dialing the exit code of the country you’re in, you dial the country code of the country you’re trying to call. France’s country code is 33., Once you’ve dialed the exit code and the country code, you can now dial the phone number. Phone numbers in France have ten digits. The first two digits tell you which region of the country the number is located in. For example:01 denotes Île-de-France
02 denotes Northwest France
03 denotes Northeast France
04 denotes Southeast France
05 denotes Southwest France
06 and 07 denotes mobile phone services

