 In order to lose weight you'll need to cut down on the total amount of calories you eat each day.


Cut out between 500 – 750 calories each day. This will help you lose anywhere from 0.5 – 1.0 kg (1 – 2 pounds) per week.In combination with exercise you may be able to lose 1.3 kg (3 pounds) per week; however, this not a guarantee.
Use a food journal, calorie tracking website or smartphone app to help get an idea of how many calories you currently consume. Subtract 500 or 750 from this number to get a new calorie limit to help you lose weight.
Do not eat less than 1,200 calories daily. It's generally thought that eating less than this is not safe as its difficult to consume the recommended amount of nutrients you need daily.;
, Protein is a great food group to help support weight loss — especially if you're looking to lose weight quickly.


Protein is an essential nutrient to any diet. Studies have shown that it can keep you satisfied longer and with less food in addition to supporting your metabolism.To help you reap the weight loss benefits of protein, try to include at least one serving (75 – 120g or 3 – 4.5 oz) at each meal and snack.Eating protein throughout the day can help spread its satiating effect over the entire day.Stick to lean protein choices as these foods also contain fewer calories. Go with: skinless poultry, lean pork, seafood, legumes, tofu, low-fat dairy and eggs.
 Fruits and vegetables are great food groups to eat regularly when you're trying to lose weight. Fill up on these foods at each meal and snack.


Both fruits and vegetables are fairly low in calories, but high in fiber and other essential nutrients. They are filling and add bulk to your meals without adding many calories.
Make half your plate a fruit or a vegetable. Or, include one to two servings of either per meal. One portion is equal to four heaped tablespoons of cooked kale or spinach, one medium fruit (like an apple or pear), 30 g dried fruit (like raisins), or a 5 centimeter (2 in) slice of a large fruit (like melon or papaya)., 100% whole grains are a more nutritious choice compared to refined grains like wheat bread, white flour or white rice. Choose these types of grains more often.100% whole grains are less processed and are typically higher in fiber, protein and other beneficial nutrients. Processed grains have these nutrients stripped and are therefore less nutritious.Keep your grain intake to a minimum. There has been some research that lower carb diets or those that limit grains result in faster weight loss than low-calorie diets alone.Also, stick to the appropriate servings of grains. Measure out about 28 g (1 oz) of grains like cooked oats or quinoa when you choose to eat them., Drinking enough water is great for your health and may also help support your weight loss.


Some studies have shown that when you haven't consumed enough water and are dehydrated, your body sends signals to your brain that feel very similar to hunger.Many people may eat when they think they're hungry when they're actually just thirsty.
Also, filling up on water can help decrease hunger throughout the day can help decrease snacking or nibbling on extra calories.
Aim to drink at last 2 liters (0.53 US gal) (eight 8-oz glasses) of water and other hydrating fluids daily.You can try flavored water and unsweetened decaf coffee and teas as well.
 The best combination for weight loss is monitoring your diet and exercising regularly. Add in physical activity most days of the week to help support your weight loss.The number one calorie burner for physical activity is cardio. Aim for 150 minutes a week of moderate-intensity activities or 75 minutes of high-intensity exercise.Also try adding in one to two days of strength training.These exercises don't burn as many calories, but may also help support a faster metabolism over time, as muscle burns fat, even while you are at rest.Take more steps during the day. Moving as much as you can throughout the day can also add to your total calories burned throughout the day. Try parking farther away, taking the stairs instead of the elevator and standing more than you sit.
 Even in a short 30 day period, inadequate sleep may have an affect on your weight loss. Get enough sleep each night to help you reach your goal.


Most health experts recommend getting at least seven to nine hours of sleep each night for adults.Work on improving your sleep hygiene, which includes going to bed earlier and making your bedroom a good environment for sleep.
Some studies have shown that when you do not sleep enough, your body has a difficult time losing weight, has increased secretions of hunger hormones and may even begin to crave higher fat, higher carb foods.In addition, if you're feeling tired and fatigued you may be less motivated to stay on track with your exercise and healthy eating plan.
 Like sleep, chronic stress or low-grade stress can work against your weight loss. This is especially true if you're trying to lose weight in 30 days.


Stress has a major effect on your ability to lose weight. Even minor daily stresses can increase your body's cortisol level, which is a hormone linked to stress. Sometimes this makes it difficult for your body to lose weight and can increase your hunger levels.In addition, stress can make you feel tired and fatigued which can throw you off track from your meal prepping, exercising and other healthy lifestyle changes.
Try doing some relaxing, stress-relieving activities like: meditation, listening to music, talking to a supportive friend, or taking a walk.
 Within your 30 day period, it might be helpful to start a weight loss journal. You can take notes about your food intake, exercise and overall progress. You can also write about any challenges or successes you have during your 30 day diet.


When trying to lose 6 kg in 30 days, you may realize you cannot make your exact goal at the end of that 30 days — that's okay. If you've kept a journal about your successful diet and exercise plan, you can continue with these notes until you actually do meet your goal.
Write down your meal plans or record what you eat in your journal. This will be very helpful to you along your diet and if you continue with your weight loss. You'll be able to see what works and what doesn't.
You may also want to write down notes about what exercise plan or pattern works best for your as well.
You can also use websites or apps on your smartphone to track your calories and exercise.
 It can be difficult to follow a strict diet for an entire month. Keeping your goals and motivations front and center can help keep you focused.


You can write out these little motivational sayings in your journal or on post-it notes and stick them on the fridge, on your desk at work or by your bedside.
Think about why you want to lose weight. Is it to get into a smaller pant size? Is it to help you feel more confident? Or to help you manage a chronic disease? Write out these reasons so you can be reminded of the reason why you want to lose weight.
When you're feeling challenged or down about your diet, review these little quotes and motivational sayings. Repeat them to yourself so you can start to feel a little more positive about sticking to your plan.
 Whether it's with a friend, family member, your food journal or the scale, it helps to keep accountable when you're trying to lose weight.Tell friends and family members about your 30 day diet and desire to lose some weight. You can have them support you but you can also call, text or email them your progress.
Getting on the scale regularly is another way to stay accountable. Those who weigh in regularly generally see more weight loss long-term. Don't weight yourself too often, though — once or twice a week is enough to track your progress.

