 In order to deal with with nosy neighbors, you need to fully understand the situation. Ask yourself the following questions:


How long has this been going on?
How many of your neighbors are nosy?
Do you live in a nosy neighborhood?
How long do you plan to stay in that area?;
, Are they often nosy at certain times? They might by nosiest during weekends, weekdays, or evenings. Perhaps their nosiness stems from something that is going on in their lives. Perhaps they are curious about something that;s going on in your life. Maybe they are nosy about your children, or about your guests, or about the work you're doing in your yard.
 Try to understand their motives. If you think that they're being nosy, then they're probably violating your privacy in some way—but there must be a reason that they are so curious about your life and habits. Your neighbors might just be very nosy people, but they also might have a genuine reason for asking questions.


Are they new and just trying to understand the culture of the neighborhood?
Are they just looking for entertainment at your expense?
Are you doing something (suspicious, exciting, or intriguing) to make them curious?

, Try to learn as much about them as possible without getting too involved. This will help you to identify if there is any malice in their questions, if they are just being nosy to pass the time, or if they are new and need help making friends.
 You may want to confront your neighbors, you may want to avoid them, or you may want to befriend them.


If your neighbors seem lonely and bored—like they're just nosing because they want to connect with someone—try talking to them, introducing them to other neighbors, and suggesting fun things for them to do.
If your neighbors are nosy, but you don't want to confront them directly, try finding ways to avoid their snooping. If your neighbors are always watching you, then put up a fence or conduct your business indoors; if your neighbors are always confronting you and asking you personal questions, then consider how you can avoid talking to them.
If your neighbors are snooping around looking for trouble—whether that means stealing your things or reporting you for illegal activities—then consider upping your security. Ask them to stop intruding. If the situation becomes dangerous for your family or your property, don't hesitate to contact the authorities.

