 This isn’t strictly necessary to get rid of old caulk, but you’re most likely going to be adding new caulk afterward. If so, make life easier by washing the area now with a surface cleaner, soap scum remover, or a combination of the two. You’ll still need to do a little cleanup after removal, but for now, reduce the need to deep-clean the uncaulked area with excessive amounts of liquid.This is also a good idea because any buildup of oils or other slippery liquids may cause your hand or tools to slip while removing the old caulking.;
, Pick a small area to test with a utility knife. Make a small cut with its tip. Assess the caulk's texture as you do.Water-based, latex, and PVA caulks will most likely feel brittle and hard. These are more prone to chipping during removal.
Silicone caulks should feel much more pliable, like soft rubber. These are usually the easiest to remove.
 Hold your utility knife parallel with either surrounding surface. Insert the tip of your utility blade into the caulk line and slice it open along its edge. Repeat along the other surface.Avoid making actual contact with either surface. For now, you just want to weaken the caulk’s bond and allow more access for the next step.
If your caulk is especially hard, try heating it with a heat gun to soften it up.
If the heat gun doesn’t work, skip to the next step rather than risk damaging the surrounding surfaces with nicks and scratches.
 If your starter cuts were extremely easy to make, feel free to try skipping this step, since the whole caulk line may come off just as easily without any additional treatment.Otherwise, apply a bead of caulk remover along the old caulk. Repeat as needed to cover the whole caulk line and spread it out so all of the old caulk is covered.Refer to your caulk remover’s directions to find out the minimum amount of time you should allow for it to set before moving on. Generally this is about two to three hours.The longer you let it set, the more it should soften the old caulk. So if the old caulk felt extremely hard and brittle when you made your test and starter cuts, allow more time for the caulk remover to be absorbed (as much as 24 hours for very stubborn caulk).

