 It’s always best to replant bulbs immediately after digging them up. If this really isn’t possible, your can store them for short periods. The trick is to avoid letting them rot.


After lifting your bulbs, remove as much soil as is possible.
Trim any straggly roots and pick off any flaking layers from the bulb itself.
Discard any diseased or rotting bulbs.
Lay the bulbs on a tray or other flat surface and allow to dry out for a day or two.
Then, put the bulbs into a container of sawdust or into paper bags with some peat moss.
Some gardeners use net bags of the kind used to store oranges.
The trick is to allow dry air to circulate to prevent the bulbs from getting damp and rotting.
For the reason, it’s best not to overcrowd bulbs and prevent them touching each other as this can lead to rot spreading.
 Keep your stored bulbs in a cool dry place such as an unheated garden shed where temperatures don’t fall below freezing.


Spring flowering bulbs are best planted in the autumn; summer flowering ones in spring.
You will hear of some gardeners dusting bulbs with fungicide ahead of storing them. This is always a good idea but isn’t essential.
 Aim to plant your bulbs at a depth of about 3 times the bulb’s height. Bulbs should also be planted at least twice the width of the bulb apart.


This means a 2 inch (5.1 cm) bulb should be planted 6 inches (15.2 cm) deep and at least 4 inches (10.2 cm) from its neighbor.
It’s a good idea to add a handful of compost to the bottom of the hole for the bulb to sit on.
Put the bulb in the hole with the pointed end facing upwards and fill the hole in.
Water well and avoid treading down the earth with your foot as this can cause damage.
Bulbs will do well planted under grass but remember not to mow the area over the bulbs until the foliage has withered away, usually in the late summer.
 Bulbs will tolerate being replanted in a container. It’s a good idea to incorporate some grit into the compost at a ratio of 1 part grit to about 3 parts compost, to encourage the proper growth of contain-planed bulbs.


Container bulbs need to be planted at a depth of three times their size but they will tolerate more crowding than ground-planted bulbs – an inch of separation is fine.
Avoid allowing the bulbs to touch. Feed container-planted bulbs regularly during the growing season (spring-summer).
 Container-planted bulbs will need watering throughout the growing season – this usually means spring and summer. Once the foliage starts to die back, cut back on watering as this will help the plant go dormant.


Don’t let the container dry out completely, even when the bulbs are dormant over winter.

