 Listening is often a powerful action that can help you resolve any kind of conflict. When the woman in your life is upset, keep your mouth closed and be prepared to listen to all of her continued attacks without defending yourself or counterattacking.Listening means listening, not calming, reasoning, or sympathizing - just listening. Don’t interrupt and let her get everything out that she needs to say.
When she is finished, let her know that you heard everything she has to say about the problem while you think about carefully responding to her words.
Think about what she has said to you and try to find some agreement even if you find what most of what she said as not true. Once you find a point you can agree on, say something like: “I agree, sometimes I can be that way” or “If I was in your shoes, I would come to the same conclusion.” Every time you agree, you will lessen her anger and create a space for cooperation.
 When people are upset, it is best to give them time and space to cool down. Bombarding her with emails, text messages, or phone calls will only make the situation worse because it shows no sensitivity on your part.


Let her vent her frustration with friends and family first. This will allow both of you to gain some perspective on the relationship.
Being annoying and trying to get some response from her will only drive her further away. She doesn’t want to be controlled. Instead, remain calm and her agitation will die down and she will become more reasonable. A heated discussion rarely ends on a positive note.
When conflict occurs, forgiveness is not something that will cross her mind. She will need time to cool off. How long depends on her. It could be a few minutes, a couple of days, a month, or forever.
 Being kind does count for something. Displaying acts of kindness will let your female friend know that you are truly a nice person and that it might not be worth it to hold a grudge for too long against you. Many friendships and relationships have survived simply because nice gestures will soften hearts and minds enough to smooth over any ill will.Manners are always a good starting place. Holding the door open for her, pushing her chair in, helping grandma cross the street, or buying her a coffee will certainly open her heart when she notices how courteous you can be.
If you find yourself stuck, try texting or tweeting, “I am thinking about you.” By engaging in small acts of affection and kindness, she will realize that you really do care about the relationship.
 Sometimes saying “I’m sorry” is not enough for forgiveness. You might have to take a step further and demonstrate that you are genuinely aware that your actions were hurtful. The best way to do that is to prove that you are making changes so the issue never happens again.Don’t try to seek forgiveness until you have convinced yourself first that you can truly change your habits. Find the source of the problem, address it, and then work on making positive changes. Don’t be too hard on yourself, but verifiable proof will be needed to demonstrate new habits to the woman in your life.
Think about not only correcting the one problem that is causing the conflict but also other potential issues that could undermine your attempts at change. In other words, fixing the problem does not permit you to lapse in other areas or she might think that you are not taking the issue seriously.
Consider making an agreement with her. Narrowing in on the issue and making specific changes will give you an opportunity to prove you are changing. If there is a disagreement over what actions to take or what is acceptable, then you need to sit down and discuss it with her. Are you able to honestly agree and make the changes, or are you saying yes only to get her to come back to you? You have to decide whether or not the changes are something you can achieve.
Follow through on your promises. If you are forgetful, write yourself notes, think about it when you wake up in the morning, and review your actions before you go to bed. If you really want her to forgive you then you need to do everything in your power to make sure your actions support what you promised to change.
 It is dangerous to tell half or partial truths just to alleviate the conflict and gain forgiveness. She might find out later and, if she does, there will be little hope for reconciliation, only increased anger. It is true that full disclosure is not always necessary, but don’t minimize what you did or hide the most important details. Even if being honest hurts or embarrasses you, remember that being up front about everything will be better in the long run.Most importantly, make sure that honesty is important to both of you. Communicate openly by saying “I want us to be able to talk about what is important in our friendship without lies.” This will begin to set the ground rules for moving on in your understanding of each other.
An honest person is a mature person. Demonstrating that you are above lying, cheating, or hiding the truth will prove to her that you are mature and that the issue that caused conflict was unintentional or a one-time occurrence.
Honesty does not mean perfection. White lies don’t hurt as long as it is not necessary to be completely honest (e.g. “No, that outfit does not make you look fat”).
Set boundaries for what topics are okay and off limits for discussion so that you are not pressured into lying and then having to ask for forgiveness. If a topic cannot be agreed upon, such as watching porn on the computer, then you have to seriously consider if your friendship should continue.

