 By reading your horse’s body tension, you will be able to tell if your horse is relaxed, stressed, nervous, or scared. Here’s a guide to understanding these behaviors:


If your horse’s muscles are rigid and its movements are stiff, it is either nervous, hurting or stressed. Assess the situation to figure out what is causing your horse to be tensed, and remove your horse from the situation.
If your horse is trembling, i.e., its whole body is shaking, this is a sign of fear.
 By heeding warning signs, like pushy behavior or swinging hindquarters, you will be able to create a space that is safe and comfortable for you and your horse. Here is a guide to understanding these warning signs:If your horse is reaching out to touch you with its muzzle, it might be about to bite you. Or, it could also just be interested in you. Your horse could also be nervous, and might be reaching out to you for reassurance. However, if your horse pushes you with its muzzle, this is a sign that it does not respect you because you have not established that you are a leader. Horses are herd animals that are used to hierarchy and structure. You need to establish dominance so your horse does not push you around. If your horse is swinging its hindquarters from side to side, it can be a warning sign that it is about to kick. However, if swinging hindquarters is associated with a raising of the tail while moving it back and forth, and urinating, and the horse is female, then it is most likely a sign of being in heat.
 There are four primary signs of horse vocalization. They are: neighs and whinnies, nickers, squeals, and snorts. Here is a guide to determine what each of them means:


When a horse neighs or winnies, the horse is announcing that it is present. It also neighs to acknowledge other horses in the vicinity.Nickers, or softy throaty sounds, are often used by a mare to encourage her baby, i.e. a foal, to eat.Squeals are often used as a threat display and might happen if you introduce two horses to each other.Horses use snorts to signal danger or to alarm other horses that a strange animal has come too close for comfort., To figure out what your horse is trying to tell you through its body language, you need to put all of the pieces together. Consider all of your observations and what they might mean when taken together.

For example, if your horse is showing stress through both its ears and legs, then you can conclude that it is stressed.
Knowing your horse's personality and normal behavior will help you figure out if the behavior is typical for your horse or if your horse is trying to give you a message.
 Don't be afraid to ask for help or advice, especially if you are new to horses. Ask someone who has grown up around horses or an equine expert, who can teach you what you need to know about horses.