 Rapid, shallow breathing is the body's natural response to stress. When you find yourself in a stressful situation, concentrate on slowing your breath, and breathing deeply. This will help calm your body's physiological response to stress, returning you to a more normal state.Counting slowly to 10 while breathing deeply is another tried-and-true method for reducing your physiological response to stress.;
, When we allow ourselves to become negative, thinking and speaking as if the worst is bound to happen, we increase our feelings of stress and anxiety. Focus instead on the possibility of positive outcomes, and think about how those outcomes might be achieved. You can use positive self-talk to reduce anxiety, and maintain positivity. Simply remind yourself, in your head or even out loud, when appropriate, that the situation you are in will pass, and that you are safe, and capable of handling yourself.
Remember that even when you have trouble controlling how you are thinking, you can still control your body language, and how you speak to others. Smile, make eye-contact, and speak calmly and positively.
 If you are anticipating a stressful situation in your near future, such as a presentation, performance, interview or examination, make sure you take plenty of time to prepare yourself. Preparing in advance will relieve pressure, and make it easier for you to be calm and focused.How you prepare will depend on the situation you're preparing for. Preparing for a presentation, for example, would include making a plan for the presentation, preparing the presentation itself, and rehearsing it, alone or with a friend, until you are comfortable delivering it.
Practicing visualization techniques can help you prepare emotionally for any stressful situation. Just take some time to breath deeply, and imagine yourself successfully navigating the situation with ease.
 Take a moment to step back from the situation, and evaluate just how important it really is in the grand scheme of things. Remind yourself that stressful situations pass, and are often not nearly as important as they seem while we are experiencing them.Think about the things which are really important in your life: your home, loved ones, dreams and goals, etc. Reminding yourself of what's really important can help you gain perspective on more banal worries like work- or school-related stress.
The way we respond to stress can seem quite humorous when we consider how unimportant the situation prompting the stress actually is. Feel free to laugh at the situation, and yourself, and share your sense of humor with those around you.
 Many people find themselves feeling paralyzed in moments of great stress, overwhelmed by the intensity and urgency of the situation. Remind yourself that you have the power to take control of your situation, then take steps to solve it, rather than complaining or simply trying to weather the storm.When stressed, be solutions-oriented. Rather than focusing on how stressful your current situation is, focus instead of brainstorming a plan of action to solve the situation, or think about the consequences of the situation and how you should prepare for them.
For example, if you are involved in a stressful conversation or argument, try to understand what is bothering the other participants, ask them what they feel they need to happen to resolve the conflict, make your own feelings known, and propose solutions to the conflict, rather than becoming angry, or resorting to name-calling or other negative language.
 Stepping away from a stressful situation is often the best way of coping with it. Take a moment to go outside for a short walk, or sit down with a favorite beverage. Try your best to let go of the situation, as this will help relieve the mounting tension which we feel when undergoing stress over an extended period of time, letting you come back at the problem with fresh energy and perspective.Be sure to let others know that you are only taking a short break, and that you intend to return to continue working on solving the situation. If others are also experiencing a lot of stress associated with the situation, encourage them to take a break as well.

