 Using a paint roller, apply adhesive to the back of the wallpaper. The idea is to wet the paper, not drench it. It will take a few attempts to get a good feel for the right amount. Make sure you roll past the edges to get adhesive at the seams. Only apply your adhesive to the top half of the paper for now. This step may be skipped for wallpaper that is pre-pasted.
 Take your top and fold it down the table about 18 inches (45.7 cm), so that you have “glue on glue” for about 18 inches (45.7 cm). Align the paper’s edges so you do not have exposed edges. DO NOT crease the paper at the point of the fold. Gently rub or press the edges to seal against each other. Now, lift and pull the rest of the unpasted portion onto the table - the pasted/folded portion may hang off the edge - and paste the rest of the sheet.


Pick up the wallpaper and let it hang in your hands. If watery adhesive pours out of it, then you have definitely used too much adhesive or the paste is too thin. A few drops is OK, but you should not have a significant amount of dripping glue.
 Most wall coverings will expand due to the moisture in the adhesive; 20 and ½ inch wallpaper will expand and become 20 and ¾ inch wallpaper. If you were to try to hang this right away, you would discover that vertical bubbles would appear and will not smooth out. Let the paper sit in the folded position for around 10 minutes, to give the adhesive time to expand the paper completely., Get your ladder in place, smoothing brush in pocket, and booked piece of paper. You can quickly identify which is the top as it will be the shorter of the two folds. Unfold only the short fold and align only the right edge of the paper to the penciled plumb line taking care to ensure your “top” is at the ceiling where you want it.


Before you rub this section out with your smoothing brush, notice if you are able to move or “slip” the paper on the wall slightly. The slip indicates that you have an adequate amount of adhesive on the back of the paper.
If you have no slip, then you need to add a bit more adhesive at the pasting table. Slip is your friend as long as you don’t have too much.
 Once you have good alignment with the plumb line at the right edge. Take your smoother and gently rub the paper to the wall in a left and up direction. You want to apply the paper by smoothing, not before smoothing. Ensure that you have not slipped or rubbed the paper’s right edge away from the plumb line.


Never use significant force to smooth bubbles out or force alignment to plumb lines and seams with the smoother.
Get the top edge as close to the wall as possible, and don't worry about cutting off excess. Cutting the extra off too soon may cause a misalignment.
 Now you should have the top 36 inches (91.4 cm) of wallpaper applied to the wall with the rest of the paper still folded up. Carefully find the bottom edge of the paper, lift away from the wall slightly so the paper you are pulling down will not stick to the wall and gently pull it down the wall until it is completely unfolded. You may undo an inch or two of the initial work above but that’s no big deal.


Starting at the top right of this section, use your 24 inch (61.0 cm) level as a guide to stay plumb at the right edge and smooth out the rest of the paper starting from right to left.
Don’t force the paper over to the corner, let gravity help place the paper onto the wall.
 Work the edge of the joint knife blade into the ceiling joint. This should give you a nice little crease all the way across the width of the paper. Starting at the right edge of the paper, place the joint knife in the crease holding the handle down. Take the razor blade and press it into the crease on top of the blade – cut on the ceiling side of the joint knife - right to left.


Once you run out of joint knife blade, move the joint knife to the left and cut another 6 inches (15.2 cm). One more cut should get you very close to the corner.
If you can, go ahead and cut all the way to the corner. You may not be able to get the razor blade into the corner. If so, you can peel back the corner of the wallpaper and by using the already cut portion as a guide, cut the remaining excess wallpaper “off the wall” and then place the corner section of the wallpaper back into place.
 Cutting the excess at the base board works the same as the ceiling, except the joint knife handle will face up the wall. Remember to cut on the baseboard side of the joint knife, not the wall side. If you try to make these cuts on the wall side your razor blade can wander and give you an uneven cut. Again, if you cannot get all the way to the corner, pull the corner back, make your cut and then place the finished corner back into place.
 It’s guaranteed that you have some adhesive on the surface of your freshly hung paper. Using clean water and sponge, wipe down the wall covering – top to bottom. Take your time, wallpaper adhesive can be hard to see. Don’t forget to clean the glue off the ceiling joint and baseboard.


Avoid using terry cloth rags or towels. They can be too abrasive and can ruin the finish of your wall covering.
Smooth out any bubbles that might have formed in the wallpaper with your sponge. The strip of paper should be completely smooth when you're finished.
 Use the aforementioned steps to continue adding more strips of wallpaper. As you add each strip, take time to line up the pattern and overlap when necessary. Well hung wallpaper will lack any visible seams and discrepancies in the pattern.

