 A sitz bath is a technique in which you soak the hips and buttocks in warm water. The moist heat of a sitz bath helps soothe hemorrhoids and relieves some of the painful/itchy sensations.You can use a shallow bath, or a special device that fits over the toilet seat.Soak the anal region in warm water for 10 to 15 minutes two to three times daily for fast, effective relief.;
, If you're experiencing hemorrhoids, dry toilet paper can scratch and tear at already swollen, inflamed veins. Instead of toilet paper, use unscented baby wipes or flushable wipes instead.Make sure you use wipes without fragrance or alcohol, as these may irritate hemorrhoids., There are a number of over-the-counter topical medications designed to help treat hemorrhoids, including creams, ointments, medicated wipes, and suppositories.Most topical medications contain witch hazel or hydrocortisone, which can help relieve the pain and itching associated with hemorrhoids.Other topical medications contain steroids, anesthetics, astringents, and antiseptics.Do not use over-the-counter topicals for longer than one week unless otherwise directed by your doctor., Many people with hemorrhoids experience pain, especially during bowel movements. If you're experiencing pain because of hemorrhoids, try taking an over-the-counter pain reliever, like acetaminophen, in conjunction with topical treatments.Avoid using nonsteroidal anti-inflammitory drugs (ibuprofen) and aspirin if you are experiencing bleeding from hemorrhoids or GI bleeding, as they can interfere with your blood's ability to clot. In addition, do not give aspirin to children or teenagers. Aspirin has been linked to a rare but serious condition in adolescents and children called Reye's (or Reyes) syndrome. Reye's syndrome causes swelling in the liver and brain, and can be fatal., Because hemorrhoids are caused by swollen, inflamed veins, an ice pack or cold compress can help reduce inflammation by slowing blood flow to the site of the hemorrhoid.Seal an ice pack or cold compress in a plastic sandwich bag and apply to the anus for fast relief.Do not use an ice pack or cold compress for longer than 20 minutes at a time. Remove the ice pack for at least 10 minutes before reapplying as needed., One of the best things you can do to care for hemorrhoids is to keep the anal area clean. Bathe or shower daily, and clean the skin in and around the anus with a gentle stream of warm water. You may do this with or without soap, but soap may irritate the hemorrhoids.