 Seizures caused by epilepsy are primarily treated by medication to reduce the number and severity of symptoms. Since these medications can cause side effects (like liver and kidney damage), talk with your doctor about the risks and benefits to your dog. If your dog is having frequent seizures (more than a few times a month) or if they last for long periods of time (more than five minutes), it's time to consider medication treatment.Most medications have to be given once or twice a day for your dog's life. Twice daily medication is to be given 12 hours apart since late or missed doses can cause seizures.
Your dog will need frequent vet visits to adjust medication levels.
 Phenobarbital is the most common medication used in German Shepherds with epilepsy. It works by suppressing seizure activity in the brain. Your dog will have short-term symptoms like increased hunger or thirst. Monitor your dog's diet so he doesn't gain weight. Other symptoms include:Mild sedation
Incoordination
Liver damage (long-term side effect)

, If your dog doesn't respond to phenobarbital, the vet will also prescribe potassium or sodium bromide. Potassium bromide can work with phenobarbital to decrease seizure activity in the brain. You can mix the medication into your dog's food or treats. Avoid feeding salty foods since it can make the medication less effective. Other side effects include:Sedation
Incoordination
Increased hunger and thirst
Hind-end weakness (contact the vet immediately if you see this)

, This anti-epileptic drug is usually prescribed along with other medication to control generalized seizures. It's also used to relieve pain, but may cause serious side effects like kidney damage. If you notice any of the following signs, contact the veterinarian:Diarrhea
Vomiting
Loss of balance
Sleeping an unusually long amount of time
Bulging eyes

, Since many traditional epilepsy medications cause liver or kidney damage over time, new epilepsy medications are being developed to minimize symptoms. One newer medication, Pexion, controls electrical activity in the brain, but has less chance of causing liver damage.Like phenobarbital and potassium bromide, Pexion can cause increased eating, drinking and drowsiness.
 Diazepam is used to control seizures, especially if your dog has multiple seizures without a rest in between them. If your doctor recommends diazepam, it may be given in the vein (IV) at the vet's office or you'll be instructed to give it rectally at home. Diazepam is an anti-epileptic drug that may also make your dog feel drowsy. Eventually, your dog will adjust to the sedative effect.If your German Shepherd reacts too strongly to one medication, you may need to put him on combination drug therapy (like diazepam and phenobarbital).
 Your dog will need to be on medication to control his seizures. But, there are some safe treatments you can use in addition to the medications recommended by the vet. Only try supplemental treatments if your veterinarian recommends them. Supplemental treatments include:Acupuncture
Diet such as a hypoallergenic diet to prevent food allergies from contributing to seizures.
Essential fatty acids
Nutraceuticals—various vitamin and nutritional supplements
Homeopathy
Various herbs or flower essences

