 You will need two Hershey's Kisses for each rose. Your bouquet can have as many "roses" in it as you want. If you want a more traditional looking rose bouquet, get 24 Hershey's Kisses; this will make a dozen roses.

For an even more rose-like bouquet, use red or pink Hershey's Kisses.;
, Carefully pull out the little paper tab from each Hershey's Kiss. Do not unwrap the candy, however; if the foil comes undone, twist it back together. It's okay if the paper rips--just make sure that it's not visible on the actual Kiss., Place a glue dot or a piece of double-sided tape on the bottom of a Hershey's kiss. Place another Hershey's Kiss on top to make a diamond or rosebud shape. Repeat this step for the rest of the Kisses.Use the same color of Hershey's kisses for each rosebud.
Glue dots are an item used in scrapbooking; they come on a strip, like tape.
Do not use actual glue for this.
 Clear cellophane will work the best, but you can use iridescent cellophane as well. If your Hershey's Kisses were silver, consider using translucent red cellophane instead., Pick up a Hershey's Kiss rosebud and choose an end to be the top. Place a cellophane square over it. Make sure that it's centered, then pull the ends together at the opposite end, like a lollipop.Do just one rosebud for now.
 Hold the rosebud by the bottom with one hand, keeping the wrapped cellophane together. Use your other hand to slide the tip of the skewer or lollipop stick into the cellophane. Twist the cellophane around the stick.Do not press the stick into the chocolate.
If you are using lollipop sticks, make sure that you use the longest kind you can find, otherwise they will be too short.
You can also use florist sticks or short, thin dowels.
 Begin wrapping the tape around the cellophane at the base of the rosebud. Gently tug down on the cellophane until the rosebud stands up on the tip of the stick. Continue wrapping it past the twisted cellophane., Continue winding the tape down the length of the stick. Overlap each row slightly so that no gaps show. When you reach the bottom of the stick, tear the tape off, and press it tightly against the stick.

Consider adding silk 1 to 2 rose leaves; tuck them against the stick while wrapping it.You can buy packs of fake rose leaves from the bridal section at an arts and crafts store.
 Finish all of the roses first. Fill a vase with some vase filler, then stick the roses inside. You can include some real or fake roses as well. Finish the look off by wrapping a ribbon around the vase.

If you add real roses, tuck a matching Hershey's Kiss inside it.
For a fancier rose, wrap some ribbon around the stem, like a candy cane.

