 Although you can walk in other kinds of shoes, a good pair of sneakers can help to make your evening walks more comfortable. A good pair of walking shoes will provide adequate levels of lift in the arch, as well as ankle support. Good shoes will help you get the most out of your walk.If you already have a pair of shoes you enjoy walking about in, then you can just keep wearing them.
If you think you need a new pair of shoes, or want to start going on longer walks at night, visit your local sporting goods store. Talk to a shoe specialist and ask for their help finding shoes that are appropriate for walking at night, such as a pair with reflective material on the heels and sides.;
, Reflective clothing can help you to stay safe on your walks. If you’re wearing reflective clothing, you will be more easily seen by drivers and other pedestrians. This will keep both you and others safe.Your reflective clothing should cover your back, front, shoes, and sides.


You can easily purchase reflective bands, vests, and hats at most sporting goods stores.
 Light colors tend to stand out more against the darkness of night than dark clothing. So in addition to wearing reflective clothing, choose white clothing. If you don’t have any white clothes, wear something bright. Bright red, neon green, and orange will help drivers and pedestrians see you better. , It is always a good idea to bring water along with you when you are exercising. If you’re headed out on a long walk, carry a water bottle with you and a snack as well. A small snack like a granola bar or trail mix can help you stay energized on a long walk. Water will keep you hydrated. This is especially important when you’re walking on a hot summer night.If you are going for short walk and you feel hungry, then try having a small snack before you head out, such as a piece of fruit or a small granola bar.
You can also go for a walk after eating dinner to improve your digestion.
 Layering means wearing multiple thin clothing items that you can easily remove if necessary. You might overestimate how cold it is outside, or find that once you get up to speed on your walk, you’re warmer than you thought you would be. If you’re wearing layers, you can (for instance) remove your jacket. If you’re still warm, you could remove your sweater.A good way to layer is to wear a t-shirt, a long-sleeved shirt, a thin sweater, and a light jacket.
If you have a backpack with you when you walk for exercise at night, stuff your excess layers in the backpack. You could also pack a sweater or hoodie in the backpack in case you anticipate getting cold.
 A pedometer is a small device that measures how many steps you take. If you’re trying to track how far you’re walking at night for exercise, investing in a pedometer is a helpful tool to do so. Some pedometers also have calorie counters and mile/kilometer counters as well.For the ultimate experience in tracking your own biological information, invest in a FitBit or similar fitness tracking device. These devices provide information on not just how many steps you took and how far you’ve walked, but also on your heart rate, blood pressure, and calories burned.
 If you don’t have many streetlights near you, or if you’re walking a woodland trail, bring a flashlight or strap on a hands-free headlamp. Having a portable light will help you see where you’re going when walking for exercise at night.