 Go to the App Store and search for Dream:ON. It should auto-write into the search box once you get partway through the word, so don't worry too much about punctuation and gaps.;
, You will prepare your dream from the main menu shortly, but first you need to deal with some practical things.



Consider whether or not to allow geolocation. If you participate in the worldwide "Dream Catcher" experiment, the app lets you write notes about your dream experience and share this with the experimenters so that they can sift through the data of participating sleepers and find ways to induce dreams we'd rather be having. Geolocation also helps researchers to work out if people in different parts of the world dream about the same things or different things.







Consider whether you'd like notifications of new dream soundscapes (see below). New ones will be added every month, so you might like to add this to your updates.







Agree to the terms and conditions. Now you're all set to start choosing your soundscape.
 This is the music or background that will be played during your optimal dreaming time. There are quite a few soundscapes to choose from, some free and some paid. Some soundscapes will identify that they're specifically lucid dreams, so try different ones on different nights. For details on each one, tap on Details in the lower right hand corner.



For free choices, tap on Start Dreaming and go to Selected Soundscape. You will see a few choices there, such as Smart Alarm Only, Into the City and Peaceful Garden.
 From the Start Dreaming area, tap on Wake Me Up By to tweak the wake-up time. Then, tap on the Selected Alarm Tone to choose from a variety of alarm tones. The alarm will sound when it senses you moving from REM sleep.
 This proximity to you is important, as the app uses a motion sensor to sense when you stop moving in your sleep, which acts as the trigger to play the soundscape.Now you can go to sleep as usual.


As you sleep, the app will monitor your sleeping pattern. When it senses the best time in your dream cycle (from your movement), it will play the soundscape to try to influence your dream's direction.
The app is clever enough to note if you seem to be starting to wake up; in this case, it'll turn down the volume.
 The app includes a dream diary, in which you can record the dream experience each morning. Keeping a record of dreams over time can be a great way to monitor your moods and creative growth, and is generally just a lot of fun. In addition to the diary, you'll also find your sleep pattern graphed each morning.


This app is also a social media experiment. If any of your friends appeared in your dreams, the app lets you tag them in Facebook! (Keep it clean!)







