 The harness should be wide and padded, not a thin rock-climbing harness.Rope belts are used in some parts of the world, but these won't secure you nearly as well.


Read the instructions below first, to decide on a method of climbing the tree. You might be able to buy all your gear as part of a kit, to save money.
 Find a strong rope or webbing, with no significant stretch (or labeled "static"). The rope should be braided, not twisted, so it won't send you spinning, although this is a little less important since you won't be dangling from the rope. Tree-climbing or "arborist" rope is the best choice., These devices attach to the tree and provide loops for your hands and feet. To ascend, all you need to do is alternate lifting your hands and feet, and the machine will do most of the work for you.It is still a good idea to secure yourself to the tree trunk using a length of rope and a harness, using the equipment described above.


There are several designs of climbing machines. Refer to the instructions specific to your model before you try to ascend.
 This is an easy, safe way to climb straight palm trees shorter than the stick ladder. Look for this equipment in hunting goods stores, since the ladders are often used to make hunting platforms. Follow these instructions to stay safe during your ascent:Assemble your stick ladder and lean it against the tree. Push it into the ground and clip it to a strap or length of rope tied around the tree.
Loop another strap or rope around the tree, and clip both ends onto your harness. Adjust until the strap is taut when you stand on the ladder.
Climb the ladder, periodically tying additional straps around the tree and onto the rungs.
 It is possible to make climbing easier and more secure even if you don't have any special equipment. Because your knots must be precise and high-quality, it's best to learn directly from an experienced professional. Here is the basic idea:Wrap rope around the tree, and fasten both ends to your harness.
With another length of rope, make a loop for one of your feet to stand in.
Attach the other end of this loop to the trunk by looping it around and tying a prusik knot.Repeat with a second loop for your other foot, and a third loop for your hands.
To climb the tree, lift one foot while pulling its rope higher with your hand. When you let go and put weight on that foot, the knot should hold the rope steady again. Alternate lifting each loop. Stay near the ground for your first several sessions, until you are confident you have the technique down and your knots are steady.

