 Cake pans and pie pans work the best, but you can also use plastic tubs or cardboard boxes.You can also find special molds for making stepping stones in an arts and crafts store.


The mold needs to be at least 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) thick.;
, This will make it easier to remove the stepping stone from the mold.If you are using a cardboard mold, cover the inside of the mold with a plastic sheet (ie: plastic wrap or a plastic bag) first. It would be a good idea to grease the plastic sheet afterwards as well., This is very important. Concrete is dusty and can irritate sensitive skin. It's not something you want getting into your lungs either. Put on a pair of safety goggles, a dust mask, and work gloves., Each brand will be a little different, so follow the instructions on your container closely. If the concrete is very wet, add some more dry concrete powder to it. The concrete should feel like wet sand. You want it to clump together when you squeeze it., Use a trowel to spread it around so that it covers the bottom layer of the mold. If you are using a square mold, make sure that it reaches and fills the corners. You want it to be about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) thick., Cut a scrap of chicken wire until it is 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) smaller than your mold. Set it into your mold and gently press it into the wet concrete. This step is not absolutely necessary, but it will help prevent the stepping stone from cracking later on.If you can't find chicken wire, you can use sturdy, wire mesh instead.
 Use a trowel to spread the concrete around and make it smooth. You want this layer to be about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) thick as well., Mosaic tiles are a popular choice, but you can use other items as well, such as: broken pottery, glass gems, sea glass, sea shells, and pretty stones.If you are using glass gems or sea glass, paint the back of each piece with white spray paint. This will help keep them looking bright and prevent the concrete from dulling them down.Let the paint dry before moving on., You can use a random pattern, or arrange the decorations to make words or images such as a name or the moon and stars. If your decorations are sinking into the concrete, wait about 30 minutes before trying again. This will give the concrete time to set up again.

Press the mosaics far enough into the concrete so that they don't stick out. This way, you'll be less likely to tip over them.
 After two days, flip the mold over onto a soft surface, such as a patch of grass, a towel, or a blanket. Gently tap the bottom, then lift the mold away., Sand away any rough areas with sandpaper, and fill in any holes with cement. Wipe the top of the stepping stone clean with a wet sponge or an old toothbrush. This will remove any cement that got stuck to glass or porcelain tiles or gems.Let the stepping stone dry before moving on., You can leave your stepping stone as it, or you can varnish the top, decorated part to give it that wet look. A high-quality marine varnish will work especially well here.You can also use a clear, outdoor-quality varnish instead.Let the varnish cure completely before using the stone.

Curing times are different from drying times. Read the label on your varnish carefully.
You only need to varnish the top, decorated part.
Pay attention to the finish. A matte finish is not recommended for glass gems or tiles because it will dull them down.
 Choose a spot in your garden for the stepping stone. Use a shovel or trowel to dig a shallow, 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) deep hole in the soil. Set the stone into it, design side up, then gently pat the soil around it.