 Respectable breeders will be very knowledgeable about the breed, which includes any genetic problems. Unethical breeders will not be able to answer questions about the breed, and they may try to tell you there are no genetic defects.Try asking the breeder questions about the dog or the breed and listen carefully to the answers. If it sounds like they are skirting the question or not answering, you may have an unethical breeder on your hands.
Be wary of any breeder who breeds more than two breeds. Also be wary of breeders who promise "rare" dogs, or "rare" colors or sizes., Ask plenty of questions about the dogs before you buy them. You should ask to see where the puppies and parent dogs spend their time. Ethical breeders will have no problems letting you see this area. Unethical breeders will not let you see where they keep the dogs, and often only let you see one dog at a time instead of the entire litter.Unethical breeders will often request that you meet them somewhere else to get the puppy, often before meeting you. Ethical breeders will want to meet you first before letting you take the dog, and they will want to do it where they keep the puppies.
Ask for health records for the puppies. Responsible breeders will have all the tests, shots, and other records from a vet. Many unethical breeders will have the care list provided on their own letterhead, with no proof they have been seen by a vet at all.
 Responsible breeders will not try to sell unhealthy or sickly dogs. Dogs that look sick, are too skinny, or have a poor coat may indicate you are dealing with an unethical breeder. Dogs that are scared or antisocial also point to irresponsible breeding.This is why it's important to see the puppy with the whole litter. Puppies should be socialized with the litter and their parent.
Look for dirty or unhygienic living conditions. This can be a sign of poor health or health problems in the dogs.
 Ethical dog breeders breed their dogs to improve the breed. They are proud of their dogs and are active at dog shows and in breed organizations. An unethical breeder probably won’t participate in any types of dog shows or other sports. They are not interested in the betterment of the breed, only making a profit., Respectable breeders will have their litters registered by the American Kennel Club or the Kennel Club UK. However, unethical breeders can also get registrations for dogs that are not purebred. Ask for pedigree papers and study them carefully.


An unethical breeder won’t have documentation of their dogs, they won’t have registration certificates, and they won’t have pedigrees.Be suspicious of registrations from other organizations. These don’t guarantee anything. Only papers from the official kennel clubs have authority.
 Respectable breeders are proud of the litters they produce and put a lot of time into breeding them. This means the breeders have had the dogs tested for genetic problems that occur within the breed and can provide documentation of this.Respectable breeders will also give you a lifelong guarantee for the health of the dog, and they will have a policy where they will take the dog if you want to give it up for any reason.
Be wary of "health guarantees." Not all breeders who have health guarantees will be unethical, but if you sign a contract or waiver, make sure to read it very carefully. These are usually given to remove any liability from the breeder., Puppies for adoption should be at least eight weeks old and not younger. Unethical breeders may try to get you to adopt the dogs earlier. The mother should also be at least two years old when they start having litters.Female dogs should only have had a limited number of litters. Most female dogs shouldn’t have litters every year.
 If a breeder asks for an astronomical fee for a dog, or a large down payment, it may point to an unethical breeder. Sometimes a dog that is much cheaper than other breeders may be from an unethical breeder. Most purebred dogs are expensive, so you should check the price your breeder is charging against others. Purebred puppies can range from around $800 to a couple of thousand.Some unethical breeders and puppy mills may charge only from $500 to $900 for a dog, while a respectable breeder may be more expensive.Many unethical breeders require a large down payment up front. Sometimes, they will take the down payment and never deliver the puppy. Or they will require you to pay hundreds of dollars before even seeing the puppy.
 You should also see the way the breeder interacts with their dogs. Many unethical breeders abuse their dogs, so if the dogs seem afraid or skittish around the breeder, this is a cause for concern.


If the breeder will not let you see them interact with their dogs or the litter, this is cause for concern. A respectable breeder will love their dogs and have a good relationship with them.

