 Using a slow cooker takes much more time, but the end result is worth it. Here is everything you'll need to make delicious chicken curry in a slow cooker:


2 tbsp red wine vinegar
1 tbsp all-purpose flour
1 tbsp tomato paste
2 tsp garam masala, plus more for sprinkling
2 tsp Madras curry powder
2 cloves garlic, halved
1 14.5-ounce can diced tomatoes
1-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and cut into pieces
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 pound red skinned potatoes, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 pounds chicken thighs, skin removed (about 8 thighs)
1 5-oz package baby spinach
1/2 cup chopped cilantro

, You can add salt and pepper to taste, but it's recommended that you use about a 1/2 teaspoon of salt and a 1/4 teaspoon of pepper in a blender or a food processor.
 Puree the ingredients together to make the stew for the curry chicken. It should be blended pretty well, with just a bit of chunkiness.
 Ideally, the slow cooker should be 5 1/2 to 6 quarts large. Spread the potatoes evenly so they are well distributed across the bottom of the pot. You'll be placing the chicken on top of them, so you want to make sure the chicken can impart its tasty flavor to the potatoes pretty evenly.
 Sprinkle the chicken with one teaspoon of garam masala and one teaspoon of curry powder along with a fair amount of salt and pepper to taste. You can make this mixture in a bowl and then sprinkle it over the chicken, or even press the chicken into the mixture. Just make sure that you season both sides of the chicken.
 Carefully place the chicken over the potatoes in a single layer.
 This will give the chicken and potatoes the delicious curry flavor you're looking for.
, Once you've prepared your chicken curry, you can throw in the spinach and stir it until it's wilted. This should take less than a minute.
 Now, just sprinkle cilantro over the dish and season it further with salt and pepper to taste.
 Your slow-cooked chicken curry is all ready to go. You can enjoy this dish as it is, or serve it with naan on the side, which will help you scoop up the delicious sauce. You can also add some chutney or Greek yogurt to the dish — sour cream will be a substitute for the chicken curry in a pinch.

