 First consider the climate. Lakes in the northern part of the US may freeze in the winter, offering completely different sports and activities than those in the South. A lake cabin in Wisconsin may offer ice skating and ice fishing, while a lake in South Carolina might provide water skiing all year long.;
, Lake houses attract guests! Will your friends and family have a long drive and want to spend the night, or will your home be close enough for informal drop-ins?

, Will you be exploring the lake by boat or simply enjoying the view? A 50,000-acre lake offers more variety and places to visit than a 500-acre lake.
 Is there a variety of boat docks, marinas, and restaurants to visit? Can friends bring their boats and easily launch them?

, Some lakes restrict the horsepower of boat engines. Lakes with lots of bridges over them won't be good for sailing. Are jet skis and racing boats allowed?

, Fishermen should visit local bait and tackle shops and discuss fishing. Hire a guide familiar with the lake, and get his/her opinion. Are fishing tournaments held on the lake?

, Lake views can be long and sweeping or simply a short distance across a small cove. Generally, you'll pay for the "big water" views. Some people enjoy gazing across a lake. Others simply want a cove so they can jump in their boat and go.
 If you have the big water views, big water attracts boaters, jet skis and "water traffic." Lots of water traffic will result in waves washing up on shore. You'll need protection from erosion. On the other hand, living on a secluded cove will be quieter, and you will have fewer waves.
 Generally the slope of the land continues unchanged into the water. A steeply sloped lot generally means you'll have deep water close to the shore. A flat lot can mean you will have shallow water out some distance. In any event, especially if you are a boater, check the water depth.
 Who controls the lake and and the water depth? At some lakes energy plants will control the water. In other cases the US Corps of Engineers will manage lake levels. Sometimes Mother Nature trumps all. Look into annual precipitation and any history of drought conditions.
 There are many useful sites that carry lake information.

