 Non-Celiac Gluten Sensitivity (NCGS) is a disorder that causes symptoms after ingesting gluten-containing food in people who do not have Celiac Disease or a wheat allergy.Even for those who do not have Celiac disease or NCGS, following a gluten-free diet is becoming more popular, which has inspired some food and beverage companies to put “gluten-free” on the packaging of their items. When a candy clearly states on its packaging that it is gluten-free, it is probably safe for you to consume. As long as a packaged product contains less than 20ppm of gluten, the FDA allows the company to use the “gluten-free” label.


To be safe, you should still read through the list of ingredients on the candy’s packaging for any red flags.
Keep in mind that an item labelled as “wheat-free” doesn’t always mean it is gluten-free.;
, This information is usually located near the ingredient listing. Avoid any product that states it “contains wheat” in the allergen listing. This is not a fool-proof method, unfortunately. Just because an item has no allergen listing on its package does not necessarily mean it’s gluten-free. However, a “contains wheat” label will tell you when you should avoid something.


Many gluten-sensitive people cannot eat barley and rye. However, these two items are not required to be listed as allergens.Skim through the list of ingredients for any sources of gluten., Becoming an excellent label reader is your first line of defense for avoiding gluten. The four major red flags to look for in the ingredients are wheat, barley, rye, triticale, and oats due to cross-contamination (unless they are labeled as gluten-free oats).Once those have been ruled out, you need to look a little deeper for hidden sources of wheat. “Caramel color” is sometimes made from barley or other grain products. “Dextrin” and “maltodextrin” may contain wheat. “Graham” is a wheat derivative, as well as “malt.” A listing of “starch” is safe to consume, but “wheat starch” is not.


Look for malted barley flour, malted milk or milkshakes, malt extract, malt syrup and malt flavoring in the ingredients. If any of these are found, avoid the item.Although less likely to be found in candy, it never hurts to confirm the following are not listed as ingredients – wheat flour, bulgur, couscous, dinkle, durum, einkorn, emmer, fu, graham, kamut, seitan, semolina, wheatberries and spelt., If you’re on a strict gluten-free diet and you cannot confirm the ingredients in a candy product, it is better and safer for you to avoid it. If a list of ingredients isn’t provided at all, definitely think twice about consuming it. Even a food item that you know never contains gluten may have had a recent recipe tweak. Inquire and if you can’t confirm, avoid the product.For more information on leading a gluten-free lifestyle, visit https://celiac.org.

