 If you have a pet carrier that you can safely place the dog in, do so. This is the best option to protect both you and the dog. Encourage it to lie down, and support its body with anything soft to minimize movement during transportation.For more significant injuries, or in scenarios where the dog is having trouble breathing or is unconscious, you’ll want to move it as little as possible. See the section in this article on dealing with specific injuries.;
, If you do not have a carrier, the dog only has a limb injury, and you can carry it safely with both arms, it is fine to do so. Use one to support the chest, and reach over with your other arm, looping it beneath the dog’s abdomen, just in front of its hind legs.Do you best not to move or otherwise agitate an injury, but make sure to fully support the dog's body with your arms.
 If another person is available to help, use something stiff, such as a board, to carry a large dog or a dog that is seriously injured. Position the dog on its side, taking care not to bend its body. If you have anything soft, wedge it along the dog’s body to minimize its movement.


When lifting with the assistance of another person, position yourselves on either side of the stretcher. Bend and lift simultaneously, using your legs to support the weight. Position your hands as far apart from one another as is comfortable.
The tray from a dog crate is another good option for a stretcher.
If you have something that can secure the dog in place, such as a belt, use it to do so.Always position a fastening device over the shoulders or hips, so as not to obstruct the ribs or abdomen.
 If you have no stiff, mobile surface, a blanket or coat can be used as well. Position the material beneath the dog in a way that will support its body lengthwise. If the material is not large enough to hold the dog in place while moving, use something to fasten it to the stretcher.A soft material will only help you carry a dog if you have another person to assist you. Stand on opposite sides of the material and lift from the corners, pulling away from one another to keep the material as taught as possible. Prevent the dog's body from bending as much as you are able.
If you are alone, you may need to drag the dog, but can still use a stretcher to help you do so.
 If you are alone, position the dog so that it is laying on its side. Place a board or blanket behind the dog's back, along its spine. Position yourself behind the dog as well. Tightly grip a fold of the dog’s skin above its neck with one hand and above its hips with the other. Pull the dog carefully onto the board or other material. Lift one edge of the stretcher and drag it in the direction of help., Even if you know the dog and it is always friendly and gentle, you should almost always put a muzzle on an injured dog. Pain, shock, and confusion can cause even well-behaved dogs to panic and bite at you or someone else.If you do not have a muzzle, use a long strip of gauze or even a leash to make one. Drape it across the dog’s muzzle, wrap it around its jaws, and wrap it back behind the ears to fasten.
Do not muzzle the dog if it is vomiting or having trouble breathing.
Remove or loosen a muzzles, especially a makeshift muzzle, once the dog is settled. Never leave a muzzle on a dog if you are unable to directly observe it.