 As you begin assembling potential names for your kitten, keep a pencil and notebook handy. Jot down all your names in your book. Once you have a long list of names, you can go through it and select the one you like.It may be a good idea to take the notebook with you when you go out. You never know when inspiration may strike.;
, Many pet owners name cats based on color. If your cat's color is likely to remain stable as it grows, you can try a color-based name.For example, a gray cat could be Smokey. An orange cat could be Marmalade. A white cat could be Snowball or Blizzard.
You can get a little more creative if you want. You could, for example, choose the name of a color in a different language or pick something that reminds you of a particular color. For example, if you have a white male cat, you could name him Bing after the lead in White Christmas.
 Many people find it's fun to give cats names based on geography. If you got your kitten out of state, for example, you could give it a name based on that location. If your kitten was, say, shipped in from Tennessee, you could name it Memphis.You can also pick a geographical name based on the kitten's breed. If you have a Russian Blue, for example, you could give it a Russian name like Masha or Sergei.
You can also pick a geographical location that's close to you personally. If you're from Chicago originally, for example, you could name the cat after a train stop in Chicago, picking a name like Paulina, Addison, or Belmont.
 Many people wait a few days to observe their kitten before selecting a name. This is usually a good idea if you want to name the cat after its personality. Consider keeping your kitten for a few days and observing its behavior before giving it a name.There are really few limitations if you're naming your cat after its personality. You can choose weather names, names of famous people, names of characters, names of Zodiac signs, and so on. Just a pick a name related to something that reflects your kitten's attitude.
For example, say your kitten is very active and loves batting toys around the floor. You could name him after a famous hockey player. A name like Gordie, after Gordie Howe, or Gretzky, after Wayne Gretzky, could be cute.
 Oftentimes, people want a nod to history when naming a pet. You may have a family tradition, like all cats are named after a type of fruit. You may also want to honor a deceased pet in naming your cat.Think about any traditions regarding your pet's names. Maybe all the pets in your family are named after TV characters. You can spend a few days observing your cat's behavior, and name him after a TV character with a similar personality.
You can pick a name that pairs well with an existing pet's name. If you, say, have a dog named Diego, why not name your kitten Frida?
You can also honor a lost pet with a new pet's name. If your first childhood pet was a cat named Cupcake, you could pick another bakery-themed name. You could name your cat something like Cookie, Pumpkin, or Muffin. You can also name the kitten after a lost pet of a different breed. For example, say you used to have a male horse who passed. You could name your kitten something like Colton.

