 Rope your family or some friends into joining you for a game night. There are a multitude of games for every genre. You can play something short and easy like Sorry or Life, or invest in a longer game like Monopoly or Risk. There are also games like Cards Against Humanity, Settlers of Catan, and Pandemic.


If you don’t have any board games, try a group game from Jackbox like Drawful. All you need for this is a computer or laptop, TV, and smart phones.
 If you've been trapped in the house for a while, try getting out to see a movie. You can do this alone or with friends. It's a great way to feel productive without overtaxing yourself and getting tired. Try going to matinees for a cheaper price and look out for discount days at your local theater.
 There are many local theaters that put on regular weekly performances. These are also usually much cheaper than going to the larger, more popular, theaters in your area. You can even pull up their monthly schedules online and plan out which shows you'd like to see.
 This is a great way to get in some exercise without using your arm too much. You can also get into a lot of these places for free depending on when you go - like in the afternoon or on weekdays. If you're a student, you can also usually get discounted tickets.For museums and aquariums, there are usually new, specialized exhibits monthly, which can make going frequently a treat.
 If you get really bored or lonely, invite friends over just to hang out. It won't matter what you do, just spending time together is a great distraction. You can also have them take you out if you're tired of being at home. Since they're likely willing to help you out of you need it, it won't matter where you go.


Try going out to one of your favorite restaurants for dinner. Going somewhere familiar will help you feel comfortable, despite your cast. A dinner out with friends is also a great time killer that won't destroy your wallet.
If the weather permits, try going for a walk with your friends, too. You can do this within your neighborhood or at a local park. Having a friend a long will not only help make it more fun, but also make it safer should you have trouble with your cast.

