 Take the time to get everything in order before you start doing anything. It will take a few minutes, but it will pay off later.;
, More, if you need to organize your records. It won't take long, but you'll do yourself a huge favor if you have a time where you can concentrate.
 The IRS Pub 17 form can be downloaded from: http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p17.pdf. Read all of the forms thoroughly so you have a good idea of the information you will need before you do anything else. This includes the 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040 return, and the supplemental forms (Schedule A, EIC form 596, Child Tax Credit form 972, Dependent Child Care Expenses form 2441, Additional Child Tax Credit form 8812).
 When you fill them out, do so line by line and follow the instructions precisely. Don't get ahead of yourself, and you won't get confused. Try not to let fear hold you back. Just complete the forms as necessary, be careful, check your work, and you'll be fine.
 The filing status and allowances are between you and your employer. On the W-4 the filing status is nothing more than telling your employer what to withhold from your check. It's not the same as the filing status on your return. You can adjust this this to affect your refund at the end of the year. You have the option of choosing from more than one status.
 Regardless of your status, you can claim the allowance you want to have the maximum amount of taxes withheld from your paycheck in order to get the highest refund after you file. You can also claim the maximum allowance, but be careful when doing so, as you may end up owing money at filing time. You can change this at any time during the year. Just file a new W-4 and your withholding will change.
 That's what the 1040-X is for. This form is intended to tell the IRS that there was an error and that you will be amending your tax statement. The IRS knows that people make mistakes.



Filing 1040-X is much cheaper than being audited and having to pay collections. Don't wait too long, though. If you've already gotten your refund, you may have to send some of it back.

