 A few items are required for safely bleaching designs into cotton t-shirts.A shirt in a dark or bright color
Bleach
Rags or cardboard
An object to block the bleach, such as duct tape or adhesive vinyl
Rubber gloves

, Protect the surface with a tarp, old bed sheet, or other protector, if necessary.



Make sure that the rags or cardboard cover the inside of the shirt all the way up to the neck and all the way down to the bottom hem of the shirt. They should also cover the shirt's width.
 You can create a design by cutting shapes or a stencil out of the adhesive vinyl, or you can create a pattern with duct tape. Here are some ideas:


A name or title
A geometric shape
A piece of fruit, vegetable, or other food item
A criss-cross pattern
A zig-zag pattern

, Locate where on the shirt you want the design to sit (i.e. the middle, the top left, et cetera).


Gently lay the design on the shirt where you want it. Press firmly down on all of the edges to secure the duct tape or adhesive vinyl.
Consider transferring your stencil, if that is what you used, to transfer paper if it has loose pieces (such as eyes, dots, et cetera) by pressing the transfer paper on top of your stencil. Then, carefully remove the stencil from the paper backing. After that, press the stencil on your shirt, firmly press down around the edges, and gently peel up the transfer paper.
 Pour as much as you think you will need. You can add more later, if you find that you need to do so.
 Each will create a slightly different look, depending on what you want the design to look like.The rag will make clean edges around the design, while the sponge will make fuzzy edges.
Be sure to put on your rubber gloves before starting to handle the bleach for this step.
 Use the rag or sponge to gently blot the bleach all around the design, so that the areas behind the design stay colored and everything else becomes bleached.


If bleach bleeds into the area behind the design, you can touch it up later with a fabric-marker in the correct color., It may take up to a few minutes for the bleach to pull out all of the color.


If the fading is not to your liking, you can blot around the design with bleach again to make it even lighter. Keep in mind that it will take longer to bleach the shirt lighter, so be sure you are prepared with enough time.
 When the design has been bleached to your satisfaction, gently peel up the design from the shirt.


Drying your rubber gloves on old clothing or fabric before touching the shirt again will be helpful to avoid accidental bleach spots from any bleach that got on your gloves.
 Carefully pull out the rags or cardboard from in between the layers of the shirt. Immediately move the shirt to a sink to rinse it under cold water.


Rinsing the shirt stops the bleaching process.
 You can either put it in the dryer or hang it to dry, depending your preferences or the shirt's instructions.


You can launder it as usual after this, if you would like.
The shirt will now be ready to wear.

