 Opening up about depression can be challenging, but you may feel better if you try to share your feelings. Gather the courage to talk to your parents about what it’s like to have depression, especially when you are feeling particularly low.Talking to them doesn’t mean you expect them to “fix” you. It just gives you an outlet for your emotions, and helps you feel less alone.
Your parents would rather know that something is wrong, as opposed to wondering if something is wrong. Be honest about your feelings. This way, they can start helping you.
 You can help your parents help you by passing on useful information you learn about improving your depressive symptoms. You can ease depression by taking your prescribed medication, getting a good night’s rest, eating balanced meals, and getting physical activity. Tell your parent’s how they can help you with this.Make a list of ways your parents can support your treatment. For instance, they might go walking with you outdoors in the evenings, start a family game night to help you relieve stress, keep track of medication refills, or make sure you are going to bed at a decent time to be well-rested.
 A great way to involve your parents in your treatment is by having them join you at appointments. That way, they can stay updated on the treatment process and ask any questions they may have. Driving you to doctor visits and therapy appointments also helps you feel supported during this difficult time.You might say, “I’d really like it if you came to my next appointment with me.”

, Your doctor or therapist may have recommended that you join a local support group of other teens and young adults who are experiencing depression. These groups are great for you because they help you bond with others who are going through similar situations. However, it might also help for your parents to attend such groups, too.


In these groups, your parents can learn more about how to support your depression treatment. Plus, they may also forge bonds with other parents and family members who are supporting their child’s treatment.
The National Alliance on Mental Illness has peer and family support groups. Search for a NAMI chapter in your area to look for a support group you and your parents can join.