  A solid blog style will help draw attention to your blog from other users who share the same style.  These are some of the most popular styles with large communities behind them.  Understanding your chosen blog style will take time and may slow down the process.  Examples of blog types are:


pale
glow
rosy
bambi
gypsy
indie
cyber
nature
kawaii
pastel
tropical;
,  After choosing your style, chose a url that incorporates your blog type.  Ex: pale princess, glow child, rosylove, bambibabe, mergypsy, indieday, cybershorty, pastel prince, and tropical calypso.  A url that has the name of the blog type will attract people and let them know what to expect on your blog.
  Learn from them and use them as your inspiration to create an awesome blog. After all, there's a reason they are popular.  Message them and politely ask them to take a look at your blog.  Make sure you follow the people you message, they will most likely check.  Explaining that you are new and admire them will make them more likely to help you.  Ask them blogs they recommend following or look for a blogroll on their blog.  Message and follow those people as well.  If they follow you, they will reblog posts from you and draw their followers to your blog.
  Googling 'tumblr theme makers' will direct you to a myriad of people who have themes.  Find a theme that is similar to the popular blogs in your style.  Customize it with cute pixels, tabs, banners, etc.  If you do not know how to do this, message around and see if anyone does blog makeovers.  Send them a sweet message asking for a makeover and they will most likely feel obliged to help.
  Reblogging around 100-200 posts a day will gain attraction to your blog.
  While not everybody likes it and you may get a few nasty messages once in a while, promoting is worth it.  Self promoting is when you add a short description after reblogging a post.  Click the reblog button and delete other self promotions on a photo, but DO NOT remove original source comments.  Then add a short line such as '✿ new pale blog ✿'; adding symbols is common.  Saying you're a new blog draws curiosity from those who see the line in their activity and they will most likely visit your blog.
  Look for posts that say the word 'network' in them once your theme is done so you get accepted.  These networks will help you gain followers by putting you in a community and other network members will follow you.  Make sure you accept the network email if you are accepted.
  A blog of the week or blog of the month is the key to gaining followers fast.  Another user will be promoting you to their followers for a long time and this could gain you almost 200-500 followers.  Usually you can increase your chances of being chosen by making a post and using the username (ex. #mergypsy) of the person hosting the contest, following their other social accounts, messaging them, asking for advice etc.
  Do these steps repetitively for an intense 2 weeks and you will see the followers come flooding in.

