 Since you will be using essential oils on your body and around your home, it is in your best interest to select high quality essential oils. There is no standard of quality that all essential oil companies must abide by, so you will have to consider several things before you buy an essential oil.


Have you heard of the company and/or used their products before? Only purchase essential oils from reputable companies.
Is the price of the essential oil comparable to other similar products or much cheaper? Be wary of cheap essential oils because they may not be pure.
Does the bottle list the Latin name for the plants used to make the essential oil and/or the country of origin? These details indicate that the company caters to knowledgeable consumers and is therefore more trustworthy.
Does the packaging have a statement about purity? Look for products that contain 100% essential oil and steer clear of ones that contain less or that do not provide a percentage.
How does the product smell? If the product does not smell like you expect it to smell, then it might not be a quality product.
Does the packaging include a statement about organic growing practices or “wildcrafting”? If not, then the plants used to make the oil may have been mass produced and/or sprayed with pesticides, so you may want to avoid these products.;
, Some essential oil producers offer multiple types of the same essential oil. These different types, or chemotypes, feature slight variations in the scent because of the climate, soil, environment, and other factors. The benefit of choosing a specific chemotype of an essential oil is that you can customize your dilutions.


For example, basil has two primary chemotypes: sweet basil oil and Reunion basil oil. Sweet basil oil has a sweeter aroma while Reunion basil oil has more of a woody aroma.
 Essential oils degrade more quickly when exposed to light and heat. Make sure that the product you purchase is packaged in a dark (usually brown) glass container and that it is well sealed. Avoid purchasing essential oils that have been opened or that appear to have been exposed to lots of sun or heat..

