 To make these glitter sneakers, you will need a pair of sneakers, some fine glitter (in the color or colors of your choice), a pot of glitter paint, a paintbrush, a roll of painter's tape and a pot of Modge Podge.;
, Make sure your sneakers are completely clean, or else use a brand new pair of sneakers for this project.


If you're using an old pair of fabric or canvas, consider putting them in the washing machine. If they are not machine washable, use a damp cloth to remove as much dirt as possible.
Remove the laces from the sneakers, then take the painter's tape and use to it to cover up any areas of the shoe you don't want to bedazzle -- such as the rubber sole and the tongue.
 Pour a large drop of glitter paint onto a paper plate, then sprinkle the loose glitter on top.









Mix with a paintbrush or lollipop stick until you achieve a slightly grainy consistency -- but don't allow the paint to become too chunky or dry.
If necessary, add more of the glitter or paint until you achieve the right consistency.
 Take a paintbrush and dip it in the glittery paint. Place your free hand inside the shoe to hold it up, then start painting!









Try to apply a thin, even layer of the paint over the entire shoe. If you pile it on too thickly, the paint may take a very long time to dry. Once you have finished painting the first shoe, do the same with the second.
Remember that you can always paint an extra layer of glitter paint once the original layer has dried. It's better to apply several thin layers than a single thick coat.
 Once the layer or layers of glitter paint have dried completely, take the bottle of Modge Podge and pour a large drop onto a paper plate. Take a clean paintbrush and start applying it to the sneakers.









The Modge Podge will seal the glitter (making sure it doesn't fall off) and add shine to the sneakers. Don't worry if it looks white at first, it will turn clear once it dries.
Leave the shoes to dry overnight, then reinsert the laces and enjoy your new glitter shoes!

, Once you have the basic method down, you can experiment with a few different variations of this glitter technique.










Use different color glitters: Instead of just using a single color glitter on your sneakers, you could experiment with mixing glitters and paints to create a cool, multi-toned sparkle. Think about mixing pink and purple glitters with silver paint, or red and orange glitter with gold paint. You could even mix all seven colors of the rainbow!

Create an ombre effect: Another good idea is to create an ombre effect by using three complimentary colors of glitter and fading them into each other. Mix each color glitter with paint on a separate plate, then use the first color glitter to paint 1/3 of the shoe, from the heel forwards. Once that layer is dry, use a clean paintbrush to paint the second color glitter on the next 1/3 of the shoe, starting about 1/2 an inch behind where the first color ended. Do the same with the third color, painting all the way to the toe. Use stencils: Instead of painting the entire shoe with glitter, you could use stencils to create glittery designs and patterns on your sneakers. Press plastic or fabric stencils onto the shoe, or create your own using painters tape. With this technique, you can create pretty shimmering butterflies, stars, hearts, flowers, skulls -- anything you like!

, Instead of painting the glittery glue onto the shoes, you could try sprinkling it instead!









All you need are a pair of canvas sneakers, a bottle of fabric glue, some fine, loose glitter, a pot of Modge Podge and a paintbrush.
Paint a layer of fabric glue onto the canvas parts of a clean pair of sneakers (with the laces removed). Hold the sneakers over a sheet of newspaper and start sprinkling the loose glitter directly onto the glue.
You'll need to work quickly, to ensure that the glue doesn't dry. Once you have cover the sneakers in a layer of glitter, give them a gentle shake to remove any excess.
Paint a layer of Modge Podge over the sneakers to seal the glitter and add shoes. Leave the shoes to dry overnight before reinserting the laces and wearing.