 Stretchy bracelets are the easiest to make, and require the fewest tools. You can make a simple, child-friendly one using elastic cord and plastic pony beads. You can also make a dainty one using clear elastic and glass beads. Here is a list of what you will need:


Beading elastic or cord.
Beads
Scissors
Tape or binder clip
Super glue

, Take the beading elastic and wrap it one and a half times around your wrist. Cut it with a pair of sharp scissors. You are making it slightly larger so that you can knot it later.
 Hold the elastic between your fingers and stretch it gently. This will prevent the elastic from stretching out later on and creating gaps., This will prevent the beads from sliding off while you work. If you do not have any tape, or if the tape won't stick, use a binder clip instead.
 You do not need a needle for this; most elastic is stiff enough that you can put the bead directly onto the string. Hold the elastic close to the end, and slip the beads on.


Try to put the bead with the largest hole on first. Once you finish the bracelet, you can hide the knot by sliding it under that bead.
 Be sure to wrap the bracelet round your wrist from time to time. The first and last bead should be touching, and the bracelet should be somewhat loose. You do not want it to stretch around your wrist. If you see any gaps or cord, you will need more beads.
 Start by folding the two ends of the elastic over and under each other, like tying a pair of shoes. Tie another knot like it but don't tighten it yet; you will have something that looks like a ring. Wrap one of the tail ends around one side of the circle. Do the same thing for the other side. Now you can tighten the knot., This will determine how you finish off the bracelet. Be sure to have a bottle of super glue ready.


If you can slide the knot under one of the beads, trim off the extra string and put a drop of glue over the knot. Slide the knot under the bead.
If you can't fit the knot under one of the beads, tuck the tail ends inside the beads instead. Put a drop of glue on top of the knot to seal it.
 If you try to put the bracelet on too soon, the knot may loosen and the glue may crack. Most glues will dry in about 15 minutes, and cure after 24 hours; refer to the label for more exact drying times.

