 While there is no direct evidence that carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by using your keyboard and mouse, those objects will certainly cause your wrist to become more painful if you already have carpal tunnel syndrome. Therefore, if you do work on a keyboard or mouse, or you work with other type of equipment that affects your wrist, take frequent breaks.Taking regular breaks can be used in conjunction with many other treatment options.
While taking a break consider rotating your wrists and stretching your palms and finger to help keep the area flexible and loose.
When typing on a keyboard try to keep your wrists straight, and avoid bending your hands upwards from your wrist to type., Cold, in general, helps to reduce inflammation. Putting a cold pack or ice pack on your wrist may help to relieve the pain of your carpal tunnel syndrome temporarily. Put cold packs on for 10-15 minute periods, and avoid putting those items directly onto your skin. Wrap the packs in a towel first.Alternatively, work to keep your hands warm as often as possible. Working in a cold room can often cause more pain and stiffness to develop. Consider wearing fingerless gloves while you work on a keyboard., Carpal tunnel syndrome can actually be made worse by how you sleep. Most people sleep with their wrists flexed in some way, which will aggravate any wrist problems they have. Wearing a splint while you sleep is one option to help relieve pressure on the median nerve while you’re asleep.Splints are designed to hold your wrists in their proper and straight positions.
Also try to avoid sleeping on your hands at night, as this added pressure may add to the pain in your wrists and hands.
 Yoga has actually been proven to reduce wrist pain and improve grip strength in people who suffer from carpal tunnel syndrome.Yoga poses that focus on strengthening, stretching and balancing the joints in your upper body are the most useful., Massage therapy provided by a registered therapist may help relieve any pain associated with muscle dysfunction. Massage is effective in increasing blood flow and removing fluid build up in the wrist and surrounding muscles. Start with a 30 minute massage. Please note that you may require three to five treatments to see any benefits.
 In some cases, carpal tunnel symptoms can be referred from trigger points, or more commonly known as muscle knots. These knots can appear in the wrist area, the forearm, and even the neck and shoulders. You can apply pressure yourself, looking for tender spots that recreate the carpal tunnel symptoms. Applying pressure for 30 seconds will lead to a gradual reduction in pain and discomfort. It's important to find as many tender spots as you can and address them. Perform this once a day until the pain subsides.
 Physical and occupational therapy, performed with the assistance of a physical or occupational therapist, could potentially help relieve pressure on the median nerve and reduce the amount of pain you experience. Ultrasound therapy can also be used to raise the temperature in the carpal tunnel area, which in turn helps reduce the pain.Both types of therapy would need to be done over several weeks, at the very least, before improvements would be noticed.
 NSAIDs include drugs like ibuprofen (e.g. Advil, Motrin IB, etc.) and may work to temporarily reduce the pain caused by carpal tunnel syndrome. NSAIDs are available over-the-counter at all drug stores and the generic versions are inexpensive.Be sure to check with your doctor before taking any new medications.
 Corticosteroids are drugs that can be injected directly into your wrist by your doctor. Corticosteroids are known to decrease inflammation and swelling, which may in turn release the pressure on the median nerve and make your wrist feel less painful.While corticosteroids come in oral (pill) versions, they are not as effective for carpal tunnel syndrome as the injected versions.
 For people who have severe and chronic carpal tunnel syndrome one potential option may be to consider surgery. Surgery can allow doctors to ease the pressure on your median nerve by cutting the ligament that runs along side it. Doctors can perform two types of surgery: endoscopic surgery and open surgery.Endoscopic surgery is where your doctor will use a tiny camera that can be put inside your wrist, and then tiny little surgical tools to cut your ligament. Endoscopic surgery is not as evasive as open surgery, and is easier to recover from. Plus it doesn’t leave noticeable scars.

Open surgery is where your doctor will make an incision in your wrist and palm so the carpal tunnel and median nerve can be seen. One your wrist and palm is cut open, the doctor can cut the ligament to relieve pressure on the nerve. Because of the larger incision, it can take a longer time to recover and there will be a scar.
Other surgical side effects are: an incomplete release of the nerve from the ligament, which means the pain will not be completely relieved; infections in the wound; scars; and nerve damage. Make sure you discuss all possible side effects with your doctor before making your decision about surgery.

