 This means not going to places that you had experiences with them at, putting away old pictures, and maybe even deleting their contact information from your phone or removing them from Facebook. It might seem rude, but you need to understand that you have to move on in life.


Here's one way to think about it. If you're stopped at a red light and all the sudden it goes green, everyone else is going forward with their lives and you're just stuck. You will eventually get hit by another car or fined for staying in the middle of the road. You can move, but it takes effort to put your foot to the gas. Move on. You do not want to be the person stuck at the red light any longer.
If seeing them on your home page on Facebook or seeing them on your phone will bring back sudden memories or you will be tempted to contact them, you need to delete them.
If you own anything of theirs, now might be a good time to give it back to them if it holds memories or is important to them. If you want to avoid seeing them altogether, you can get a friend to deliver it, or ship it in the mail.
Getting rid of things that remind you of them is not the same as destroying things. It may not be a great idea to send all of their belongings up into smoke by burning it in a funeral pyre. It's recommended that you store things, shelving them away, instead of destroying things. You want to temporarily forget about the memories, not destroy them altogether.
 It can be a stay-cation if you want (late night slumber party, anyone?) or it can be a full-blown vacation, off to an exotic destination. Whatever it is, you deserve it. You're been putting in a lot of work into this, and other, relationships, which means you've earned a break.


Taking a vacation doesn't have to mean traveling far. In fact, you can still have a vacation if you stay in the same city. The trick is convincing your mind to let loose and act like you're in a totally foreign place. So meet some locals, go to a museum you've never gone to, and soak it all in.
 Hanging out with friends, joining a club (i.e. drama clubs, creative writing or book clubs, online clubs, etc.) help a lot. Do anything to get your mind off of him/her. Write song lyrics or stories, do homework, hang out with friends at the mall, watching movies; all of these things work. Make sure that you're not thinking of him or her and there is absolutely no reason for you to encounter them or think about them.


For example, if they work at the mall and your friends want to go there, don't go. Stay home and do something else. The whole point is to move on, and for most people who are in love, the moment they see their loved one again or the moment they start to communicate with them, old feelings begin coming back. So make sure you won't be seeing them at all.
Try to find a hobby you're interested in such as art, music, writing, books, dance, etc. You can also kill two birds with one stone by trying to get something good done while moving on, such as losing weight, studying or doing homework, practicing for a speech or playact, or earning money.

