 To dress for the winter, this will get you surprisingly far! A half-button down shirt, layered over any polo, with a jacket on top, is always a good look - simply match similar collars so that bottom one shows and folds over a bit. Jeans are a winter staple, as are comfortable boots. If you're outdoors in the cold, always have a coat on!;
, Stock up on stylish winter boots, uggs, sneakers, slippers, sweatpants, jeans, sweatshirts, leg warmers, sweaters, leggings, tights, and hats!

, In case of a cold winter, a coat becomes a girl's best friend. It's the item of your wardrobe you'll be wearing most of the time so be sure to find a good one. Choose one that will both prevent you from the cold and reflect your personal style!


If you're into vintage, invest in a cute 60's coat. Or what about a comfy, classy jacket in the American pilot fashion? Whatever your choice is, make sure it's warm enough. A woolen cardigan is a pretty piece of clothing but it won't be of much use when it's snowing outside.
A padded jacket is always a popular choice. If you opt for it, try to find a light one to avoid the 'padded' effect. Even the light models are pretty warm, these days. And pick a lively color.
 Extremities are vulnerable, specially in bad weather. Make sure they are protected so no part of your body will be exposed to the cold air. Otherwise, you'll feel cold all over.


Build a bundle of warmth, starting with something on your head. A woolen bonnet is the ideal choice, but if you're not mad about it, a cap, a beret or a large hat will still do pretty well.
Cover your neck with a scarf: it is elegant, and you can learn to do some fancy ties.
Don't forget your hands, they're easily dry and hurt during wintertime. If you're tired of traditional gloves, find some in imitation leather. They're usually cheap and very classy-looking.
 Boots are a must. They can be either high or low, with all sizes of heels, colors, chains, laces and so on.
 Nothing better than a few added touches to jazz up a classical outfit. When you can't go out without your snow boots and a scarf around your face, make the most of pretty necklaces––long ones will look specially fitting on a pull-over- of flowers in your hair, colorful watches and bracelets, earrings, cute handbags, etc.


Tights are a most precious accessory; they're both pretty and warm. When they are thin, they will look great on your legs. If you have to wear them thick, pick a lively color.
 Now you're protected by your coat and other warm accessories, you can allow yourself to wear fancy and light clothes underneath.


In wintertime, some people prefer to wear warm clothes and light coats, but doing the reverse will enable you not only to show off your wardrobe but also to avoid temperature shocks. The trick is to wear several layers, so you'll be able to take some off and feel comfortable whatever the temperature is.
Besides, you can recycle some of your summer clothes, such as your thickest summer dresses with a pull-over and warm tights. You can also put on skirts or jeans with short sleeves tops or blouses and warm it all up with a sweater.
As for your underwear, have fun with cute and elegant things. Even if nobody sees them, knowing you're wearing them will boost your self-confidence and your attractiveness.
 In the winter, with harsh winds and heating on full-blast, most skin types will dry out quickly. Drink plenty of water and apply oil-free, easily absorbed light lotions to all parts of your body. Use lip balm to keep from suffering from chapped lips.
 Though showering daily is considered good taste, many have found that they should wash their hair using products every other day, or even less! The reasoning behind this is simple: washing your hair strips it of it's natural oils, causing it to dry out and split ends to form - a problem amplified by the winter. Leave in a moisturizing conditioner or hair mask on the last 3 to 5 inches (7.6 to 12.7 cm) of your hair for about 15 minutes, once a week in order to keep it soft. Also, brush hair from the scalp to the tips, to spread the natural oils. This does nothing but strengthen your hair and give it a silky feel.
 For the face, lighten or forgo foundation completely, and use a rosy, warm pink on your cheeks. Mixing a tiny dusting of bronzer with your blush can be a good maneuver, but either look lovely.
 Consider "going bare" at the eyes; a quick layer of charcoal mascara on your upper lashes, and no eyeliner. This serves to brighten and enlarge your eyes. Cream eye-shadows are also good winter choices: unlike during the summer, they will not "melt off". Colors in the pale blues, whites, and gray-blues are lovely ways to adjust your makeup to the cooler months - daub a bit of white toward the inner corner of your eye, and blend outward with a light blue.


Alternatively, jumbo eye-pencils in metallics are another option. Use whites, golds or silvers to achieve a frosty beauty with a tapering line barely above the top lashes. Lightly apply to the bottom of the eyes, then, using the sides of your index fingers, push up until it is a thin line.
 Use chapstick religiously. Apply every ten to twenty minutes, or as needed. Cracked lips are unattractive. Any kind will suffice, in a pinch, even Vaseline. It is light and leaves your lips feeling much softer.


Natural beauty is never beaten. Very rarely does anything top a quick daub of lip-gloss and a freshly washed face.
 Winters are hard on people: long nights, not much sunshine. It's not an easy task to look bright and fresh every day. Get a lot of sleep and when you're unable to do it, take advantage of the weekend and get some rest.


Try to enjoy the sun when you can find some!- and fill the lack of it by taking vitamin D. Add vitamin C for energy!
Cure your colds with adequate remedies and by staying warm.
 Healthy doesn't mean boring, protected and cloistered. Keep up with some exercise and go for walks, go downtown and hang out with your friends, try not giving up on your hobbies...


Maintain a social life. Winter is a tiring season, so make compromises. For instance, having a fun going out on Saturday and staying in on Sunday will keep you both rested and happy.
Enjoy the winter pleasures––snowballs fights, winter sports, Christmas shopping, etc. Try to stay in an optimistic state of mind. Don't forget: a happy person shows her beauty on her face and will glow through the coldest winters!

