 You should consult with a dermatologist regarding treatment options for acne scarring. Treatment depends on the type of scar (raised or depressed), severity, and extent of skin damage.

Always be sure to inform your dermatologist of any oral or topical medications you are using prior to treatment.
Your physician may use one or a combination of therapies to treat your acne scars.
 These procedures use can be effective for treating scarring that isn’t too severe. There are two types:Ablative laser treatments, which lasers get rid of layers of skin around the scar to make it look smoother. The doctor will numb your skin or sedate you first. Possible side effects include itchiness, redness, swelling, infections, darkening or lightening of the skin, and scarring.Non-ablative laser treatment, in which lasers are used to cause the body to make collagen and repair the damaged areas. This does not remove skin. The doctor will first cool the area, possibly with a cryogen spray. Side effects can also include darkening of the skin, flare ups of herpes infections, brief swelling and redness. Scarring is rare., These work for scars that are either small holes or round craters. Depending upon what your scars look like, your doctor may recommend:Punch excision, in which the doctor removes a scar that looks like a hole. The area is then closed so that it will heal flat.
Punch elevation, in which the doctor makes crater shaped scars less deep, making them less visible.
Punch grafting. This technique is used for deep scars. After removing the scar, the doctor fills the hole with skin taken from the back of your ear.This can cause swelling, redness, and bruising., Rolling scars look like rough areas of skin because the deeper layers are scarred. If you get subcision, the doctor will remove the skin above the scar to stimulate blood clotting, healing, and the formation of new skin. Additional treatments on subsided areas may include:Laser work
Dermabrasion, in which the doctor uses a wire brush to remove the top layer of skin. This is done under sedation or with an anesthetic. Afterwards your skin will be bright pink for several months. It may itch as it heals. Side effects include risks of infection, skin color changes, and scarring., Acne scars can cause significant embarrassment, stress, and depression, particularly for teens. If you are struggling to cope with acne scars, reach out for social support. You can try:Online resources, such as support groups and forums.
Seeing a counselor.
Talking to trusted friends and family members.
Discussing treatment for depression with your doctor.

