 Your older dog should feel safe and in control in their environment. As a pet owner, you should make sure your dog has a space that feels secure in your home. This could be their dog bed in the corner of the living room or their play area in a spare room. Your dog should have a safe space that they can retreat to if they start to feel aggressive or stressed out.If your dog does not have a safe space in your home, or you have moved to a new home with your pet, you should set up this space for them. Place their bed in a spot in the living room so they feel in control of the space. Or keep their toys in a container in the same spot so they can reach them easily and claim the area as theirs.
 Many older dogs can become aggressive due to a change in their environment, such as a new family member or a new pet in their space. They may struggle with the change and become aggressive to you or to the new family member. You can minimize your dog’s stress by preparing them before the new family member arrives.One way to help your dog adapt to a new family member is to introduce them to your pet slowly and over time. You may have your dog smell the clothing of the new family member so they get used to the smell and the presence of someone new. Or you may set up play dates between your dog and a new puppy so they can interact before the puppy is in the space permanently.
To effectively prepare your dog for a new person or pet in the household, you should work with a professional trainer or your vet. They can suggest behavior modification techniques that can help to ease your dog into the change and reduce their stress levels.
 If your dog begins to show signs of aggression, such as barking, lunging or charging, growling, and showing their teeth, you should isolate them from the situation. Use the command “go to your place” to get the dog to retreat to their safe spot in the home. Or create physical barriers between the dog and the issue by putting up a fence in your yard or by having a blocked off area in your home. Removing the dog from the stressful environment can allow the dog to calm down.For example, if you notice your older dog tends to get aggressive if you go near their food bowl while they are eating, you may try to stay away from them while they eat to reduce their stress levels. You may also instruct other people in the household to leave the dog alone while they eat so they do not become aggressive.

