 Requirements and laws regarding home education vary widely from state to state. Therefore, it is important to familiarize yourself with the rules and regulations that you will have to follow to educate your child at home. You can ask about these rules and regulations at a local public school in your area or visit your state's education department website and look for information on homeschooling. Some of the things that you might be required to do to comply with these rules and regulations include:Filing a notice of intent. This is a document that some states require you to file every year. It includes a description of your curriculum and information about your qualifications to home school your child. These qualifications may include special credentials or just a high school diploma.Registering with an umbrella school. Some states require that you register to home school your child through a local school. This may be a local public school or a private religious school if you plan to include religious materials, such as Bible stories, in the curriculum.
Submitting grades and/or an academic progress report every year. In some states, you are also required to submit your child’s grades and/or a report of your child’s academic progress. Check your state guidelines to determine if you will be required to do this.;
, Talking with other parents who homeschool their children can be an excellent way to find out how to get started. You can also ask questions and learn from what other parents have found to be helpful. Try joining an online homeschooling forum if you do not know anyone who homeschools. These forums can also be valuable sources of support if you run into a question or problem while homeschooling your child.
Some questions you might ask other parents include, "What do I need to do to register my child for home education?" "What are some good resources for lesson plans?" and "How do you keep your kids on task during school hours?"

, There are many different approaches to homeschooling to choose from so take your time to read about each method and find out what method or combination of methods might work best for your child.Some methods that you might consider include:Classical Method. This approach includes an emphasis on rhetoric, grammar, dialectic, logic, and Greek and/or Latin language.
Charlotte Mason. This approach to home education emphasizes literature over academic readers as well as nature study, narration, dictation, and short lessons.
Delayed Academics. This approach allows the child to hold off on formal educational studies until the age of 8 or 10. Then, the child may choose what to study based on his or her interests and the parent would develop a curriculum based on those interests.
Unit Study Method. For this approach, you would need to select or design units that will teach your child about a concept or skill. The units usually build on one another and are taught in a sequence.
Unschooling. This method allows the child to study whatever peaks his or her interest with little to no intervention from the parent. The method trusts that the child will seek out knowledge about things that he or she is truly interested in.
 It is important to learn as much as possible about homeschooling your child before you get started. This will help to increase your knowledge and confidence so that you can design the best possible program for your child.


Try to read as many books and articles on homeschooling as possible before you begin planning how to educate your child.
Check out your local library. You can find a wealth of resources on homeschooling as well as materials to use for teaching by visiting your local library.

