 Very few things show you care more than wanting to spend time with another person. Knowing them well enough to plan a day of awesomeness only amplifies that. Here’s how it works. Think about all the things they love to do in your city or area – favorite places to eat, favorite activities, favorite places to go – and then plan a day touching on all those things. It could even be a surprise day of awesomeness.Arrange it so you pick the person up in the morning. When you arrive, present the day’s itinerary – taped to the menu from the restaurant where the day begins with the person’s favorite eggs Benedict.
 Food and sunshine, maybe a lake, river or ocean. Perhaps even a grill. Who doesn’t love a nice picnic? You can go with just the other person or invite others along. All it requires is picking a time, a location and packing food, drinks, a blanket and whatever you might want to play with or ride while you’re there. You don’t even need a car. When you invite the person to the picnic, pack a sack lunch in a brown paper bag and write your apology in Sharpie on the bag. Place the bag on a Frisbee, tie a ribbon around both and pass it to your loved one with a smile.
 This might require a little more planning, and more money depending upon where you go, but taking a trip – getting away and spending time one-on-one – may be just the apology needed in some cases. Or, it could just be an immensely fun time with someone you care for and whom you want to make sure knows it. It might be a one-night stay in a quirky town two hours away, a weekend in NYC or a week long trip to Australia. Budgets and schedules vary, but one thing is constant – the importance of making time for and spending time with people who matter most.


What better way, then, to invite them on the trip than to give them a bell alarm clock with your apologies written on the back?
If you’re splurging, buy a watch and have it engraved!

, Decide upon where you want the scavenger hunt to end, which will be at a place where the two of you will do something together that the other person really enjoys. It might be at a bowling alley, movie theater, restaurant or even a river where you can canoe. Then start creating clues that are relevant or significant to the other person or to you and the other person. For example, they might be inside jokes, memories, things you’ve discussed doing, etc. Write or print them on whatever type of paper or material will be appropriate for their locations. The first, for example, might be on a piece of scratch paper taped to the bathroom mirror while the third might need to be laminated (or even put in a jar) because it’s buried by the tree you used to climb as kids.


Don’t tell the other person the scavenger hunt is your apology!
Go to your ending point before the scavenger hunt begins and drop off a bunch of balloons that say “I’m sorry.” Include a gift, if you want, and express your apologies before spending the day having fun together.
If this isn’t possible, get just one balloon, stuff it in your pocket, blow it up when you arrive and give it to the other person, along with your apology.