 Open your web browser and head over to the WinAuth Download Page. Once the page finishes loading, go ahead and choose the newest version of the program as possible. This should be listed in blue at the top of the web page, something similar to “WinAuth 3.1.8 (2014-08-29) | (src).” Click the blue “WinAuth 3.1.8” part to begin downloading.
 Open your file explorer and navigate to the location you saved the file in. Once you have found it, right-click on it and select “Extract All…” from the context menu. A little window will appear and ask you where you would like to extract the files to. Click the “Browse” button on the right, and choose a location. Hit “OK” and then the “Extract” button in the lower right-hand corner of the window to continue.
 Open the location that you extracted the files to. Double-click the WinAuth icon, which should look like a blue 5-sided star. A little box should pop up on your screen. Click the “Add” button in the lower left-hand corner, then from the drop-down list, select “Google.” A new little box will open with a few different steps described inside.


Open a web browser and navigate to Google Sign-in & security. Log in with your account password if you are prompted to do so. Once the page loads, scroll down and, under the subheading “Passwords & sign-in method,” click the “App passwords” option.
On this new page, you are going to create a new secret password that will be used to verify your account inside WinAuth. You should see two different drop-down boxes on this new page. One called “Select app” and one called “Select device.” Click the “Select app” box and select “Other (Customized name)” from the drop-down list. The other box should disappear, and there should now be a new box where you can enter a custom name. Enter a name that you will remember, like “PC Authenticator” or “WinAuth.” When you are done, click the blue “Generate” button on the right hand side.
A new window should pop up in the middle of your screen. Inside of this window there should be a yellow box with a bunch of random lowercase letters inside it. This is a secret code that you will now need to remember or write down because you will only use it once. It will grant WinAuth full access to your Google account. Copy this code by highlighting it, right-clicking, and selecting “Copy” from the context menu. Keep this window open until you finish the next step, just in case there is any mistake. You will not see this password again.
Return to the WinAuth program and paste your password in the input box next to “Step 1.” Then click the “Verify Authenticator” button in “Step 2.” If the password is correct, “Step 3” will change on its own. There will be a random 6-digit code that will appear inside of a box, with a green loading bar moving under it. Everytime the green bar fills and restarts, the code should change. Click “OK” to continue.
 Authenticators are powerful tools created to keep your personal information secure, so this step should make some kind of crazy sense. A new window will open with a password field in it, followed with a verification field. Enter a password that you will remember for sure in these fields. In addition to the password, you can also encrypt the files inside WinAuth to only be usable on the current PC. You can even narrow it down to the current user only having access. Simply check one, or both, of the checkboxes below. For now, just set a password, as this can be changed later, then hit “Okay.”


Please make sure to remember to write down this password, and don’t forget it. If you do forget it, you cannot recover your account.
 From now on, when you run WinAuth, you should be greeted by a password screen. Enter the password you created above. You should see the big metal G icon inside WinAuth after you enter your password. To the right of it should be a light blue refresh circular arrow. Click this to generate a 2-step code for any device or account requiring your Google Authenticator. Remember though that the code will disappear after 15 seconds or so. Enjoy!

