 Smiling is never overrated. Though you may think that smiling won’t have an impact on what people think of you, taking the time to smile at people will show them that you’re happy to be in their presence and that you’re a warm, friendly person who is worth talking to. Whether you’re talking to people or just walking by them, make the effort to smile, the next time around. Besides, scientific research has shown that smiling actually makes you feel happier, so everybody wins!Make an effort to smile at at least 10 people today. Once you get into the habit of it, it’ll feel perfectly natural.;
, If you make it clear that you’re fully engaged in the conversation and have nowhere else you’d rather be, then people will be much more likely to be drawn to you. Don’t check your phone every five minutes, look around the room, play with your nails, or talk about the meeting you have to go to later, or people will feel like chopped liver when you talk to them. Instead, take the time to make eye contact, ask people questions, and make them feel like you’re enjoying the moment you’re spending talking to them.


It can be hard to shut off those distractions and to learn to live in the now. Sometimes the first step is unplugging. If you’re talking to a co-worker, step away from your computer. If you have a dinner date with a close friend, turn your phone off for a few hours.
Give the person you’re speaking to the attention he or she deserves. Take the time to read his or her body language and facial expressions to see how he or she is feeling, instead of seeing what all the other people in the room are up to.
 Another easy way to make people like you is to have a positive demeanor. If you radiate positive energy instead of complaining, making fun of people, or just being mean, then people will be more drawn to you because they’ll feel energized in your presence. Work on focusing on the good things in life and learning to laugh at the bad. If you want to get along with people, then it’ll be much easier if you approach life with a smile instead of a frown.Every time you hear yourself making a negative comment, make two or three positive comments to compensate. It’s okay to be negative every once in a while, but you should focus on the good things ahead instead of the ones that are dragging you down.
Another way to keep things positive is to work on complimenting people more often. This sets a more positive tone to the conversation and may lead to some compliments in return.
Another way to cultivate positivity is to surround yourself with positive people. Their mindset and behavior will be contagious and will help you get along with others. Bringing around a fun, positive friend can also help you get along with people, too.
 If you want to make a good impression on people, then you have to learn how to read them quickly to understand what kind of a person you’re dealing with. If you see that you’re facing a conservative from the South, then the subjects you discuss may be quite different than they would be if you were talking to a hippie from Berkeley; make sure you consider the person you’re talking to before you introduce what might be a controversial subject. If you want to get along with people, then it’s important to know what they would and would not want to hear so you can make a positive first impression.


Watch how the other person responds to others to get a better sense of things kinds of things that will or will not appeal to him. If the person cracks up at the raunchy joke of another person, then you’ll know that that kind of humor is okay.
Be aware of the age of the person, too. An older person may not appreciate a comment about how old you’re getting when you’re a decade younger; a younger person may not understand one of your cultural references.
Education level can play a part in this, too. If you’re talking to a person with a PhD in English, then he may be insulted if you try to explain who Ernest Hemingway is.
 Another skill that people who make good first impressions posses is knowing how to make small talk. Though you may think it’s frivolous, small talk is what leads you to have deeper conversations and to really connect with people, so it’s important to know how to chat with new people when you first meet them. All you have to do is ask lighthearted questions to get to know them a bit, learn to banter, and be comfortable feeling out the personality of a new person. Here are some tips for how to make small talk effectively:


Compliment an item that the person is using or wearing. It may lead to a good conversation.
Don’t be wary of discussing the weather. It could lead to a conversation about your weekend plans or even your hobbies.
Ask questions that require more of a response than a “yes” or “no” answer. This can help get the conversation going.
Don’t put too much pressure on an awkward silence. Instead of commenting on it, ask a simple question or make a statement to move the conversation forward.
 One of the easiest ways to make a good first impression is to show a genuine interest in them as soon as you shake their hands. You don’t have to ask them a million questions, but show an interest in their ideas, their hobbies, or their background without being too nosy. The truth is, people love it when others show an interest in them, and acting like you’d rather get to know them instead of talking about yourself can go a long way in helping you get along with others.


The best way to show a genuine interest is to really listen instead of going through the motions until it’s your turn to speak.
When a person gives good news, make sure he sees that you really care instead of just glossing it over.
If a person is an expert at something, ask him questions about it to show that you’re interested in what he has to say.
 In order to get along with people in conversation, you should avoid bragging about how great you are at work, tennis, or writing novels. If you’re really good at something, then people will be able to see that for themselves over time or they’ll hear about it from someone else. If you dominate the conversation by talking all about how awesome you are, then it’ll be hard to get along with people because they may think of you as self-absorbed and may get bored or even annoyed.


You can talk about your interests without talking about how great you are at them. There’s no need to mention any awards you won and it’ll make people cringe a little.
Instead, praise the virtues of other people. That’s much more interesting to them.
 One key part of being a good conversationalist is taking the time to consider your words before they come out of your mouth. If you’re the kind of person who thinks before he speaks, or who even thinks by speaking, then it’s time to slow down and consider how your words will impact the people around you so you avoid offending people. It’s also a good trick because you may realize that you may be saying something just a little bit awkward or even boring to the people around you.


Spend a few seconds forming a question in your head if you know it’s going to be of a sensitive nature. This is far better than blurting out something you may regret.
 A good conversationalist never takes over a conversation; instead, he knows how to get people talking and how to make them feel comfortable. If you want to get along with people, then you can’t go on and on about yourself; instead, you should talk enough to be interesting and winning, but make sure not to do more than roughly half the talking when you’re having a one-on-one convo so the other person doesn’t feel bored or uncared for.


If you’re in a group conversation, then you can tell a funny anecdote or two, but make sure other people contribute to the conversation. Let other people talk when they have something to say and don’t interrupt them just to prove them wrong.
Even if someone is saying something a bit untrue, you should avoid the temptation to argue with every little thing he or she is saying. This won’t win you any friends and definitely won’t help you get along with people.
 Another way to get along with people more easily is to avoid topics that may cause people to get easily upset. These include abortion, gay rights, general political views, and controversial views on marriage or raising children. Once you get to know people better, you’ll be able to discuss more serious topics with them, but when you’re first trying to get along with people in conversation, you should stick to more agreeable topics, such as your weekend plans, your hobbies, or your favorite bands.


If someone else brings up a sensitive topic, then it can help you get along with people if you can tactfully steer him or her away from that subject to something more user-friendly.
 Tact is key when it comes to getting along with people in a conversation. Having tact means choosing your words and your timing carefully. If you want to give someone personal advice, for example, you should do it when you’re alone so the person doesn’t feel embarrassed; the same goes for telling a person he has something stuck in his teeth. You should avoid making careless comments, like saying “Marriage is the most important part of life” to someone who has just been divorced, and you should always be sensitive to the feelings of others before you speak.


Another way to be tactful is to avoid revealing too much personal information to people you don’t know all that well. While you may feel like this will help you get along with people, it can actually push them away.
Tactful people also acknowledge cultural differences when they talk to people. This can help you see whether or not your comments will be received well.
 Another great way to get along with people conversationally is to find common bonds to bring you closer together. As you talk to people, keep your ears open for hints that you might have similar interests; if it turns out you come from the same state, for example, then it may be a sign that you follow the same sports teams. Though you don’t have to have everything in common with the person you’re talking to, just finding one or two things to bond over, whether it’s your love of The Bachelor or your obsession with cooking pastries.


Even if you and a person disagree about almost everything in the world, if you’re both 49ers fans, you can build an entire relationship out of that. Never underestimate how important it is to have something to bond over.
 Another way to get along with people is to be picky about when you really want to start an argument or a fight. You may feel that every little conflict is worth addressing, but in reality, it may be better to keep your mouth shut most of the time. Whether you’re talking to a colleague or a new acquaintance, there’s often little reason to start a fight about politics, sports, or how to evenly split the check. Though it’s important to stand up for yourself, it’s equally important to know when you’re better off holding your tongue.


Before you start to argue with the person, ask yourself if it’s really worth it and what you’ll gain from proving that you’re right. Sometimes it’s worth it to stand up for yourself, but other times, it’s easier to just get along with people.
There are some arguments that you just can’t win, and it can be far better to agree to disagree than to start a controversy.
 People who have trouble getting along with others tend to think that other people are jerks unless they prove otherwise. People who get along with most people tend to see the best in others, and to even assume the best for them when they don’t have enough information. You should work on assuming that every new person you meet is a kind, reasonable individual unless they’ve made a truly horrible impression; give people enough time to prove themselves to you and you’ll find it much easier to get along with them.


Give someone at least two or three chances to win you over. Not everyone is good at first impressions.
If someone else has said something negative about a new person to you, you should give the person a chance yourself before writing him off.
 In order to be truly considerate, you have to recognize when you messed up and be ready to fess up. Whether you’ve made an offensive comment or shown up over half an hour late to your dinner date, if you want to get along with people, you have to work on apologizing for your mistakes and really meaning it. This shows that you have compassion and that you don’t just want to brush your mistakes under the rug. People will be able to get along with you much more easily if they know you don’t think you’re perfect.


When you apologize, look people in the eye to show you really mean it. Don’t look away or check your phone or they’ll think you’re not putting in an effort.
One key to getting along with people is also to avoid repeating your mistakes. It’s one thing to apologize and another to follow through.
 One of the main ways that you can be considerate and get along with people better is to practice putting yourself in their shoes before you have a conversation with them. Try thinking about how the other person may be thinking and feeling and tailor your conversation with that person accordingly. Though it’s impossible to know exactly what’s going on in another person’s mind, just making the effort to try can help you get along with people because you’ll be working on making conversation that appeals to them.


For example, if your co-worker just suffered a family loss, you should see that you should treat her with sensitivity and avoid talking about anything too dark.
If your friend is getting married in two weeks, then now may not be the best time to unload all of your emotional problems on her because she’s likely feeling overwhelmed.
 Showing gratitude is one of the best ways to be considerate. Taking the time to tell people you’re grateful for what they’ve done for you, whether you’re writing a thank you card to your boss or giving your friend flowers for helping you clean your apartment, it’s important to be grateful if you want to get along with people. If you don’t give credit where credit is due, then people will find it difficult to get along with you because they’ll think you think you’re too good to say thank you.Don't underestimate the power of a letter or a thank-you card. Though it may sound old-fashioned, they can really show people how much they mean to you.
 One way to show people that you really care is to remember the important details they tell you. If you remember a person’s name after meeting him for only a few minutes, he’ll be more likely to like you. If you remember the names of his siblings, then he’ll be even more impressed and will be much more likely to give you the benefit of the doubt. Pay attention to what people tell you so you can show them how much you care by bringing them up later.If you’re the kind of person who quickly forgets anything he is told, then people will be likely to get frustrated or annoyed with you.
If you really care, you can even write down a few important details that a new person has said to you so you can remember them next time.
Try to remember birthdays and anniversaries, too. Acknowledging these can help people get along with you because they’ll know that you care.
 Another way to get along with people is to work on making them feel good about who they are. Give people genuine compliments about their new haircut or their sense of humor if you really mean it instead of sucking up to them. Let your face light up when a person walks by instead of looking barely pleased to see him. Ask people for advice in their areas of expertise to show that you really do value their opinions.


People get along with people who make them feel good and tend to not get along with people who put them down. It’s that simple.
At the end of the day, it’s much more important to be interested in others instead of being interesting. Don’t worry so much about trying to impress them and focus on caring about them instead.

