 People who have strokes often undergo significant personality changes as a result. Witnessing this behavior can be distressing, but it is important to keep in mind that this behavior is due to the stroke. It is not within the person’s control or within your control.For example, if your patient says or does something out of character for him or herself, then try telling yourself something like, “That is the stroke talking.”

, Part of the emotional weight that you bear as a caregiver is a longing for the relationship you once had with the person. Whether the person is your spouse, parent, sibling, or friend, it is important to grieve the loss of the relationship that you once had so that you can move forward with your life.Try writing a goodbye letter to the person to help you express your feelings about the loss. In the letter, you can talk about what you loved about the relationship and acknowledge that the relationship has changed as a result of the stroke.
Allow yourself to cry, get angry, and feel the pain of your loss as well. Fighting against your feelings will not make them go away. Write about your feelings or talk to someone about them.
 Communicating with your patient can sometimes be a challenge, especially if he or she has trouble remembering things or understanding concepts that were once familiar to him or her. To help reduce confusion for your patient and make communicating less frustrating for you, try to be as explicit as possible. This may take some practice, but you can do little things like:Using proper names for people, places, and things to prevent confusion. For example, instead of saying, “We’re going to see the doctor,” say, “We are going to see your neurologist, Dr. Jones, at 1pm today.”
Providing frequent reminders. For example, you can provide reminders every hour leading up to something and then provide reminders closer to the event as well. Try saying things like, “We will be leaving in one hour,” “Your sister Margaret is coming over in 30 minutes,” and “Tomorrow is your granddaughter Ashley’s birthday.”
Answering questions. Your patient may ask lots of questions out of confusion or frustration, so try to be patient and answer them as best you can to help your patient feel more at ease.
 When someone is suffering from the effects of a stroke, his or her health may deteriorate and this can cut down on the positive interactions that you have together. Therefore, make sure that you savor the moments when your patient is in good spirits or when he or she is having a good day.Use your patient’s good days as opportunities to talk with him or her, reflect on happy memories, and build your bond. For example, you might ask questions about your patient’s childhood, remind him or her of a happy day in your relationship, or even just let the patient guide the conversation and be willing to listen to him or her talk for a while.

