 Pour the liquid you wish to pasteurize into previously sterilized glass containers. Seal the containers with appropriate lids.


Leave 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of empty headspace at the top of each container. The liquid can expand during the pasteurization process, and if the containers are too full when this happens, they could break.
Note that a tightly sealed cover is essential for this method. If using bottles with corks, place the corks in the filled bottles and use kitchen twine (or string) to tie them down. Metal lids should not need to be tied down.
 Lay the glass containers down in the bottom of a large stockpot. Fill the stockpot with enough water to completely cover the jars.


Glass containers lying down in a horizontal position are less likely to knock into each other and break during pasteurization.
If you choose to keep the bottles upright, it might be a good idea to place a clean dish towel or jar rack at the bottom of the stockpot to help prevent the glasses from moving around and crashing into each other.
 Place the filled stockpot on your stove over medium heat. Gradually heat the water until it reaches a temperature of 175 degrees Fahrenheit (80 degrees Celsius), then hold that temperature for 20 minutes before removing the glass jars.Heat the water slowly. Rapid heating can break the glass and may disrupt the pasteurization process.
Use a cooking thermometer to monitor the temperature of the water. Submerge the tip of the thermometer two-thirds deep into the water. Do not allow it to come into contact with the sides or bottom of the pan.
 Once the bottles have been properly heated, remove them from the hot water and submerge them in cool water for 15 minutes.


Fill a clean sink or basin to do this. Use water that is just slightly cooler than room temperature since ice-cold water can cause the glass to break.
Do not place the hot bottles directly in the freezer or refrigerator.
Use jar tongs or a similar utensil to remove the glass containers from the hot water. Do not use your bare hands.
 After cooling the filled glasses in cool water, move them to a refrigerator. Store until ready to consume.


Note that the pasteurized liquid should cool to a temperature below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius) within six hours to be considered safe.
When stored in the refrigerator, pasteurized milk can last for up to two weeks. Juices and ciders can last up to a month in the refrigerator.

