 Dead skin cells, makeup, and general grime accumulate on your face, and this build-up can cause your skin to look dull. If you want to create a bright, healthy glow on your cheeks, it’s best to do this on bright, shiny skin. Three times a week, make sure to exfoliate your face to remove this build-up and keep your skin looking fresh.


You can purchase exfoliating face washes at your local drugstore, and you can also make your own scrubs. Learn more about exfoliating your face here.;
, Dry skin can be dull and flaky, so it’s important to moisturize regularly. Moisturize in the morning and at night, and after you take a shower.Look for lotions marketed specifically for the face.


Hydration is key for your entire body, so make sure you are drinking plenty of water throughout the day. Men should aim for about three liters, and women should aim for a little over two., Before you start applying any makeup, it’s crucial to prime your face. A makeup primer is a base for your makeup, helping it last longer. It holds everything into place, preventing creasing and smudging. Face primers will also smooth out the skin to create a flawless base for your glowing look. It’s frustrating to put on makeup perfectly in the morning only for it to be worn off by lunch, so combat this problem by using a great face primer.
 Depending on whom you ask, “BB” means anything from “blemish balm” to “beauty balm” to “beauty benefit,” but all BB creams work toward the same goal. These creams are skin perfectors that will even out your skin tone and minimize your pores. Look for a BB cream that is light reflecting for extra glow power.BB creams are light coverage, so this will not look thick or cakey underneath your favorite foundation.
While many BB creams do contain primers and moisturizers, using them in conjunction with other products will ensure all of your bases are covered.
 In order to accentuate the glow you’re going to create on your cheeks, it’s important to have smooth, even-toned skin. While the BB cream will work as a color corrector, foundation will provide more coverage. Use a Beauty Blender or foundation brush to apply your favorite foundation over your entire face.
 If you have dark, tired looking circles or bags under your eyes, it will distract from the shimmery glow of your cheeks. Apply a concealer underneath your eyes using a concealer brush, sponge, or your fingertips. Pat gently to blend the product in thoroughly. Once you’ve covered the area, set your entire face with a pressed powder.
 By applying a dark contour to the hollows of your cheeks, you’ll add dimension to your face that will make your highlighted glow appear more natural. Use a blending brush to apply the bronzer in the hollows and up to your temple, building up the color gradually. When you are finished, your cheeks should look more defined and prominent.If you have trouble determining where the bronzer should go, try this trick. Pucker your lips into a "fish face" and touch your hands to your cheeks. You will feel indentations where your cheeks are sucked in, underneath your cheekbones. That is where your bronzer should go!

, Glowing cheeks should be a bit rosy, so apply a soft, natural color to your cheeks.If you’re not sure where to apply it, smile into your mirror. Apply blush to the raised parts of your cheeks. Use a light hand while applying the blush, adding color without over-doing it.









You can learn more about blush application here.
 Now that you’ve perfected your skin and added gorgeous color to your cheeks, it’s time to add the final, and most important, touch. You can purchase a light, shimmery highlighter at your local drugstore or beauty supply store. Use your fingertip to apply the highlight along the natural curve of your cheekbones, gently patting it into your skin. This should go on the highest point of your cheekbones, where the light hits as you smile.








This highlight, along with the bronzer and blush, will make your cheeks appear prominent, rosy, and positively glowing.
 If your diet is filled with junk food, your skin can suffer. An easy rule of thumb is to make sure that your plate is colorful at every meal. In other words, try to get some leafy greens, some fruits and vegetables, and so on. Greens help to brighten the skin, and fruits and vegetables are packed with micronutrients that keep your skin (and the rest of your body) functioning properly. Foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids, like fatty fish, are also fantastic for making the skin look hydrated and vibrant.Replace your sodas, coffees, and sugary juices with tall glasses of water at meal times. Dehydration will show in your skin!

, And when you exercise, get your heart pumping with some cardio. Sweating helps create a natural glow by ridding the skin of impurities and clearing out your pores. Not only will the endorphins from a great workout boost your mood, but the skin benefits will too.While working up a sweat can be beneficial to your skin, don't let that sweat stay on your face for a long time. Once you're finished at the gym, make sure to wash your face. The junk from your pores comes to the surface of your skin through sweat, and then it's your job to get rid of it for good with a thorough cleansing.
 This might be the easiest beauty tip around. When you are asleep, your body goes into recovery mode. The amount of blood flowing to your skin actually increases, and that results in healthy, bright skin. If you've ever pulled an all-nighter studying or stayed up late with friends, you know how puffy and dull your skin can look the following day. Do your face a favor, and try to get seven to nine hours of sleep a night., Confident, happy people seem to have a natural glow about them. Take a note from them, and give yourself a pep talk whenever you're feeling down. Do something you love to do, spend time with uplifting people, remind yourself of all the reasons you are unique and wonderful, or put on your favorite mood-boosting song. It may sound strange, but there's nothing quite like that natural, organic glow that only comes from joy.

