 Your Mew name can be a food in English (Mew Candy), a food in Japanese (Mew Kocha A.K.A. Mew Tea), your normal name (Mew Emma), or anything you want! If you draw, you can design your uniform and the colors it will be.;
, Your powers can be anything you want as long as you use your weapon with it. Again, if you draw, you can design your weapon and it's colors. You can then make your weapon out of clay.
 This is very important as your transformation item. Design your own symbol for it and make one out of clay. Paint the pendent gold but distinguish your symbol by making it another color. Be sure to carry it everywhere, as it is your transformation item.
 If you are good at sewing, you can stitch your Mew uniform together. If not, you can order one of the original Mew's uniforms online (they can be quite expensive though).


If your infused animal is a cat or a bird or such, you can usually find tails, ears, and wings at costume stores. If your animal is an unusual animal like a Marmoset or a Harp Seal, you can make your own ears, tails, or fins.
 It will make you feel more powerful! Make sure to include that you are defending the world/universe/town.
 If you have friends that are also interested in cosplaying as a Mew, you can all cosplay together and form your own team!


If you or your friends have a very smart older/younger brother/sister, you could get them to be the mew project scientist. They can help you with tips, give you power-up items, or help you as you train.
If you or your friends have an annoying sibling, they can (if they agree to) be an alien! You can usually find pointy ear prosthetic at costume stores for them. If they really want to live up to the role, they can get contact lenses. Have them design their own costumes and weapons. Make sure they have their own base too where they can plot their evil plans. Get a blue ball, and use it as deep blue.
 It should be at one of the Mew's houses so that it is close by. It could be in their room, attic, basement, or somewhere hidden. Decorate it anyway you like! Be sure to have several cozy chairs, a table, your data nearby, and your gadgets.
 Get a small glass bottle, make a heart shaped stopper, and use it to carry your mew aqua (water with blue food coloring and a teeny bit of glitter). Be sure not to break it or have the aliens steal it!

, You could have a younger sibling or fellow Mew be "kidnapped" or have an alien attack. For the alien's attack, they can have water balloons filled with black water (water mixed with black food coloring) that they throw at you or they can have their own weapons. You could have an adult hide the mew aqua somewhere and have both teams hunting to find it!

