 Pancreatic failure refers to a disorder of the pancreas in which its exocrine cells are degenerated and destroyed. This in turn leads to its inability to secrete its usual digestive enzymes into the intestinal canal. This in turn causes maldigestion and accompanying constipation symptoms.;
, The reason for the pancreatic failure can be due to autodigestion process of the pancreatic tissue its self by its digestive enzymes. Alternatively it can occur due hypothermic conditions or due to ischemic conditions which are short blood supply to the pancreatic tissue.
 This is so because the pancreas has in addition endocrine function that is distinct than the exocrine function. The exocrine pancreas has important function that is related to the digestion process of food in the intestine.
 There are three main types of digestive enzymes that are secreted by the pancreas.
 This type of enzymes is specific for the degradation and digestion of carbohydrates that are polymers of glucose molecules.
 The other important enzyme that is also secreted by the exocrine pancreas is called trypsin and chymotrypsin. These two types of enzymes are specific for the cleavage of peptide bonds in proteins. Each of them is specific for a different type of peptide bond.
 The third enzyme that is secreted by the pancreatic cells is called lipase. This enzyme is specific for the cleavage of ester bonds in lipids to form glycerol and three fatty acids. This enzyme is characteristic only for the pancreatic tissue and is not secreted by other organs in the body. In pancreatic failure all these enzymes can be deficient in the intestine. This can lead in turn to maldigestion and constipation symptom. Also the maldigestion can lead to lack of energy for the body which can be manifested as loss of weight.
 This fatty stool can be confirmed by the observation of floating stool in water. The reason for the pancreatic failure can also be due to blockage of the head of the pancreatic canal by a cholesterol stone in the bile secretions to the intestine. This blocking of the pancreatic canal leads to the reflux of pancreatic enzymes that are activated into the pancreatic tissue.
 This in turn can cause destruction of the pancreatic cells that are part of the exocrine pancreas. Also in cases of cancer of the head of the pancreas it is observed that the pancreatic canal is blocked by the cancerous tumor. This in turn can cause reflux of the pancreatic enzymes into the pancreatic canal which leads to the digestion of the pancreatic tissue by its own enzymes.
 This usually helps in the digestion process of food in the intestine.

