 The ideal time to chant Om is first thing in the morning. However, you should choose a time when you believe you’ll be the most relaxed and not in a hurry. Sunrise and sunset are great times for deep meditation.Avoid chanting right after a meal.;
, How long you choose to chant is up to you. Set a timer so that you are not focusing on the clock. Be determined to continue chanting until the timer goes off.For example, you may choose to chant for five minutes, ten minutes, or half an hour.
 Make sure the place will be free from distractions. A good position would be to sit on the ground cross-legged, or on your bed. Hold your back straight throughout. Close your eyes and keep them shut.Consider arranging an area specifically for meditating, such as a corner of your bedroom or a separate room.
 Om is said to represent the whole universe. It’s considered to be the source of all creation. Om encompasses all time periods, from the past through to the present and into the future. Om is eternal oneness of mind, body and spirit with the universe., Don’t worry about chanting perfectly. Om is considered to be the vibration of the universe that no human voice can replicate exactly. The most important consideration is to chant in a relaxed way. Try to do this effortlessly; the more you focus on your effort and technique, the less effective it will be.You may need to exert effort at first to clear your mind of thoughts until you master effortless Om chanting.
Om is about feeling rather than thinking. Feel like peace, bliss and happiness are enveloping your whole body.
 Repeat Om in a slow, rhythmic way when you exhale. You don’t have to chant with every exhale. Match the length of each chant to the duration of your natural exhale.For instance, you may chant Om, take a breath or two, and then chant again.
 The “O” sounds like the “a” sound in the word “saw,” combined with the “u” sound in the word “put.” Blend the “m” into the end. These sounds should all merge together into a single sound similar to the “ome” in “home.”Om is composed of four sounds: “a,” “u,” “m,” and the silence that follows.
Give equal measure to each sound. For example, “Ooommm” rather than “ommm” or “ooom.”

, Allow the vibration to rise upward gradually until it rings in your nostrils. Try to do this easily and naturally.