 To make one large deco mesh flower, you’ll need a 10-yard (9-m) by 21-inch (53-cm) roll of decorative mesh. Use a pair of scissors to cut approximately 12 to 15 21-inch (53-cm) squares of the mesh.To give your flower some depth, you may want to use two different colors of mesh for the large squares. It’s best to use shades from the same color family, though, such as rose and baby pink.;
, After you’ve cut out the large mesh squares, fold opposite corners of the square in toward the center. Use your fingers to pinch the square together at the center to form petal-like shapes on either side so it has a bow tie-like appearance.Try to fold the corners in as evenly as possible, but don’t worry about the petal shapes being perfect. The flower will have a more natural appearance if the petals are slightly irregular.
 Once the mesh square is resembles a bow tie, fold the pieces in half. Both of the “petals” should point in the same direction so they can form the outer layer of the flower., To attach the petals to the foam disc that serves as the flower’s base, you’ll need U-shaped floral pins. Use a hot glue gun to add a dab of glue to the center of the pins so you don’t have to worry about the petals coming loose.You can use straight floral pins to attach the petals as well. Be sure to add some glue just below the head of the pin, though, so the petals are secure.
 For the flower’s base, you’ll need a 6-inch (15-cm) styrofoam disc. With the glue on floral pin, insert it through the bottom of the petals and press it into the foam along the outer edge of the foam disc.You can move the mesh around to arrange the petals as you like, but wait 5 to 10 minutes after you pin them so the glue has time to set.
 After you’ve pinned the first set of petals to the foam disc, take another square of decorative mesh and repeat the entire process of folding and pinning it. Continue adding large squares of mesh until the entire outer edge of the foam disc is covered., To fill in the center of the flower, you’ll need smaller squares of mesh to form petals. Use the scissors to cut approximately 10 to 12 10-inch (25-cm) squares from the decorative mesh.Depending on the look that you’re going for, you can either use the same color mesh as the outer layer of petals or choose a contrasting shade.
White and yellow make ideal shades for the flower’s center.
 Just as with the large mesh squares, fold opposite corners of the smaller square in toward the center. Pinch the center with your fingers to gather it together and then fold it in half., Take another U-shaped floral pin and add a dab of glue to the center. Insert the pin into the center of the mesh petals and press it into the center of the foam disc.As with the larger petals, allow the hot glue to set for at least 5 minutes before you try to play with the arrangement of the smaller petals.
 Once you’ve added the first set of smaller petals to the center of the flower, repeat the procedure of folding and pinning the small mesh squares. Keep adding the petals until the entire center is filled in.If you prefer, you can tuck the ends of the petals in the center of flower underneath to give it a puffed appearance.
 If you prefer to fill in the center of your flower with tubed mesh, you still need to cut out squares from the mesh. Use scissors to create approximately 15 to 20 10-inch (25-cm) squares from the mesh.Because the tubes are more compact than the fluffier petals, you will need more squares to fill in the center of the flower.
 After you’ve cut out all of the mesh squares, roll s square up into a tube. Next, take a straight floral pin and insert it the center of tube.Because the tubes are more compact, it isn’t necessary to add hot glue to the pin. However, if you want to ensure that your flower is sturdy, you can add a dab below the head of the pin.
 When the pin is in the center of the tube, fold the mesh in half to form two “petals.” Press the pin into the foam disc at the center of the flower, making sure that it’s secure., To fill in the rest of the flower’s center, take another square of mesh and repeat the rolling and pinning procedure. Continue the process until the center is filled in.If you like, you can use the tube method to create the outer layer of petals as well. Just cut the 21-inch (53-cm) squares and roll them up in the same way you would the smaller pieces of mesh.

