 Pakistan is a country full of energetic and lively people who will accept you as soon as you show them your funny and optimistic side! Learn to be friendly with the common people in Islamabad, and soon many of them will want to exchange contacts after the first meeting!;
, This is the common way that Muslims greet each other, and as most Pakistanis are Muslim, this is a very friendly greeting. It translates into, 'Peace be upon you'.


If you do not wish to pronounce the difficult salutation, simply speak its translation in English! Muslims acknowledge you if you greet them with peace!

, Every Pakistani is very passionate about whichever political party they follow. If you unintentionally insult their favorite party, they might get offended and take you on as an enemy. Whew! We don't want that happening, now do we?


Instead, try to maintain a neutral position as you might not understand what the fuss is on about the politics. It can get crazy! Better to ride on safe waters! However, people in Islamabad are more educated than other cities of Pakistan. Some of them might be open-minded and asking them political questions won't be dangerous. Be careful though!

, There are numerous Western restaurants in Islamabad; however, the real fun is in enjoying the tasty delicacies of the Pakistani culture!


While you're in a new country, why not taste different local foods and discuss your opinions on them with Isloo-ites (Islamabad residents)? Many Isloo-ites can be critical of their own cuisine, so it is safe to have a light-hearted discussion with them about what you enjoyed and what you did not.
Try eating out in a desi (local) restaurant with a fellow Isloo-ite, and then see the marvels a well-cooked meal will do to create new bonds! Sharing food is one common trait in Pakistanis that joins them together!

, Pakistanis are mostly Muslim (a very small population might be Hindu, or Christian or Parsi). For Muslims, their daily five prayers are an important asset so do not cause a hindrance in their prayers.


Try not to speak when the Azaan (a call to Prayer that will sound at 5 different times of the day) is taking place. Don't be scared though! No one will eat you if you do. However, it will most certainly be liked by Pakistanis if you respect their religion without them having to tell you. Try finding about other religions too and how to respect them.
 Isloo-ites are very well educated people who are well aware of the current happenings of the world and well read in English.


Do not try to show them that your country is better in any way because it might offend them. Many Isloo-ites will not want to acknowledge any racial discrimination and will accept you as one of them!
Hence be like an Isloo-ite and remain indifferent to the different race. Accept humanity, as Isloo-ites may become protective if you overly disrespect their country.
 Although most of the Isloo-ites are well-versed English speaking individuals, it is a very good idea to learn the local and national language which is called 'Urdu'. Take up a course for this, or simply learn it by asking a fellow Isloo-ite friend to teach the basics to you over time.


You only need to learn the very essentials to converse in daily life. Don't be afraid! Isloo-ites are proud of their language and will be ever ready to teach you.
 If you are a man, the women will not be always ready to be very frank with you as their religion, Islam, forbids very friendly relations between strangers of the different sex. The same applies to women who want to befriend men.


Some exceptions may apply if you are friends with a whole family of Isloo-ites, and in that case both the men and women of that family may genuinely want to befriend you. Be ware though! Also, don't stare at the opposite sex, especially if you are a man. This is because it is considered rude in the religion of Islam. Once people find out you are a nice man and are no harm, they will want to be friends with you.
 This is the most loved game in Pakistanis (even though the national sport is hockey). Isloo-ites will follow cricket matches as if they had to give an exam for it!


Try to learn to play cricket and enjoy it on the streets with the locals and have in-depth discussions on popular cricket matches (matches between Pakistan's national team and any other team are much favored to discuss as a topic).

