 Because Correspondence Courses require a self-motivated person, it is essential that you have a study regime that you can stick to. Most of the time you will have a Timetable or Class Schedule, and if you are studying by Correspondence, then classes will be set aside for you, these are not Free Periods, but scheduled time for your Correspondence Class.;
, If you are studying Agriculture, then try using the Library or Agricultural Plot or Shed. If you are studying Computers, go to a computer room where you have access to a Computer, Printer and Internet. Your study space should be quiet and clean, it is best to do your work in a class room rather than the playground It may be tempting to study at your Lunch Seats, but this can be quite distracting

, This only leaves you with a few hours a day to study at home. Therefore it is important that you have a quiet study space with almost everything at your finger tips. Ensure that you have a tidy and neat desk, with drawers and folders dedicated to each subject. Have a pencil tin and pencil case, with high-lighters and markers, assorted colours of pens, pencils, ruler, Eraser, and anything you may need. Lighting is important, so if your bedroom or study light isn't appropriate or bright enough, buy a lamp or light that shines over your head and in front of you. The worst thing is straining your eyes and the second is being too cold or too hot. To prevent this, make sure you have a heater or air-conditioner and if your unable to have one in your room, try having a fan or a wheat bag. You can also use water bottles, Warm Cups of Hot Chocolate or Tea, (Coffee doesn't help) and layers of clothing.
 Most parents are positive towards school, some...are not so positive. Make sure you explain to your parents and family what you're doing, more often than not, you will be able to have a quite study time when you get home from school, but make sure that they understand that a Correspondence Course means that you don't have a Teacher to help you if you have questions, and in many situations, you may not have the resources right at your finger tips. This is when parents need to be active in helping you to learn, by driving you to a library on the weekend, or making sure you have folders and cardboard for assignments.
 Because at school you have heavy study loads anyway, as well as family commitments, relationships and social lives, it is essential to be proactive. If a section of work is due on Friday, and it's only Monday, get stuck into it, once it's out of the way, you will not have to worry about it. If you have a BIG assignment due in a month, try to get most of it done in the first few weeks, and then plan to have it finished a week prior to the Due Date. This way you won't be cramming and working till the early hours of the morning trying to finish it.
 A good way to prevent getting distracted and keeping on track, is to eliminate the distractions. Remove all music devices, (at school other people may have them, try not to become distracted), when using the Internet or computer, don't stray off your scheduled task, if a friend comes over to you, tell them you will only be a few minuets and ask if you can talk later and explain that you are busy. (Most friends will understand). If you do become distracted, save your work, and pick up doing the scheduled task at a later time, when you are not tempted by distractions.
 If you have access to a computer and Internet, use them to research and type up assignments. It's no use having resources at your disposal if you are not going to use them.
 There will be times that you have to put the hard yards in, during exams, or over the holidays. Be sure that you make as much of an effort to keep up with your work, and when your holidays and breaks do come around, make sure you take full advantage of them. If you go to a camp, sit back and relax, and don't worry about school.
 This is a great opportunity to meet your teacher, and other students studying the same subject as you.
 If it's late at night, and your tired, go to bed, many students try to over-lead their brains with study and assignments. Sleep is when your brain reinforces the efforts made during study and helps make your short term memories into long term.
 Doing a Correspondence Course can be hard, and it takes guts, determination and confidence in yourself that you can do it. At times your marks may fall, other times you may get 100%. Whether you achieve the best, or strive to be the best that you can be, that's all you can ask for. Don't be too hard on yourself if you don't do as well as you had hoped, or that you find you didn't answer a questions right. You have already proven that you are dedicated to the subject, so just make sure you stick to it and keep trying.

