 You can trick your nose’s defense mechanisms and trigger a sneeze by gently agitating the inside of your nostrils. The inside of your nose is extremely sensitive to irritation, so you can use a tissue to brush your nostril hairs and this may induce a sneeze.Roll the corner of a tissue into a small point. Put the point into your nostril, then turn and wiggle the tissue - it should tickle a bit.
Similarly, use a fake feather to brush the underside of your nose. You don’t even have to stick the feather in your nose to irritate it. Tickling the outside of your nose will probably make you sneeze.
Don’t stick anything, even a tissue, into your nose any further than the inside edges of your nostrils.
Never use a hairpin or other small sharp instrument to stimulate your nose hairs.
 To see if this will cause you to sneeze, get out a pair of tweezers and use them to pluck out a single eyebrow hair. This may be enough to bring on a sneeze.


Grasp the eyebrow hair near its root with the tips of the tweezers and pull the hair out quickly.
 Up to a third of people have a built in “photic sneeze reflex.” If you have this reflex, then you’ll probably sneeze if you suddenly see a bright light. To find out if you are one of these people, turn off the lights and sit in the dark for a few minutes. After waiting a few minutes to allow your eyes to acclimate to the darkness, look up at the light and turn it on.You can also close your eyes tightly while standing in direct sunlight. Block the sunlight with your hand as well. After a minute or two, remove your hand and open your eyes. Doing this may cause you to sneeze.
This works because the trigeminal nerve, which controls sneezing, runs right alongside the optic nerve. The over stimulation of the trigeminal nerve may cause you to sneeze.
Never look directly at the sun, as this can quickly damage your eyes.
 For instance, if you're inside and it's significantly colder outside, try stepping out and suddenly inhaling the cold air.


If it's not cold enough outside, try opening your freezer and leaning your face into the cold air for a few seconds.
Another way to do this is to take a hot shower, then stick your head out quickly and take a deep breath of cooler air.

