 The steps below will cause your sensitive boyfriend a great deal of pain and trauma, much more than ending the relationship directly. It may even scar him permanently. Your mind must be made up that you want to cause this pain and trauma, or you may be unable to go through with it. This is also a good time to consider whether this is right for your relationship. Consider a direct break up. Using these steps as a first resort could backfire on you, causing strain between yourself and others, who may perceive you to be creating an abusive relationship. Make sure you actually want to end the relationship. If you have a good relationship, try talking to him first before take these steps. Tell him how you feel but politely.;
, When he tries to tell you about how horrible his day was, casually change the subject with something you suddenly remember you have to tell him. At first, do this occasionally, then start doing it more often until every conversation becomes all about you.
 Maybe you can just shrug and say "Yeah, that's a bummer." The idea is to gradually stop giving him the emotional support he's used to getting from you. You don't have to be cruel; just don't give him the shoulder-to-cry-on that he's wanting.
 Don't say anything like 'Come here baby' or 'there there'. Just stand there emotionless. Don't even think about bringing up conversation relating to what he is so upset over.
 If you've made a habit of saying it, though, taper that off. If he starts making a big deal out of it, just murmur it back, quickly, So its not understandable.
 Don't make it seem like it's his fault, but that you are just mad at the world and want to be alone because you don't want to snap at him. Do this more and more often if possible.
 If he makes the initiative, don't make it obvious that you don't want to, but do not make the first move yourself. Get to the point where you accept the affection, but don't give it back. And eventually, pretend to be annoyed by his affection. If he puts his arm around your shoulders, for example, you can say your shoulders are sore, you're not sure why, could he not do that for the next few days?

, Make as little conversation as possible. If he talks, reply with short answers, like "hmm" or "yeh".
, Spend as much time at work as you can, or with family. After all that work, of course you only want to go to bed.
 When he finally goes to break up with you though, apply the following:


Just be quiet and listen when he is talking, don't interrupt him or make arguments.
When he makes statements about his confusion regarding your attitude and behavior, don't offer an explanation, just shrug and say you don't understand it either.
Don't cry. You knew this was coming, so even if it does hurt your feelings, keep a straight face and deal with it.
Don't smile either. Victory may be at hand, but you need to finish the battle first.
Do not console him. Don't hug him and say this is probably for the best, and don't do "one last kiss". Ever.
 If he tries to call or get back with you, maintain that icy heart that you've had since the start of this quest.


Or just be a grown-up and tell him it's not working, and you both need to move on. This is best way and it will prevent all the trouble and harm to him.

