 Use a ruler to measure the height of your book. Next, measure the width of your book, from cover to cover—this includes the spine as well. Add 6½ inches (16.51 centimeters) to the width and ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) to the height. Write these numbers down and save them for later.








This method works great for soft cover books. It can also be used for hardcover books and text books.
Another optional, easy way to determine your cover size is to trace your book onto paper, and add the flaps along the outside of your tracing.;
, It would be a good idea to cut them a little bit longer than you need to. This way, you can cut down any unevenness at the end and get the exact size you need.
 Overlap each strip by about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Keep laying down overlapping strips until the fabric is the height of your book (plus the extra ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter).









It would be easiest to work on top of a cutting mat. This way, you can peel the sheet off when you are done.
If you don't have a cutting mat, you can work on top of a large sheet of wax paper--just be sure to tape down the edges so that it doesn't slide around!

, Carefully peel the duct tape fabric off of the cutting mat. Flip it over so that the sticky side is showing.
 Lay down your first strip about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) above the top edge. Continue laying down strips of duct tape, overlapping them by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Extend the last strip ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) past the bottom edge. The seams between the pieces will be offset, thus reducing bulk.
 Flip your duct tape fabric over once more. Fold the excess tape at the bottom and top edges down onto the front of the duct tape fabric.
 Use a metal ruler and a craft blade to cut down the side edges until your cover is the right width. This includes the entire width of your book plus the additional 6½ inches (16.51 centimeters). If you don't have a metal ruler and craft blade, use a ruler and marker to draw a cutting line, then cut the fabric with scissors.
 Wrap the duct tape fabric around the front cover, spine, and back cover. There will be about 3¼ inches (8.26 centimeters) of excess duct tape fabric on each edge. Fold this excess duct tape fabric over the edges of the cover and onto the inside.
 Slide the book out, but keep the excess duct tape folded inside. Run your fingernail along the folds to make a crease. This will give you a nice, crisp finish and make your cover look neater.
 Measure the height and width of your book cover. Cut two strips of duct tape according to those measurements. Cut each strip in half lengthwise. This will make the bindings for the edges.









You can use the same tape as before or a coordinating color/pattern.
 Lay down the long strips of tape along the top and bottom edges—keep the flaps folded down. Make sure that half of each strip extends over the top and bottom edges. Flip the cover over, and fold the excess tape down onto the inside.
 Your top and bottom bindings are covering the edges of the side flaps, preventing them from opening them all the way. Cut through the tape in these areas so that you can open the flaps all the way. Do not cut through the actual cover, however.
 Take one of your short strips of duct tape and turn it so that the sticky side is facing you. Slide it under one of the flaps so that half of it is visible. Run your finger along the inside edge of the flap, then fold the excess tape down onto the front. Repeat for the other flap.
 Cut two short strips of duct tape, then cut each one in half. Fold the tape over the corners. You can match them up with the top and bottom bindings, or you can set them down at an angle.
 Your book is now ready to use!








