 Lavender water made from lavender flowers won't smell as concentrated as lavender water made from essential oil. Essential oil is the distilled, concentrated essence of lavender made from the flowers. When you use the flowers themselves, the resulting water is very light, but still quite aromatic. Here's what you'll need:


A bunch of lavender stems fresh or dried (for a total of 2 tablespoons of buds)
1/2 cup water
Glass bowl
Spray bottle
Funnel
Fine-mesh strainer;
, Lavender flowers grow as little buds along straight stems. To make lavender water, you don't need the stems; the buds contain the floral scent. To remove them from the stems, hold a stem over the glass bowl. Gently pinch the stem at its base, and run your fingers from the base to the tip. The buds will fall off into the bowl.


You can also buy dried lavender buds that have already been removed from their stems. Look in gourmet food stores or herb shops.
This is a great way to use lavender plants that may be growing in your yard.
 Pour it into a small saucepan and place it over high heat. Heat the water until it comes to a full boil. Don't leave it unattended for too long, or the water will begin to evaporate.
 Carefully pour it over the buds so that the buds can begin steeping in the hot water. The heat will draw out the oils from the flower, and the water will become scented with lavender.
 Leave the buds to steep for a few hours or overnight. The process is similar to making tea. Let the buds continue steeping until the water cools., Set the fine-mesh strainer over a bowl. Pour the water into the strainer to strain out the buds. Discard the buds; they won't have a scent now that their essence is gone.
 Place the funnel over the opening of the spray bottle. Pour the lavender water into the spray bottle. The water is now ready to use on your linens, as air freshener, or as a tool for aromatherapy.


If you want the water to have a longer shelf life, you can mix in one ounce of either witch hazel or vodka. Shake the bottle well to distribute it throughout.
You may also store it in the refrigerator to keep it fresh.

