 Some activities cause more gas in your body, and this can lead to stomach aches and unexpected farts. The reason is that you are taking too much air in.


Carbonated drinks, including soda and water, are known to cause more stomach gas. Chewing gum also builds up the amount of gas you might have to pass.
Holding in gas is not a good idea, either, as it can cause stomach aches. It’s hard to hold farts in for a very long time anyway, so just avoid ingesting things that will cause gas.
 Foods that have a lot of cellulose in them are very hard to fully digest. Partially digested food leads to flatulence. Instead drink herbal teas.


Beans, lentils, and root vegetables like onions, scallions, and garlic, will cause more farting. Avoid them.Dairy products and green vegetables, such as sprouts, cabbage, and broccoli, are also going to create more gas inside of you. Dairy products will especially cause flatulence in people who are lactose intolerant.
 If you’re in high school, you need permission of your parents to take medication. But there are some over-the-counter medications that will lower the gas.


Bean-O is an enzyme supplement that breaks down carbohydrates. It’s going to help reduce your gas if it’s caused by certain foods like beans or broccoli.Mylanta Gas, Maalox Anti-Gas and other similar products reduce intestinal discomfort by breaking up gas bubbles. Lactase supplements will help you with gas that is caused by intolerance to dairy.
 Ignore it, and hold it in as best as you can. You can do this by not squeezing and "holding it in." You may feel weird, but this is the most non attention grabbing way to do it. If this is not possible and you have a big one, try one of the other measures.


If it is a big one, ask to go to the bathroom because there is no way to hide it. To do this raise your hand, tell the teacher it is an emergency, and go to the hallway. Once in the hallway let it rip (unless people are in the hallway), then go to the bathroom.
If you know it will not be as noticeable, then you are in the clear. Just cough while executing the dirty deed, and you will be fine. But if you feel people will still notice, stand up and sharpen your pencil because it makes a lot of noise. Thus, make the fart inaudible.

