 Figure out what is causing these annoying acne flare-ups or the acne that just seems to stay there forever. Some causes include:


Hormonal changes (ex. puberty, menstrual periods, pregnancy, birth control pills, or even stress)
Oily or greasy beauty products.
Particular drugs (ex. steroids, estrogen, and testosterone).
Sweating and high humidity levels.
Perimenopause or menopause.;
, There are four grades of acne, and they include:


Grade 1 is mild, characterized by only a few minor pimples, blackheads, and no inflammation.
Grade 2 is moderate, with more blackheads, more obvious breakouts, and there is inflammation.
Grade 3 is severe, with more inflammation than in Grade 2 and more pimples not only on the face, but on other parts of the body like the chest and the back.
Grade 4 is serious, this is the cystic acne and it is basically like Grade 3 only there are cysts and this type of acne is painful.

If you are in Grade 4, then you should go see a dermatologist. If you are in the earlier stages, the rest of this article will help you prevent getting the painful cystic acne.

Wash your face 1-2 times a day (depending on how oily your skin is). Be sure to select a good acne face wash, perhaps start with a typical salicylic acid wash that you could find at a drugstore (Neutrogena is a good start brand), or you could move on to a benzoyl peroxide wash. Just stick with one wash for about a month to see if it works for you or not, if you're not consistent though, you might not get results.
 Also the toner leaves your skin feeling very refreshed and clean. If you have dry skin this step is not recommended since it can dry your skin even more.
 Be careful though, as some treatments can dry your skin excessively. To avoid this, gradually use the treatment more regularly. Such as; one application every two days to two daily applications or whatever feels comfortable with your skin. Don't be afraid to experiment and also be patient, results won't happen in one day!

, If the past steps haven't worked, it might be a good idea to visit a dermatologist and ask them what to do about your acne. Don't be afraid to ask them, their job is all to do with the skin. But in order to be prepared for the possible treatments you might receive, here is a list of some options your dermatologist might suggest:


Photodynamic Therapy (PDT)
Oral Antibiotics
Hormone Therapy
Isotretinoin

