 There are two different kinds of ear infections. There is acute otitis media (AOM), which is an ear infection of the middle ear canal in the area behind the ear drum. These are more common in children. There is also otitis externa (OE), also known as swimmer's ear, which is an infection of the canal outward and can be bacterial, polymicrobial, or fungal. These are more common with swimmers and diabetics., Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), which are called PCV13, fight against pneumococcal bacteria. These bacteria, which include haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis, are one of the main reasons that ear infections occur. This vaccine can be given to both adults and children.The schedule for this vaccine includes four doses given at two, four, six, and 12 to 15 months of age. For infants that start immunization at seven to 11 months of age, three doses are given.
Children who are starting immunization at 12 to 13 months of age need only two doses. Those children who are over two years old are given only one dose.
 Getting the annual flu shot is also an important prevention method. The flu is another one of the most common causes of ear infections. Vaccinations can prevent you from getting the flu, thereby reducing your chances of getting an ear infection. Streptococcus pneumoniae, the bacteria that causes the flu, can be adequately vaccinated with a single injection. It is generally a good idea to get a new flu vaccine each flu season, as the flu tends to change throughout the year.This vaccine can be given to adults and children who are six months or older., You can also prevent ear infections by treating the flu if act before an infection has had time to develop. When you get the flu, start treatment right away. Try Tamiflu within the first 48 hours of the start of your symptoms for it to be effective. Tamiflu, also known as oseltamivir, is an antiviral medication that acts against the flu's genetic material. It helps inhibit viral replication and works to shorten the severity and duration of your symptoms.


This is only available by prescription, so visit your healthcare provider for a prescription.Look for typical flu symptoms, such as high fever, severe muscle aches, congestion, runny nose, cough, and poor appetite., Just like with the flu, treat a cold right away so it doesn't turn into an ear infection. A cold can be treated early in order to cut down the severity and duration of symptoms. There are many different ways to treat a cold, but any treatment will help you avoid an ear infection. Start taking zinc at the first signs of a cold. Studies show that, if you take zinc within 24 hours of your first symptoms, you have a greater chance of decreasing the duration of the cold.


You can buy zinc as a lozenge, tablet, or mouth spray as well as supplements that are available over-the-counter. Try to take between 75 to 150 mg daily to shorten the duration of a cold by 42%.Watch for an upset stomach.
Also try 1,000 – 2,000 mg of vitamin C daily to prevent infection(the recommended daily amount for healthy adults is 120 mg). Vitamin C can be found in fruits, vegetables, juice, and as a supplement.You can also try 175 – 300 mg of Echinacea daily to enhance immune function. It can be taken as a supplement or liquid