 Some dogs just can’t stand the texture and the toughness of dry food. If this is the case, you can just add a little water to the food to soften it up. You want to add enough water to soften the food, but not to drown it. For every cup of dog food, try using about 1/6 cup of water. Let the food sit for a minute before you give it to your dog. This way, the food will absorb the water., This tactic works like water, but with the bonus of added taste. Try low salt stock gravy cubes, meat drippings, or fish broth. Avoid adding anything with a high salt content — like most yeast-based products like vegemite. Dogs cannot process a lot of salt in their diet and when they are forced to, it strains their kidneys.Do not substitute gravy for a meal. It doesn't have the same nutrients as dry dog food., Purchase some Swanson or other brand low-sodium natural chicken, beef, or vegetable broth. Look for broth that contains no onion which is toxic to dogs.

Pour approximately 1 tablespoon for each cup of dry food, and mix/shake the bowl so the pellets to soak in broth and soften up. Your dog will like them much better. You can warm the broth in the microwave dish, but avoid overheating it. , Not all dogs will like bananas, but some love them, and bananas are high in potassium, fiber, and magnesium., Dogs have taste buds like humans, so why not “spice” up your dog food with a handful of dried herbs. This adds an intriguing scent, which might be enough to entice your furry friend into feasting on its dry food.

Oregano is loaded with antioxidants. Rosemary has iron, calcium and vitamin B6. Peppermint extract has powerful properties that'll help your dog's digestive system. And basil and parsley are also great antioxidants. Just give a couple shakes of the spice shaker over your dog's food and you'll have your own canine cuisine masterpiece., A suggestion is to purchase Bil-Jac dog snack, which is available at most pet stores.

Crumble the two pieces and sprinkle over the dry food. Add liver and you'll have any dog 'inhaling' their food. This is a win-win situation. You get a healthier dog and your dog gets a treat. Liver is filled with vitamins B, A, and K. It is also a great source of iron. And your dog will inhale it. However, be aware that it is possible to give too much of a good thing. In the long term the high levels of vitamin A in liver can cause a condition where bones fuse together. Avoid giving liver on a daily basis in the long term. You will be fine for a week, but after that it's not a good habit to get into.
 Eggs are a great source of protein that your dog will enjoy immensely. Egg whites are more easily digested when cooked, while yolks retain more of their nutritional value if fed raw. Most dogs have no trouble with bacteria in raw eggs, but it’s fine to feed soft-cooked, hard-cooked, or scrambled eggs.

One egg is around 70 calories. This is sufficient for a medium-sized or large adult dog. If you have a small dog, only give them 1/2 egg., For an easier and tastier approach, use canned products, but be sure to drain any liquid prior to adding it to the dog food. Use low sodium green beans. High sodium food is bad for any dog.For starters, fill approximately 1 tablespoon with beans (no water) and mix with pellets.
If they like the beans, you can add 1/2 more tablespoon.
 Try mixing 6-7 small soup crackers with the pellets. It will add the crunchiness to the meal and dogs love it.


For a similar effect, get a small piece of white bread, lightly toast it, and crumble over your dog's dry food and mix lightly. He will eat the bread with the dry food, but may leave some on the plate. Most likely he will finish it later because the smell of bread stays there.
 Cook a carrot, or buy can of carrots and add small pieces to your dog's dry food, mixing them in thoroughly. Grated carrots can work well too. Carrots are sweet and appeal to many dogs. They are filled with beta keratin and vitamins C, A, and K. , In some cases, senior dog’s lose their appetite because their sense of smell is fading. That delicious kibble doesn’t entice them because they cannot smell it. If this is the case, try warming your dog’s food up in the microwave — for only 15 seconds or so. This will amplify the food’s natural aroma so your dog can catch a whiff of it., Despite the popular idiom, you can teach both young and old dogs new tricks, even if you didn't mean to. Imagine, for example, that your dog was reluctant to eat one day. This caused you to worry, so you rained attention down on your dog. You fed him tasty morsels from the table, hand fed him, and praised him whenever he decided to take a bite. Now your dog has equated not eating their normal dry kibble with tasty “human” food and extra attention.If you know your dog is healthy and you suspect that your dog is duping you into getting better food and more attention, condition them out of it intentionally. Place their food bowl down for 30 minutes and leave the room. When you come back, take the food away completely until the next meal. Don’t give them treats, and don’t make a fuss. It might be hard for both of you, but eventually, your dog will wise up and start eating normally again. 