 If you have the mentality that you want to stand out, then you will. You won't blend in to the crowd if you are making a scene. Blending in is 50% mental.;
, Anything loose, such as headphone cords, chains, or straps, draw attention. Large moving masses with little detail attract less attention than the large moving masses with detail.
 Put your headphones inside of your jacket, tuck your watches under your sleeves, keep your pants loose so that your wallet doesn't create an outline, and wear some kind of cap or sunglasses to obscure your eyes.
 Light grey, dark green, blue, black, and white do not attract much attention. Off colors such as orange and blue, yellow and purple, or bright green and red naturally attract the eyes.
 Also, odd hairstyles will have the same effect.
 If you must carry something important, try to keep it as small as possible, or in a backpack.
 A clean shave will be less likely to attract attention than a scruffy or full bearded face.
 If not, wear a hat or other head covering to conceal the glasses.
 Don't try to cut across streets or go in the opposite direction.
 This decrease your outline and is less likely to draw attention. Obey all traffic laws as well.
 Keep the weapon in a concealed holster and do not draw your weapon unless you deem there is a threat.
 Try to keep your head looking forward, or slightly towards the ground. If something catches the crowd's attention, move your gaze to mimic the crowd.
 This will keep you from being grabbed straight off of the street.
 If you're in a third world country, chances are you won't be walking around in a parka with three iPods. However, if you're in Manhattan in the middle of December, walking around in a bikini is going to be a dead giveaway.
 Choose the areas which are the darkest, as people naturally have a harder time seeing in dark areas. Also choose places where the sun will shine directly perpendicular to you, as this will conceal many of your facial features. (To get an idea of how this works, get a piece of paper. Write a word down on it. Roll the piece of paper in to a cylinder and shine a light on to it, then look at it from the opposite direction.)

, The larger number of people available, the less likely you will be selected as an individual target.

