 Many states require hunters to take a course designed to assure they have weapon handling skills needed to safely participate in hunting. Some have a grandfather clause that permits older, and experienced hunters to hunt without this training.;
, You will need the following:


Federal Waterfowl Stamp
State hunting license
State Waterfowl stamp or endorsement if required
Management area permit if required

, Do not trespass to hunt under any conditions, as this may be a felony violation since you will be in possession of a firearm.
 Steel or alloy shot are preferred over lead shot since they are less damaging to the environment. In some cases, specific shotgun shot sizes less than number 4 are not allowed either.
 Different waterfowl have different values, so a mixed bag of birds may cause you to exceed the limit by points, rather than the actual number of birds. Some species (example, Mallards) may have a one bird limit, either sex, where another, (example, Coots) may have a multiple male bird limit, but still a one bird female limit.
 Normally, birds with more brightly colored feathers are males, drabber colored birds are females.
 The stipulations for hunting on farmland are pretty specific.


You can hunt over a field that has not yet been harvested.
You can hunt over a field that has been harvested if it has been flooded.
Hunting over an area where seed has been purposely scattered (baiting) is prohibited.
Avoid areas that have been baited.
Planting under normal agriculture schedules and processes is not considered baiting.
Do not hunt over a field that has been partly harvested.
 Though wildlife food plots are a normally occurring practice for other wildlife, the practice does not fall into natural agricultural planting and would be considered baiting for waterfowl.
 It is unlawful to hunt waterfowl over areas where farmers store feed for their animals or locations where they put grain out to feed.
 It is acceptable to abide by the 10-day-rule which allows hunters to hunt waterfowl on an area of land that would be considered baited after waiting a period of 10 days after the last of the "bait" is gone.
 Only a shotgun that hold 3 bullets can be used. Any gun higher than a 10 gauge or any other type of weapon cannot be utilized in your hunting efforts. This includes but is not limited to traps, rifles, pistols, high power guns, poisons and explosives.
 Boats must be shut off or the sail put down. Land vehicles should also have their motors disengaged. Any vehicle from which you are hunting must be immobile. Vehicles are not to be used to rally or stir up birds.
 Live birds should not be used as decoys. Recorded calls or electronic amplifications of bird sounds are not to be used.
 Take only the daily limit. Do your best not to leave any deceased or maimed birds on the field. Tag your birds immediately with thorough and correct information. Do not leave them in anyone else's possession until you do so. Birds cannot be fully field dressed on the field. The head or 1 fully-feathered wing must still be intact while in transport.

