 One of the easiest substitutes for baking soda is baking powder. If you have baking powder in your cabinet, simply add triple the amount of baking powder to your recipe. For example, if your recipe calls for one tablespoon of baking soda, add three tablespoons of baking powder.You can substitute baking powder for baking soda in pretty much any recipe that requires baking soda.;
, If you're out of baking powder as well, check to see if you have self-rising flour. Self-rising flour contains a small amount of baking powder, so it can also be used as a baking soda substitute. Simply replace the regular flour in your recipe with self-rising flour., If you don't have baking ingredients to use as substitutes, check your medicine cabinet for potassium bicarbonate. This is a medication sometimes used to treat conditions like acid reflux or hypertension. For each teaspoon of baking soda in a recipe, add one teaspoon of potassium bicarbonate mixed with a third a teaspoon of salt.This usually works out best when baking cookies. It may not work out as well for recipes like cakes, pancakes, muffins, and other baked goods.
 Baking powder contains salt. It's a good idea to either omit or reduce the amount of salt in the recipe if you substitute for baking powder for baking soda. This will prevent the recipe from turning out too salty., Baking soda is designed to interact with acidic ingredients. If you substitute baking powder for baking soda, replace any acidic liquids for non-acidic ones. Acidic liquids include things like sour cream, yogurt, vinegar, buttermilk, molasses, and citrus juices. Whole milk or water can be used as a replacement. Use the same amount of the substitute ingredient as the liquid in the original recipe.For example, if the recipe calls for one cup of buttermilk, use one cup of whole milk instead.
 Recipes that use baking soda often have citrus-based liquids like lemon or lime juice. In this case, flavor water with a small amount of grated lime or lemon and use this as your liquid replacement. This will help preserve the citrus flavor., Baking soda adds carbonation to a recipe. Whisking the eggs before adding the flour can increase the amount of air bubbles produced. This increases the likelihood your baking soda substitute will work correctly., If you have a carbonated beverage, like beer, in your kitchen, add a splash of that to your batter. This can add a bit of carbonation, helping your baking soda substitute function correctly., Even if you have another baking soda substitute on hand, you should still use self-rising flour when you don't have baking soda for making pancakes. Pancakes may become denser without baking soda. Self-rising flour can make your pancakes fluffier.