 These are designed to send a market signal to buyers that the products they purchase are derived from resources that are managed to particular environmental and social standards. Some of the most widely recognized organizations to reference are: EcoLogo, Energy Star, the Forest Stewardship Council, Green Seal, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC)., Some greenwashers  have been known to invent their own certifications, then tout their products as green based on those fake certifications. Be diligent and research the certifications. If they aren’t real, stay far away from this vendor., The term original design manufacturer (ODM) is used to describe companies that design and manufacture a product and is used to refer only to the original manufacturer of the product. The term value added reseller (VAR) is used to describe the reseller of ODM products. Sometimes a VAR might say they are going to offer a new, ODM product, meaning they are going to offer a new product based on components from an original manufacturer. However, this somewhat complex web allows the reseller to position themselves to be the product’s manufacturer.Start by determining if the manufacturer is the original (ODM) producer or simply a reseller (VAR). A reseller can pass responsibility off to the manufacturer, skirting uncomfortable scrutiny. Also, a reseller can claim they are a manufacturer, when they aren’t. This is problematic because they won’t have transparency or full understanding of the product about which they are making claims.
As a consumer, figuring out if a company is a manufacturer or reseller may be difficult, if not impossible. There isn’t a national registry of manufacturers, so you might need to rely on tax records to trace a product back to its parent company.
 The Greenwashing Index was developed by EnviroMedia Social Marketing and the University of Oregon and allows people to upload ads and then rate them on a variety of criteria. This groupthink approach is helpful because it offers a variety of perspectives about the overall truthfulness of the ad as well as its approaches and promises.This index is beneficial in helping you vet your vendors and also helps to ensure that you’re not greenwashing your own ads.
 You need to be diligent in all of your advertising, communications, and product representations, and a good way to do this is with report cards. These are an excellent way to monitor your vendors as well. They should be transparent, and grading them on their truthfulness and green products should not be problematic.If a vendor gets a low or failing mark on your report card, especially if they previously received high marks, talk over your issues and encourage them to make positive changes.
If they refuse to make positive changes, find a new vendor.

