 If you're tired of using and want to get sober, it's good to strategize. For some people, quitting cold turkey is the best method, while others will need to negotiate more with their drug of choice. It's not appropriate for everyone to "just stop" all of a sudden, which can be a drastic shock to your system, and can be quite dangerous, depending on the drug you may be using.If you're an alcoholic, get checked out by a doctor. Chronic users of alcohol run the risk of delirium tremens and serious health concerns, including cardiac arrest, if you suddenly stop using completely. Tapering down and using prescription medication is sometimes the best way to detox.

If you're addicted to opiates, it's important to get checked out by a doctor and consider "warm turkey" methods, using prescription medication to come off more slowly.
 It's helpful for a lot of addicts to pick a date at some point in the future, pencil it in, and quit when the day rolls around. Whether it's next week, a few weeks from now, or the end of the year, pick a significant date and plan on sticking to it.


Setting a date helps addicts to taper down and start dealing with the psychological issues of getting sober more slowly. It makes it simpler than saying you'll quit "Sometime in the future" or "Maybe next year.", Whatever you're addicted to, it's important to start using less and less before you try to get completely sober. Start tapering as soon as you decide to start quitting, and continue tapering as much as possible up to the quit date. Withdrawal symptoms will be much less severe if you taper.


If you consume a certain amount every night, try spreading it over two nights instead. See how you feel. Eventually, try making that amount last three days when you feel up to it.
Learn the "ten minute delay." When you feel a craving coming on, just tell yourself that you have to wait ten minutes to take it. Do other things. Distract yourself. At the end of ten minutes, see if you're still as desperate for it as before. Give it another ten minutes, if you can.
It's important to avoid using "tapering" as a psychological defense. If you postpone quitting because you're still "tapering," (but you're actually not) then you're not moving forward with your plan. It's important to be realistic, if you want to get sober.
 Different drugs come with different side effects and health concerns, while your body detoxifies. Depending on what you're trying to quit, there may be prescription help out there for you, to come down more slowly and to ease off the drug at a gradual pace. Anti-anxiety medications and antidepressants are sometimes effective at helping you manage cravings and get through the difficult withdrawal period.


If you're addicted to opiates, consider using suboxone/subutex to ease off. It's more widely available, and often cheaper and easier to get than methadone, which comes with a host of secondary addiction problems. Both are effective treatments, however.
If you're addicted to alcohol, often naltrexone and other drugs will be prescribed, which create an uncomfortable nauseated feeling in your body when alcohol is consumed. This, combined with antidepressants, can be an effective treatment.
 Dump out all your booze, your dope, your paraphernalia, whatever it is that you've got lying around, when the time comes. Make it impossible to use.


Get a friend to help you, if you're struggling to throw everything out. They can help to take it elsewhere and make the whole process easier. Lean on your friends for help here.
It's important to not just throw it in the garbage (addicts aren't above trash-digging), but to destroy everything. Dump the booze out. Flush the pills.
Don't keep anything in the house, for nostalgia purposes, or for cooking, or for other reasons. If you live with someone who uses, leave. Separate yourself from your drug physically.
 Detoxing off of anything can be rough, whether you're using doctor-prescribed medications to help manage or not. Withdrawal symptoms often include headaches, nausea, sleeplessness, and general flu-like symptoms that can last anywhere from a few hours to a week. It's important to address your symptoms, rest up, and try to get clean.


try to eat something, whenever you can. Keep bland food around, like peanut butter, crackers, and brothy soups, which you'll be able to choke down, if you're feeling nauseated.
While it might sound like the last thing you want to do, getting outside and sweating for a while can help you address restlessness issues and take your mind off of things, giving you back some energy and actually easing your detox symptoms somewhat.
 Detoxification is a process of stimulating the liver, kidneys, intestines, and lungs, to process impurities. What that means for you is that you want to keep putting healthy things in to push the toxic remnants of drugs of alcohol abuse out, and get your system back in sync. Easiest way? Aim to drink between 1.5 and 2 liters of water each day.Sports drinks help your body stay hydrated and replenish electrolytes that drugs or alcohol might have leeched from your system. If the taste is too nauseating, cut it with some water to make it more palatable.
Detox teas are commonly available at health stores, which are designed to promote liver health. Teas with licorice root, ginger, lemongrass, and dandelion are good choices for detoxing.
Try consuming foods and drinks high in live cultures and probiotics, the properties of which will help to keep things moving in your digestive tract. Sauerkraut, kombucha drinks, and greek yoghurt are great detox diet choices., try to get as much sleep as possible while you're managing your withdrawal period. Time and fluids are the best way to get through this difficult passage.


It's often difficult to get much sleep, and you'll often be irritable and restless for a period of a few days, so it's a good opportunity to take off work, if you can, and crawl into bed for a couple days.
If you can't sleep, just rest. Watch TV, read, listen to music, find some way to try to take your mind off things and distract yourself.
 At some point, when you're in the throes of withdrawal, it'll occur to you that it all could end quickly with a dose. If you want to get sober, you can't let this happen. How you manage your cravings will depend on you and your drug, but it's important to learn to manage those cravings and control them, instead of letting them control you.


For some people, it's effective to practice a buddy system habit, any time you're feeling a craving. To learn more about how to find a support group and stay clean, read the next section.
If you're alone, and don't feel like you can reach out, try journaling in a sober journal. Write down your reasons for getting sober every time you have the urge to use, instead of using. Keep this list in your pocket and find a reason not to use, every time.Try replacing the habit. If you want a drink of booze, have a cup of tea instead. Go through the same ritual you might go through with a drink, but replace it with the new drink. If you want to use, do what you'd normally do, but without drugs.

