 Press F3 at the top of your keyboard while you are in your Minecraft game. Text should appear displaying your coordinates. The X and Y coordinates describe your North-South and East-West location, and the Z coordinate describes your depth or height above sea level. Notice how your coordinates change as you walk around.


On an Apple computer, you may need to press fn and F3 at the same time. The fn key is on the lower left of most Apple keyboards.
 Write down your X and Y coordinates, or take a screenshot while they are displayed. If you are at your house, keep track of these so you can always use the coordinate display to find your way back. If you are already lost, write down your current coordinates anyway, and use the following method to suicide your way back home without losing your items.


This method does not work in Hardcore mode, which deletes your world when your character dies.
 If you have any items you don't want to lose when you die, build a chest and place them inside it. In a single-player world, it's a good idea to keep your chest in a visible location, such as at the top of a tower. If you are playing with monsters on, you might want to protect your chest from exploding Creepers by building a protective shell around it.


If you have an "ender chest," you can access your belongings inside it from any other ender chest in the world, without having to travel to the other chest's location.
Alternatively, if cheats are enabled, press T to open the chat window, and type /gamerule keepInventory true into the cheat box. This should keep your items in your inventory after you die, which saves you the trouble of having to track down your items again.
 Jump from a tall location, let a monster kill you, or use any other method to kill your character. When your character dies, he will respawn at the last bed you rested in, but without any items. If you do not have a bed, or if all your beds have been moved, destroyed, or covered by another object, you will appear in the world spawn location instead, where you first appeared when you entered this world.
 If you do not recognize your respawn point, destroy the bed you appeared next to and kill your character a second time. If there is still a bed in your house, you will eventually appear next to it.


If you appear next to the world spawn point instead of a bed, and your house is not nearby, you may need to use a map or cheats to find your house again, or build a new house.
 Press F3 again to display your coordinates, and write these down as your house coordinates. Watch the x and y coordinates change as you walk around, and walk in a direction that causes them to approach the coordinates of the chest that contains your items.


Here's a simplified example. Say the coordinates of your house are x-50 y-100 and the coordinates of your chest are x-50 y-300. Walk around until you find the direction that keeps the x coordinate unchanged (near x-50), and causes the y-coordinate to increase, towards 300.
Finding your way back should be much easier now that you know the coordinates of your house.

