 Snowboards are usually measured from tip to tip in centimeters. To size a board, place the tip on the ground and stand the board up to your face. -- the top of the board should reach your chin.However, there are a lot of benefits buying a shorter or longer boards. In general, shorter boards are more maneuverable and longer boards are faster.


Beginners should choose a board on the longer end -- one that reaches their nose when stood up, for example.
Heavier riders should consider slightly longer boards to distribute their weight.;
, On the back of every board is a weight classification, so get the right board for your body. If you're too heavy you could break the board, too light and you will have trouble maneuvering.
 The width of a board needs to fit your body, and most people will be fine with a normal board width of 246-255 millimeters. Your snowboarding boots should barely hang over the edges of the board when you stand on it, with no more than an inch of your toes and heels sticking out on either side. Generally, those with a US men's size 11 or US women's size 11.5 shoe and larger should get a "wide" board (250+ millimeters). If your foot is smaller then a men's 7 or a women's 9 you should choose a narrow board (235-245 millimeters)., These two measurements tell you how easy it is to turn a board, and you may see them listed on some boards. In both cases, the smaller the number, the easier the board is to turn. Beginners can ignore shortcut radius at first, as basic boards usually sit somewhere in the middle.



Shortcut Radius: This is the measure of how big a circle you board would make if the curve of the edge was extended to a complete circle. The smaller the number, the smaller the circle.

Waist Width: This is the measure of the board at it's thinnest point. The smaller the waist width the faster the board reacts to your turning motions., Boards are either directional or twin-tip. Directional boards are built with one front end and are made for speed and stability going down hills. Twin-tips have identical front and back ends -- perfect for stringing together tricks at the terrain park. It is easiest for beginners to get twin-tip boards to eliminate mistakes.


There are also "directional twin-tips," which are hybrid shapes designed for any rider.
 Once upon a time, all boards came in the same shape. No more. Today, there are a variety of designs for different riders known as camber. This corresponds to the profile of the board, or what parts touch the ground. Consider renting 2-3 types of board before buying to see what camber you prefer. (Note: Camber refers to the general style of the board (camber type) and a specific style of board.) Different camber types include:



Camber Board: The most common board, cambers touch the ground near the tips but curve up in the middle. When you stand on the board you push the center down, but it retains some of the pop for jumps.

Rocker: The opposite of camber boards, rockers curve down. This keeps you tips out of the snow, increasing maneuverability.

Flat: Exactly what it sounds like, flat boards curve up slightly at the tips but are flat throughout. While flat boards are vulnerable to caught edges in the snow, this shape is the easiest to turn and floats well on fresh powder.

Hybrid: Many companies have started to mix and match the camber, rocker, and flat boards, making shapes for any rider. Boards like the "rocker/camber/rocker," for example, can handle a variety of situations and terrains., There is no consistent rating system for flexibility, so a 5 from Burton might not be as stiff as a 5 from Evo. Still, most companies use a 1-10 rating system, where 1 is the most flexible and 10 is the least. The stiffer the board is the faster it moves, but flexible boards are easier to turn.Soft, flexible boards are best for beginners and trick riders because of their maneuverability.
Stiff boards hold edges, speed, and turns better and have greater stability at high speeds.
 There are several types of binding mounts, differentiated by their placement on the board. The most common are 2x4 and 4x4, which are simply 2 rows of spaced holes for mounting bindings. More complex systems, like the Burton 3D insert pattern, can help you attach any type of binding to your board. Check you bindings to see how they attach and match this to your board.


Standard bindings attach to any 2x4 or 4x4 pattern.
Specialized bindings like the Burton 3D Disk or Burton EST are made to only attach to the Burton 3D pattern., Newer riders should aim for short, flexible binding backs (the part behind your heel). This allows them to feel comfortable and in control. However, performing precise maneuvers or turning at high speeds is much easier with high, stiff bindings.


Freestyle riders and trick riders usually like flexible bindings because they make landings easier on jumps.
Racers and riders who prefer thick, fresh powder prefer stiff bindings for control in deep snow., There are a variety of methods to securing your feet to bindings, from straps and cranks to quick-entry speed bindings. Neither method affects your riding very much, so choose the system that your prefer.
 You want to shop for snowboard boots much like you shop for any other shoe. Make sure that you have room to wiggle your toes and your heel stays firmly in the shoe as you move around. If you feel any rubbing or pain, try a new size.


Make sure you try on snowboard boots with appropriate, thick winter socks. These will add up to an inch around your foot, which will make a big difference as you try to squeeze them on at the mountain.
 All-mountain boards are equally at home heading down the mountain and hitting jumps at the terrain park. They blend speed and maneuverability well, and are thus the perfect board for beginner riders or someone who wants to board downhill, half-pipes, or backcountry in the same day.



Size: If you stand the board up on it's end, the top should reach between your nose and chin.

Directional Twin-Tip This hybrid shape can comfortably ride with either direction facing forward, but the front end is often tapered up slightly to make it faster downhill.

Camber Type: All-mountain boards usually come in camber shapes which curve upward. However, beginner riders should try a rocker-style because of the added maneuverability and turning forgiveness., Freestyle board are usually smaller so they don't get in the way during tricks. They are highly maneuverable and light, but they have less speed and stability when going downhill. That said, they can still be used to to bomb down a mountain in a pinch.Size: Since freestyle boards are usually smaller, choose one that feels comfortable to you. Stand the board up and look for something that reaches between your shoulder and chin.Twin-tip: Freestyle riders will almost always want a twin-tip design, as this allows them to comfortably board in either direction after jumps or tricks.

Camber Type: Most freestyle riders prefer a "camber" shape, where the board curves slightly upward between the tips. This spring-loads the board to give you maximum pop on jumps.
 These boards are made to be quick and stable at high speeds. They are generally stiffer and have the bindings slightly set towards the back of the board.



Size: Usually the longest board type, a freestyle board will often reach near your forehead when stood on end.

Directional: All freeride boards are directional, meaning there is a designated front end to increase speed.

Camber Type: Freeride boards come in a variety of shapes, but one of the most common is a rocker/camber/rocker hybrid that curves down near the tips and up in the center.
 Powder boards are usually made for downhill riders who encounter a lot of fresh, soft snow. They have longer or tapered noses and raised ends to help stay on top of powder. The bindings are generally set towards the back of the board to keep the front end up.



Size: Generally longer to increase surface area and speed, since powder boards are not often used for tricks.

Directional: Most powder riders prefer directional boards, since the design allows them to sail smoothly over fresh snow.

Camber Type: Powder boards usually have a rocker-shape, which is when the entire board curves slightly upward. This keeps the tip and tail elevated so it doesn't get caught in the deep powder.

