 You may be overwhelmed by all of the latest fad diets, but eating healthy is really not all that complicated! Try incorporating a variety of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy products, lean proteins (including fish, chicken, legumes, and nuts), and healthy fats (including olive oil, salmon, and avocados) into your diet. Avoid processed foods, salty foods, added sugar, and fatty foods as much as possible.Talk to your doctor about specific dietary changes you should make based on your personal and family history.
Your diet can also have an effect on your mental health. Fruits and vegetables are thought to increase feelings of positivity, while fats and sugars are linked to feelings of depression.;
, Regular exercise is a crucial component of a healthy lifestyle. Try to include at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise (like brisk walking) or 75 minutes of intense aerobic exercise (like running or dancing) into your weekly schedule. You should also incorporate periodic strength training to help tone your muscles.In addition to improving your physical health, regular exercise can also decrease symptoms of depression.Staying active is much easier if you find an activity that you genuinely enjoy. Try several new sports or exercise classes until you find something you really want to do.Having an exercise buddy can also help keep you on track. , If you are overweight, there are a few really easy things you can do to lose a few pounds, which can add up to major health benefits. Try keeping healthy snacks like fruits and vegetables in your house for those times when you get the urge to munch between meals. You should also try to be aware your motivations for eating. If you eat because you're bored or sad, try finding other ways of coping with these feelings, like going for a walk., Alcohol is fine in moderation, but too much can cause serious health problems like high blood pressure, high cholesterol, stroke, and heart failure. Stick to no more than one serving per day if you are a woman or two if you are a man., Lack of sleep can cause you to feel tired and unproductive throughout the day, which may prevent you from feeling good and from accomplishing your goals. Try to go to bed a bit earlier so you can face the day rested and energized.If you have trouble falling asleep, try going to sleep and waking up at the same time every day, even on weekends. Avoiding caffeine and television before bed can also help., If you're a smoker, you can dramatically decrease your risk of developing several serious diseases just by quitting. One year after you quit, your risk of developing heart disease will have been cut in half.No matter how you plan on quitting smoking, support is crucial. Find a friend to lean on during the process or join a support group.It will be very helpful to avoid places where others smoke and to spend as much time as possible in locations where smoking is not allowed. Being away from temptation can help you get through the cravings., Help yourself unwind and get rid of muscle aches by treating yourself to a massage every now and then. The muscles in the neck tend to get especially stiff!Applying gentle pressure to the third eye and the pressure points on the feet can also do wonders for your overall health and well-being.
 If you're constantly feeling tired and foggy despite changes to your lifestyle, your body may not have enough of an essential nutrient, like vitamin D. Getting tested involves a simple blood test. If you are found to have a vitamin D deficiency, you can improve your symptoms by increasing your sun exposure or taking supplements.Other common deficiencies that can lead to fatigue include B vitamins, magnesium, and antioxidants.Talk to your doctor about how to increase your intake of any nutrients you are lacking. Treatment may include supplements or dietary changes.

