 If people want to make requests, they will usually only do it if there is a piece of paper. You might want to do this a given time before you start playing. Other reasons for the sheet of paper are that people might be too shy to talk to the DJ, or they might not have access to the stage to submit a request. As a result there will be patrons upset about not hearing the song they want. This is not necessary if you do not intend to take requests.;
, Choose which songs to play and in which order. Songs should be chosen by Beats Per Minute (tempo), genre, and key. Choose songs that "flow" together well. Song selection should be made from a collection of music within the same genre or closely related genres.


You could mix a set entirely composed of Tribal House tracks or mix a set of Classic House and New York House. You should not, however, mix something like house with drum and bass.
 You should ensure that the channel volume for deck 1 is turned up and the master volume is at a comfortable level. If you are using the crossfader ensure it is either in the middle or all the way to deck 1.
 Ensure that the channel volume for deck 2 is either all the way down or if using the crossfader that it is all the way to deck 1, and press play on deck 2. You will be able to hear the music coming from deck 2 in your headphones but it should not be playing to the speakers. This is where the "mixing" begins.


Note: If your mixer has "cue" buttons or switches ensure they are pressed or flipped on for the channels that you want to hear in your headphones.
 This is called beat matching and involves ensuring the beat from deck 1 and deck 2 are exactly the same speed and lined up. The more you become familiar with the genre or style of music you are playing, the easier it will become.
 A cue point is the exact point in the song that you wish to hear when you press play. Generally you will use the first bass-drum kick as the cue point. Usually, this is done by pressing the cue button found on the player, and then searching with the search buttons or jog wheel until you are right in front of bear. When you tap the cue button you should hear a single beat as long as you don't hold it.
 To do this mix it in only in your headphones well before you actually intend to send it to the speakers and ensure it stays on beat.
 At this point, press play on deck 2; either with the crossfader at 50% (in the middle), or with the crossfader at deck 1, and slowly moving it from deck 1, to the middle, and eventually all the way to deck 2, so that only the song on deck 2 will remain in the mix from that point. You can not hear the change in volume in the headphones, so many DJs wear their headphones with one side off of the ear so that they can hear what is coming out of their monitors, as well as what is going on before the music leaves the mixer.


Note: The use of the crossfader is not necessary. You can also mix using the channel volume levels and completely disable the crossfader.
The period of time that you allow both songs to play simultaneously before cutting the first track is completely up to you. However, most dance music is constructed with a ~1minute intro and and outro and it should be safe to leave the intro of one song mixer over the outro of another for the full minute without worrying about clashing vocals or abrupt changes. This will come with practice and knowledge of your music.
 There are many "tricks" and techniques that have not been discussed in this guide, since this is just a basic explanation for complete beginners, or people curious as to what the heck that groovy-looking dude in the DJ booth is so focused on while he is "in the mix."

