 Enrico Corradini, Julius Evola, and Corneliu Codreanu are all excellent sources on Fascist/proto-Fascist ideology. Among the more philosophic roots of Fascism are rejection of decadence and materialism, and the value of action over compromise. Fascism views life as a constant struggle, and so to be a Fascist is to be a human of strength and willpower.;
, To apply Fascism, one must have a spirit of Nationalism - valuing the legacy of your country’s people, and putting their interests before yourself and before the rest of the world. Take pride in your ancestor’s accomplishments, and strive to do good in their name and uphold your country’s noblest traditions. Action begins at the local level, so find opportunities to volunteer around town. In Fascism, what is good for the community is good for the People and the State.
 Fascism rejects electoral democracy, because it sees democracy as simply enabling politicians to lie to the people to get in power, and thus the leaders do not truly represent the People. Instead, Fascism believes in putting together a system where those fit to rule ensure that power stays in the right hands, and so power is passed through a dynastic or oligarchic system. Understand that in a Fascist country, you will not always get to vote for your leader, but your voice can still be heard in public forum meetings or referendums, for example.
 Fascism rejects Capitalism on the grounds that it is too individualistic and that wealthy corporations will abuse their power, such as underpaying workers or outsourcing jobs. However, Fascism also rejects Communism on the grounds that it does away with private property and thus the incentive to work completely, as well as promoting the notion of class warfare. Instead of class warfare Fascism believes in class collaboration - the different classes must all work together to help strengthen their community and their State. Fascism advocates a mixed economy where people can own property and open their own businesses, but major corporations must always be answerable to the will of the State, and must always serve the common good of the People.
 In Fascism, war is not always promoted, but it is seen as something that can’t always be avoided. Fascism views war as acceptable in defense, but also as a valid option for securing natural resources and land for the good of the people. Fascism sees war as an opportunity for the People to mobilize around a common goal and achieve victory, and so a strong military is always a must.

