 The almonds should be dry and fresh. Make sure your blender is clean and ready to go., You should start off at low speed so that the almonds are blended slowly and carefully; blending them at high speed at first will make the blending process more difficult.
 As you start to blend the almonds, you may find that they start to form a shape that resembles a ball; they'll start to build up on the sides of the blender. Just stop the blender to scrape off the build up and return it to the rest of the almonds. You may need to do this several times in the blending process, so be vigilant as you blend them., As they get more and more blended, you can turn your blender up to medium or even high speed. This will help the process along., Once the almonds have been blended into a rich, creamy paste, then you can add a teaspoon of olive oil to speed up the blending process. If you find that the almonds are still not blending as smoothly as you'd like them to, then you can add another teaspoon of oil.
 Once you've finished blending the almonds, you can place them in a container, such as a glass jar or Tupperware, and keep them at room temperature for about 2 weeks. This should be enough time for the oil from the almonds to separate from their meat.
 To get the most out of the oil, you can try tipping the container and letting the oil drip into a separate container. You can also use a sieve or a strainer to separate the oil from the almonds.
 You can use the oil to treat your skin or hair or for aromatherapy purposes. You also don't have to throw out that leftover nut meat, either. You can use it in cooking, or even just mix it with a bit of canola oil and salt and spread it on toast., An oil press can be a bit pricier than a blender, but it can blend your almonds extra thoroughly if you're willing to splurge a bit. You should mount the press on a table or another sturdy surface., Simply turn the crank nice and slow to start to get the roasted almonds to produce oil. Unlike in a blender, you won't have to worry about the oil creating build-up on the sides of the device.
 Simply place a cup below the almonds and wait for the oil to be released into the cup. It'll be easier to crank the press the longer you do it.
 You can use the oil right away and won't need to wait a few weeks from the oil to separate from the nuts as you would when using a blender. However, the oil may look a bit cloudy, but that doesn't mean it will be less effective. If you'd like your oil to be more clear, just place it in a container and leave it out for a day for the particles to settle to the bottom of it., Almond oil can be used as a daily moisturizer. It can help soften skin that is dry or rough and it can also provide the skin with extra protection. You can take care of your face using almond oil without using a single chemical. To use the almond oil, all you need to do is to wet your hands with warm water and then massage about 1/2 a teaspoon of almond oil into your face.You don't need to wash the oil off; treat it like a natural moisturizer and let it absorb into your skin.
 Another thing you can use the almond oil for is a facial mask to take care of your skin. All you need is to mix the ingredients to make the mask in a small container to create a paste that you can apply all over your face with your fingers. Apply the mask in the morning and then let it sit for 30 minutes before you wash it off with warm water. Here are the simple ingredients you'll need to make the paste:1 tbsp. almond oil
1 tbsp. honey
1 tbsp. lemon juice

, A facial scrub can help clear your skin and exfoliate your face, removing dead skin cells and any dirt or grime. All you need to do is to add about 1 teaspoon of salt or sugar for every teaspoons of almond oil and stir the ingredients together until you've made a solid paste. Just gently use the pads of your fingers to rub the oil over your face and then wash it off with warm water.Be gentle while using the scrub. If you rub your face too much, then your skin could get a bit irritated.
 If you want to use almond oil as conditioner, all you have to do is to take about a teaspoon of it and rub it into your wet hair. Use a comb to really get it through and then cover your hair once you've fully conditioned it. Wait about 30 minutes for the oil to work its magic and then wash your hair with shampoo to get it out.


If you do this at least once a week, you'll be on your way to healthier hair in no time.
 You can also use almond oil as you would use any other hair oil. Simply place about half a teaspoon of it in the palm of your hands, rub it into your hair, and comb it to thoroughly coat your hair. You can use almond oil to keep your hair looking sleek and to protect it from split ends.


Don't apply it more than once every day or two or your hair may get too oily.
 If you want to use your almond oil to care for your lips, then all you have to do is gather a few simple ingredients to make your own lip balm at home. All you need to do is to melt the ingredients in a double boiler on the lowest heat possible, remove them from the heat, and then pour them into the balm tubes and let it sit for 24 hours before you can use it. You can use the following ingredients:1 tbsp. shea butter
1 tbsp. coconut oil
1 1/2 tbsp. almond oil
1 1/2 tbsp. beeswax
.15 oz lip balm tubes

