 If your application for benefits is denied, or if the benefits you already get are going to be stopped or suspended, you'll be sent a notice alerting you to this fact.The notice must be sent at least 10 days before the action will take effect.You have 90 days from the date on the notice to request a fair hearing. However, if you were previously receiving benefits and received notice that those benefits are being terminated or suspended, it is in your best interest to request a hearing as quickly as possible.If you ask for a hearing before the action in the notice takes effect, your benefits will continue at the same rate while you wait for a hearing in most cases.If your notice arrives late and you miss the deadline to get continuing aid, you still can request that your benefits be continued while you're waiting for a hearing. Just call the department that issued the notice and explain that the notice arrived too late for you to meet the deadline.;
, The notice should contain enough information about the reason your benefits were denied or suspended to enable you to raise objections.The reason stated should be detailed and specific. If the reason included a financial determination, there should be a budget computation attached to the notice. Review that computation and make sure it's correct.Typically there will be a regulation listed that supports the action being taken. Look up that regulation and read what it says., The notice should include a phone number you can call if you have questions about the action taken.


When you call, you will have to provide identifying information such as your name, address, and phone number, and state the reason for your call. You will be connected with the correct representative to assist you.
You also may go to your nearest department office and speak to a representative in person., You can talk with someone at the department if you want to know more about the reasons for the negative action.


The representative may be able to provide more detail about the action, or explain the specific regulation that supports the action being taken in your case.You also may be able to file a complaint against the department. For example, if you believe the negative action was taken for a discriminatory reason, you can lodge a formal complaint to that effect.If you decide you want to request a hearing, the representative will give you more information about your hearing rights, and may give you a legal aid referral., You may file a formal request for a hearing either on the phone or in writing. Additionally, in some states you may be able to request a hearing online.Keep in mind that the phone lines probably will be busy and it may be hard to get through that way.
If you need an interpreter, disability accommodations, or other special help at your hearing, make sure to include this information on your request., Your request must list your full name, birth date, and address along with the county of the department taking action and the type of benefits involved., You must explain fully and clearly why you disagree with the action being taken on your notice.


If you're writing out a request to fax or mail, make sure your writing is neat and legible.
Include any and all reasons you think the action is incorrect, because these will be the only issues addressed at your hearing. If you leave something out, you can't bring it up later., If you are mailing your request, you should also make a copy of your notice and include it with your request.Before you send your request, make a copy of it. This way you'll remember what you submitted and can verify that the department entered your reasons and information correctly., The department will send you a written notice within two weeks of the time you submit your request.


Your notice will include a list of the issues that will be discussed at your hearing. If one that you mentioned is left out or listed incorrectly, call the department as soon as possible and let a representative know so the mistake can be corrected.Following the acknowledgement, you will receive a notice of hearing that lists the date, time, and location of your hearing. In some jurisdictions, both of these notices are combined into one document.If you need to change the date of your hearing for a good reason such as illness, call the fair hearing office at the number listed on your notice to have your case adjourned to a later date. If you don't show up at your hearing, you lose your case., In some jurisdictions, you can request a conference to attempt to remedy your problem before the hearing.


A conference is more informal, where you meet with a social worker to discuss your case and get advice on your benefits.
If you ask for a conference, don't cancel your fair hearing until all of your problems are resolved to your satisfaction., Before your hearing, gather together any documents that might help prove your contention that your benefits were changed or denied incorrectly.


Evidence might include letters from your doctor, rent receipts, or statements from people with whom you spoke about the issue.If you have witnesses, you can bring them along to your hearing. Practice asking them questions and make sure their answers actually support your story.Make copies of all the documents you intend to use and keep everything well organized so that you can find what you need easily and are not shuffling through papers during the hearing., The department gathers evidence for the hearing to support the action taken against you, and you have the right to review it.You also may receive a copy of the county's written position on your case.If necessary, you can go to your nearest welfare center and look at your file or case record. Your entire case record may include information that actually supports your side of the story., You may be able to find a lawyer or other representative at a community center or your local legal aid office who will help you win your case.


Even if you don't have access to a professional, you might consider bringing along a friend or family member for assistance and support., At your hearing, you will have an opportunity to explain what happened and why the department's decision was incorrect.


An impartial judge, usually an attorney, will listen to your side and the department's side and decide who is right.
If you win your fair hearing, you will get back any benefits that you lost.If you cannot travel to attend your fair hearing in person, you typically can apply to have a hearing over the telephone.If you've brought witnesses, you can ask them questions. The judge and the state representative also may ask them questions., Typically you will receive a letter with the outcome of your fair hearing within 90 days of the date you requested the hearing.If you lose your case, you have the right to appeal in the state courts.