 The first step to healthy, younger skin is to moisturize it each day. As you grow older, the area around your eyes is prone to develop wrinkles and a drooping look, but moisturizing your skin can help restore some of that hydration to your skin, giving it a more natural glow.;
, Every night before bed, apply a gentle exfoliant to your skin to help remove dryness or flakiness. You can use a facial scrub or a natural product like coconut oil, but make sure it is not too harsh that it causes irritation to your skin. Purchase an exfoliant specifically for your skin type if you have more sensitive skin.


Exfoliating is beneficial if done well, but if applied excessively or used harshly, your face can experience redness, increased flakiness, or a stinging sensation.
 Although you may feel that a dark tan will help you look younger, the sun damage to your skin will only cause it to age faster. Always apply sunscreen when going outside for long periods of time to prevent more wrinkles and sunspots from forming on your skin.
 Those dark circles that appear under your eyes can be hard to hide, but applying some under eye cream each night and a lighter cream in the morning can help those circles disappear. Invest in an eye cream that matches the tone of your skin so that it can be blended in well with your foundation and concealer.
 After a long day it can be tempting to slide into bed without washing your face, but removing makeup before you go to bed is essential to keeping your skin healthy. Not only can makeup clog pores, but it can lead to aging and wrinkles because you aren't giving your face a chance to recover from the exposure it faced during the day.


During the day your face is exposed to much dirt and pollution. Washing your face at night is important in removing the oils and filth from the day and giving your skin time to recover. If you leave your makeup on, these oils can become trapped on your skin, which over a period of time results in fine lines and premature aging. If you find you don't have time to wash your face at night or are just too tired, use makeup remover pads to swipe over your skin and eyes. You'll want to cleanse your face on a regular basis, but this is okay to do occasionally.
Sleeping in eye makeup as opposed to foundation may not be as harmful to your skin, but it can create inflammation and irritation for your eyes.
 Lack of sleep can be one of the most harmful things to your skin, as it doesn't give it the proper time to recover and rest, resulting in dark circles and dull, lifeless skin. As you get older it's important that you get a good amount of beauty sleep so that your skin looks new and fresh in the morning. If you have a hard time sleeping, try doing some activities before bed that will relax your body and prepare it for rest. Do a bed-time yoga sequence, drink some hot tea, take a relaxing bath, write a to-do list of everything you need to do to get it off your mind, or take a walk. Performing a relaxing activity before bed will help decrease any stress that is lingering and keeping you from sleeping. , It can be easy for women to feel embarrassed by their age, but growing older is a natural thing, and the more confident you feel about your age, the easier it will be to feel beautiful. Understand that your skin will likely be different than it was when you were in your twenties, but that's not a bad thing. Try to avoid going overboard with makeup and focus on doing what's best for your own skin.
 Applying eyeshadow and other eye makeup is a skill, and you may be tempted to apply more makeup as you get older because you want to cover up as much of your skin as possible. However, too much makeup is going to draw too much attention to your eyes (and not for a good reason). Go with a more natural look that makes your eyes pop, but doesn't give them unnecessary attention.
 Expensive products are not always better; it comes down to your skin type, the tools you use, and how experienced you are with applying it. Make sure you seek out product reviews from people with a similar skin type to you, to give you the closest possible idea of what it will do for you.


Remember that everyone's skin is different so you will have to experiment a bit until you find what works best for you.
Don't underestimate the power of tools. Good quality tools can be the difference between a product looking hideous or gorgeous. Again, tools will be a matter of experimentation with what works for you.
 This means both the shade of your skin and your undertones. Using makeup which is the wrong shade or the wrong undertone can make you look orange or ashy, which is rarely flattering


There are many ways to find out what undertone your skin has. A quick way to tell it to look at the veins on your wrist - if they appear greener, you likely have warm undertones, if they're purple, you likely have cool undertones, and if they're not clearly one of the other, you likely have neutral undertones.

Don't be afraid to get a professional to help match you, either!


The shade and undertones of your face can sometimes be different to the rest of your body. Ideally you should get your products to match your neck/body so your makeup looks cohesive.
Now that you know your shade and undertones, get products to match. Matching your foundation is one of the most important, but eyeshadow and even lip products make a big difference too. A general rule of thumb is to use what matches your undertone (for people with warm undertones, stick to warm coloured eyeshadow and lip liner, and those with cooler undertones tend to suit cooler colours).

People with neutral undertones are lucky in that they can often wear both cool tones and warm tones without looking washed out or orangey.
This is just a rule of thumb, experiment to find what YOU think looks best!



, This will give you a smooth base to put your makeup on, and will help it last throughout the day. Some primers even have properties which will make your skin look and feel brighter.


To minimise wrinkles and pores, use a thick primer which will fill the dips in your skin and make your face appear smoother.
Be very selective in your choice of primer. The results they give vary significantly depending on your skin type, so this is one where it's vital to read reviews and experiment a bit.
 This will make your skin look healthier and give it more of a glow. It should also make your face match your neck and body.


Use a liquid foundation. Powder foundations tend to give less coverage and make your skin look drier, thereby emphasizing wrinkles and making you look older. Don't be tempted to set it with powder either - if you need your makeup to have maximum staying power use a setting spray once you have finished your entire face.
Apply this with a brush or a damp makeup sponge (like a BeautyBlender) to get an even application. Using your fingers can make it look streaky and uneven. Make sure you blend it out past your jawline and down your neck so the colour flows smoothly.
 Using the less is more rule, apply a small amount of liquid concealer to those dark circles or bags under and around your eyes, blending in with your finger or a sponge to dab the concealer into your skin. Choose a concealer that is a shade or two lighter than your skin and try to focus on those darker areas, as applying to lighter areas will make your face look patchy. , Applying it to the apples of your cheeks can pull your face down, while putting it closer to your cheekbones makes your face look perkier and healthier.


You can find a diagram online for this. Make sure you blend out the edges so it looks like your skin's natural healthy glow.
Use a liquid or cream product, and sparingly. Like with foundation, a powder blush can make your skin look dry.
Err on the side of lighter shades (within reason, of course). Shades that are too dark will look garish or make your cheeks look hollow.
 As you age, your eyelids will naturally become more hooded, making it more likely that your eye makeup will wear off, move, and/or crease during the day. Using a primer before you apply eyeshadow will help keep the eyeshadow in place and will also help it stay on longer during the day.


Eyelid primers come in a variety of colours. Most come in nude shades to match your skin and hide any discolouration on your lids, but you can also get white ones which will make the eyelid stand out more and the colours on top brighter. For older skin it is usually better to stick to a nude primer and rely on eyeshadow to make your eyes pop in the way you want them to, else you run the risk of looking garish or drawing more attention to the hood above your eye than you eye itself (which will make the eye look small and asleep).
 Eyes that are more prone to wrinkles and are a little more droopy don't need lots of color, just a slight glow to make them livelier. Swipe a neutral or light shade in the same range of tones as your skin tone (for light to medium skin try champagne, beige, or taupe, for darker skin tones try subtle golds or light browns) across your eyelid. To make the look more dramatic, perhaps for a night out, put a dark matte colour in the crease and outer corner for more definition and drama.


Eyeshadow is one product where powder products work well for older skin. Cream shadows tend to set into wrinkles and creases more easily than powders around the eyes.
If there is a section of your eyelid that is not covered by the lid, you can use a light shimmery shade to highlight that spot. However, you will need to be sparing with this, because over-applied highlight can do the draw attention to wrinkles and hoods, detracting the attention from your actual eyes and making them look small and closed, which is the opposite of what you're trying to do.
Be careful with dark colours, because they can make eyes look sunken and heavy. Used correctly they can add striking definition which can brighten your eyes and make them look younger, but it is a fine balance which can only be achieved with a light touch with the dark shadow, and practice.
Focus mostly on the eyelid and crease of your eye, to avoid drawing attention away from them. Taking your eyeshadow too high up will make your eyes look sunken and closed. You can choose to put a light matte shade just under your eyebrow to highlight your browbone and make your eyes pop more, but this isn't necessary and can look garish if it's too obvious. You can also put a tiny amount of shimmery highlight on the inner corner of your eye (near the bridge of your nose) to open up your eyes, but this doesn't work with all eye shapes. You will need to experiment a bit to know.
Wear clothes and outfits to draw attention to the color of your eyes, not your eyeshadow. If you have blue eyes, wear a shirt that makes your eyes pop, and allow the eyeshadow to highlight that, rather than drawing the full attention on your eyelids. Choosing the right glasses that frame your eyes and face well will also highlight the beauty in your eyes.
You can find diagrams online which give you an idea of where to put your eyeshadow. The guides will need to be adapted to fit your own eye.
Be sure to blend your eyeshadow! You want to create a soft gradient at the edges of each shade of shadow and not have any unnatural looking harsh lines. Try using a fairly small, clean, fluffy brush for this.
 Going for a more subdued color like charcoal or dark brown, apply a thin line to your upper eyelid, and blend it in with a small brush if you want it to look really natural. Using a dark liquid liner is often too harsh on aging eyes, so keeping your eyeliner soft will highlight your eyes without them looking dated. Avoid applying eyeliner under your eye as this can make eyes look smaller. If you still want some sort of color under your eye, take a flat brush and using eyeshadow apply a soft line of color under your lashes. Go sparing, because the more attention you bring to your lower lashline, the more it looks like your eyes are drooping.
 Even if your eyelashes are thin and sparse, choose a lengthening mascara over a volumizing one. Creating more volume without length will just cause eyelashes to look more stubby. The color of your mascara doesn't matter so much, but try to stick to a shade that goes well with your eyebrows (a black is fine for dark brows, but if you brows are blonde stick to brown or dark brown mascara).


Before applying mascara, curl your lashes to give them a nice shape and then apply a mascara primer to help mascara last during the day. Refrain from pumping the mascara wand as this can cause mascara to dry out.
Consider using a waterproof mascara to help keep mascara on during the day. However, make sure to use an oil-based makeup remover at the end of the day.
 Starting at the root of your lashes, wiggle the wand through your lashes to get as much mascara on the roots as possible and then pull the wand through to the tip of your lashes. Do this two to three times, or until your eyelashes have a nice coat of mascara.


Do not overcoat mascara as this will make your lashes look spidery and unnatural. There's a fine line between having a good coat of mascara on your eyelashes and overdoing it.
Only put a small amount of mascara on your lower lashes. You want to define them, but you want to make sure the lashes above your eye are the most visible. For some people the mascara you blink onto your lower lashes from putting it on the top is enough.
 Not everyone will want to wear these, but if your eyelashes have become very thin or almost nonexistent, it could be beneficial to invest in some natural looking false eyelashes to give your eyes a younger look. Make sure to wear individual lashes (good quality ones will be more expensive), rather than a whole length of false eyelashes. False lashes are reusable, as long as you're careful with them. You can buy eyelash glue separately to the lashes if they don't come with enough.
 As women get older, eyebrows can become thin and sometimes almost invisible. Seeking out a professional's advice on how to improve your eyebrows can often help your eyes look younger because they will likely try to improve the arch of your brow, which prevents your eyes from looking droopy. You can also tend to your eyebrows yourself and give them a thicker, fuller look to create more youthful eyes. Using powder and an eyebrow pencil a shade or two darker than your hair can help give color and shape to those thin eyebrows. Use thin, light strokes to imitate the look of natural hairs as opposed to a thick drawn-on line.
 You don't need to drown yourself in it, but you need enough to make it actually work. Holding it 20-30cm from your face and spraying it in a T shape followed by an X shape will be enough to hold your makeup all day.

