 You need to have a visual image of it in your head. Then, once you know what you want to paint, take a pencil and make a very light sketch of it on your canvas. Erase any mistakes. Just draw a simple outline to get you started.;
, If you're unsure, try to find a real life object or model of your sketch. If you do find one, compare it to your sketch. Any changes you want to make? Do you want to use the same colors or some of your own? Decide. Think about it for a few minutes. If you can't find a model of what you're trying to paint, don't fret. Try to find an image online to help you. If there is nothing online or around you, you should probably choose something else to paint, unless you think you can do it.
 By doing this, you can learn how you can make new colors.
, If you have various-sized brushes, good! See what they can do.
 Paint straight lines and study the thickness of it. Paint wavy lines and determine which brushes make curls easiest. Then, paint flowers. Not detailed flowers. Just a circle in the middle of petals. Then try painting these symbols: ? + % # @ & if you have enough room.
 Do you think you're ready? If you feel that you might make a mistake, copy your sketch onto a blank canvas, if you have at least one more. Then pick where you want to start. If you're unsure, pick somewhere that seems easiest.
 Or start with something large, that only requires one or two colors. Then work from that. If your sketch does not include these, wash your hands from any paint that might have spilled on them. Dry them completely. Then return to your canvas. Close your eyes, point your finger, move it around in front of your canvas, and touch your canvas in a random spot. Open your eyes and see where your finger landed. Do you want to start there? If not, do this again and again until you find a comfortable starting place. If this doesn't seem to work, try asking other people where they think you should place your paint brush first. If this is not an option for you, sit back and study your sketch for about 5-10 minutes, adding anything that may seem necessary. If you still can't seem to decide, take a break. Watch videos online of people painting. Take notes. Then when you feel ready to resume your project, return to your canvas. Once again, practice with the paints and brushes, to get the feel of it again. Then, find your starting place. And don't worry. If your painting doesn't turn out to look the way you were hoping it to, use the second sketch and try again. Many famous painters have to try again and again to get the look they were wishing for.

