 Your first task should be to find your right hand man (or woman). Even if you are running for student government or a small municipal position and fulfilling most of the roles of a campaign manager yourself, you should designate a someone who has the authority to handle situations and make decisions in your absence.This should be someone who you both trust and share mutual respect with.
Your campaign manager should have the same goals as you, but they should also be willing to speak their mind and even stand up to you if necessary.
Your campaign manager should be a fair leader that your other staff respect, and must have a complete understanding of your team's goals and vision.
Unless otherwise specified, all of your additional campaign staff should report to your campaign manager in your absence., Even the smallest campaign will have expenses. Someone who is good at tracking and saving money will be invaluable. If possible, a fiscally responsible person should be put in charge of fundraising and authorizing expenditures.Someone who always has a knack for finding a good deal or talking their way into a bargain is a good choice.
Saving a little on simple expenses like signs and flyers can go a long way!
This is a great role for a person who wants to help, but isn't necessarily the best "people person".
 You'll want to find someone with good organizational and networking skills. If you want to plan a rally, or a town hall discussion, or a community event you'll need someone with a knack for planning and getting other people on board. Your event coordinator should work closely with your campaign manager. For example, a good candidate might be a responsible person who always manages to throw the best parties.
They need both passion and flexibility. , When your campaign takes off you might find that other people want to get involved as additional volunteers. Volunteers can raise money, spread awareness, and take care of necessary campaign tasks. But to keep them all on the same page and moving in the same direction you'll need a volunteer coordinator.


Again, you'll want someone with good organizational and networking skills.Your volunteer coordinator must have a clear understanding of the campaign message and vision. Not only will they need to know it, but they'll be responsible for imparting it upon others!
Patience and the ability to motivate other people are also extremely valuable skills for volunteer coordinators.

