 Here are some sports that are popular for Girls: Lacrosse, Tennis, Soccer, Swimming, Cheerleading, Volleyball, and Softball. You need to do at least one of these sports. Or any sport that appeals to you! You can play a "boys sport" if you want.;
, For a shirt you could either wear a sports brand logo shirt, a graphic t, a logo shirt/graphic t from places like Hollister/Aeropostale etc., even a tunic (keep in mind if the tunic is too fancy to wear with Soffe shorts, then it is too fancy for this style),or a sports team shirt. Really, any shirt will do as long as it is tight, has minimal patterns, and screams sporty. For pants wear sweatpants/yoga pants/jeans in the winter/fall, and Soffe shorts/shorts similar to Soffe shorts (they don't have to be the brand name "Soffe")/basketball shorts/or denim shorts/skirts (skirts only SOMETIMES!) in the spring and summer.For shoes wear a good pair of tennis shoes or flip flops. No sequins or any of that stuff just plain old shoes. For tennis shoes I suggest low top Converse sneakers, black is good because it goes with everything, but feel free to get your favorite color! Flip flops can be cheap plastic kinds in any color. You can also occasionally wear Topsiders, canvas shoes, and Uggs.
 For example, if you are allowed to wear khakis, navy blue, and black pants, wear skinny shorts or pants, that follow the rules. If you are allowed to wear jeans, wear jean shorts. Try to push the limits by making your pants a little shorter. For shirts, wear pastel colored (for traditional sporty gals) or bright colored (for popular sporty gals) polo shirts or school shirts. If you have to wear specific colors, try to change the color of that shirt just a little bit so you stand out. To push limits, get a shirt that is a little smaller than what you normally wear and make sure it is snug, but not skin tight. Shoes are usually whatever you want. If this is the case, wear Converse sneakers all the time and occasionally wear Topsiders, canvas shoes, and flats, but nothing with weird glitter, sequins, or sparkles. Just keep it simple.
 The only makeup that you should wear is lip balm, neutral or white eyeshadow with slight shimmer, mascara, and light blush, but only occasionally. You can also add some concealer under your eyes and on pimples.
 Only leave it down once a week and on the other days put it in a ponytail, pigtails, a messy bun, a half-up, a braid, pinning back just the layers, or any variation of these styles. Keep your hair straight, soft, shiny, and smooth. Use a keratin shampoo and conditioner. Also use a straightening balm. Wear hair ribbons when possible. The best colors are white and black. Make sure to use a deep conditioning treatment once a week.
 If you can't get contacts, get stylish glasses, like wide rimmed nerd glasses, small framed preppy glasses, or any kind of lens you want as long as it is stylish, cute, and totally you. But, only wear your glasses when necessary, or else you may be called a nerd.
 Get in a daily skin care regimen of washing, exfoliating, toning (optional), applying an eye serum (optional but recommended), and moisturizing. Do this twice a day everyday. Apply a spot cream to those pesky zits if you have them. Sporty girls do take care of their appearance believe it or not. Take care of your bodily skin by moisturizing daily, using a body brush before showers, and washing it daily.
 You should wear a pair of small earrings, like studs, small dangles, or tiny hoops. Wear these daily except during sports practices. Wear a necklace occasionally. It should be either a funky and chunky necklace or a tiny little silver chain with a huge or small pendant. Only wear these once a week. Bracelets can be cheap little wristbands, braided bracelets, friendship bracelets, plastic bracelets, etc. You should wear at least one of these daily. If you have none, make one or wear a hairband.
 This is not an article on being a tomboy! This is also not an article on being girly! In my head a "Sporty Girl" is one step up from tomboy, but one step down from girly girl. So no sequins, tons of pink, and "Oh, my goodness! Like so totally AWESOME!". But also no, only guy friends, baggy shorts and baggy t-shirts and sneakers everyday! You should try to get good grades and be a good person with no drama, because at a lot of schools you get kicked off the team if you don't get good grades or if problems happen, and you wouldn't want to be grounded by your parents inside while your other friends are kicking around a soccer ball outside!

, Sporty girls can wear pink. In fact, you should wear something pink with every outfit. Sporty girls should have tons of bright and pastel colors, but not much black. They don't really wear baggy clothes. But, tight skinny jeans and shorts are great. Soffe shorts are good for sports practices. Your shirts shouldn't be loose, yet they shouldn't be too tight. Remember to wear bright or pastel colors.

