 The simplest way to help relieve herpes pain at home is by using ice. Ice provides immense relief to most types of pain, as it numbs the skin and dulls the pain receptors in the area.Cover the ice pack with a towel so that it doesn't get too cold. Then place the ice pack over the area with the sores.
Cover the ice pack with a fresh towel each time, and wash each towel in hot, soapy water after use in order to prevent further spread of the infection.;
, If cold doesn't help relieve the pain, some people get more relief with hot/warm compresses. Use a clean cotton towel or washcloth folded so that it covers the entire area with the sores. Use water that is at a warm-hot temperature. Soak the towel, wring out excess water, and apply to the painful area.


Use a clean towel or washcloth each time you repeat the process and wash each item in hot soapy water to prevent the possible spread of the infection.
 Propolis is a waxy resin made by bees that has antiviral properties and appears to accelerate the healing of sores.You can use ointments or salves that contain propolis to soothe and help heal the sores.Many health food stores and drugstores carry these products.
Make sure you buy an ointment or salve (not a capsule or tincture) and follow the manufacturer’s instructions.
For propolis and any other topical home remedy, try a small amount on an unaffected area of skin and wait twenty-four hours (to ensure you don't have any allergic reactions) before applying it to the site of your outbreak.
 Aloe gel or an aloe ointment can be used for pain relief.Apply directly onto the sore either by breaking off a bit of an aloe plant and squeezing out the juice or by using a commercial product and following the manufacturer’s instructions.


You can let the aloe gel or ointment dry and later wash off the crust. Reapply every four hours as needed.
Whether directly from an aloe plant or from a commercial bottle, the cooling effect of the gel can help ease pain and promote healing. If you do have the whole plant, take a fresh leaf of aloe vera in your hand. With a knife, cut it into two halves. Apply one of the gelled parts directly on the infected area.
 1-3 grams of lysine per day may shorten the length of an outbreak.Some studies have indicated that it may be effective at reducing the number of outbreaks of oral herpes sores but should be taken for only about 3-4 weeks at most.Lysine is an amino acid (a protein “building block”) that may increase cholesterol and triglyceride levels, so check with a knowledgeable healthcare professional before taking it.
You can also consume foods rich in lysine, such as fish, chicken, eggs, and potatoes., Olive oil is known for moisturizing the skin. It is rich in antioxidants and is one of the best home remedies for herpes sores. It also contains dinitrochlorobenzene, which plays a vital role in treating herpes infection.Heat a cup of olive oil in a pot with a few sprigs of lavender and some beeswax. After cooling, apply the mixture on the infected area. The beeswax should help keep the oil mixture in place, but you may need to lie down to keep it on the sore.
 Manuka honey has antibacterial and antiviral properties.It can help in the quick healing of herpes blisters and cold sores. All you have to do is to apply the thick honey around the affected region. Apply it several times during the course of the day to make it more effective.


Apply it with cotton swabs or cotton pads directly on your blisters. It can sting you at first, but soon you will feel a numbness on the affected area.
Make sure while applying raw honey to your genitals to lie down to ensure the honey stays directly on the area and doesn't drip off.
 Oregano oil, with its anti-viral properties, helps in the speedy recovery of herpes blisters.You just need to apply some oregano oil directly on the infected area with a cotton swab and let it sit for 10-15 minutes. Then wash off the area and pat dry.


Oregano oil, calendula oil, or jojoba oil can all be applied alone or as a mixture.
 Tea tree oil has been hailed as a veritable cure-all when it comes to any ailment that involves open sores. It is commonly used to treat canker sores and sore throats, and may assist with healing herpes sores outbreaks.Simply use the eye-dropper that comes with the bottle and use a single drop of the oil on the infected area.


Most tea tree oil that is available OTC is concentrated and distilled for maximum potency, so only a small amount is needed for the effects to take place.
 Coconut oil has anti-viral properties against lipid-coated viruses, like the herpes virus, that may help fight the outbreaks of herpes virus that cause sores. It is also an effective skin moisturizer.Although some doctors recommend consuming coconut oil to help boost your immune system, use it sparingly. Coconut oil is about 90% saturated fat, far higher than butter (64%), beef fat (40%), or lard (40%). Studies have not yet shown that its benefits outweigh the potential risk for heart disease that comes with eating too much saturated fat.