 In order to be a snobby, rich mother, you'll have to appear like one. Choose an animal! It could be anything from an Arctic Wolf to a Tiger. Then, customize it. Once you have the basic look completed, select an outfit that appears expensive. Good suggestions are:


High heels
A red or black designer skirt
A diamond necklace
A gardening hat, beret, or diamond earrings

Note: Avoid wearing the tiara, as it appears false.

;
, In order to purchase an expensive den and furniture, you will need to have a budget. Have bedrooms for you and your children, a living room, a bathroom, and a kitchen.,, Capitalize the first letter in each word. Avoid speaking in all capital letters, as it gives off the appearance of yelling. Additionally, act as rich as possible, using phrases such as "steps out of golden limo" or "looks around room for sweet angels to spoil." This will capture people's attention, as well as urge children to act cute in hopes of being adopted.
 Head over to her, and sit down while facing her. Compliment the child and interact with her, gauging her reactions to see if she is the child for you. Once you decide you want to adopt her, pretend to sign adoption papers before picking up the child and taking her home in a fancy mode of transportation, such as a fuzzy stroller or a limo., Fill her room with plushies and action figures, and feed her delicious food while reminding her how precious she is. Take her on special outings, such as to the movies, dinner parties, etc. Don't forget to add her to your friends list so you don't lose contact with each other.,, Warn her of the dangers of wandering out without you. Make sure you never take her to Sarepia Forest, a place full of dangerous clans and other Jammers who could harm her. Always push her in a fuzzy stroller, and protect her from others if necessary. Consider hiring a bodyguard or two if the child is particularly irresponsible.

While taking care of a child can be fun, make sure you allow her to be independent as well. Children need freedom, or else they'll grow too dependent upon their mothers.
 Live an exciting life full of action and romance. Take your child on your wild adventures, and allow her to participate in your life. No one likes a boring mother.,