 Environmental enrichment is very important to your cockatiel’s health and well-being. The happier he feels in his environment, the more fun you will have with him. For the times when you are away from home, leaving the television or radio on for him will keep him mentally and visually stimulated until you get home.Channels that your bird might enjoy are the Travel Channel and Discovery Channel.Animal Planet is another good channel for your bird to watch.
Other than the television or radio, you could also play a CD with bird or nature sounds., As with other pets, cockatiels can become bored when playing with the same toys. Giving your cockatiel a variety of toys (e.g., wooden toys, puzzler toys) will provide him with good physical and mental exercise. You do not have to spend a fortune on toys, though—rotating out the toys every few days will give him what seems like an endless array of toys from which to choose.Cockatiels especially like toys they can shred and destroy. A balled-up piece of newspaper or notebook paper is perfect for your cockatiel and will save you money.Cockatiels have a natural instinct to chew.Select chew toys made of either wood or leather.Chew toys have the added benefit of keeping your cockatiel’s beak trimmed down.Foraging toys encourage your cockatiel to exhibit his natural foraging behavior. By requiring him to put in extra effort to get his food, foraging toys also provide good mental stimulation and physical exercise.Rope preening toys are also available that will satisfy your cockatiel’s natural urge to preen and prevent him from feather picking and self-mutilation.Comfort toys (e.g., snuggle perches) are toys that your cockatiel could snuggle up against, especially if he does not have a cage mate.Exercise toys, such as swings and bungees, will provide your cockatiel with plenty of physical exercise., This will give your cockatiel a change of scenery, which would keep him visually stimulated. Select a new location that is on the periphery of activity, rather than in the center of it. This would give your bird a chance to observe the different activity, but also have some peace and quiet.Determine if your bird will be able to tolerate a change of scenery. If your bird is older or timid, a change in location could cause him to start feather picking., Since cockatiels are such social animals, your cockatiel may be happier if he has a cage mate with whom he can interact.If you spend a lot of time away from home, providing your cockatiel with a cage mate will keep him entertained and busy while you are not home.


Make sure that the new bird is well socialized and friendly.Be mindful that you will need to have frequent interaction with both birds.Having two birds in the same cage could have its downsides. For example, the birds could start to exhibit aggressive behavior. Also, when the birds reach reproductive maturity, they may begin to start feather picking because of hormonal stress.If your bird is older and has become accustomed to the solitary life, giving him a cage mate may not be ideal.Consult with your avian veterinarian if you are considering getting a cage mate for your cockatiel.

