



 ;
, Soak four bamboo skewers in water for 40 to 60 minutes. This will keep them from burning in the oven. Once they are soaked, take them out, pat them dry, and rub some cooking oil onto them. This will make it easier to form the potato spirals., Cut one of the narrow ends off of a potato. Place it cut-side-down onto the cutting board. Push a skewer down through the other narrow end. Slide the potato onto the center of the skewer when you are done.Repeat this step for the other skewers and potatoes.
 Set the skewered potato down in front of you, oriented horizontally. Cut straight down into the right end of the potato; make sure that the tip of the knife is angled to the left. Start turning the skewer towards you as you cut the potato in a spiral., Wrap your hand around the right end of the potato. Gently pull your hand across the potato towards the other end. You may have to do this a few times until you get the trademark corkscrew shape., The dish needs to be narrow enough so that you can set the skewers over the edges. It also needs to be deep enough so that the potatoes don't touch the bottom.If you don't have such a baking dish, you can try setting the potatoes down onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper instead., Melt the butter in the microwave or in a little saucepan over the stove. Pour it into a small mixing bowl, then stir in the garlic, Italian season, salt, and pepper.You can do this with a fork or mini whisk.
 You can do this with a basting brush or a pastry brush. If you don't have either of those, you can carefully pour the butter over the potatoes instead. Be sure to rotate the potatoes so that they get evenly coated.
 After about 15 to 20 minutes, rotate the potatoes by turning the skewers. This will allow them to cook evenly on both sides. They are ready when they are cooked through and have crispy edges., After about 5 minutes, they are ready to eat.You can serve them as they are, or you can garnish them with a sprinkle of Parmesan cheese.

