 One of the prime ingredients for any rising Disney star is the ability to act. It's not that hard, when you think about it—you act every day. Sometimes you act innocent when your parents ask you about something you might have done but don't want to admit it. Sometimes you act really strong, when you're scared to death. You'll need more than this for Disney, though. If you're serious about wanting to become a Disney Channel star, try these things:


Audition for every school or community play you can. Professional theatre companies will even hire children, if they are right for the part (and their parent's consent). The more acting experience you have on your resume, the greater your chances to land an audition for the Disney Channel.
Take acting lessons. Find an actor who can teach, check their references, and start the process of learning the craft of acting. Who couldn't benefit from learning to cry on cue?
Join the Drama Club. The more time you spend with the acting community, the more of an actor you will become.;
, You may do this in the shower, or with your headphones on, but are you confident in your voice? Whether you are or not, the goal is to impress Disney Channel executives, who have seen and heard it all. You want to make sure you're the real deal, so try these steps to get there:


Take voice lessons. Not only will this help you develop your skills as a singer, it will also make you a better actor. How? By learning to control your voice to a fine degree, you'll be able to project any tone or volume you need for your roles on stage. Practice diligently.
Sing in the choir. It may be the school choir, or community choir, or a simple church choir. It doesn't matter, as long as you are singing in a group. Singing in a choir will help you learn to listen to others, and match your pitch to other singers. If you have a city or regional orchestra, or professional choirs, consider auditioning there as well.
 You probably do this already, too. Like acting and singing, it's something most people do all the time—just not professionally. To really present to the Disney staff a well-rounded talent, adding a strong dance card only makes you look better.


Take ballet lessons. It may not be your favorite dance style, but ballet teaches a body discipline that will serve you well throughout your life. It will lend a certain refined grace to your movements, even when you are not dancing.
Take modern dance lessons. This will help further your dancing talent by exposing you to unusual, thought-provoking routines and bold movements. You might like the music better, too!
Take gymnastics or martial arts classes. Learn to do moves that are not dance related, but will teach your body to move in strong, confident ways. The more control you have over every fiber of muscle in your body, the better prepared you will be for an audition with Disney.
 Work out a routine that includes all the skills you have, and practice it until it becomes second nature to you. Push yourself in all areas, so that you have a really great performance piece that will wow the Disney audition staff.


Although this isn't the Olympics, it would still be useful to have a coach—somebody who can help you perfect your routine, and can let you know where you're doing well—and where you need improvement. Check with your teacher at school, or the person giving you acting lessons. If they're not interested, they may have ideas about who would be.
 No audition is complete without one, and the folks at Disney are not an exception. The better the photo you include, the better you will present yourself.


You can have a friend snap a picture of you
Better still, go to the local photo portrait store in the mall, where they have professional lighting and backdrops.
Better than either of those is the professional portrait photographer. They not only have the professional equipment, they specialize in portraits and headshots. Check with your school to see who is doing the Senior Portraits in town, and check them out. If there are several, check out their rates and availability, and tell them what you're looking for.
Make sure your headshot is current, and printed on standard letter-sized paper. If you change your appearance before your audition, make sure to update your headshot, too.
 You will need this to show people your experience, your talents, and your goals. In combination with your head shot, it will speak for you when you're not there, so make it as engaging, thorough, and complete as you can.


Your resume should only be one page, listing your most recent experience and accomplishments. Don't worry if you have limited experience—Disney is looking for the best, not the busiest.
Attach your resume to the back of your headshot, or print it right on the back of your picture. You will leave this package behind after your audition. Remember, it's your calling card—it's how they will remember you, so make it the best representation of "you" that you can make it.
 There are a lot of them listed, around the world. Not only will the list tell you what you might be right for—it will also tell you what they are looking for, in case you want to broaden your skill set.


Visit their Disney Auditions Facebook page as well, where they have contact information and other social media links.
For information concerning casting for roles in film or television contact:
Walt Disney Studios
500 South Buena Vista Street
Burbank, CA 91521

,