 It is important that the primary topic of your convention is something that you are interested in. Knowing the subject of your convention will enable you to enjoy yourself more with people who share the same interests as you.;
, You should know how far and how long you have to drive in advance., You should know how many days your Convention is and if it runs 24 hours or if it closes at a specific time.
 The cost of your pass will vary depending on the convention and its duration. You may preorder your pass online or you also have the option for you to purchase your pass at the door.
 You should already have a budget that accounts for your convention pass, emergencies, food, transportation, and (if applicable) lodging. Keep additional funds for purchases at bazaars and vendors. That sell an array of items, clothes, and paraphernalia for your fandom. , To attend a convention you should always wear comfortable walking shoes and layers. You will want to be able to adjust your outfit accordingly to both very cool and very warm situations, given that you will be in both open and enclosed spaces with mixtures of large crowds of people.Plan out your cosplay: You want to completely embody a character of your choosing? Plan your cosplay well in advance. This may require wigs (or hair dye), prosthetics, heels or bare feet, masks, full body suits, large props (depending on your character), and outfits made out of a large amount of material or little to no material at all. Be sure to have comfortable clothes with you in case you wish to change at any time. Make sure that all your props can fit within your mode of transport., You can be at conventions for hours without returning home or to your hotel room. Your convention survival kit will have specific items that go beyond general necessities, but will increase the comfort and ease in which you attend the convention.


A Convention Survival Kit should contain:

A small backpack. A small backpack will be able to hold personal supplies that you bring, your schedules and maps, in addition to most items you purchase while at the convention.Convention pass. Place your pass in a lanyard that you can wear around your neck to limit your chances of losing it. Insure you have this before you arrive at the convention, as you cannot even attempt to enjoy the festivities if you don't have the pass to allow you entrance.
Schedules and maps. Maps are especially important when attending a convention in an unfamiliar place or location. You will want schedules so that you know what and when things are happening around you in the convention.Refillable water bottle and snacks. Keep your own water in preparation for when you are tired and exhausted. Convention food will always be expensive. Carry your own convenient (preferably resealable) personal snacks. You may also want to map out alternative food areas as an alternative.Portable phone charger. Have a portable phone charger that you can plug into your phone so that you are allowed to charge your device without being immobilized by a wall outlet.Deodorant. Even if you apply before it before you leave, carry it with you always. Do yourself and the people in your immediate area a favor and be prepared. You will understand the necessity when you encounter others who have forgotten to bring theirs, or to put any on to begin with.Your schedule. Your specific schedule should be pre-planned by you to see what events and what times you want to attend. Your schedule can maximize the experience that you get out of your convention by letting you participate in things that interest you., Make an effort to arrive to the convention 30 minutes or more before it begins. Recall that there will be a large amount of people attending the convention.Even if you purchase your pass in advance, you want to cut down on the amount of time that you wait in line. It will enable you to be the first at certain quality vendors that may sell out, events that may fill up, or games that they have early that will be gone later in the day.
If you don't purchase your pass in advance, definitely arrive no less than an hour before the convention begins so that you can be one of the first to receive your pass without waiting for hours in line.
 In the bazaar there will be a vast amount of people, cosplayers, venders, and props everywhere and it may seem overwhelming.


Decipher the way venders are arranged. They will most likely be in rows and columns, or specifically squared of sections with venders of similar materials located in the same area.
If arranged in columns and rows, venture down one the row closest to the door you enter. Once you reach the end, turn around and travel down the same row in the opposite direction. This will allow you to see all the vendors have to offer without tearing your attention between the two sides. Once you reach the end, you can turn and go down the next row.
 Looking at the schedule you planned out before the convention, you should have developed priorities for what you want most out of your convention experience. Among the many panels, parties and events, you will have picked out ahead of time the few that you wish to attend and participate in. These are the parts of the convention where you can actively participate in things tailored specifically to your fandoms and interests. Plan them out accordingly.
 Engaging with anyone is absolutely your choice. However, some cosplayers put a great amount of time, effort, and money, into their costumes and outfits so that you will interact with them. Cosplayers can be solo, or travel in a pack with other cosplayers for a full cast affect. It is one of the most intricate and interesting parts of conventions.Ask permission. The more accurate, intricate, or expensive a cosplay seems to be, the more likely that person would be open and willing to take a photo for or with you. However, they also cosplay for their own enjoyment. Make sure that you gain consent before you assume that someone would be willing to pose for you., You will have arrived at your convention early and remained all day with little to no breaks- its okay to leave an hour or two early. With the schedule that you developed, you should have managed to visit, experience, and purchase a majority of everything that you wanted from the convention. Leave early to avoid crowds on the way home.
 If you were dropped off, call the person to come you pick you up a half an hour or so in advance. Be mindful that they have to navigate the traffic with hundreds of people coming and going from the convention. Give them time to navigate safely and still come pick you up when you're ready to go.
 Before you leave, make sure that everyone you came with is also ready to go. You don't want anyone to be left behind and you also want to make sure that the rest of the group has managed to complete their convention tasks as well.
 By the time you return home, you will have the strong smell of victorious convention survival. As great as it may seem, immediately take a show and wash it away (there will be other conventions and smells for you to encounter). At the end of the day, the convention adrenaline that you have should be fading and you will be completely exhausted. Get a good nights rest! You've earned it by surviving your first nerd convention. Get up the next day and do it again.

