 The common theory as to why children are more susceptible to head lice than adults is that children are less likely to respect personal space. They may also be exposed to situations where head-to-head contact is unavoidable like class nap times or sitting close together side-by-side at their desks. It's as simple as two kids touching heads while leaning over a colouring book. Try to leave space between you and others in order to prevent the spreading of head lice.


Contrary to popular belief, head lice do not jump. They actually crawl very fast from one head to another on a strand of hair. While lice eggs are laid on the shaft of a hair with cement-like glue.
Ask children to try their best to avoid head-to-head contact. That might mean avoiding games or activities that need them to have head contact with each other.;
, Lice can also travel onto any items or surfaces that may have come into contact with the head. Hats, glasses, scarves, combs and hairbrushes, earbuds and headsets, and even chairs can be sites where can lice can jump from and to your own head.


Even within families, it's good practice for each family member to have their own hairbrush or comb.
In some situations such as school closets, clothes, hats, and scarves are often stored together out in the open. Avoid exposing these items by either keeping your belongings with you or storing them away in a bag or backpack.
 Long hair can sometimes reach beyond personal space since some hair can grow well past someone's shoulders or even fall off and get onto other people's space. Keeping hair tied prevents your hair from touching others.


Use hairspray to keep stray hairs in place.
Never share hair ties, barrettes or clips with others.
 This is a great way natural remedy to prevent head lice. These oils will act as repellents and keep head lice away. Use only a few drops on your scalp per day or dilute a few drops in a spray bottle and spritz it in your hair.


Tea tree oil can be quite drying so only use as directed on the label.
Tea tree oil can also be used to treat and remove head lice.
 Prevention also means being on the look out for possible head lice infestations. Caught early enough, you can disrupt the life cycle of lice, making treatment faster and easier. There are several ways to check for head lice which look like brownish-grey caramel sesame seeds and eggs which often look like brown coloured dots:


Lather your hair in conditioner and comb through your hair with a head lice removal comb. Every few passes, wipe the comb out on a paper towel and inspect for brownish-coloured dots or eggs or even actual bugs.Inspect your scalp, especially where hair shafts meet the scalp under direct sunlight or a bright lamp.
Get someone to check around your ear, nape of the neck and the crown of your head for any signs of lice.
Inspect your clothing for signs of lice.

