 These companies specialize in delivering the sort of stripped-down adventure opportunity you’re after. There are several notable cruise lines to choose from, including Linblad Expeditions, InnerSea Discoveries and Silversea, who specialize in a hybrid luxury and excursion brand of ocean travel. Find a company that offers services near your area and meets your standards for accommodations, activities and other amenities.Cruise packages are priced per person, and will ordinarily run you anywhere from $3,000-5,000.It may be necessary to drive or even fly in order to reach the port from which your cruise line sets sail, so be sure to account for this in your planning and scheduling.;
, Expedition cruises sail all over the world, from the tropical South Pacific to the frozen Arctic to the strange and captivating Galapagos Islands. Decide what faraway locale you’re most interested in seeing. Keep in mind factors like climate, distance between ports and severe weather and sea conditions, as these can all potentially impact the outcome of even a short trip.Expedition cruises are offered to all nine continents and span each of the world’s major oceans.
Time your trip to coincide with natural events that have a limited window, such as the aurora borealis or a sea turtle migration.
 Reserve a room for yourself and everyone who will be accompanying you on the trip. Expedition cruise ships tend to be much smaller and less extravagant than luxury liners, sometimes housing as few as 60 passengers plus crew. Most cabins contain one or two beds and a minimal washroom, and feature a single large lounge area, so pack light.Booking your tickets guarantees you a room aboard the ship, as well as meals in the dining room and activities.
Because of the modest size and limited arrangements of expedition cruise ships, this type of outing may not be the best for large families or people who prefer to travel in large groups.
 If you’re venturing outside of your home country, you will need a passport in order to board. You might also be asked to supply one or two additional forms of identification, along with whatever registration paperwork the cruise line needs to confirm your passage on the ship.Make sure these documents are complete and up-to-date well before you’re scheduled to depart.
Precautionary vaccinations may be recommended or required if you’ll be passing through an area where certain diseases are commonly contracted., Much of what you bring with you will be determined by your destination. In frigid climates like Alaska and Antarctica, you’ll be making use of a heavy insulated jacket and multiple layers, whereas warmer destinations will be more forgiving about the type of clothing and accessories you pack. Keep in mind the length of your voyage so that you’ll be able to stock up on enough supplies to last you however many days or weeks you’ll be at sea.It will also be a good idea to bring along a ski mask and snow goggles if you’re headed somewhere cold, and insect repellent, sunblock and a swimsuit for tropical climates like Mexico or the Amazon.Take a look at the literature included with your ticket to get an idea of how best to prepare for a particular destination.
 During the many landings on your itinerary, you may find yourself boating, wading, rafting, cycling or hiking through rugged terrain in unpredictable weather. A few of your essential items should therefore include several changes of outdoor clothing, a spacious backpack and some comfortable, durable footwear. There will also be moments of rest and relaxation aboard the ship in the lounge, dining room and private quarters, so comfort need not be neglected.Fast-drying and water resistant clothing will be a plus, as you’re likely to encounter precipitation or be forced to make a wet landing or two as you disembark.Make sure expensive, irreplaceable and easily-damaged items are put away safely or left onboard the ship while you’re busy at shore.
 Whether it’s a camera, your smartphone or just a journal and a pen, you’ll want to have some way to create a lasting record of all the exciting things you’ll see and do throughout the course of your adventure. You’ll be able to share the highlights of the trip with friends and family when you return home and look back fondly on the memories you made sailing to the distant corners of the world for years to come.You’ll have many opportunities to take pictures of geological landmarks, wildlife and other breathtaking sights without ever leaving the upper deck.
GoPros and other portable recording devices make great companions for brisk travel., While vacation cruise lines are usually more like floating resorts, housing thousands of passengers who are forced to move in herds from one stop to the next, expedition cruises tend to be much smaller. As a result, you’ll be able to travel in relative peace and enjoy the company of your fellow travelers, who often include many interesting and illustrious types of people. A slower pace and more contained atmosphere will help you better absorb the picturesque beauty of your surroundings.The atmosphere on board an expedition cruise is friendly and casual. There’s no need to worry about conventional types of activities and events that are governed by formal etiquette.Some expedition cruises include some light entertainment and other diversions to keep passengers occupied during their voyage.
 As part of what expedition cruise lines term their “enrichment” initiative, on-dick sightseeing sessions and onshore excursions are led by teams of experienced naturalists. These may include botanists, geologists, cultural anthropologists, historians and other heads of various academic fields whose mission is to provide valuable information and context to curious travelers. You should by all means make use of this wealth of collective knowledge in order to form a stronger connection with the places and cultures you’ll be exploring.Don’t be hesitant to ask questions or interact with the specialists onboard your ship. They’re there to inform and enlighten you by sharing their unique insight.
Photography experts, skilled inland guides and other resources are sometimes available to educate passengers., Things don’t always proceed in a strictly regimented fashion aboard an expedition cruise. The smaller ships are subject to sudden alterations in weather, sailing conditions, and the whims of wildlife and other natural phenomena that can put an occasional kink in your plans. Be prepared to stop unexpectedly from time to time, and to press on when a scheduled opportunity to make port is foiled by constantly unfolding circumstances.Expedition cruises have expedition leaders rather than the usual cruise directors and staff. These individuals are responsible for keeping up with a multitude of critical travel details and use their expertise to plan the most opportune times to stop and make port.
Whereas commercial cruises give you a few hours to walk around, shop and occupy yourself freely at each stop, expedition cruises come with a built-in list of activities to participate in., From the deck of your cruise ship (as well as through spellbinding jaunts on foot), you’ll catch glimpses of shifting glaciers, cascading waterfalls or vibrant labyrinths of coral reef, along with exotic native flora and fauna. Let your mind race with amazement as you savor what for many travelers will be a once-in-a-lifetime experience.The stops on an expedition cruise are longer and much more involved than those of more commercial voyages, which means you’ll have more time to fully immerse yourself in the wonder of what’s happening around you.

