 A trap can be set up and left for days while it waits to catch the skink. This reduces the amount of time spent on waiting for the skink to come out of hiding.
 Any unscented, sturdy container will be fine for a temporary home. You can add local leaves and grasses along with food and water. Blue-tailed skinks will eat spiders and other insects, but the easiest food to acquire is from crickets.


Although it is not recommended, you should do research on the most suitable home for this skink if you are preparing a permanent home. It may help to talk to employees at a local vivarium, which can be found online on in the yellow pages.
If you plan to keep the skink permanently, check the laws and permits for your area first.
 You can buy a glue trap or a mouse trap from a local hardware store. Alternatively you can make your own trap using a box and plastic wrap. Cover the opening of the box with plastic wrap and cut a slit in it about 6 inches (15 centimeters) long.


Glue traps are also humane and can be safely used for skinks.
If using a mouse trap, try to get one that does not snap down too quickly. You do not want to injure or kill the skink, just catch it.
 If using a glue trap, you should attach a few crickets to the glue. If using a mouse trap, you may need to use meal worms or dead crickets to bait it. If you are using a homemade trap, you should rest the bait (if it is lightweight) on top of the plastic wrap to lure the skink up there.
 Locate the area where you usually see the skink and set up the trap.
 You do not want the skink to starve or die of thirst before you release it so you should check the trap often to see if a skink has been caught.
 You probably will not catch the skink immediately, but eventually it should work. You may need to change the bait after several days to keep it from getting old or rotting.
 When you have caught a skink, you can transfer it to its temporary home that you have prepared.


For skinks caught in mouse traps or homemade traps, you can simply allow the skink to crawl into its new home.
If you have caught a skink using a glue trap, then pour a few tablespoons of cooking oil onto the trap. This will break down the adhesive and allow the skink to escape. You can also nudge the skink off the trap with your fingers, but be careful not to be bit or cause the tail to fall off.

