 He doesn’t get to decide when and if you talk again. Of course you need to respect any boundaries or requests of his, but if he’s left it open, you choose when you’ll talk again and how, be it via phone, text, or email. This may be difficult initially, but with practice, keeping your distance will be easier.Your control over the initial communications shows him that he no longer has unrestricted access to you.
Go at least one month after your breakup before you speak again.
For example, if you used to send him a message the day of a doctor’s appointment to remind him to go, don’t do that now. He will need to rely on his calendar, not you.
Or, don’t call to tell him that your favorite movie has come on television. Instead, make some popcorn and enjoy your show.;
, After the breakup, it’s time to reinvent yourself a little. Not for your ex or anyone else, but for you. You deserve a fresh beginning. Maybe you’ve been interested in joining a club or taking up a hobby – now’s the perfect time. Or perhaps you’d like to connect with someone who you’ve lost touch with – now’s the perfect time. Whatever you choose, give yourself permission to change, to be even better than you were yesterday, and do it for you and nobody else.Your ex will see positive changes in you and notice that you’re moving on and growing without him. He will hopefully be happy for you and almost definitely regret that he’s not a part of it.
 It’s important that you both have a clear understanding of what your relationship is and isn’t. You are together or you aren’t. It can be difficult to stick to your word, but you need to tell him that you’re together or over. There is no on and off option and you won’t be sticking around for him to come back to when he chooses.This is about you asserting control over yourself and your emotional health.
You can tell him, “Now that we’ve broken up, we need to figure out what our relationship is and how we’ll interact with one another, if at all. There cannot be ambiguity here and I need closure.”

