 In order to expedite your registration and save on fees, you will need an email address for correspondence with USPTO. This email will be part of the public record. Create a separate professional email address such as trademark@.com. Save personal non-professional email addresses, like funnybunny@yahoo.com for your friends and family.
 Before you submit your online registration application to the USPTO, you must format and describe your mark. There are three main categories of trademarks: standard character marks, stylized marks, and design marks.


A standard character mark, also called a word mark, is one or more words that make up your trademark. For example, "Grandma Mary's Supreme Fudge," will be a standard character mark if it doesn't require any particular font or other design flair. With this type of mark, you do not have to create an image file, you will type it into a blank in the registration application.Stylized marks are groups of one or more words done in a fancy font or other graphic representation. If you want "Grandma Mary's Supreme Fudge" in a fanciful font or in color, it will be a stylized mark. You will need to create an image file of your stylized trademark in JPG format to submit with your application.Logos are examples of design marks. Your JPG image file must show the entire logo with the colors, fonts, and other design elements exactly how they will appear on your products. You can't submit pencil sketches or conceptual art. It must be finished., You can use any photo editing software to create your image file. It must be in JPG format. The trademark application requires that the image be between 250 and 944 pixels on any side. The image file cannot exceed 5 megabytes.If you are using a photograph of your trademark in use on an actual product, you can scan the photo to create the image file or many photo processing businesses will create the digital file for a small fee.
 Trademark registration uses a class system. You will need to be able to fit your products into one or more of the standard USPTO classes. The trademark website has a database where you can enter search terms to discover the correct class. For example, searching "FUDGE" yields a result that you will be filing your trademark in Class 030., In order for a trademark to be valid, it must be used in commerce. However, USPTO also lets you "reserve" your trademark while you are starting your business. If you are already selling your goods and using the trademark, you will file as "use in commerce." If you aren't ready yet, you can file as "intent to use" (ITU). An ITU registration will require additional forms and fees to convert it to a regular trademark., As part of your application, you have to show how you will be using the trademark. The specimen is a JPG file that can either be a photo of your product showing the trademark or a digital file of a tag, label, packaging, or sign., Fees to apply to register a mark that is in use in commerce range from $225 to $325 for each class, depending on the method you use. The least expensive way to file is to use the USPTO online application and standardized classes.If you are filing an ITU registration, there will be an additional fee of $100 to convert the ITU status to use in commerce.
If your trademark and usage does not conform to the expedited electronic application, you should strongly consider consulting with an IP attorney before registration. USPTO fees are not refundable.
Fees are typically paid by debit or credit card. All fees must be paid in U.S. dollars.

