 If you are a hobbyist looking to incubate your own eggs for fun, a smaller scale will do. If you are a professional, you will need an incubator with the best technology available.;
, Egg incubators are available in sizes that hold less than 100 eggs and commercial styles that are much larger and more industrial.


Think about how many eggs you want to incubate.
Consider buying something a bit larger than what you currently need. This will allow you to plan for growth so you will not have to buy another incubator in the near future.
Remember that you do not have to fill the incubator in order to use it. For example, you can buy an incubator that holds 200 eggs even if you only plan to incubate 50 eggs at a time.
 You will need an accurate thermostat in your incubator to ensure your eggs grow and hatch properly.
 Look for an incubator that can automatically adjust the humidity level based on the weight of the eggs.
 In order to grow into healthy chicks, eggs need to be turned during incubation. Most incubators come with a tray that allows easy turning, or rollers.


Choose between automatic or manual turning. Automatic turning capabilities will turn the eggs for you, while manual turning machines require you to shift the eggs yourself, either using a tray or rollers.
 Make sure your egg incubator is made from durable, sturdy products. If it looks or feels breakable, it probably is.
 If you are making money from the eggs that you incubate, you will likely consider this an investment. The price of incubators ranges from under $50 to over $100.
 You can find incubators for sale in home and garden stores, pet supply stores and animal feed retailers.


Check online for a larger selection and more competitive pricing. There are websites devoted to selling and maintaining egg incubators.
 Make sure you can exchange or return your incubator if it is defective.
 You can find testimonials and reviews on sites such as Amazon. These can help you understand what other users like and dislike about specific egg incubators.

