 Heat helps your muscles relax, which can relieve lower back pain. Heat is more effective for chronic back pain than ice.Take a short warm shower for 10 minutes before you get into bed. Let the warm water run over your lower back. Alternately, take a hot bath before bed.
Use a hot water bottle or heating pad to apply heat to your sore areas. Do not use a hot water bottle or heating pad while sleeping! You could risk burns or even fire. Use heat for about 15 – 20 minutes before you go to sleep., Breathe in and out deeply, audibly at first. Visualize each muscle in your body relaxing.Begin by taking some deep breaths. Close your eyes and notice the rhythms of your breathing.
Imagine yourself in a place where you feel relaxed and calm. This could be at the beach, in a forest, or even in your own room.
Notice as many sensory details as you can about this place. Use all of your senses — sight, hearing, touch, taste, smell — to imagine what it is like to be in this relaxing place.
Spend a few minutes in this relaxing place before you drift off to sleep.
You can also listen to a guided sleep meditation downloaded to your smartphone or played from your computer., Eating a large meal near bedtime can cause acid reflux and may keep you awake. A light snack such as a piece of toast may help you stay asleep if you tend to wake up hungry in the middle of the night.Limit your overall alcohol consumption. Do not have more than one drink per day for women or two drinks per day for men.Drinking alcohol before bed may help you fall asleep, but it interferes with REM sleep, which is necessary for waking up feeling rested and refreshed.Try to avoid drinking caffeine within six hours of your bedtime. It can disrupt your sleep., Sold in sports stores and drugstores, these rubs can create a pleasant sensation of warmth and relaxation in your muscles.
 Prolonged bed rest can create muscle stiffness and increase back pain. Unless otherwise recommended by your doctor, don’t stay in bed for too long. It's important to get up and move around as soon as you can. Getting up even once every few hours in the beginning will be beneficial. Too much bed rest after an acute injury will weaken the muscles and prolong the time it takes to improve and heal.Always consult with your doctor before returning to your normal physical activities. You could re-injure yourself if you try to do too much too soon.

