 Your goal is to fix your sleep cycle. With that being the case, you need to devise an ideal sleep routine that you are trying to achieve. Establish when you need to fall asleep, how long you want to sleep, and what time you have to get up in the morning. Once you have some target goals in mind, you can make adjustments as necessary to reach those goals. Once you have established and achieved an effective sleep routine, stick with it and don’t deviate from the plan.You should keep a sleep diary that tracks your habits and sleep patterns to help you devise a routine.Try moving up your sleep and wake up times incrementally over a few weeks. If you can go to bed 15 minutes earlier and wake up 15 minutes earlier every day over the course of a few weeks, you can gradually get back to normal sleeping pattern. This may be a more effective and usable strategy than trying to make drastic changes to your sleep patterns.
 Exercise is a necessary activity for health and happiness; however, you will want to exercise earlier in the day if you have problems with your sleep cycle. Working out in the evening or nighttime may boost your adrenaline levels, making it harder to fall and stay asleep. With this in mind, try working out in the morning or early afternoon., A major issue facing people who have trouble sleeping consistently and on a set schedule is the stress they incur in the mornings. We have all been there. When you know you have something important to do in the morning, you have a much harder time falling asleep. While it is not always possible, make every effort to clear your morning schedule of stressful or important events. This will help relax your mind at night, making it easier to fall asleep when you want to.


You can make simple changes to decrease your stress in the morning. Try laying out your clothes before you go to sleep. Put your coffee maker on an alarm so that it will make coffee automatically in the morning. Shower the night before or set out breakfast essentials that don't need to be refrigerated (such as a box of cereal, bowl, and spoon).
 If you can, push everything on your daily schedule forward to an earlier time. If you eat breakfast at 10am, bump it up to 8am, and so forth. Getting all of the daily activities you need to tend to out of the way earlier will free up more time to unwind and get to bed at a reasonable hour., Sleep is all about cycles and rhythm. If you find you are staying up far too late at night and sleeping in for too much of the day, pick a day, preferably when you don’t have anything to do, and just don’t go to sleep. By the time your desired bedtime rolls around again, you will be extremely tired and able to fall asleep.