 Decide which color you want your dog’s hair to turn out and purchase some Kool Aid powder packets in the same shade. There are a variety of colors to choose from, but the best options are purple (grape), blue (berry blue), red (cherry or tropical punch), green (kiwi lime), yellow (lemon lime), or orange (orange).Make sure you get the sugar-free kind of Kool Aid. This works better for dyeing.
Remember that the dye will fade over time. Choose a color that you will still like as it fades. For example, red fades to pink after a few weeks.;
, Purchase a bottle of conditioner designed specifically for dogs. This should be available for purchase at most grocery stores and pet stores. Make sure you get the kind that is specially formulated for canines because this will work better for the dyeing.


Conditioning your dog’s hair will also help your dog’s coat be less tangled and easier to comb out., Since dyeing your dog’s hair can get a bit messy, you’ll want to choose your location wisely. You don’t want to unintentionally dye a bunch of your surroundings by accident. So choose a location outside, or in your garage, or in another location you don’t mind getting a bit wet and possibly multi-colored.You could even do it in your bathroom if you take the proper precautions ahead of time. Put down some old towels you don’t mind getting dirt or dye on.
 Take some canine conditioner and mix in the Kool Aid powder in your chosen color. The mixture should make a creamy paste that spreads easily.You should use the same amount of conditioner you would normally use on your dog, which will vary depending on the size of your dog.
Use on or two packets of Kool Aid powder depending on how big your dog is and how vibrant you want the color to be. If you have a large dog and you want a very vibrant color, use two packets. If you have a small dog, use one packet.
 You can use one color for your dog’s whole body, or you can use several colors in different areas. Make a conditioner/Kool Aid mixture for each color you want to use.You could dye your dog’s head red and its body green for Christmas. Or you could dye your dog in red and blue stripes for the 4th of July.
 In order to prep your dog’s coat for the dye, you should give your dog a bath. You can do this in your indoor bathtub or shower, or even outside with the hose, weather permitting. Make sure you use a nonstick surface to keep your dog from slipping in the bathtub.Always use shampoo that is made especially for dogs, not human shampoo.
Lather up your dog with the shampoo and rinse it out.
 If you plan on dying the hair on your dog’s face, you’ll need to take some precautions to ensure the dye doesn’t get into your dog’s eyes. Use some sterile ophthalmic ointment on the hair closest to its eyes to protect them from the irritating dye.Apply the ointment before you apply to conditioner/dye mixture.
This product should be safe for all dogs unless your dog has a specific (and rare) allergy to the ingredients. Watch out for signs of skin irritation or scratching.
You should be able to buy this type of ointment at most pet supply stores, or even online at Amazon.
 Rub the conditioner mixture through your dog's coat. Be sure to slather the mixture on thoroughly so that it covers all the area you want to dye without missing any parts.You can use a dog brush or comb to make sure the mixture gets through the entire coat or to create patterns. For example, you can use a brush to make clear lines or breaks from one color to another.
Let the dye/conditioner mixture sit for 5-10 minutes on your dog, being careful not to let your dog rub up against anything you don’t want dyed.
Make sure to wear protective gloves during the whole process to keep your hands from getting any of the dye on them. Otherwise you might end up with splotchy blue or green hands., Keep your dog in the bathtub or shower (or outside) to avoid any potential mess and rinse the conditioner out with water. Make sure to do a thorough job and get all of the conditioner out as leaving any in could potentially irritate your dog’s skin.Use a towel to help soak up any of the excess water and then let your dog’s coat air dry.
Once the conditioner mixture is rinsed out, you can see how vibrant the color will be. If the color turns out more faded than you would like, feel free to repeat the conditioning process so that the color becomes more visible.

