 Nutrition labels are posted on the side of packaged foods. Make reading these labels a habit. Check the amount of sodium per serving. You should aim to have no more than 2,300 mg of sodium a day. Your doctor may recommend an even lower daily limit.


Aim to have less than 5% of your daily value (DV) per serving of food.
 Some food may seem to have a small amount of sodium. If the serving size is small, however, you may unintentionally consume high amounts of sodium if you eat larger servings of the food. Always check the nutrition label to see what the serving size is.For example, a sauce may state that it only has 5 mg of sodium per serving. If you do not realize that the serving size is only one tablespoon, however, you may accidentally eat several tablespoons without realizing how much salt you're really consuming.
 Many foods may have low sodium versions, and these might be marked on the label as “sodium free” or “light in sodium.” Learn the difference between these labels so that you know just how much sodium you will be consuming.Reduced or less sodium: there is at least 35 percent less sodium than the original version of the product.

Light in sodium: the product contains at least 50 percent less sodium than the normal version.

Low sodium: the product contains 140 mg of sodium or less per serving.

Sodium free: there is less than 5 mg of sodium per serving in this product.
 Fruits and vegetables are key to a healthy diet, but it is important to buy the right kinds of foods. Canned vegetables are processed with high levels of sodium. Instead, buy your fruits and vegetables either frozen or fresh. If you want beans, buy the dried version instead of the canned version.While plain frozen vegetables are good, frozen meals or prepared foods often contain high levels of salt.
 Dairy products can make low sodium foods tastier, and there are many low sodium dairy options available. If the dairy has been processed, however, salt may have been added. Always double-check the sodium content on the nutrition label.


Look for low fat milk, yogurt, and soy milk options.Mozzarella, ricotta, Swiss, and cream cheese are all typically lower in sodium while other cheeses tend to be higher in sodium.
Regular milk and cream are low in sodium whereas buttermilk is high in sodium., The more processed the food is, the more likely salt is used as a preservative. Try to make your own food as much as possible to avoid high sodium intake. In particular, watch out for:


Cured meats like bacon, smoked brisket, or deli meats
Premade meals such as frozen dinners, canned soups, or foods with sauces.
Snacks like chips, pretzels, and breadsticks.
Pickled foods like relish.
Prepackaged spice mixes or sauces.