 Get a volunteer form through the MADD website or by visiting your local office. Depending on where you live or the type of work you want to do, you may have to go through a background check.If you have any special skills or training, be sure to highlight them on your application. You also want to include any experience you have that is related to MADD's activities and mission.
You typically don't have to pay any fees to go through the volunteer application process, but in some cases it may be your responsibility to cover the cost of a background check or other expenses in processing your application.
 One of the easiest ways to help a MADD local office as a volunteer is to complete data-entry or filing tasks, stuff envelopes, or man the phones. Talk to someone in the local office to find out what kind of help they need.MADD also sends sympathy cards to the families of victims of drunk drivers. Your office may want you to research local drunk driving fatalities and gather information about the victims' families so you can send out cards and offer them support.
 Local offices frequently organize vigils for drunk driving victims and other events designed to raise awareness in your community. They always need volunteers to help at these events.Once you've been working with MADD for awhile, you may be called on to man a MADD booth at a health fair or other event. However, even as a new volunteer you also can help with clean-up and crowd control at an event, or hand out fliers.
 MADD volunteers often attend trials and other hearings involving drunk-driving arrests. Your purpose as a court monitor is to make sure drunk-driving cases are being handled appropriately in the courts.As a court monitor, you also may provide limited moral support for any victims present during court proceedings.
 Once you've been involved with your local office for awhile, an opportunity may open up for you to take on more of a leadership role in the organization.These positions typically are offered to the most active volunteers, or to people who already have strong professional connections and community ties.

