 Wearing something that gives people a new and refreshed feeling, and that's exactly what the first day of school is about. Don't just go for something that everybody is wearing at the moment because it is "in fashion", choose something that really expresses your personality so people can see what you're like looking only at your outfit. Here are some ideas:


If you are someone who is shy but friendly, choose a pale color like lilac, pale yellow, baby blue, or baby/light pink.






If you are an outgoing, sunny person, choose a bright color like hot pink, bright sunshine-y yellow, or orange.






If you are more of a hippie, go with what you like to wear. The hippie style is one that is very reflective of your personality.






If you want to show your more serious side, wear a dark top. Try avoiding black, because it isn't the most bright color for school and it can give people the wrong impression. If black is not your really your thing, you could try wearing navy blue, dark green, or a dark purple.





;
, Wearing a skirt shows your girly side; shorts show that you're confident, fun, and outgoing; and casual jeans show that you are, well, relaxed! Wearing what you feel comfortable in is a great rule of thumb, because you want to show who YOU are, not who someone else might be.
 It's always a good idea to wear accessories. It adds an extra piece to your ensemble, and can really make the outfit. Just be cautious of overdoing it, because after all, it's school, not a fashion show.
 Remember, your personality is key. Do what you like to do with your hair, whether you straighten it, curl it, put it in a bun, or let it hang loose! Even throw it in a ponytail or braid. Whatever shows your inside and unique personality! But if a bad hair day comes up, put it in a messy bun and pin up your bangs (if you have any). Then just spray it with hairspray to let it hold. It looks super cute and will cover up any parts you want to hide.
 This will make it easier when picking your clothes. But don't forget, its your personality. Be creative! Wear closed or open-toed shoes, anything that you think would look nice and match your clothes.
 When you go to school, never go overboard on makeup. Just wear a little bit of what you think brings out your best features. This could be mascara, lip-gloss, eyeshadow, eye liner, cover-up, or any combination of these. But remember, don't put too much cover up on, or your face might end up looking orange. Just keep makeup minimal and pick colors that express yourself.
 Give yourself a pep talk before your first day (and everyday for that matter) of school so that your confidence is on fire. Be proud and start your day off like that and nothing can go wrong. Style isn't just about how you look, it's about how you feel. Love yourself and fashion will love you back.

