 The term dorsiflexion refers to when your foot is pulled towards your body to help increase the motion of your ankle against resistance. It also helps to improve the strength of the muscles around your ankle.To do this exercise:


Secure a resistance band or towel around a stable fixture (like a table leg) and tie it in a loop. Assume a sitting position with your legs stretched as far as possible from the fixture.
Place the loop of the resistance band or tied towel around your foot. Stretch the resistance band or towel by pulling your toes towards your body. Hold this position for 5 to 10 seconds and then release.
Repeat this exercise 10 to 20 times on both ankles. Its important to exercise both ankles so that they both get strong.
 Plantar flexion is the medical term for moving your foot away from your body. This exercise helps to increase your ankle’s downward range of motion. To do this exercise:


Wrap a towel or resistance band around the bottom of your foot so that it is resting on the ball of your foot. Take the ends of the towel or the band and extend your leg out in front of you.
Move your toes away from your body so that you foot points away from where you are sitting. Point your toes as far away from your body as possible but stop if you start to feel pain.
Hold this position for 10 seconds before releasing your toes. Do this 10 to 20 times on both ankles.
 Inversion is the process of turning your ankle inward towards the middle of your body. To do this, you will have to loop a resistance band or a towel around something stable like a couch or table leg. Tie the other end of the band or towel together so that the band forms a circle. To do the exercise:


Sit down with your legs extended out in front of you. Your ankle should be parallel to the table leg or couch leg that you are using to keep your resistance band in place. Place the resistance band or towel around the top of your foot.
Rotate your ankle joint and foot towards your other leg, pulling against the resistance from the band or towel.
Hold this position for 10 seconds. Repeat this exercise 10 to 20 times on both ankles.
 Eversion is when you strengthen the inside of your ankle by moving your ankle away from the center of your body. It is the opposite of the inversion exercise. Place a towel or band around something stable, like the leg of a table. Tie the other end of the band or towel so that it forms a large loop.To do this exercise:


Sit with your legs stretched out in front of you. Place the looped band or towel around your foot so that the towel or band rests on the inside of your foot.
Extend your foot and toes so that they point up and then away from your body, keeping your heel on the ground. Hold this position for 10 seconds and then release.
Repeat this exercise 10 or 20 times on both ankles.

