, You’ll be making this lantern by drawing on a piece of card stock, poking holes in it, taping it into a tube, and placing it over a candle. Before drawing on the card stock, decide on your lantern’s size and, if necessary, cut the paper to size.


You may want to choose the size of your lantern based on the candle you plan to use.
You can also choose the size of the lantern based on the card stock you have or where you want to use the lantern.
 Use a pencil to very lightly sketch in your desired design right at the center of the card stock. This will be the front of your lantern.


You don’t have to limit yourself to the front of the lantern. You can also do a larger design that goes all the way around, or off to the side. It’s up to you!
It may be tempting to get ambitious with your design. Just remember that the more holes you poke, the more time it’ll take you to make your lantern!
Remember to sketch lightly so that it’s easier to erase the pencil markings once you’ve poked your holes.
 Try to keep the space between holes as even as possible. Do this until the design is complete.


You’ll want to place the card stock on a piece of styrofoam or foam board for this step, so that the thumb tack has a firm surface it can fully sink into.
One to two millimeters between holes would work well, but it doesn’t have to be exact — you can eye it!

, Use a good, soft eraser to remove the pencil marks along your designs. A thick, soft white eraser will work well.


Be sure to press gently as you erase the pencil marks, and do not hold the paper against a hard surface as you erase them, otherwise the holes you’ve made may close up a bit.
If the holes do close up a bit as you erase the pencil marks, it’s not a big deal — just use a thumb tack to gently push them outward again.
 To fasten the sides together, place double-sided tape on the back of one side of the paper, and on the front of the other side so that when they overlap they’re extra secure.


If you have a large candle, you can wrap the card stock around the candle to get the shape you want.
 Place a votive into a glass votive holder and light it, then place the cylinder over the lit votive. To reduce the fire hazard, you can use an electric candle.
