, Enter your username and password into the boxes on the screen, and tap the gray "Login" button just beneath the two of them. You will be brought to your Waze dashboard, which serves as a record of your activity in the app.
 The first section of data on the Dashboard displays your cumulative totals as a driver. Here, you'll be able to see:









Reports - The number of reports you've made. This number totals the number of reports you've made in the app about traffic, police activity, road accidents, safety hazards, gas prices, and closures.
Driven Miles/Kilometers - The total distance you've driven with the app open.
Paved Miles/Kilometers - The total distance you've driven on paved roads with the app open.
Munched Feet/Meters - The total distance you've driven on unconfirmed roads.
 As a community-driven navigation platform, Waze allows users to edit the app's maps for improvement. This section of the dashboard totals the number of community engagements you've made, which include:








Map Edits - The number of times you have edited the Waze map.
Resolved Update Requests -The number of times you have responded to another user's questions about an issue with the map (often a status update on traffic, accidents, or closures).
Forum Posts - The number of times you have posted on a Waze forum.
 On the left half of the screen, you'll see your username listed on top of a number of points and a ranking number. These are Waze points, which allow you to unlock new personal avatars in the app. Your Waze ranking is calculated according to your number of Waze points, which you can accumulate by completing actions in the app as well as achieving milestones:








Road reporting (6 points per report)
Gas/Fuel price reports (8 points per report)
Report comments (3 points per comment)
Editing the map2 (3 points per edit)
Place photo (6 points per photo)
Place update (3 points per detail added)
Solving map update requests (3 points per request solved)
Adding street names (3 point per name)
Adding house numbers (1 point per segment)
Forum posts (2 points per 3 forum posts)
Road goodies (Face Value)

, At the bottom of the page, you'll see two boxes containing a geographic region and a measurement system. Click on these boxes to change your region or the measurement units used in the app.








