 The ‘life’ aspect of work-life balance is typically what suffers. You may be so involved with work that you regularly bow out of family or social events. You find yourself making excuses as to why you never have time for friends or family.It’s possible you also find yourself “put out” by family and friends, as if their requests are unreasonable or inconsiderate. You resent the fact that they “don’t understand” how hard you have things.
If you start counting them, you'll probably find that your excuses outnumber the events you actually attend.
 Friends and family may understand initially when you have to miss a wedding or graduation. But, eventually they will start to resent you. You might hear complaints about your lack of commitment to those closest to you. Your relationships may start to suffer. Over time, you may notice that you are no longer being invited because they don’t expect you to come anyway.

Don't ignore these complaints. Get real with yourself. Your loved ones aren't nagging because they're bored--they're trying to send you a message that you're neglecting them.
 Do you feel alone, like you’re no longer close to anyone? Try to think about who you go to for emotional support, your closest friends and confidants. Who would you turn to if you needed to talk or wanted to do something fun? If you can’t think of anyone, you’re likely too consumed with work., If the word ‘vacation’ is a foreign term, your work-life balance may need some tweaking. When you first got the job, you were thrilled by the annual two-week vacation allotment. But, you’ve never actually used your vacation time. Your partner or friends may often suggest cool places to visit. Unfortunately, you never seem to carve out the time for a getaway.If you have all or nearly all of your vacation days remaining at the end of a year, you are probably working too much.
You may push yourself to work through illnesses instead of taking time to recover. Use your sick time - that's what it's there for.
 In your current predicament, you may be challenged to remember the last time you had some rejuvenating alone time. This doesn’t count your five-minute showers or hour-long commute to work, because you spend these activities reflecting on your to-do list. In order to achieve work-life balance, you need some time alone to decompress and to things you enjoy.If you can't remember the last time you read a good book or played poker with your pals, you may be putting work ahead at the top of your priority list.

