 Wear as few items as you can. You don't need a scarf, a necklace, a mask; maybe just a little flower as a hair accessory. Remember, you don't need a HC or VIP membership to look nice. Basically, go or the stuff that looks the most casual and normal.;
, Don't use the "bacon" hair, for example., Hoodies are fine, even short or long sleeved shirts. Sometimes the shirts with no sleeves are the best., Girls could wear (black or grey) shorts or even the short skirt (not the longer skirt, you'll look like a grandma). Guys could wear the long, baggy pants., Don't wear fluorescent green, it doesn't look that elegant.

Try to use colours that look good together, wear pants, shorts, or even skirts (sometimes that, it depends.)
It's good to pick neutral colors -- like grey, brown, maybe blue.
 You can wear the eye patch (if an HC)., For example, you could wear the award item, feather, the "key" chain, and the teeth necklace. No bling, scarves or other jewelry allowed. No belts either unless you are a male (wear the star belt or the brown H belt).


You don't need to wear glasses.
Don't wear the "nipple" hat with the butterfly clip or headphones and the long messy hair, that look is way overused and most people assume you're a boy.
 For the shoes -- try Lego blocks or the thin sandals. High heels or sneakers are a personal choice., If people are mean to you, you don't need to put up with it; everyone deserves respect, so stand up for yourself. However, do not lose your temper and start blaring in caps lock, because it's going to make you seem like a noob. Accept that not everyone is going to like you but just ignore them. You may choose to keep to yourself, or talk just a little.
 There's nothing more annoying than someone who begs for furniture or keeps asking for rights. Don't do that. If it seems like someone doesn't want to talk to you, then just leave them alone. When you go into someone's room, just quietly sit down. Simple as that.
 You can talk using such words as: "ur, lol, rofl, lmao, haha, replacing "s" with "z". (Just don't use them for formal writing.)


Carry out normal conversations. Don't talk about weird things.
 Socialize with those players who act smart. Hang out in nicely furnished rooms, with rich owners.


Stay in help centers and in rich casinos. Whenever there is a party going on, go there. Socialize all the time.






Don't add random people.
 You probably need to buy credits. Players are attracted to the players who have a lot of credits, and furniture. They will tend to be nicer to you as they will want some of your share. Be nice to them too, you don't get unlimited friends and people who are nice to you.


If you don't have any furniture, try playing games such as "CC, FF, or DHTW"







, People who spam you, tease you, upset you are probably not the best type of people/friends to have around you, so choose wisely when making friends. Observe a person first. Remember, you need friends you can trust, and who are nice and respectful to you.

