 To go to the old version of Gilneas before it was invaded by the Forsaken, all you need to do is to create a new Worgen character. To create a new Worgen character, open up World of Warcraft, and log in with your username and password.


After logging in, you will be taken to the character selection screen. On the bottom right of the screen are a few buttons, namely Delete Character, Back, and Create New Character.
After clicking on “Create New Character,” you will see a list of race icons and names on the left such as Human, Dwarf, Night Elf, and suchlike. Click on the wolf icon, which has the word “Worgen.”
On the bottom of the screen you can also click the “Customize” button to customize the skin color, hair, and other appearance details of your Worgen.
Once you are finished, click on the “Finish” button located at the bottom of the screen.
After your character has been created, you will be taken back to the character selection screen.;
, On the character selection screen, select a character then click on the “Enter World” button, which is at the bottom of your screen.


All newly created level 1 Worgen characters automatically start in a historic version of Gilneas. No other characters besides new Worgens can enter this area, and there is no way to get there unless you are a newly created level 1 Worgen.
You also will not be able to leave this area unless you go through the questline.
 As a fresh level 1 Worgen, the first thing you see on your screen is the prince of Gilneas, Liam Greymane. He will start you on a quest line where you go through the events surrounding the Gilneans becoming turned into Worgen and fleeing to Darnassus after the Forsaken invade Gilneas.


After your character finishes the quests in old Gilneas, you will never be able to return there with that character.
If you create a Worgen Death Knight, you will start at level 55 in the Ebon Hold instead of at level 1 in old Gilneas. All Death Knights start at level 55 in the Ebon Hold and must go through the Death Knight questline.
You will not be able to enter old Gilneas as a Worgen Death Knight. As long as your newly created Worgen is any other class besides a Death Knight, you will start out in old Gilneas.

