


Your CRM tools will be implemented by all departments of a company, or at least impact each department in some way. Meet with representatives of each major department and direct your sales pitch to explain how your software can benefit their organization as a whole.;
,


The sales or client relations department of a business is the one that will be most directly affected by the implementation of CRM technology. Meet with this group separately or focus a section of your sales talk toward the sales department. This will likely be the group that has the most questions and reservations, so giving them more of your attention will help you appeal to them.



CRM software has met with resistance, because many business owners are doubtful that instant results can occur after the program is implemented. Take time to explain how the CRM software program will be implemented gradually and what training will be put in place to teach employees how to effectively use the software.



Executives that feel like the current system of client management is sufficient will be better able to understand the need for a CRM program if you show them how it will increase productivity. CRM software can make old files or records readily available when they would have otherwise been locked away in storage, giving salespeople more information to better understand the needs of the clients.



Large corporations will need streamlined CRM programs that will condense client information and sales numbers into manageable data. Smaller businesses that have more hands-on relationships with clients will need more access to individual purchase orders and requirements. Always evaluate the size of the business when directing your CRM presentation, since it directly affects client relationship needs.



Allow the sales staff of the company to tell you what problems are affecting sales or productivity. Listening to the issues a business has in reaching customers effectively will help you choose products that will be most effective in managing client relations.



Recent additions to the company will have more modern perspectives on client management and will be more receptive to the benefits of CRM. Appealing to them first, and securing their support, will help you sell to older, more established executives that will be more resistant to change.

