 Waxing can be painful, but it is quite effective at reducing body hair growth. Since the hair is removed from the root, the hair grows back finer, thinner, and slower. You can either buy wax to apply yourself at home or go to a spa or salon to get a professional wax treatment.


There are two different kinds of wax. If you are waxing at home, make sure you get hard wax for sensitive areas such as your face, underarms, and bikini area. Soft wax can be used on heartier areas, such as your legs, back, chest, and arms. You can buy wax you heat in the microwave and fabric strips in most major retailers. You can also buy premade wax strips if you don't want to deal with melting your own wax.
One of the main downsides is that waxing should only be done about once every 30 days. This means that the body hair must be left to grow for that long. This can be uncomfortable at first, especially in problem areas, but over time, the hair growth should be reduced enough to make it harder to notice.;
, If your hair growth is still too much, you can also remove the hair as well. Although there is a persistent myth that shaving makes hair grow back thicker and faster, there is no scientific fact behind this claim. Shaving an area will reduce the amount of hair for the time being while you wait for the hair to be reduced by other means.This method can cause irritation. Make sure, if you shave, to put plenty of shaving cream or lather on the area you shave in order to loosen the hair follicles and reduce skin irritation.
 Depilatory creams are chemical creams that dissolve the hair upon application. These creams used to smell awful and make your skin sting upon application, but developments in recent years have made many change to this method of hair removal that have made them more comfortable and pleasant to use. These creams, such as Nair, dissolve the hair above the skin. Although your hair may grow back a little faster than with waxing, the hair may be finer and lighter due to the bleaching qualities in many of these creams.


This method also hurts much less than waxing and does not cause skin irritation and increased hair growth like shaving can.
You can buy some specifically designed for particular areas of your body, such as your face, bikini area, and your legs.