 Often when we do squats, we favor one side or another of our bodies, leaning more heavily on our right or left foot. With a resistance band, we can correct this imbalance by forcing ourselves to shift weight and turn our hips toward the leg we usually do not favor. This exercise will also strengthen weak quads (the muscles of the the thigh) by pulling the knee forward.
 Wrap the resistance band around a heavy fixed object such as a squat rack. Position it at a level on the same plane as your knee or upper shin.








Ensure your band is securely fastened and there is no risk of it snapping back on you or a bystander.
In this exercise, you will not hold the handles of the resistance band. The band will only touch the back of your leg. It will remain fastened to the squat rack or some other immobile object.
 Slip whichever leg you want to strengthen through the band. If, for instance, you usually shift your weight to your right leg, wrap the band around your left leg. Then, stand about one meter away from the point at which the band is affixed and place your left foot into the loop so that the band is touching the space right behind your knee.Ideally, the band will be pulling the leg straight out, but it is also acceptable for the band is affixed to a squat rack at a slight angle.
 You can use either kettle bells or a barbell. If using a barbell, place the bar behind your neck and lift it off the rack with both hands. Angle your neck down slightly to better allow the weight to be borne on your shoulders. If using kettle bells, pick them up and assume the front rack position, with each kettle bell resting on your shoulder/upper arm. Hold each kettle bell by the handle, letting it hang off the ends of your fingers. They should sit on or near your shoulders or inner deltoids. Your palms should face inward, towards each other. Place your thumbs a bit under your chin. Angle your elbows away from your body, and make each of your palms face the palm on the opposite side of your body.









Don’t round your spine when lifting kettle bells. This could cause injury and places an undue strain on your back. Squat down to pick the kettle bells up, and keep your back rigid in a vertical or slight diagonal orientation when standing up., Put more weight on the leg which has the band wrapped around it to ensure it doesn’t slide.This will help train you to use both legs, rather than just your dominant leg, when lifting. As you continue to use the resistance band to correct your weak leg’s strength imbalance, your body will develop muscle memory and you’ll eventually be able to assume the same strength-correcting position without using the resistance band.
 Preparing to do a squat requires a few specific physical actions. First, tense your arms, neck, shoulders, and belly muscles. Next, relax at the knees. Your thigh and calf should form an obtuse angle measuring approximately ten degrees.Your eyes and head should face forward.Maintain this position until it is time to perform the squat.
 Bend forward slightly from the hips, then bend your knees.Your back should remain stiff and your head and shoulders should be oriented in a forward direction. Your kneecaps should reach beyond the tips of your toes.









Continue to keep your abdomen tight. When you feel you've squatted as low as possible without falling backward, freeze.
After two or three seconds, return to the starting position. Come up slowly, using your heels to push yourself up.Tighten your glutes as you return to the standing position you began from.

