 There are several exercises that provide a good mix of stretching and working out your neck and lower facial muscles. Repeat them once or twice a day and this may strengthen your neck so that it appears firmer.Place one hand on your forehead. Push your head against it without letting it go forwards. You should feel your neck muscles working. Hold this position for about 10 seconds. Then clasp your hands behind your head, and push backwards to create pressure, and again hold for about ten seconds.
Sit down with your back straight. Lift your head back so that your chin is pointing toward the ceiling with your lips closed. Next make a chewing motion with your mouth. You'll feel your neck and facial muscles being worked. Repeat about 20 times.Again, sit with a straight back and lift your head so that your chin points to the ceiling with your lips together. This time, pout your lips in a sort of kissing motion. Repeat this exercise twice. This may feel similar to the first exercise, but actually works different parts of your neck and face.Be careful with this one because it could strain your neck. Lie on the bed with your head hanging over the edge. Slowly and carefully lift your head up towards your torso, using your neck. Slowly and carefully lower it back down. Repeat this about 5 times. Stop immediately if you feel any pain.;
, Certain facial movements and expressions, such as tilting your head in disagreement, can weaken adjacent muscles. Observe any repeated facial gestures you may make to help keep your neck skin firm longer.Whenever you use facial or neck muscles, it causes a groove to form under your skin. As your skin loses elasticity over time, it can no longer fill this grove and may cause a permanent wrinkle or flap on your neck., There is some evidence that a nutritionally well-balanced diet may protect your skin.Avoiding unhealthy and junk foods may help keep wrinkles and loss of elasticity at bay.Diets high in fat and sugar may slow cell turnover.Try not to eat too many fried foods or sweets — limit your simple sugar intake and instead focus on complex carbohydrates.
Foods high in vitamin A and beta-carotene, including fruits and vegetables such as raspberries and carrots, may increase cell turnover for healthier skin.Yellow and orange fruits and vegetables are high in vitamin A and beta-carotene. These, combined with plenty of water, increase cell turnover resulting in healthy skin that is not prone to clog-causing damage.Food high in essential fatty acids (alpha-linolenic and linoleic fatty acids), such as walnuts or olive oil, may help skin cells stay hydrated.Unhealthy foods also take the place of foods you could be eating that provide the necessary vitamins and antioxidants to promote healthy skin.
 Skin that is hydrated is generally more plump and firm and less likely to sag or wrinkle. Making sure you consume enough liquids every day can help you tighten your neck skin.You should consume at least nine cups of water a day to stay hydrated if you are a woman and 13 cups if you are a man. Athletes and pregnant women require up to 16 cups of water a day.Water is the best choice for your needs, but you can also drink non-caffeinated tea, and juices diluted with water.
You may consume coffee or caffeinated teas and soft drinks in limited quantities, but be aware that they may dehydrate you slightly.
 Use a skin-type specific moisturizer that boosts collagen and elastin production every day. Having properly hydrated skin can help make your neck skin firmer.Even if your skin is oily, it may need a moisturizer. Choose an oil-free and non-comedogenic product.Seek the advice of a dermatologist or skincare professional to help assess what type of skin you have. You can buy products specifically formulated for your skin type and needs at most pharmacies and at many retailers, including department stores.There are many products that can not only boost collagen and elastin production, but may also improve the appearance of your neck skin by plumping it up with products such as silicone and hyaluronic acid.Using a moisturizer with a built in sunscreen may increase the skin firming benefits., Ultraviolet radiation, which is present in the sun’s rays, speeds the natural aging process by breaking down the collagen and elastin fibers that keep your skin firm. Reducing or avoiding sun exposure may help your skin retain its firmness longer.Wear a broad spectrum, high SPF (at least 30) sunscreen for times when you are outside running errands or doing other activities.You can also wear a hat with a wide brim to further help protect your skin from sun exposure.
If you go to the beach or pool, consider sitting under an umbrella. Use a water-resistant sunscreen.
 Like sun exposure, smoking accelerates the natural aging process by changing the blood supply to your skin.Quit or reduce your smoking habit to stop the aging process in your skin, which may help it stay firmer longer.Speak to your doctor if you are having difficulties quitting smoking. She can help you develop an effective treatment plan.
 Weight gain can cause your skin to stretch and will leave you with looser skin if you lose the weight. Sudden weight loss doesn't give your skin time to adjust and will leave it looking and feeling loose. Maintain your current weight or lose weight gradually to avoid sagging neck skin.

