 Depending on the type of ritual or ceremony you decide to have, you may need assistance organizing it. Even if it is an informal ceremony, including someone else in the planning process can help you by giving you ideas for activities, helping you decide whether to include others, and offering moral support.


If you would like to have a formal ceremony or ritual then consider asking your religious or spiritual leader for help planning and holding it.
You might say, “I’d like to have a ceremony to help our family overcome our grief. Could you help me plan it?”
Even if you are planning a personal ritual, it’s okay to ask someone close to you for help.
You might say, “I’m planning a ritual to help me cope with the loss of job. Do you have any suggestions?”

, Ceremonies are usually held only once or every once in a while. Rituals can be something you do once or on a regular basis. Once you have decided what you want to do, you can decide when you will have the ceremony or ritual and how often you will do it to help you overcome your grief.Think about when the ceremony or ritual will be most memorable and meaningful for you.
For instance, will you have a ritual on the anniversary of your marriage or on the anniversary of your divorce being finalized.
Ask yourself if this is something you want to do once, or something you want to do on a regular basis.
For example, do you want to have one home-going ceremony for your friend or do you want to do a ritual each year on her birthday?

, Rituals and ceremonies include specific activities that have importance to you and are related to your loss.Think about what activities you can include in the ritual or ceremony to help you cope with your loss. Including words, songs, or movements that have meaning to you will help you overcome grief.


Make a list of songs that are significant to you during your loss. Consider playing, performing, or asking someone to perform one or two of them at the ceremony.
Write a letter or speech expressing your grief. If you feel comfortable, you can read it during the ritual or even bury it or shred it.
Some rituals include dance, handshakes, hugs, and other movement based activities.
For instance, you might decide to give a small bow to your deceased martial arts teacher when you drive past the dojo.
 You may have several options of where to have your ritual or ceremony depending on what type you decide to have. Whether you choose a formal public ritual or an informal personal ceremony, you should pick a location that has significance to you. Holding it in a special place will help you overcome your grief.


The location can be a public place like a park, religious building, or community center.
For instance, you might plan a ritual at your football field to cope with the loss of your coach.
You can also decide to have it somewhere private like your home or even your vehicle.
 Including others in your ceremony or ritual can help you overcome your grief by providing you with emotional support.If they are experiencing the same loss, inviting others to take part in your ritual or ceremony can also help them overcome their grief.


This can be an opportunity to share memories or thoughts about the loss.
Ask family and friends close to you to attend. You could say, “I’m having a ceremony to help me grieve the loss of my home because of the fire.”
Or you might say,” I’m organizing a candlelight vigil for our teacher and I’d like for you to attend and speak.”

