 Begin by pouring flour and salt into a food processor. Then, add the butter and shortening. Turn on the food processor and blend until the mixture resembles coarse meal. There should be chunks of butter left in the mixture. Next, pour in 3 tablespoons (44.4 mL) of ice water and blend again.Add water in at half teaspoon (7.4 mL) increments until the dough comes together if it does not after 3 tablespoons of water.;
, Pour the dough onto a sheet of plastic wrap. Mold the dough into a round, disk shape. The dough should be soft, but able to hold the circular shape., Wrap the dough tightly in plastic wrap. Put the wrapped dough into the refrigerator. Keep it in the refrigerator for one hour and up to one day., Take the dough out of the refrigerator, and roll it out onto a floured surface. Pat it into an 11-inch (28 cm) circle. Then, put it in a 9-inch (22.9 cm) pie pan. Make multiple holes in the bottom of the dough with a fork. Crimp the outer edges of the dough with your fingers., Put the dough back in the refrigerator. Refrigerate it for about 30 minutes. Keep it in the refrigerator until the dough becomes firm if it is not firm after 30 minutes., Before making the filling, turn the oven to 425째F (218.3째C). Put a baking sheet onto the middle rack in the oven. Allow the oven to preheat while you make the filling., Pour the heavy whipping cream, flour, vanilla, and sugar into a bowl. Use a whisk to mix all of the ingredients together. Continue to whisk until all of the ingredients have blended together., Pour the filling into the crust that is still chilled from the refrigerator. Smooth out the top of the filling. Sprinkle nutmeg on top of the filling.You can also drizzle cinnamon sugar onto the filling.
 Put the pie plate onto the baking sheet. Be careful because the baking sheet will be hot. Bake the pie for ten minutes., Turn the temperature down to 350째F (176.6째C) after the pie has been baking for 10 minutes. Bake the pie for 55 for minutes. The crust should still jiggle when it is finished baking.You can cover the crust in aluminum foil if they turn brown too quickly.
 Remove the pie from the oven. Put the pie onto a rack and let it cool down. Serve the sugar cream pie chilled or at room temperature. If you have pie leftover, loosely cover it in plastic wrap or aluminum foil and then store it in the refrigerator. 