 In North America, trunks are the most common type of swimsuit. The length can vary widely – some end halfway between the hips and knee, other end just above the knee. They look like regular shorts but are made of quick-drying materials (usually polyester or nylon)., Board shorts are basically long trunks. They tend to reach the knee or even extend just beyond it, and are a common beachside swimsuit style. If you just want to hang out on the beach or go for a casual swim, board shorts are an acceptable choice. They are also favored by surfers and beach sportsmen who don't do a lot of swimming. They feature long, wide legs and look best on tall, thin men., This is the most common type of men’s lap swimming suit. If you intend to do some serious competitive swimming, this is the best option. They provide minimal coverage to decrease drag and offer a full range of motion.This type of lap swimming suit is often referred to as a Speedo, but Speedo is just the brand name most commonly associated with this style.
 Jammers are basically long briefs. They resemble bike shorts and usually end at the middle of the thigh, about one to five inches (3 to 13 cm) above the knee. They provide more coverage than a racer or brief style. They’re best worn during practice or when racing.Jammers are perfect for beginning swimmers because they're especially easy to swim in.
If your jammers are too tight, they might restrict movement when treading water or performing the breaststroke. While you should try any swimsuit on before you buy it, this is especially true in the case of jammers.
 Drag suits are mesh briefs. As their name suggests, they create drag as you move. Drag suits are good for training and can be worn alone or over briefs. They should not be worn during races, however., A square leg suit is a bit longer than briefs, but is considered more fashionable. They can be worn during swimming practice or during races.Square leg swimsuits are also favored by beach volleyball players.

