 There are a few basic options when it comes to buying potatoes: baking, boiling, and all-purpose potatoes. All have different qualities when it comes to flavor and texture.Baking potatoes, such as Russets, are high in starch which creates light and fluffy mashed potatoes.
Boiling potatoes, such as red potatoes, are considered waxy which means they hold their shape and may create lumpy mashed potatoes.
All-purpose potatoes, such as Yukon Golds, fall in between boiling and baking potatoes in terms of texture. They do offer a butterier flavor than Russets.;
, Use cold water and gently scrub the entire potato. Look for dark patches where dirt might have settled. If you wash the potatoes in a bowl of water, be sure to rinse them before cutting.


You can use a small brush specifically designated for cleaning potatoes or produce. This will help scrub away any dirt that's firmly stuck.
 You can cook the potatoes with the skins on or you can peel them before cutting them. Simply cut your potato into quarters or cubes.


Leaving the skins on will give your mashed potatoes more texture. For this reason, you should consider using Yukon Golds, which have a thinner peel than Russets.
 Place your prepared potatoes in a large saucepot and fill with cold water. The potatoes should be covered by an inch or two of water. Bring the water to a boil, then reduce the heat to a lively simmer and cook for 10 to 20 minutes. The potatoes are done when you stick a fork into them and they start to fall apart.


You can salt your water for extra flavor, just as though you're cooking pasta. The potatoes will absorb the salt as they cook.Avoid using hot water and covering your pot with a lid. This will make the potatoes cook unevenly and can lead to gluey potatoes., While the potatoes are cooking, heat up chicken stock or milk until warm and get some butter out of the fridge.


Use chicken stock if you'd like the potato flavor to really shine. Milk, ranging from skim to whole, will make creamier potatoes.
Heating your liquid will keep the mashed potatoes hotter for longer. Warm liquid is also absorbed better by the potatoes.
 Use a strainer or lift the potatoes out with a slotted spoon. Return the cooked potatoes to your pot on the stove. Add your room temperature butter and start mashing the potatoes.


The best tool for mashing rustic potatoes is a simple potato masher. Avoid mashing too much or you'll be left with more of a puree. You may want to leave small chunks and skin somewhat intact.
 Gradually add some of your warm stock or milk. Stir gently and add a bit more liquid if your potatoes are still loose. Keep adding liquid gradually until the potatoes bind together.


Avoid adding all your liquid at once. You could end up with too much liquid which makes mushy mashed potatoes. Your potatoes will need more or less liquid depending on potato type and level of starchiness.
 Taste the potatoes and add salt, pepper, and/or more butter, as you like. Serve while they're still warm or keep covered until ready to eat.


Minced chives or paprika make great garnishes for mashed potatoes.

