 There are many different poppy varieties - some native to the United States, others native to regions across the world. While all poppies have colorful, papery petals and a slightly wild, weedy appearance, they also have striking differences when it comes to caring for them.Choose a variety that works best in your growing region and the conditions in your garden.California poppies grow best in USDA zones 9 - 11, the dry western regions of the US. They are easy to care for and do well in infertile soil.

Purple poppy mallow is another variety that grows best in infertile soil, but this one grows best in zones 4 through 8.

Corn poppies, on the other hand, need rich, fertile, wet soil to grow well.

Celandine poppies are woodland flowers that grow best in the east, zones 4 through 8.
Go to http://planthardiness.ars.usda.gov/PHZMWeb/, type your zip code in, and press the red “find” button to figure out what zone you’re in.;
, Poppies do not transplant well, so you'll need to buy your own seeds rather than purchasing sprouted seedlings. Common poppy seeds are available in every garden store, but if you want unique varieties, check online for more options. Purchase poppy seeds from a reputable source so they'll be likely to germinate and grow healthy.
 Most poppy varieties grow best in full sun, and can really be planted anywhere without too much shade. You can plant them along the borders of your yard, in a window box or in a chosen spot in your garden. Make sure the soil quality in the spot you choose matches the needs of your poppy.


If you have a variety that does well in infertile soil, you're in luck - you don't have to add anything to your soil to get it ready. Many poppies grow perfectly well in rocky terrain that doesn't support other types of flowers as well.
For varieties that require rich soil, till the soil and mix in rich compost or bone meal to add the nutrients your poppies need to thrive.
 Poppy seeds require a period of stratification in order to germinate. That means they need to be exposed to cold or frost before they'll sprout. It's usually a safe bet to sow poppy seeds in very early spring, while there's still a good chance of frost. If you're in an area with mild winters, sow the seeds in the fall, so they get plenty of exposure to cooler temperatures before the weather warms up in the spring. After 14 to 28 days, the seeds will begin their germination, sending up shoots.
 Poppies are sown on the surface, rather than buried in holes. To prepare the soil, simply loosen its surface a bit with a garden rake. There's no need to till it to a depth of more than an inch or so, if that. In fact, doing so may make it more difficult for your poppies to grow.
 Sprinkle them over the freshly loosened dirt. In nature, poppies drop their seeds, which are small enough to easily be scattered across the ground by the wind. In this spirit, scatter the seeds and let them fall where they may, rather than trying to plant the poppies in rows. It will be difficult to keep the seeds confined to the spot where you drop them.
 Keep the area moist by sprinkling water over the soil. Don't soak it, though, or you may drown the delicate seeds. The seedlings will sprout when the weather warms in the spring., Thinning helps the plants to get bigger and produce more flowers. To thin it is a good idea to cut the plant tops off that you are thinning with scissors so not to disturb the remaining poppies roots. When you see them sprout, you can thin out the poppies to allow each plant a bit of room to grow. Different varieties will come with different instructions as to how much spacing they need. This step isn't totally necessary, but it can give you more control over the final appearance of your flower bed.
 They do well in poor soil that other plants may not be able to survive in.
 The blooms will fall off and the pods will remain. You can harvest these to plant next season. Some varieties even produce edible seeds you can use to make treats such as poppy seed muffins.
 Most poppies don’t need much water once they have grown in a bit. In fact, over watering can create leggy, unattractive growth.Water your poppies moderately and regularly when they’re in bloom or are almost in bloom.
After the flowering period, only water your poppies when the top inch of soil is dry to the touch.