 When you plant your Gardenia in a pot, aim to put the plant into a pot that is roughly four inches larger than the pot you purchased it in. You should retain as much of the original soil as possible.


Getting a bigger pot will allow your Gardenia the space it needs to grow.;
, Gardenias do best in soil that drains, rather than soil that allows puddles to form. Some gardeners suggest a mix of peat moss, coarse sand and potting compost (choose a compost for acid-loving plants, which is also known as ericaceous compost).
 Choose a pot with very good drainage holes. Make sure the pot is big enough for the plant so the roots don’t clog up the drainage holes.


Don’t stand your pot in a trough or saucer as doing this can retain water, which makes the roots remain wet.
 Gardenias need humidity to survive. You can help provide a humid atmosphere by laying stones or pebbles under the plant pot. Spray the stones with water every morning; the water will slowly evaporate throughout the day, which will create humidity for your plant.Alternately, get a shallow tray that is wider than the pot. Put some stones or gravel in the tray and add water. The water should not reach the top of the stones and should not touch the plant pot. Stand the Gardenia pot on the stones. The bottom of the pot must not touch water.
Keep the water topped up as the moisture will evaporate providing some humidity for the plant above.
 Gardenias can be grown outdoors in US zones 8 through 11, where temperatures generally don’t drop below 10 or 15 degrees Fahrenheit (-12.2 to -9.4 degrees Celsius).In warmer zones it will be necessary to shade the plant from the main heat of the summer sun. Make sure you water the plant and attend to the humidity as described in the previous step.


Move the pot indoors in zone 7 (where temperatures reach 0 or 5 degrees Fahrenheit, or -17.8 to -15 degrees Celsius)., The area where you place your pot will depend on the temperature you keep your house at. If you keep your house at a room temperature above 60 degrees Fahrenheit (15.5 degrees Celsius), you should place your Gardenia on a bright window ledge (though the plant should not be in direct sunlight).


If the house is below 60 degrees Fahrenheit (15.5 degrees Celsius), Gardenias can tolerate some shade or darkness. They’ll stand temperatures that drop down to about 35 degrees F (1.6 degrees C) in the shade but won’t enjoy going below 20 degrees F (-6.6 degrees C).
 If you are moving your potted Gardenia from indoors to outdoors, or the other way around, let it acclimate slowly to its new position.


For example, when moving a plant outdoors, put it outside during the day but move it back indoors at night for two to three weeks before leaving it out all day and night.

