 Wheelbarrows come in homeowner and contractor grades. Most recreational gardening can be done with a homeowner's wheelbarrow. Contractor grades are bigger, with more support in the tray to accommodate larger loads.


Decide if you want a metal or plastic tray. Metal trays are sturdier, but can be loud during loading and unloading, and often make the equipment heavier to maneuver. Plastic trays are lighter and quieter.
Buy a wheelbarrow with the right load capacity for your needs. Consider how much dirt, mulch and other gardening materials will be hauled. Most standard wheelbarrows have a capacity of around 200 lbs. (90.7 kg). The larger tubs have a greater capacity for their loads and can hold more weight.
Choose a wheelbarrow with 1 wheel or 2. A model with 1 wheel will have an easier time turning and navigating but may have trouble balancing. A model with 2 wheels will provide more stability, but may be clumsier to turn.;
,


Assess the weight distribution of the wheelbarrow. Most models require the user to bear from 15 to 30 percent of the load's weight. Make sure the tray of the wheelbarrow you buy will evenly distribute its contents, so your back and arms do not strain unnecessarily.
Test the wheelbarrow by placing heavy objects and bags of dirt or rocks into the tray. This will give you a feel of how the weight feels to you when you lift the handles.
Check for sturdy wheels. Test the wheels with some weight inside the wheelbarrow to make sure they do not wobble or cause tipping.
 If your yard is uneven, buy a wheelbarrow with enough space between the bottom of the tray and the ground.
 If you are working in a small area with little room to move, make sure your wheelbarrow can turn quickly and in cramped spaces.
 Most handles are wood or metal. Look for rubber coverings on the handles, which will make gripping the handles easier and more comfortable.
 Try out several different models, and be sure to test them out when they are holding a good amount of weight.
 Online retailers including Amazon, Sears, Lowe's, and Ace Hardware have many selections online. If you cannot find what you are looking for in a store, look online for larger selections and a range of prices.


Read customer reviews online. Find out what people like and dislike about specific models before you shop.
 Sales associates or customer service representatives should be able to explain under what conditions you may return your wheelbarrow, and how long repairs can be made to it without any cost to you.
 Metal trays can rust if not treated properly.

