 A chemical peel is a procedure that uses glycolic acid or another similar chemical abrasive to peel the melasma-affected top layer of skin away.The liquid chemical is applied to the skin, creating a mild chemical burn. As the burned layers peel off, they leave behind fresh, melasma-free skin. This will not, however, prevent melasma if you have not treated underlying hormonal imbalances.
While glycolic acid is one of the most common options used, another common option is trichloroacetic acid, which is a compound similar to vinegar. Peels done with this chemical can be slightly more painful afterward, however, but they may present a good option for severe cases of melasma.
 During these treatments, the top layer of skin is gradually stripped away, leaving clean, melasma-free skin in its place.Both dermabrasion and microdermabrasion are medical procedures that essentially "sand off" the surface layer of skin using abrasive materials. During microdermabrasion, fine crystals are vacuumed across the skin. These crystals are abrasive enough to forcibly strip away dead skin cells, thereby lifting away the affected skin.
You can usually get about five procedures done, each two to four weeks apart. You may also opt for a maintenance treatment that every four to eight weeks if the underlying cause of your melasma has not been treated.
 While some laser treatments might be able to help strip away the skin affected by melasma, some can worsen the mask. Only get a laser treatment if it is administered by a credentialed professional. Look for a restorative or fractional dual laser that only targets pigmentation on the surface of the skin


Fractional laser treatments tend to be expensive and may cost $1000 or more. Keep in mind that you will probably need three to four treatments over the course of three to six months., For this treatment plasma that has been enriched to encourage recovery is injected into the body. It is an experimental recovery, still not well understood. Early evidence, however, suggests that it might not only be able to treat melasma, but even help prevent against its recurrence.