 You can create a more helpful relationship with technology by placing limits around how often you can access your smartphone or your computer. You may limit yourself to looking at your smartphone for a set period of time in the day so you are not on it all the time. You may also try to cut down on the time you spend on your computer so you have a more balanced relationship with technology.For example, you may try to only look at your smartphone in the morning on your way to work and then on your lunch break. You may avoid looking at your smartphone during work hours so you are not distracted by your phone.
You may also try turning off your internet connection during the hour you are doing homework on your computer. This way, you can focus on your work without getting distracted by social media or surfing the web.
Plug in your phone in a room other than your bedroom. Set a deadline for yourself to plug in the phone at least an hour before bedtime.
Keep your computer in an open area in your home, and set limits for how long you will use it each day.
 Create a more balanced relationship with technology by having meaningful conversations in person, rather than over text message or web chat. If you notice that all of your conversations, meaningful and otherwise, are done through your computer or your phone, you should make an effort to have more in person talks. This will ensure you are not spending too much time using technology and not enough time connecting to others face to face.For example, if you notice you tend to argue or have deep discussions with your partner over text message, try to set up a time to talk in person with them instead.
Alternatively, if you notice that you often connect to friends over web chat, try to arrange an in person hang out with them at least once a week. This way, you can balance chatting with friends online with hanging out with them in person.
Set "no phone" and "no tech" times to spend with family. For example, you could designate dinner time or a shared movie as your "no phone" time with your partner, family, or friends. It's important for you to spend time face-to-face without interruptions from technology.
 You can have a more helpful relationship with technology by maintaining online habits that are healthy and fulfilling. This means spending quality time online so your time there does not feel wasted. You should also try to maintain online relationships that feel meaningful and fun, rather than superficial online relationships.For example, you may avoid oversharing online and only share posts that you feel are meaningful or useful to others. You may focus your postings on causes that you are passionate about, such as social justice articles or images, so your social media feels more useful and purposeful.
You may also try to use your online time to connect one on one with others, rather than simply be a passive observer on social media. You may chat with friends online or share images with then that you think they will enjoy.

