 If you're on your iPad or iPhone, download the app from its iTunes Store, or from the App Store.;
, Go through the short tutorial it offers. This will give you a feel of what creating a book will be like.
 This will start the book creation process.
 There are three options under "Choose a Template": Portrait, Square and Landscape.
 Add a title and image as wished (see the next section for adding elements).
 The elements are as follows:


Text - Add text to your book by pressing the key symbol in the top menu bar (or 'T' in the + menu) . The "i" allows you to make changes to font size, point size, alignment, hyperlinks, color, opacity and arrangement. The tab marked "Arrange" lets you move the text box around the page, back or front. Click "Done" when you're done.
Pictures - Choose an image from your Camera Roll to make the book prettier. Click on the image icon in the top menu bar (or photos under the + menu) to start adding an image and use the "i" button to change image opacity. Simply pinch in or out to enlarge or decrease the image's size (the success of this will depend on the image quality). Images can also be arranged vertically or horizontally using the Arrange tab.
Camera - Take a picture or film a video to add to your book.
Sound - Record sound or import a music file from iTunes.
Drawing - Draw a picture using a pen. Use the "i" button to edit the drawing.
 If you're not creating the first page after the cover, click the arrow to the right.
 Add more elements and delete certain elements if needed, and proofread for any mistakes.


When you're satisfied with the book, click on "Save".
Click on "My Story" for changes to the name of the story, changes to the author, addition of music or changes in the image resolution. If you add music, it plays whenever you open the book.
 Go back to where your collections are shown on the home screen. To export or send, simply click on the icon consisting of an arrow shooting out of a box, in the bottom line of options on the screen. A menu will pop up with sending buttons for email, iTunes, collections, PDF and printing.


If sent to iBooks, you will see your new masterpiece sitting in the iBooks shelf alongside your other books.
If you email the book, it will appear as an icon in the recipient's mailbox and needs to be downloaded to be read.

