 The 1940s in America are characterized with many major political changes, but the decade contained many specific cultural changes that are frequently overlooked. If you are interested in film, you should know that Hollywood was booming and producing the world's most famous directors, such as Alfred Hitchcock, Frank Capra and Orson Welles, and memorable actors, such as Humphrey Bogart and the beginning of Marilyn Monroe. Familiarize yourself with the era, and explore what you like to get started.;
, Consider making them on cardstock paper, using black and white, or decorating them with piano sheet music. Write the address and time in script, and encourage your guests to come dressed as though it was the 40s.
 Jazz, the blues, folk, Big Band, and 'swing' music became very popular in the 1940s. It was also the era in which film really started to take off. Here are a few suggestions for songs and movies that can be playing at your party:


Pop: Frank Sinatra's Saturday Night (Is the Loneliest Night of the Week), or Bing Crosby's White Christmas, Swinging on a Star, I'll be Seeing You and Sunday, Monday or Always.
Jazz: Ella Fitzgerald's A-Tisket, A-Tasket, Billie Holiday's Strange Fruit, Frank Sinatra's Five Minutes More, Nat King Cole's Nature Boy, or Louis Armstrong's, When It's Sleepy Time Down South, and Coal Cart Blues.

Popular movies: Rebecca, It's A Wonderful Life, Casablanca, Citizen Cane, The Bicycle Thief, Pinocchio, Bambi, Dumbo, Miracle on 34th Street, or His Girl Friday.
 It was a dramatic, fabulous decade; black-and-white but also with many rich colors. Photography was developing and pictures from the decade are valuable antiques today. Balls and parties from the era were legendary. The decorating is all in the details. Here are a few ideas for decorating your tables and recreating a 1940s atmosphere:


Hang posters and place photos all around. There are many famous war propaganda posters, such as I want YOU for the U.S. Army and many encouraging women to join the effort, such as We Can't Do It Without Them or Rosie the Riveter's We Can Do it. There were many posters advertising local bars, movies, and soda (there were many for Coca-Cola at the time). Find a few printable posters, or purchase some vintage ones from a thrift store, and hang them around. Put a few photos of famous musicians from the era in ornate picture frames, and place them on tables.
Make centerpieces with war items (model airplanes, trench helmets, camouflage, etc.), glitzy candle holders, trumpets, piano sheet music, strings of pearls, mason jars, party blowers, and vintage radios.
Hand out ice cream cones, glass bottles of Coca-Cola, rock candy, candy buttons, homemade, colorful 40s party hats, and party favors in bags or jars tied with twine.
Include black and white as a part of your décor. Black-and-white is a clear indication of the 40s period; coordinate your food, desserts, tablecloths, and party favors with the colors to create the distinct black-and-white feeling.
 With Hawaii's heavy involvement on the American front and with many American soldiers stationed there, Hawaiian culture became popular in mainland America.


Include vintage Hawaiian posters and postcards, and brightly colored faux flowers, Tiki cups, Tiki poles, Tiki huts, leis, lights, lanterns, and garlands. Consider fashioning a bar lined with Hawaiian luau skirts and leis.
 The fashion industry in the 1940s was booming, and clothing for the common person was a definition of status and class. People dressed to the nines wherever they went, especially to balls and parties. Encourage your guests to incorporate these items into their outfits (check out How to Dress in American 1940s Fashion for more information):


Women: mid-calf or knee-length, hourglass dresses with high heels and complicated undergarments. Accessorize with shoulder pads, luxurious hand-bags, gloves, cat's eye glasses, and heavy makeup (red lipstick, mascara, eyeliner, etc.).
Men: grey, double-breasted suits with wide-leg trousers. Accessorize with hats (fedoras were especially worn). Post-war, many men wore casual shirts as a part of the Hawaiian trend.
Children: girls wore dresses with frills (sailor dresses especially), large woolen coats, and Mary Janes for shoes. Boys wore trousers, sailor suits, or knickers. Both sexes wore jeans, denim, and corduroy as the style became more popular, and saddle shoes.
 American cuisine in the 1940s was decadent, flavorful, and rich. Here are a few suggestions on meals and drinks to serve that contain that 1940s flavor:


Endive salads
Watercress and grape salads
Frozen fruit salads
Clam chowder
Sweet-Sour Carrots, cooked carrots in a sugary, vinegar sauce.
Stuffed olives or stuffed celery
Canapes
Deviled Chicken, a greasy, fried chicken in a mustard, ketchup and Worcestershire sauce.
Gingerbread
Caramel custard
Oatmeal cookies
Cola Marsh Ice, a marshmallow, coca-cola dessert
Scotch shortbread, or Gold Nugget cake, a banana shortcake
Lemon Merengue Pie, Icebox Pie, or deep dish apple pie.
The most famous cocktails from the 40s were the Martini and the Manhattan. For the martini, use 1 part vermouth, 2 parts gin, and 3 olives; serve it chilled and strained into a martini glass. For the Manhattan, use 1 part vermouth, 2 parts bourbon, and a splash of bitters; chill, strain, and serve with a cherry.

