 Add 1 cup (227 g) of butter that’s been softened to room temperature to the bowl of a stand mixer with the paddle attachment inserted. Beat the butter on medium-high until it is smooth and creamy, which should take 1 to 2 minutes.You can use an electric hand mixer to make the buttercream frosting if you prefer.
 When the butter is creamed, gradually add 4 cups (500 g) of powdered sugar to the butter. Continue mixing until the sugar is fully incorporated, which should take approximately 2 minutes.You may want to add the powdered sugar in increments and mix after each addition. That often makes it easier to blend it into the butter.
Scrape down the sides of the bowl as you’re mixing to ensure that all of the powdered sugar is incorporated.
 Once the butter and powdered sugar are fully blended, add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of milk to the bowl. Continue blending the mixture until it is completely smooth, which should take approximately 30 seconds to 1 minutes.For the richest buttercream frosting, use whole milk.
 When you’ve finished blending the butter mixture, line a large baking sheet with a piece of parchment paper. Spread a 10 ounce (284 g) bag of mini marshmallows over the baking sheet in a single, even layer.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 Place the baking sheet with marshmallows under your oven’s broiler. Allow them to heat until they are puffed and brown, which should take approximately 45 seconds.Keep a close eye on the marshmallows because they can burn quickly.
 When the marshmallows are toasted, remove them from the oven and immediately add them to the butter mixture. Beat the frosting on medium until it is smooth.The marshmallows will melt into the frosting as you beat it, but you’ll still see little brown, toasted bits in the finished product.
 The frosting will be warm after mixing the marshmallows into it because they’ve been toasted. Let the frosting cool completely before spreading or piping it on your cake, cupcakes, or other baked goods.It’s best to use all of the frosting up right after you make it. Refrigerating it can cause the marshmallows to harden, so the frosting’s texture may change.

