 One aspect of schizoaffective disorder is symptoms of schizophrenia. The schizophrenic part of the disorder can manifest as either hallucinations or delusions, or a combination of both. The hallucinations and delusions may not be present all the times, or may be less severe during certain times.Hallucinations mean that you see or hear things that are not there. Delusions are when you hold on to ideas or beliefs that aren’t true despite being presented with evidence to prove them wrong.
For example, you may hear voices or see images that are not real. You may also believe people are trying to hurt you or see secret messages in everyday objects.Usually, the hallucinations and delusions occur for at least two weeks without any mood disorder symptoms.;
, If you have schizoaffective disorder, you may experience disorganized thinking or speech. This disorganized thinking may mean you are bouncing from idea to idea without any specific pattern. Disorganized speech occurs when you talk, but the words you say do not make sense. You may also speak quickly and in a pressured manner, making it difficult for others to respond or get a word in edgewise., One type of schizoaffective disorder is the depressive type. If you have this type, you will probably experience the symptoms of depression. This means you may feel sad, despondent, worthless, or hopeless. These feelings occur almost every day and last throughout the day.You may lose interest in activities that used to give you pleasure.
You may feel fatigued or have lower energy or no drive to do anything. For example, you may lose interest in hygiene.
You may avoid social situations and isolate yourself from others.
 Schizoaffective disorder may cause various changes to your body. Your sleeping habits may change. You may start sleeping more, or have bouts of insomnia or stop feeling the need to sleep.You may have difficulty concentrating.
Your energy levels may change and you may start feeling fatigue. You may also have sudden periods of increased energy.You may experience weight and appetite changes. You may stop feeling like eating or begin overeating. Because of this, you may lose weight or gain weight.
 A symptom of the bipolar type of schizoaffective disorder may mean you have severe mood swings. You may suddenly switch from being happy to sad or angry for no reason. These swings may last for a few hours or even days before you crash or swing to the opposite mood.Your moods may also be too extreme. You may feel way too happy or feel extremely sad and depressed.
 Schizoaffective disorder typically has a cycle of symptoms. A cycle of symptoms means that you may have extremely bad symptoms for awhile, like for weeks or months, and then you may notice that your symptoms get better and you seem to improve for a period of weeks or months.You also may experience the psychotic episodes and mood episodes at the same time or at different times. Sometimes it may seem if the symptoms are going back and forth between psychotic and mood disturbances.
 Due to the nature of the disorder, your symptoms may vary from someone else with schizoaffective disorder. You may experience hallucinations or delusions, and one more be stronger than the other or barely present.You may also only have mania and no depression, or vice versa. Your mania or depression may not be the same as someone else’s.

