 Mediation is like negotiation, except you have a third person neutral help you. The neutral third party is the “mediator.” For this reason, mediation is often called “voluntary assisted negotiation.”To find a mediator to assist you, check the following places:


Your local courthouse. They might have a list of mediators or even offer a mediation program through the courthouse.
Your local or state bar association. They might have a list of mediators. They can also provide a referral.
Your phone book. Look under “dispute resolution” or “mediation.”
Your county or city manager’s office. These offices sometimes run mediation programs.
Online directories. You can use the directory at www.mediation.org in order to find local mediators for hire.
 Mediation can be cheaper than a full trial, but it is rarely free. You should always check for the price before agreeing to mediation. Mediators charge different amounts based on experience and location.


If you use a government mediation program, then the fee might be small.For example, in some courts the judge will suggest you mediate first. In this situation, the mediation might even be free.
Private mediators charge various amounts, typically $100 to a few hundred an hour.Some private mediators, however, can charge a couple thousand dollars a day.Always get the mediator’s fee in writing.
Typically, you and the other person will split the mediation costs 50/50.You should meet with the other person to discuss who to hire and how payment will be made.
 Before mediation, you need to be clear about what you want. You need a goal to work toward. Identify your ideal resolution. For example, if you are suing someone for injuries caused by a car accident, then your ideal amount could be $1,000,000.


Also come up with your “walkaway point.” This is typically the least amount of money you will be willing to settle for.You can have a lawyer in mediation. If you have one, then you should discuss the strengths and weaknesses of your case before the first mediation session. The relative strength of your case will often determine you “walkaway” point.
 The mediator might call each person before mediation to find out background information, such as what issues are in dispute. You should try to be as objective as possible when describing the dispute.


You don’t gain any benefit from slanting the facts. The mediator is not a judge and does not pick a winner in the dispute. Instead, the mediator’s role is to help guide you and the other person to a result you both can accept., At the first mediation session, the mediator will probably explain ground rules. He or she will probably also ask both parties to make opening statements in which you describe the dispute as you see it.


In your opening statement, you should also present your general ideas for how to resolve the dispute.
You cannot interrupt the other person when they are talking.If you do, then you will only increase tensions.
 Sometimes people are unwilling to settle a dispute because they are holding inside a lot of emotions. Once they have the chance to vent, they might calm down almost immediately. Although it may be difficult to hear someone else vent, you should understand that venting is often a critical part of the mediation process.


Venting is a way of “letting go” of powerful emotions.Sometimes people vent to let you know how much you have hurt them.
Venting should not get out of control, however. Your mediator should step in if the venting becomes too accusatory or melodramatic.If the mediator sits by passively, you should ask to take a break and express your concerns to the mediator during the break.
 Mediation often takes multiple sessions. For example, a mediated divorce usually takes 4-10 sessions. Typically, you will need to break and find out information that will help you settle the dispute.


For example, if you are mediating a divorce, then the mediator might need you to find out the value of your home and bring that information to the next mediation session.
 Sometimes the mediator will have you and the other person go into separate rooms. This is called “caucusing.”The mediator then shuttles back and forth between the two rooms, proposing solutions based upon what the mediator learned from the other person.


The mediator might caucus to help relieve tensions, or because the mediator thinks it will be helpful. Often, people might be more willing to reveal their fears if they speak to the mediator alone, outside the presence of the other party., So long as you are making headway in resolving your dispute, you should continue mediating. For example, you might mediate a divorce settlement. After a few sessions, you and your spouse come to an agreement on child custody. You could then use the next sessions to divide up your property and debt.


However, you might find that mediation eventually stalls. If you have several fruitless mediation sessions, then it might be time to walk away from the mediation.
You could then go to court to decide the issues you couldn’t agree to in mediation.
 Your mediator should be able to help you draft a summary of the agreement.This agreement will be a binding contract on all parties. If you were only able to resolve some of your disagreements, then write a settlement agreement that only addresses those issues. You can then litigate the remaining issues.


Make sure that both of you sign the agreement. You also might want to sign in front of a notary.
Keep a copy of the agreement for your records.

