 The life only payout policy is calculated by your life expectancy and promises that you will receive payments until death. The higher your life expectancy, the lower your payments will be; the lower your life expectancy, the higher your payments will be.If you live for a long time, you could earn more than your annuity accumulated. However, should you die soon after you begin receiving payments, the insurance company will receive the remainder of your funds.You could consider a life policy with a guaranteed term. This option gives you a steady stream of income for life and can help ease the stress of what will happen in the event of your early death. With this option, you select a guaranteed period where your annuity will provide for your beneficiaries after your death., If you choose a period certain or fixed period payout option, your annuity is paid out over an expressed period of time. If a 15-year period is selected and you die within the first 10 years, your beneficiary will receive the payout for the remaining time.If you outlive the expressed period of time, there is the risk that you will not have steady income, so it is important to have another late-life retirement plan.
 This policy bequeaths the balance of your annuity to your surviving spouse. The balance is tax-deferred. The surviving spouse can continue to receive payments from the annuity, and he or she can elect to become the primary annuitant.Joint and survivor policies have added insurance factors, and can be therefore be more expensive than other options., A systematic withdrawal or a fixed amount option allows you to select the amount you wish to receive on a regular, predetermined basis, which can be monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually. This payments continue until you run out of money or until you elect to stop receiving them.This option can be tricky when the market is not doing well; your overall rate of return can be lower during these times, as more shares of your annuity’s investments will need to be liquidated to meet the set payment amount., You have the option of receiving the total accumulated cost of your annuity in one payment. While a lump sum payout may give you flexibility and control over your investments, this option usually has several income tax disadvantages. You will be taxed upon the total of your entire annuity, and you may be pushed into a higher tax bracket.