 It’s only necessary to write an address on a letter if it is formal. Otherwise, you can just write the addresses on the envelope or package. The components of addresses in German come in a different order than in English: title, name, street and number, postal code (‘’Postleitzahl’’), and location. For example:Frau (Ms.--use "Herr" for Mr.) Marianne Mülller, Zeughofstrasse 23, 1121 Berlin, Deutschland;
, This is usually placed in the top right corner of a document. There are multiple ways to write a date on a German letter, which may vary from the way it is written in English. You can also choose to write the place (‘’Ort’’) you are writing from along with the date. For example, all of the following are acceptable ways of writing “from Berlin on April 13, 2017.” Pay special attention to the placement of periods (don’t use dashes, slashes, or commas):2017-04-13
13.04.2017
13. April 2017
Berlin, 13.04.2017
Berlin, den 13. April 2017

, Letters in German should always begin with a short greeting addressed to the reader of the letter. For formal correspondence, there are a number of acceptable salutations. If you are corresponding with a professional (such as a doctor or official), include their title. Make sure to pay attention to differences in spelling depending on whether you are writing to a man, woman, or both:Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren (Dear Sir or Madam)
Sehr geehrte Damen (Dear Madam)
Sehr geehrte Herren (Gentlemen)
Sehr geehrte Frau Müller (Dear Ms. Müller)
Sehr geehrter Herr Mülller (Dear Mr. Mülller)
Sehr geehrte Frau Bundeskanzlerin (Dear Ms. Chancellor)
Sehr geehrter Herr Professor Müller (Dear Professor Müller)
Sehr geehrte Frau Dr. Mann, sehr geehrter Herr Mann (Dear Dr. Mann, dear Mr. Mann)

, For formal correspondence in German, you can be direct about the purpose of your writing. However, it is a still a good idea to structure your letter carefully, and to show courtesy.Start the body of your letter with a brief introduction (identify yourself, greet the addressee, briefly explain the purpose of your letter). Unlike in English, you do not capitalize the first word in the body of your letter.
Follow this by writing in detail about the purpose of your letter. Be clear about what you are requesting, explaining, or inquiring about (for example, registering a complaint or asking about a business opportunity).
End the body of your letter with a short closing that summarizes the purpose of your letter, explains if/how you would like the addressee to follow up, and thanks them for their time.
 The closing of your letter should be courteous and respectful. Like the salutation, it can take one of several forms. Pay special attention to the spelling, since closings that sound very similar in English will be written in distinctly different ways in German. Potential closings (and their approximate English equivalents) include:Mit freundlichen Grüssen (Yours sincerely)
Mit freundlichem Gruss (Sincerely)
Freundliche Grüsse (Kind regards)
Mit den besten Grüsssen (With best regards)
Beste Grüsse aus Berlin (Best regards from Berlin)
Herzliche Grüsse (Warm greetings)

