 While this treatment can be effective throughout different seasons, it is usually easiest to apply it during the late fall, after most foliage has died off.


Do not use the cut-and-paint method during early spring. Privet sap flows upward at that time of year, so the exposed stump will quickly become damp and sticky after you cut it, thereby reducing the effectiveness of the herbicide.
 Herbicides made with glyphosate or triclopyr amine are best. Mix either herbicide with water to form an appropriate solution.


When using glyphosate, choose a concentrate with 41 percent or higher. When using triclopyr amine, choose a concentrate with 44 percent or higher.
For either glyphosate or triclopyr amine, combine 32 fluid ounces (945 ml) with enough water to make 1 gallon (4 L) of prepared solution.
If you'll need to postpone chemical treatment after performing the cutting, you should use 26 fluid ounces (770 ml) of a triclopyr ester herbicide mixed with enough diesel or bark oil to create 1 gallon (4 L) of solution.
 Cut down the privet stem, leaving only a short stump. Remove any sawdust from the site before continuing.


Any cut you make should lie beneath the lowest branch of the stem. Cuts lying at ground level are best, but the process should still work as long as the stump is low and there are no branches left on the remains.
If the privet is larger than 6 inches (15 cm) in diameter, you may need to drill holes into the stump to improve the effectiveness of the herbicide. Use a 10 mm drill bit to create downward holes in the cut surface, spacing them 4 inches (10 cm) apart.
 For the best results, you should immediately paint or spray the cut area with your prepared herbicide solution.


One of the easiest ways to apply the solution is with a spray bottle.
Cover the entire cut area until it becomes moist, but do not allow the herbicide to drip off and form a puddle around the stump.
Herbicide application should usually be performed within minutes of the cutting procedure. If you cannot do so, apply an appropriate triclopyr ester solution within two or three weeks of cutting.
 If done correctly, every treated privet stem should die off, making a second application unnecessary in most cases.


If the privet does not die off within one or two months, however, you can attempt to reapply the herbicide solution following the same procedure.

