 The key information you're looking for is a label that lists a protein source derived from a quality source as the main ingredient. Quality is determined by sources of whole meat rather than meat by-products or plant-derived protein sources. Once you have determined the percentage of each key nutrient in your pet food (protein, fiber, fat, etc.), you should compare these to the standards set forth by the AAFO, American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), and other organizations that assess the quality of foods.


Check for labels that indicate the food has been certified by the AAFO.
Make sure the pet food does not include large amounts of sodium, sugar, or chemicals. If you don't recognize the foods in the ingredient list, chances are the food is not of adequate nutritional quality., The main difference between dog foods, besides price, is typically the quality of protein sources. You want to find ingredient lists that include whole meat sources. For other nutrient sources, avoid anything that uses modifiers in the description like derivatives, additives, or byproducts. For grains and other additions that provide carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals, look for sources like oats, seaweed, and rice rather than cereals or wheat., This nutrient is essential in providing your dog with adequate energy and muscle and immune system sustaining amino acids. Puppies need foods that contain at least 20 to 25% protein, and adult dogs need between 15 and 20% protein foods. You should look for foods with high quality protein sources like chicken, beef, or fish., This is essential to ensuring your pup's ongoing health. While fat may sound unhealthy, it actually helps with the development of healthy brain tissue and provides an energy source for your pup. Puppies need between 5 and 10% crude fat in their diets, and adult Shih Tzus need foods that are about 5% fat. Fat can be derived from the meat source or from a supplement like fish oil., You'll need to ensure your pet receives calcium, phosphorous, and potassium from their foods. These nutrients aid in a number of health functions, but they are most essential in the development and maintenance of strong, healthy bones. These nutrients make up less than 5% of your pet's meals, but it's very important to make sure your pet food includes adequate amounts to meet your dog's needs. Typically, you'll need between half and one percent of each of these nutrients.