 Position it on a flat surface so that it looks like a diamond.
 Use whichever hand you feel comfortable with here, as your other hand will be used to hold the shape of the puff.
 Lift the fabric with a bit of force causing the square to drape from where you are grasping.


The corners of your pocket square will naturally fold over each other, and don’t be too concerned if they look a little uneven, that’s the point of this look.
 Keeping the top of the square pinched between the thumb and forefinger of the hand you grabbed the square with.


You don’t want to have too tight of a grasp on the fabric here. Just enough so that the fabric can hold the shape you’ve created.
 This is called 'fluting'.


Your pocket square should now look a bit like a rocket ship with the corners at the bottom.
 The flute of the pocket square should be over the thumb that is holding your pocket square together.


While holding the tip of the pocket square, you may want adjust your other hand a little further down so that the folded portion is longer than the tips of the pocket square.
 Using the thumb and forefinger of the hand not holding your pocket square, pinch the whole pocket square just below your other thumb.


You may have to wiggle your thumb loose and make a few adjustments, but that’s ok since this fold is meant to look a little messy.
 You will need to rotate your square or handkerchief so that the fold is at the bottom with the tip at the top.
 Make adjustments here, pulling at the tip of the pocket square so that it fills out your breast pocket.


While most of the time, you want to insert your pocket nicely into your pocket so you don't mess up your fold, here with the puff, feel free to stuff it in. This look is all about making your fold look effortless.
The puffy part of your pocket square should be facing out.
You can either tuck the corners of your pocket square down so only the puff is visible, or leave the tips as a personal touch.
The puff fold is great for a party or event that's a bit more relaxed. It adds a bit of your personal style to a classic look.

