 Potassium counters the effects of sodium. Eat foods that contains high levels of potassium, like fruits and vegetables, or use vitamin and mineral supplements. Some examples of potassium-rich foods are:


Bananas: 422mg
Baked potato with skin: 738mg
Orange juice: 496mg
Low-fat yogurt: 540mg

, Research shows that people with higher levels of vitamin D have lower blood tension.Include vitamin D by:


Getting some sun. Sunlight is loaded with vitamin D and about 20 to 25 minutes of sunlight a day can become highly beneficial.
Eating fish like salmon, trout, mackerel, tuna, or eel. Fish is also a great source of omega-3 fatty acids which is beneficial for your heart health.
Eating dairy products like low-fat yogurt and milk. However, avoid cheese which is higher in fat and sodium.
 Caffeine can increase blood pressure in people who rarely consume caffeine and especially in people who are already diagnosed with hypertension. Caffeine creates a big jump in the stiffness of arteries, causing the heart to pump harder which increases blood pressure.To see if caffeine affects your blood pressure, drink a caffeinated beverage and check your blood pressure within 30 minutes. If your blood pressure has increased 5 to 10 mmHg, then caffeine likely causes an increase in your blood pressure. Confirm with your doctor.
Although most researchers believe coffee increases blood pressure, there is also research that says if you consume caffeine regularly, lowering your caffeine intake does not seem to lower your blood pressure.
 In very small quantities, alcohol can lower your blood pressure. However, drinking more than moderate amounts can raise your blood pressure and reduce the effectiveness of many blood pressure medications.


Different people have different alcohol limits. Ask your doctor how much you should drink.
Drink alcoholic drinks that are lower in sodium and salt than others.
 Smoking a cigarette will increase your blood pressure for a few minutes, and smoking is also very bad for your health overall. If you smoke cigarettes, your body will be less equipped in general to maintain health, as well as experiencing spikes in your blood pressure. Many people smoke cigarettes to handle stress, so it is important to find an alternative stress reliever.


Cigarette smoking can lead to health complications that will also cause you stress and limit your lifestyle.
Cigarettes are expensive, and heavily taxed in some areas. They can cause financial stress to some people with tight budgets.
In some cultures and cities, there is a social stigma against cigarette smoking. Experiencing pushback for smoking from your friends or coworkers can cause you stress.
 This will make you more aware of the food you are consuming. Record quantities as well as what kind of foods you eat. You might be surprised by how much, or little, of one food you eat.


Write down everything you eat, how much, and when you eat.
After you have this food diary for a week or so, reread your entries and see if you are happy with what food you are eating.
If there are any meals, snacks, or food items that you think you should cut out, do so.
Keep up the food diary and use it as a source of information about your diet.

