 If IE doesn’t have a traditional toolbar layout, the Tools button will look like a cog in the upper right-hand corner.
 Click “Enable,” and enter your administrator password if prompted. Now, click “Settings.”

, To enable web site restriction, you’ll need to set a password—otherwise, users can just remove the settings with a few clicks. Click to the “General” tab, then click “Create Password.” Enter and confirm your password, then click “OK.” Now, when you enter the Content Advisor settings, you’ll be prompted to enter this password.
 Click to the “Ratings” tab and view the list of categories (Language, Nudity, Sex, and Violence). To restrict access to websites based on any of those topics, click one with the mouse, then drag the slider all the way to the left. The further the slider moves to the left, the more protected against that type of content your users will be. Moving the slider to the right allows more of that content through the filter.
 Click to the “Approved Sites” tab. Here you can type in any specific websites that you might want to be excluded from the filters you just added. For example, some medical websites may be filtered as nudity or violence—if you know that users need to view a site like WebMD, enter www.webmd.com, then click “Always.”


If there’s a site that’s distracting but not necessarily vulgar (such as Facebook) type www.facebook.com and click “Never.” Click “Apply.”
Blocking sites like Google or YouTube could hinder the user’s ability to get legitimate work done. You may need to weigh the options before blocking sites like these.
 On the “General” tab, put a check in the box that says “Supervisor can type a password to allow users to view restricted content.” This will allow only you, the Supervisor, to bypass your own filter rules to access blocked sites when you’re using the computer.
 Now that you have enabled Content Advisor, data will be restricted for all users. If you are browsing and want to view a blocked website, access that website and type the supervisor password when prompted.

