 While it is good to try to conquer continents early in the game, you should be careful about which continents you decide to conquer. There are advantages and disadvantages to each continent, but the main thing to consider is the isolation of a continent. More isolated continents may be easier to maintain, but they are also more difficult to expand from. Therefore, you should choose a continent that is in line with your strategy.For example, Australia is easy to conquer and maintain because of how isolated it is, but it is also hard to expand from Australia and you may fall prey to more powerful plays later in the game. For these reasons, conquering Australia may offer you an advantage, but only if you feel capable of overcoming its disadvantage.;
, Some continents are much more beneficial to hold than others because you will get a better army bonus each turn. Before you begin trying to conquer a continent, find out how many armies you will get as a bonus for holding that continent. For example, Europe gives you a bonus of 5 armies per turn for holding the continent, while Africa gives you a bonus of 3 armies per turn.Keep in mind that Europe and North America are the most beneficial continents to hold because they give you the best army bonuses. Try to hold one of these continents if you can.
 Knowing how many armies to use in an attack on an opponent can be a big boost to your chances of winning. A good general rule in attacking an enemy territory is to use twice as many armies as your opponent has on the territory you want to attack. This will increase your chances of winning and overtaking the territory. Keep in mind that you will need to move these armies to an adjacent territory before you begin your attack.For example, if an opponent has two armies on a territory that you want, then you should attack that territory with at least four armies.
 In most cases, you will benefit from having most of your armies on your border territories. Concentrating your armies in this way helps to reduce the chances that you will have a weak spot and be overtaken by an opponent. The territories within your borders can have fewer armies, but try to avoid having a single weak spot that an opponent may try to target.