 Depression symptoms can range from mild to moderate to severe. With mild depression, you may feel sad much of the time, or you might lack interest in activities that you once found enjoyable. In addition, mild depression will typically include a few (but usually not all) of the following symptoms:Appetite loss or weight gain.
Sleeping too much or too little.
Increased agitation.
Decreased movement.
Low energy every day.
Feeling worthless
Feelings of inappropriate guilt.
Difficulty concentrating.;
, Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) affects more people during the fall and winter months and may be caused by the body getting less sunlight. This may mean that the body produces less serotonin, a chemical that affects mood.Recognize the symptoms of SAD:


Increased need to sleep.
Fatigue or reduced energy.
Lack of concentration.
Increased feeling of wanting to be alone.
These symptoms typically subside in the spring and summer, but they can still produce mild depression in the winter.
 If you feel like you’ve got a case of the blues, it’s important to pay attention to your symptoms to determine if you’re becoming depressed. You may experience more frequent feelings or symptoms, or your symptoms may last for longer than 2 weeks.


If you’re unsure about the progression of your symptoms, ask a trusted friend or family member for his/her opinion. Although your own experience and perspective is most important, it can be helpful to get someone else’s perspective on how you’re acting.
 A major traumatic life event, such as an unexpected death of a family member, can cause symptoms that resemble depression. But it may not be major depressive disorder. The context of the event and duration of symptoms may help, in part, to determine whether someone is experiencing grief or a major depressive disorder.


Feelings of worthlessness and thoughts of suicide are typically not present when in mourning. Positive memories of the deceased are possible during mourning and one may still gain pleasure from certain activities (for example, activities done as a tribute to the deceased).
During mild depression, you may experience negative moods, negative thoughts, failure to gain pleasure from favorite activities or other symptoms. These symptoms may be present much of the time.
When the change in mood during mourning distresses you and/or begins to affect your life, then you may be experiencing more than just a normal grieving process., Track your feelings and activities over a period of about two weeks. Jot down how you feel every day. Make a list of your activities. This list doesn’t need to be detailed; just write up a quick list so that you can identify patterns that emerge.


Keep track of how often you experience unprovoked bouts of crying. This might indicate more than mild depression.If you have trouble keeping track of things, ask a trusted friend or family member to help you. This may be a sign that you’re more depressed than you initially suspected.

