 Since the article is about traveling for free, comfort will be compromised while traveling, so come prepared!


Be pumped to face challenges and troubles. This is not an easy way to travel and requires a little courage and composure. While you're traveling in this mode, you will enhance these qualities. Ask yourself these questions like: 'What motivates me? Why am I doing this? Things like this.
Keep the benefits and rewards in mind. Why do you want to travel like this rather than to go someplace fancy? To save money, learn something new, face challenges, see some awesome places, adventure, meet new people, learn a new culture, to be mentally strong, meet a friend or relative or other motivating reasons, keeping these reasons in mind would give a mental strength and courage to carry on.
Always have fun. Fun is a very important thing. Since on the way you will most certainly face problems and troubles which you may not have faced before, but if you try hard to have fun during these situations it would be less hard to face them. One effective way to have fun would be to challenge yourself to face the problem, like for an example if you couldn't find a place to stay for the night and you feel panicky because of it, at the same time challenge yourself like 'I challenge you to stop panicking and face the situation' or 'I dare you to make it through'.
Decide where you want to go and what are the ways to get there. Air, road, rail, ocean, river. As you want to save money, think of what could be the cheapest way to get there. For example, if you want to get to New York from LA or vice versa, the cheapest ways would be by road. Then choose one of the methods below.;
, There may be a time when you would need money so working small/big jobs on the way would help relieve some financial pressure. For an example looking for small jobs/gigs on craigslist.org would be a good place to start, checking out local newspaper, asking people around. Another way would be to just walk into any store, restaurant (basically any business) and ask for work in return for some money or food. Note: People are more likely to give you goods than money.
 Busking. It means to play music or perform entertainment in a public place, usually while soliciting money. Doing things like singing, doing some magic tricks, playing some instrument, jokes, anything which you think can entertain people is a good way to make quick money. There are people who have made a plenty of money by doing things like this. Note Choose the place for it wisely for an example some open market, downtown(places like that) etc.
 Using this method, you will be able to travel by water while receiving room and board. Better still, you can even earn some money as you travel. Work on a yacht tends to be less permanent and less stable than work on a cruise ship, but on a cruise ship, you will only travel along the same set course each trip. Both yachts and cruise ships are in need of skilled laborers, though. You may have knowledge of sea travel, or you may simply have culinary, mechanical, or navigational skills. Look online for job opportunities or head to the marina in the nearest port town to look for ads.
 If you are a current student, especially at the university level, you might be able to find scholarships or exchange programs that allow you to travel for free. This is especially true if you are going to college for international studies, but international opportunities await students in all sorts of concentrations. Some programs require you to pay part of the expense, but if your academic record is strong enough, you may be able to apply for a scholarship or grant that pays your way there and allows you to stay for free at a sister university.
 If you have a specific skill, like writing or photography, you might be able to win a trip from a magazine or publisher. If you do not have a specific skill, you could still try to enter contests with airlines, cruise lines, resorts, tourism boards, or adventure companies. Even companies that do not have anything to do with travel, from food companies to pet supply companies, occasionally have sweepstakes in which you can win a trip. Just make sure to read the fine print when you apply, though. Some of these contests pay for the entire trip, while others only pay for a certain portion.

