 In most cases, your interviewer will tell you at the end of the interview how much time the decision-making process with take and how long you should expect to wait for a response. However, if he or she doesn't volunteer this information, don't hesitate to ask.In addition to asking about how long the decision-making process will take, you should find out who within the company will be contacting the candidates and what method of communication they intend to use (phone, email, etc.)
It's important to request this information, as it gives you an idea of the appropriate time to follow-up, along with who you should be following up with.;
, Before you leave the interview, be sure to ask for your interviewer's business card.


This will provide you with the correct spelling of their name, their exact position within the company, their phone number and their email address. This is essential information to have when you want to send a thank you note or email.
Asking for these details may feel a little awkward, but it will actually leave a positive impression on the interviewer and let then know how interested you are in the job.
 As soon after the interview as possible, you should send a thank you email to your interviewer. This email doesn't need to be very long or detailed, you just need to thank the interviewer for their time and remind them of how eager you are to be considered for the position.


This thank you email should be sent as soon as you arrive home from the interview. You could even begin drafting the email on your smart phone on the way out of the building. In any case, the thank you email should be sent within 48 hours of the interview, no later.The timing of this email is very important, as it provides an indication of your level of interest in the job and ensures that the interviewer doesn't forget you as a candidate. Aside from that, it is simply good manners to thank your interviewer for their time.
 As soon after the interview as possible, you should sit down and make detailed notes on the topics covered during your interview. This is useful for a number of reasons:


It allows you to identify the skills, experience and personality traits that the interviewer emphasized as being important for the position. This will be hugely beneficial in helping you to prepare for a second round interview (should you be called for one) as you will be able to tailor your responses to the interviewer's preferences.
It also allows you to recall the type of questions asked and to identify the questions you answered well and the areas that could use more work. Even if you don't get the job, this kind of information will be useful in preparing for future interviews.
In addition, making detailed interview notes will help you to craft a more personalized thank you note and follow-up email, as you will be able to touch on specific points covered in the interview. This is significant, as it can really help your follow-up efforts to stand out from the rest.
 It's a good idea to send a more formal thank you note several days after the interview. This note should be more detailed than the previous one.


It should remind the interviewer of your individual strengths and tell him/her why you should be given the job over your fellow applicants.
If you were interviewed by a panel of people, remember that it’s your responsibility to send a separate thank you note to each interviewer individually.
 Some sources recommend writing out this formal thank you note by hand. However, this really depends on the type of job you are applying to and the nature of the company.


For example, a technology or social media company will value the ease and efficiency of email, whereas a small, family-run business may prefer the personal touch of a handwritten note.You should also take into account what type of correspondence the company used to contact you. If they informed you about your interview via email, it's usually acceptable to reply via email.
 Once the designated time period for decision-making has passed, you should send another email to the interviewer (or whoever you were advised to contact) to inquire about whether or not your interview was successful.


Address the email directly to the interviewer, human resource manager or whoever you are contacting. "Dear Mr. Jones" is much better than "To whom it may concern". The email should begin with some brief context — who you are, what position you are applying for and when you interviewed.
The body of the email should be similar to your initial cover letter, it should include a description of your skills and convince the reader of why you are uniquely qualified for the job. If possible, you should refer back to some of the points touched upon in your interview (this is where your interview notes will come in useful), as this will help the reader to remember you.
Close the email with a positive statement, such as "I look forward to hearing back from you soon." Consider placing a ‘read receipt’ on the message so you know if and when it has been received and read.
 Be very conscientious about re-reading your emails to ensure there are no misspellings or typos. This is one of the biggest mistakes that job candidates make, and it can severely reduce your chances of getting the job.


If you are writing an email, use the spellchecker function to pick out any obvious spelling or grammar mistakes. However, you should not rely on the spellchecker alone, as it cannot pick up on the difference between homonyms.
For example, the sentence "I am shore your pleased to no" will appear as correct on spellchecker, even though you are trying to say "I am sure you're pleased to know".As a result, you should re-read the note yourself and preferably get someone else to proofread it too - sometimes a fresh pair of eyes will pick up on mistakes that you may have missed., If you don't hear back from this email, avoid the temptation to send another one. Use a three strike policy — if you don't hear back after your thank you note or email, follow up with a phone call. However, if you do not hear back after the phone call, you should avoid pursuing the matter any further.
 If you receive a response to your email within a day or two, it's a good idea to call the interviewer or human resource manager directly to check out the status of your application.


A phone call is the most direct way to contact the HR manager and, contrary to what you might think, most managers will appreciate being contacted in this way.
When making a phone call, try to reach the person you wish to speak to directly, don't just leave a message. If they don't answer the first time, try again later. The best time to reach people is usually early in the morning or late in the afternoon, when they're not tied up with meetings.
 Have a script prepared before you call so you know exactly what you are going to say. Practice the script several times before you make the call, especially if you're feeling nervous.


Before you make the call, make sure you have the key points you wish to address written clearly in front of you, so you don't forget them. Make the call from a private quiet location, so no background noise interferes with your phone call.
When you are finally able to speak directly to the relevant person, be polite and assertive. Be considerate to their needs by stating that you appreciate them taking the time to talk to you.
 During the phone call, make an effort to re-iterate why you want to work for this particular company, why you are qualified and why you deserve the position above the other applicants.


Make an attempt to tie your skills and qualifications to what the position demands and the employer wants.If the conversation goes really well, you may take it one step further and ask when you can expect to hear about the company’s decision.
 A prompt response must be made if you receive an offer for a second interview or even a job.


A delayed reply gives the impression that you are uninterested in position and could make the employer reconsider their offer. A prompt response indicates enthusiasm and makes a much more favorable impression on your potential employers.
It is recommended that you reply to the job or interview offer using the same mode of communication that the company used when they made the offer, so if they made the offer via email you should respond via email, and if they left you a phone message you should call them back.
 If after making your follow-up phone call you still have not received an answer, you can make another follow-up enquiry in another two weeks time.

It is very possible that they have not forgotten about informing you of their decision, but the hiring process is taking a longer than expected.
However, if you feel that the company have been inconsiderate to your needs you may need to consider whether this job is a good fit for you and possibly continue with your job search.
 Even if you find out that you did not get the job, it's important to remain polite. Thank the interviewer for their time and for giving you the opportunity to be interviewer.


Try not to be too angry or upset if you don't get the job. Every interview is a valuable learning experience. Consider asking the interviewer about where you went wrong or what you could have said or done different. This is valuable feedback which you should take on board and apply to any future interviews.
Finally, let the interviewer know that you are still interested in the company and that you would appreciate being considered for any future positions that may become available.

