 There are certain cleaners you should use to treat your dog's ear. Any you buy should be made specifically as an ear cleaner that is safe for dogs. Look for products that have ingredients that will clean off dead cells and ceruminolytic properties, which help break up earwax.They should also be mildly acidic to help kill bacteria and be able to evaporate quickly.
Your vet may also be able to give you a good cleaner.;
, There are multiple kinds of cleaners, but some are better than others. Liquid cleaners are better than cleaner wipes. Wipes can only reach certain parts of your dog's ears, where liquid cleaners can reach all parts of the ears. Ear wipes also cannot reach your terrier's ear canals, which is where most ear infections start.


This is why you need liquid cleaners that evaporate quickly.
Witch hazel-based ear cleaners are one of the most common because they dry quickly. You can find them in most pet stores., Even though water helps clean the rest of your dog, it should not be used in the ears. Unlike cleaner, water is hard to remove after it gets into your terrier's ear and the stagnant water left in the canal can cause it to swell.


This side effect creates a breeding ground for infections, since water doesn't evaporate as quickly as liquid cleaners., When you are about to clean your terrier's ears, ask a friend or loved one to help. Your dog may move around and you need both hands to clean the ears. Place your dog on a soft, high surface, such as a table covered with a towel, so your terrier will be comfortable while you're cleaning his ears.It may be necessary to trim the fur in your pet's ears if you haven't recently. If you keep your terrier's coat regularly trimmed, this may not be needed. However, if you do not, terrier's ears are often very furry, so you may need to trim the fur around the inside. This will also help cut down on trash and dirt in his ear as well. Use small manicure scissors to trim the fur in your pet's ears.Also have some disposable gloves for your hands and two cotton balls nearby.

