 Stingray injuries can be accompanied by symptoms (some mild, some serious) such as those listed below:There is a puncture wound. The hole from the stinger (barb) can be quite large and may have a jagged appearance. The stingray rarely leaves the barb behind, but on rare occasions it may break off in the wound.
The victim experiences immediate and severe pain radiating from the puncture site.
The wounded area swells significantly.
The puncture site bleeds.
Skin color around the wound initially appears blue, then changes to red.
The victim sweats abnormally.
The victim becomes faint, weak, or dizzy.
The victim develops a headache.
The victim experiences nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.
The victim experiences shortness of breath.
The victim has a seizure or experiences muscle cramping or paralysis.;
, The following are strong indications that medical assistance is immediately required:The injury is located in the victim's abdomen, chest, neck, or face.
The victim bleeds profusely.
The victim experiences difficulty breathing, itching, nausea, tightness in the throat, rapid pulse, dizziness, or loss of consciousness.
 Lay the victim down on the ground if the incident occurs near shore, or on the floor or seat of a boat if the incident occurs in open water with a vessel nearby.Getting out of the water quickly and safely is essential to prevent further injury.
If the victim is vomiting, turn him on his side to prevent choking., This is best done by applying pressure to the puncture site with a clean cloth or towel. If no clean cloth or towel is available, a shirt or other piece of clothing can be used.
Only apply as much pressure as is needed to stop or significantly slow the loss of blood. If the victim is conscious, ask her whether the pressure is tolerable or if it is causing significantly more pain.
 If the stingray barb is still present in the wound, removing it will stop additional toxins from being released into the wound.However, the barb is serrated and will slice the skin as it is extracted, which releases more venom into the wound. In addition, attempted removal by someone other than a trained medical professional may cause the barb to break in the wound, meaning a doctor will need to go into the wound again to remove the broken pieces left behind. A very large barb may actually be blocking a wound and preventing severe bleeding. For these reasons, you should only attempt to remove the barb if there is no chance of prompt medical care, such as if you are very far out at sea.


If no tweezers are available, needle-nosed pliers can be used to remove the barb. If possible, choose a tool that is relatively clean so as not to introduce potentially infectious agents to the victim's wound.
Be careful not to sting yourself or anyone else with the barb once it is removed from the victim's wound. Dispose of the barb by placing it in an empty bottle and replacing the cap or wrapping it in several plastic bags. This prevents anyone else from accidentally coming into contact with it.
Do not use your bare hands to remove the barb from the victim's wound. If no implements are available for removal of the barb, it is best to wait until medical professionals can do this. Even thick gloves cannot eliminate your risk of being pricked by the barb during removal, so extreme caution is advised.
 This should be done by cleaning it with warm, fresh water and soap and/or antiseptic wash. Cold water can be used if no warm water is available, but this will be more painful for the victim. If the victim is in extreme pain, it may not be possible to perform this step.If no clean water or antiseptic wash is available, it is best to leave the wound alone until it can be washed. Using dirty water could do more harm than good by increasing the victim's risk of infection. This could be especially dangerous if the wound is deep.
 This should be done once the victim is at home or at a medical facility. Use very warm or hot water and allow the body part to soak for 30 to 90 minutes. Be sure to use a clean vessel and clean, fresh water for soaking the injured body part. This will help prevent further risk of infection.
Warm water can denature the proteins in the venom. Try to use water as hot as 113°F (45°C).
 This will promote healing and prevent infection. Unless otherwise instructed by a medical professional, wash the injured area at least once a day and apply an over-the-counter antibiotic ointment to the wound.


A commonly used antibiotic ointment readily available in the U.S. is Neosporin triple-antibiotic. Numerous generic versions of this also exist in pharmacies and convenience stores. These ointments are for topical use only.
 These over-the-counter drugs (those available without a doctor's prescription) serve to reduce swelling and pain. Skip this step if the victim is vomiting or allergic to such medication.Over-the-counter anti-inflammatory medications are those that contain ibuprofen, aspirin, or naproxen; they are available in a variety of brand options (such as Advil, Motrin, and Aleve) and can be found at any pharmacy in the U.S. and most other countries.
Note that anti-inflammatory medications will not speed the healing process; they simply provide relief from pain and discomfort.
Remember that stingray venom in particular is thought to have anti-coagulation effects, especially in large doses. If the wound site is bleeding and will not seem to slow, or if the sting was particularly severe, refrain from giving these drugs as they can further decrease clotting. Instead, go to a hospital for treatment right away, where they can administer local painkiller injections and topical anesthetics.
 Even if the wound is not severe and pain subsides quickly, the victim should obtain medical treatment. It is always easiest to treat wounds such as these early to prevent complications down the road and to eliminate certain risks.A doctor may order medical imaging tests to ensure that no barb fragments remain in the wound. This is the only way to ensure that no harmful objects remain in the victim's body. Even a small barb fragment can cause an infection.
In order to prevent infection (especially from wounds occurring in salt water bodies), antibiotics may be prescribed. Always follow a prescribed course of antibiotics to completion, even if you believe the wound has healed. Failure to do so could invite infection or make one worse.
Pain medication may be prescribed if over-the-counter medication is inadequate. Never take more than the recommended dose of a prescribed pain medication. For your safety, strictly adhere to any accompanying instructions (such as things not to eat or drink while taking the medication).
 A strong clue that the victim's injury came from a sea urchin sting is the visual identification of a sea urchin in the immediate area. These creatures cannot quickly flee; if a person is stung by a sea urchin it can usually be easily spotted for confirmation.


This is not critical to the victim's safety or well being, but simply allows you to be reasonably sure that a sea urchin was the cause of the injury.
 Sea urchin injuries can vary widely in terms of severity, but commonly cause symptoms such as those listed below.The site of injury contains spine fragments (barbs) embedded in the skin. These barbs will often have a bluish tinge that shows under the skin, revealing the site of even small stingers
The victim experiences immediate and severe pain at the injury site.
The puncture site is swollen.
The skin around the wound is red or brownish-purple in color.
The victim experiences joint discomfort or muscle pain.
The victim becomes weak or fatigued.
 Even a small or apparently minor injury from a sea urchin sting can be life-threatening, especially if the victim is allergic to the urchin's venom. The following are strong indications that urgent medical treatment is required:There are multiple, deep puncture wounds.
The injury is located in the victim's abdomen, chest, neck, or face.
The victim experiences fatigue, muscle aches, weakness, shock, paralysis, or respiratory failure.
 Lay the victim down on the ground if the incident occurs near shore. Most sea urchin stings occur as a result of accidentally stepping on an urchin with bare feet. As such, most sea urchin injuries occur in shallow water near a shore or beach.


Just as for any other sea creature-induced injury, getting out of the water quickly and safely is essential to prevent further injury.
Elevate the injured body part to avoid getting sand or dirt in the wound, especially if the injury is to the bottom of the victim's foot.
 If the victim and/or his companions determine that emergency services are not required, someone will need to transport him to his home, a hospital, a hotel, or some other nearby location for further treatment of the wound.


Do not allow the victim to drive himself, as additional symptoms could set in after the initial injury and cause him to lose consciousness or experience more severe pain.
If no transportation is available or nobody knows where to find a hospital or hotel, call emergency services (in the U.S., dial 9-1-1). It is not safe to delay treatment of the victim's wound.
 This will neutralize the venom and reduce pain, and softens the skin for easier barb removal.Use a clean vessel and clean, fresh water for soaking the injured body part. This will help prevent further risk of infection.
Soaking the wound will not promote healing, but should offer some pain relief and facilitate barb/spine removal.
Do not dry the affected area. Proceed with barb removal while the skin is still wet and soft.
You can also soak the wound in vinegar, which may neutralize the venom and soothe the wound.
 Doing so will stop additional toxins from being released into the wound and should ease the victim's pain.Needle-nosed pliers or a similar device can be used to remove large barbs from the wound if no tweezers are available. Choose a tool that is clean (even better, sterilized) so as not to introduce potentially infectious agents to the victim's wound.
Dispose of barbs in an empty bottle and seal it, or wrap it in many plastic bags before putting it in a waste receptacle.
Do not use your bare hands to remove the barb from the victim's wound. If no implements are available for removal of the barb, it is best to seek medical assistance.
 Apply shaving cream to the affected area and gently scrape off superficial spines on the skin with a shaving razor. Even these tiny spines can release venom into the skin and may cause a great deal of pain if not removed.Don't use menthol shaving cream, as this has a cooling effect on the skin and could cause more pain or irritate the wound.
You can soak the affected body part in vinegar prior to shaving off the spines. This will help dissolve smaller spines and facilitates more thorough removal of the venomous agent., This will help clean the wound and remove any remaining superficial spines. Flush the affected area thoroughly with warm, fresh water after washing. Cold water may be used, but will likely cause the victim more pain; warm water has a neutralizing effect.
Antiseptic wash may be used in lieu of soap, but is usually not necessary.
 This will reduce swelling and pain. Skip this step if the victim is vomiting or allergic to such medication.Note that anti-inflammatory medications will not speed the healing process. These are over-the-counter drugs that simply provide relief from pain and discomfort.
Never exceed the recommended dosage for the victim's age and body weight. Even over-the-counter medications can be harmful if abused.
 Even if the wound is not severe and pain subsides quickly, the victim should obtain medical treatment to heal properly and circumvent a range of potential complications.Medical imaging tests may be recommended by a doctor to ensure that no barb fragments remain in the wound. Urchin barb fragments tend to work their way further into the skin as time goes on and can often impact nerves or surrounding tissues and be a considerable source of complications.
Swelling and pain persisting longer than five days may indicate infection or the presence of deep barb fragments. Only doctors are equipped to deal with this issue and can prescribe antibiotic medications for battling infections. Always follow a prescribed course of antibiotics to completion, even if you believe the wound has healed.
Rarely, minor surgery may be required to remove deep barb fragments.
Pain medication may be prescribed if pain is severe or in cases where surgery is required.

