 This is important, as the following medications are known to cause bleeding during the procedure: iron supplements, Motrin (ibuprofen), Aleve (naprosyn), sulindac and any other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). If necessary, Tylenol for pain is acceptable.


Discontinue the use of fiber supplements, including FiberCon, Metamucil and Citrucel. Also discontinue taking all non-prescription Vitamin E and herbal supplements.
The medications Aggrenox and Plavix are designed to keep your blood from clotting. It is important that you ask your physician if you can stop taking these medications for some time before your colonoscopy. You should be able to resume taking your medication after your procedure is complete.
If you take an aspirin regimen due to a history of heart disease/stroke, continue taking it, otherwise discontinue use of aspirin until after your procedure.;
, You should stop taking blood thinners like Coumadin five days before your colonoscopy procedure. However, you should always contact your physician before discontinuing any prescription medication.
 Three days before your procedure, you should discontinue eating popcorn, nuts and seeds, as these can become lodged in the colon and affect the outcome of your colonoscopy.
 A low residue diet consists of foods that are low in fiber. Fiber is more difficult for the body to digest.


A low residue diet restricts the consumption of foods that are known to leave a residue in the gastrointestinal tract. which is why this diet is beneficial for the colon cleaning process.
Foods that are encouraged on a low residue diet include: Fish, eggs, chicken, soup, clear fruit juice (apple or white grape), limited consumption of coffee or tea (no milk products added), sports drinks – lemon, lime and orange (no red), bouillon, crackers, bread, pasta, plain yogurt, broth, gelatin (Jell-o) – lemon, lime and orange (no red), potato (minus the skin), popsicles (no red)
On the other hand, the following foods should be avoided because they can leave a residue in your colon, which can make it difficult to get accurate results: all vegetables, orange juice, dried fruits, fresh fruit, seeds, nuts, raisins, cloves, all meat except chicken and fish.

