 Building your self-confidence will enable you to gather more strength and courage to help you speak up for yourself or others. The more self-confident you become the more likely you will be able to take risks to improve your public speaking, or just have the assertiveness and self-esteem you need to speak up for yourself or for others.

Building a good foundation of self-confidence will also increase your self-efficacy. The more you believe in yourself the more empowered you will become, especially with speaking for others or yourself. Your increased self-confidence also has the ability to help motivate you to achieve your personal goals or challenges in other areas of life as well.
 By reframing your internal dialogue you can train yourself to think in a more positive and uplifting way. Many people are able to do this on their own with practice, while others may need some extra coaching from a counselor or therapist. Reframing your thoughts will help you to remove any negative and pessimistic thoughts that would otherwise prevent you from having the self-confidence and courage needed to speak up.

Try incorporating daily positive affirmations. Replace any negative thinking you have with positive affirmations and self-talk. Not only will this improve your overall well-being, you will also improve your self-efficacy, and confidence. So for every negative thought, replace it with two positive thoughts about yourself and believe in it while you speak it out loud to yourself.
 You definitely aren’t the only person who is hesitant about speaking up. Being afraid to speak up for yourself whether to one person or in front of a crowd is common and joining a group that can help you get past this roadblock may be effective. You can learn tips on how to control your anxiety and build confidence.

Look online for groups near you. One popular public speaking group is Toastmasters. You may even be able to join a group that meets solely online if you aren’t able to find one in your area., Would you like to be known for using your voice about the issues that are important to you? Do you want to be remembered for speaking up even when it was difficult? You can. Taking steps to be the person you want to be can give you the courage to speak up.Make a list of the characteristics and values you want to be remembered by. You might include things like "leader," "confident" and "optimistic." If you ever feel uncertain about speaking up, review this list and ask yourself whether your actions are aligning with your goals.
 You may not want to speak up because you don’t want to ruffle a few feathers. You might feel like everyone else’s needs are more important than yours. You owe it to yourself to know that this isn’t true. You have the same rights as everyone else and deserve to let others know how you feel.

When you’re feeling discouraged or low in confidence, tell yourself just how worthy you are. You are smart, capable, and brave. You can do this. And if you upset others because you want to be heard, then that is their problem, not yours., If you have poor self-esteem or have anxiety when speaking in front of others, you may have trouble getting the courage to speak up on your own. A professional mental health therapist can work with you to boost your self-confidence or cope with social anxiety.Ask your family doctor for a referral to a therapist in your area.

