 Before starting your journey to become a public adjuster, spend some time familiarizing yourself with the career. Public adjusters work with insurance companies determining payment amounts for losses.Essentially, your job is determining how much an insurance company should pay to policy holders for various losses. As a public adjuster, you strive to make sure clients get as big a payout as possible from their insurance policy. You'll end up doing a lot of investigation work, looking into the claim that's being made and determining a fair payment amount.The job outlook for a public adjuster is good. On average, public adjusters earn about $31 an hour, coming out to about $64,000 per year. However, you may earn more or less depending on your state and area of expertise. Adjusters working in the field of architecture and engineering tend to be the highest earners, for example.The main downsides to becoming a public adjuster are the schedule and licensing. Your work schedule will be unpredictable as it will be based on the schedule your clients. Licensing in some states can be timely and expensive. Some states require you've worked a certain timeframe as an apprentice before completing an exam. Fees for taking a licensing exam can add up and the exam is timely and difficult.;
, While education requirements vary by state, nearly all states require at least a high school education to become a public adjuster. You need a high school diploma or GED as a bare minimum. It's a good idea to stock up on relevant coursework in high school. Take high level mathematics courses, as well as any courses your high school offers on business, marketing, and management., While a college education is not always required, you should strongly consider pursuing a four year degree from a college or university. This can help set you apart during the hiring process. As many employers are looking for public adjusters with experience in specific fields, having a degree in a particular area can help you find work.


Consider where you ultimately hope to end up career wise. Do you want to work in worker's compensation claims? Accident claims? Health insurance? The field you're interested in pursuing down the road as a public adjuster will help you determine your major. As a public adjuster is a diverse field and there is no single field to choose from when selecting a major.Choose a major relevant to the area where you wish to work down the road. A degree in automotive engineering may help if you want to work in accident claims. A paralegal or legal assistant degree can help for worker's compensation. If you want to assess damages to homes in the event of accidents, consider an engineering degree.Community college or vocational schools may offer coursework in claims adjusting. Consider taking courses like these over the summer while earning your four year degree., As you near the end of college, try to gain some relevant experience in the field. Public adjusting can be a hard field to break into so the more experience you have entering the workforce the better.


Consider working part time at an insurance company. Even a clerical job can be valuable on a resume as it demonstrates you have some knowledge of the ins and outs of the field.Look for internships. As public adjusting is a diverse field, your internship experience will be varied. If you're working in worker's comp, a internship with a law firm can help. An engineering internship can help if you want to work in accident claims.Start looking for apprenticeship programs towards the end of college if your state requires it. During an apprenticeship program, you'll be required to work under the supervision of a licensed public adjuster for a set period of years before you can apply for licensing yourself. Ask college advises and existing public adjusters where you can find apprenticeship programs in your area.