 Some endings include topia, ville, world or land, e.g., Candyville, Snowland or Frogorb.


It could be anything from Zunish to Pofeland. The possibilities are endless. You could even name after something in real life with more, less, or mixed up letters, e.g., Catt, Houze, Blancett.
If you can't think of a name, consider using a fantasy name generator online, or transforming a name from a favorite book/movie. Just change it around a little bit, like terabithia could become terabeast or East Teraland.;
, A physical notebook works best for most people, but you could use a set of Google docs, Windows Office documents, Open Office documents or some specialty programs with the capability to keep everything in one place.


It is best to keep everything together and in one place. For example, keep all your files together in one folder on your home computer or in a single sketch book, DaVinci style.
Consider a hardback notebook or sketchpad to write in. Although they are more expensive, they last longer, and are more durable. A possible alternative, though, is a binder with filler paper and tabs to help organize concepts, characters, and ideas.
Make a second copy of your work periodically. If the medium you have chosen is electronic, simply copy the files to the cloud or to another device, a usb key, for example, and sync the files every now and then. If your medium is a hard copy, you could scan each page individually to a folder or copy the pages on your printer or at the library.



To visualize the world, it might help to ask yourself, "What inhabits this world at the top of the food chain?" These animals have the power to either change the world or destroy it. It might be a primitive hominid organism, such as an early form of human life, or it could be a highly advanced society of green-skinned creatures. It can be ancient and oft written about creatures and beings from mythology or nether worlds. You decide!
If the beings are smart enough to work things out, make tools, and solve problems, they should have a government. It could be a monarchy or a democracy. It might even have multiple persons in charge, a council of youngers.
Decide on smaller animals in the food chain. Keep fangs, claws, talons, wings, tentacles, slime, fur, skin, scales, feathers, udders, fins, arms, legs, and tails in mind. There can be small mouse-like critters that have large claws, or there can be tiger-striped beasts with huge fangs and a taste for blood. There are layers and layers of niche worlds within each larger world that might be included. Choose to bring these into your book (or not).
, Work division of labor (jobs), residents, personalities and other things into the mix. Is someone mean and cranky? Or is someone else nice and kind-hearted, the kind who gives little kids candy?

,