 If you take note of the movies that are currently released, then you can anticipate when they are going in the vault and when they might be re-released. Take note of Disney commercials advertising limited-time offers for movie purchases. Those offers really are limited.


For instance, if a commercial says only available until July 2015, then that really is the case. After that date, you won’t be able to purchase it for a while.
 New Disney movies such as Frozen are not currently in a vault because they’re new, but if the movie sells well it probably will be placed on the limited-release list. Frozen, for instance, did sell well and it wasn't released in Blu-ray, so it likely will go into a vault and won’t be available in that format for a while.
 Research when a movie was released. If you want to track when a movie will be re-released take note of the last time it was released. If you don’t know, then start with its original movie release date. Add two years for DVD production after the original movie release, then assume it went into the vault for seven years. This might not give you an exact release date, but it gives you a good estimate of when it will be released.


Let’s say Sleeping Beauty is to go into the vault in 2016, but you don’t know that. Research the original release date, which is 1959. Assume it’s available for two years for purchase. Then assume another seven years in the vault. Assume another 2 years for release out of the vault. Continue doing this up until present day. It will look like this. 1959+2 = 1961 ( Release) The movie is released until 1961. Then it goes back into the vault for seven years until 1968. 1961 + 7 = 1968 ( Vault) In 1968, it is released out of the vault for two years until 1970. Then, it goes back into the vault for another 7 years until 1977. If you keep this up until present day, you’ll find that the movie is released in 2013, which means it would go back into vault in 2015.
In actuality, it goes back into vault in 2016, and if you adjust for the month and date, you can get an even more accurate release date. Nevertheless, just by using the year of the original release date, you can get really close to guesstimating the vault release dates.

