 How and why did you form this opinion, why do you feel so strongly about it, and why do you feel alienated for having it? This first step is important, because once you pinpoint exactly why your opinion is so important to you, it may become easier for you to learn how to deal with your problem.;
, There are well over 7 billion people on the planet, and it is very unlikely that your opinion on something is unique. It is almost certain that there is at least one other person alive today that shares your opinion.
 To make for a better search, only use the most important keywords. You should hopefully find at least one website which features an opinion piece submitted by someone that matches yours.


If you find a lot of websites like this, this can mean an excellent boost of self-confidence for you, as you may realise that you were not as alone as you thought you were.
From here, you can do extra research on the topic you have an opinion about. Read as many websites as you can in order for you to understand and possibly accept each side to the argument, as well as the history and development of the opinion topic.
 This involves taking screenshots of the opinions you find online on things and pasting them into a Microsoft Paint document.


It can be very handy to have an archive of paragraphs that you agree with, because when you feel alone once again, you can always view your opinion collage to remind yourself that there are people out there that agree with you.
Alternatively, you can add webpages featuring opinions you agree with, to your favourites for quick reference.
 music, television, religion, politics). Here, you can start a thread where you can discuss your opinion and why you feel strongly about it. Hopefully, you will find that there are people who feel the same way and agree. And if no-one agrees, it is still good to give your viewpoint regardless. If it is unique, it may interest and fascinate people.
 It always feels good to know that there are others out there who feel the same way you do about something important to you, and this can be very reassuring.

