 Bypass pruners have sharp, curved, scissors-type blades that overlap each other, while other types like anvil pruners have straight upper blades that cut against flat, lower plates.Although anvil pruners are usually cheaper than bypass ones, they will crush the stems of the roses. So avoid using anvil-type pruners and dull pruners to prune roses., They should also have thick rubber or canvas along the palms and undersides of the fingers for protection against rose thorns.
 Clean any dirt off first and then soak them in disinfectant for 5 minutes.


Wipe the disinfectant off the pruners with a clean rag before using them as it will damage the rose stems.
If the roses have a disease that has been causing spots on the leaves, stems or flowers or distorted growth, disinfect the pruners between pruning cuts so that healthy stems do not get infected., If you are removing a smaller branch, take the entire branch off all the way back to the main stem. If a main stem or cane is diseased, cut off only the diseased part.
 Seal the wound on the stem with white glue like Elmer’s glue if it is thicker than a pencil to keep boring beetles out of the stems., They will rub against each other when the wind blows, causing open wounds and an opportunity for disease.


Cut off the weaker of the two branches and seal the wound.
 Suckers are stems that grow from below where the rose with desirable characteristics was grafted or attached to the rootstock.


Most roses, except mini roses, are grafted.
Sucker stems that grow from the rootstock will bloom in a different color, if they bloom at all.
 Deadheading is the practice of removing the flowers as they fade. This procedure allows the rose to devote its energy toward new, healthy growth rather than producing seeds.


When deadheading the rose, the entire flower must be removed., This is where a growth bud that will produce strong, healthy stem growth is located.


If the flower is deadheaded higher up the stem, the new growth will be weak and unable to support the weight of a new flower, if it is even able to produce a new flower.
 There is no need to seal the cut stems as they will not be thick enough for borers to enter.


Flower stems can be cut further down at the next leaf with five leaflets for long-stemmed roses to put in a vase.
 If the growth bud, a small, raised patch of tissue on the stem, is located on the outside of the stem, the new growth will grow out away from the center of the bush. If it is located on the inside of the stem, new growth will grow toward the inside of the bush.
 Put the trimmings in the garbage.Leaving dead flowers and pruned off bits of stem on the ground around a rose bush will promote disease and harbor insects that may attack the bush.

