 In most communities, there is at least one non-profit organization that distributes donated food to those in need. If you are having trouble affording a trip to the grocery store, this can be a great way to get some basic items to stock your pantry.Food banks are typically run by independent charitable organizations and churches in your local community, so you should be able to track one down on-line or even using the phone book. If you're having trouble finding out where the food bank is in your community this website lists many food banks around the nation, though it is not an exhaustive list.
Similar services exist to help you meet your clothing needs. These clothing banks are are run by churches and other private charities, sometimes at the same site as your local food bank. If your food bank doesn't have a clothing bank and you need some clothes, the volunteers at the food bank may be able to tell you where these services are available.
 The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) offers assistance to individuals and families who's income does not exceed 130 percent of the poverty line. This program, called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) can make trips to the grocery store much less painful and makes cooking your own meals an even cheaper option.To find out if you are eligible for SNAP, use their pre-screening tool, available here.
In most states, you can apply for SNAP online. Links to each state's application page are available here.
 If you have children, you may be eligible for a federal program called Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF), more commonly known as welfare. This is a cash assistance program that can help you make ends meet for a while.Funds for TANF are provided to states in block grants from The Administration for Children and Families (ACF), a division of the Department of Health & Human Services. It is up to each individual state to distribute these funds. You can find information about your state's requirements and application processes by visiting the ACF's website and selecting your state.
TANF benefits are available for a maximum of five years, and recipients typically must demonstrate that they are making an effort to become self-sufficient. , Assistance with housing costs is also available for families who earn less than 50 percent of the median income in their area. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will pay some portion of your rent directly to your landlord if you qualify.Like TANF, Section 8 housing is administered at the state level. To find your local Public Housing Authority and apply for a HUD voucher, visit the HUD website and select your state.
 If you have a family, the cost of childcare can be a major burden, but may be unavoidable if you go to work or school. The Child Care and Development Fund provides assistance for working parents of children under the age of 13.Like many of the programs discussed above, this assistance is provided at the state level. To find out who to contact for information about assistance in your state, visit the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Childcare website.
 If you have school aged children, they may be eligible for subsidized meals at school through the USDA's National School Lunch Program(NSLP). For information about eligibility requirements and how to apply, visit their website.


The NSLP website also provides other valuable information about how create low-cost healthy meals and snacks for your children.

