 Some groomers are registered or certified by a grooming school or a professional association, but pet groomers are not regulated by an official agency. One way you can confirm the groomer’s credentials is to call them and ask them about their level of experience with grooming cats. Find out if they have many clients who are regulars and discuss their grooming techniques so you have a sense of what your cat is in for. Ask if they have a license to practice cat grooming.You should also ask the groomer about their staff and determine their credentials. You want to be sure that the groomer has staff who will treat your cat gently and carefully as they are being groomed.
For example, you may ask the cat groomer, “How long have you been grooming cats?” “Do you have a lot of regular clients that you groom on a regular basis?” “What kinds of grooming techniques do you use on cats?” “Is your staff knowledgeable and responsible when grooming the cats?”

, You should also find out some information about the grooming facility. You can do this over the phone with the groomer by asking questions or by visiting the facility in person to check it out. The groomer may also have images of the grooming facility on their website.If possible, try to arrange a tour of the grooming facility before you bring your cat in to be groomed. A reputable groomer will not object to a tour of the facility.
Make sure the grooming facility is well-lit, looks clean, and has a clean smell. Note if the cages are an appropriate size, where the cats can stand and turn around comfortably. You should also make sure dogs and cats are kept in separate areas if the facility services cats and dogs.
 When you speak to the groomer, let them know what type of grooming your cat needs. Your cat may need to be bathed and trimmed. It may also need its nails cut and its ears cleaned. Let the groomer know what types of grooming services you are looking for so the groomer can respond to your cat’s needs.You should also let the groomer know about any health issues your cat has, such as any skin problems or conditions. You may give the groomer a specific shampoo to use on your cat, recommended by your vet, or tell them to only use certain products on your cat to avoid an allergic reaction or a skin issue.
Most reputable groomers will require vaccination papers from your vet before you can book an appointment with them. This will ensure your cat does not have any infectious diseases or conditions and make the grooming facility safe for the other pets.
 The costs of the grooming session will depend on the breed and size of your cat as well as the type of grooming you are looking for. A simple shampoo and brushing or trim can cost between $40-$60. If your cat has severe matting or needs more intense grooming, you may end up paying more.Keep in mind mobile grooming services are often more expensive than grooming services where you bring your cat in for the session.
 Bring your cat in for the appointment yourself so you can meet the groomer and their staff. Look around and make sure you feel comfortable leaving your cat alone in the facility for the grooming session. Acting relaxed and friendly at the groomer’s will help to ease your cat’s nerves and ensure the grooming session goes smoothly.Before you bring your cat to the groomer, make sure your cat is up-to-date with its veterinary treatments, including vaccinations and sterilizations.
You may also do a quick brushing session with your cat right before you bring it to the groomer so your cat is calm and relaxed when in the hands of the groomer.

