 Using a sling reduces movement of the arm and the injured shoulder while it heals.Aside from purchasing an appropriately-sized sling, you can also make one with a meter-length cloth. Fold the cloth diagonally, arranging it into an elongated triangle that can be wrapped beneath the forearm of the injured arm and secured around the opposite shoulder.
Secure the injured arm at a comfortable angle across the person’s chest (roughly horizontal), with the sling’s strap over the opposite shoulder.
Perform this maneuver as gently as possible to avoid straining the injured arm.
 The entire forearm up to the hand should be supported by the sling. The sling should not be too tight or placed too high up either. If the sling is too high, then you may experience discomfort and tension in your shoulder.
 The cold temperature will actually reduce blood flow to the injured shoulder, which can help reduce any pain and swelling following an injury. Icing with compression is more effective in reducing tissue temperature than icing alone.Wrap the ice pack in a towel or other cloth before wrapping it to your shoulder as directed previously, though with slightly less compression.
Apply the cold pack for no more than 20 minutes. For the best results, remove the cold pack after 20 minutes, let the injured area rest for 20 minutes and then reapply the cold pack for another 20 minutes.
If the injured shoulder becomes numb at any point, remove the cold pack and repeat the compression wrap process before re-applying the cold compress.
Do not apply ice directly to the surface of the skin. This can lead to an increased risk of frostbite. Always wrap the ice pack in a towel first.
 A hot compress will stimulate blood flow to the injured shoulder, which is vital to the recovery process. This will also relax the muscles and reduce any muscle pain. A hot compress can also improve the flexibility of the tendons and ligaments in the injured shoulder.Do not use a hot compress if the injured shoulder is swollen. It may cause more swelling.
Hot compresses are available in multiple forms. Some create warmth via electric power, while others need to be microwaved or simply shaken.
A rubber hot water bottle is best. Whatever you use, be careful that it does not become dangerously hot.
As with a cold press, wrap or hold the hot compress in some sort of cloth before bandaging it to the shoulder as previously directed, though again, with less compression than you had used without an icing or heating element.
Only apply a hot compress to the injured area for 20 minutes at a time.

