 Get facial, scrub, massage oil materials. Get manicure items. Find a nice bath robe. If using candles, have some ready. Splash out on some expensive pamper treats for the sake of being celebrity-like.


Get some classy shampoo and conditioner that will leave your hair feeling and smelling ah-mazing.
Some matching scent body wash can be a nice addition.;
, Float some pretty flowers in the bath, such as hibiscus or frangipani. Light the tea lights and arrange them around the edges of the bath.


Choose highly scented candles.
 Keep all electrical cords and machinery well away from the bath, to avoid electrocuting yourself.
 If it's cold out, warm your towels in the dryer or on a heated towel rack.
 Champagne for the older person, bubbly apple juice for the younger. A few chocolate snacks won't go astray either. Or, if on a diet, have a plate of raw veggie snacks.


If you're really into this theme, buy yourself a piece of jewelry, wrap it up and give it to yourself at the end of the pamper session. You've earned it.
 Take a long bath using bath lotion or bath crystals. Use a loofah or body brush to exfoliate while you relax in the bath. If it helps, listen to chillout music and close your eyes.
 Fill your sink with boiling water, put your face over the sink and then drape a towel over your head and the sink. Wait for 5-10 mins, and then splash cold water on your face to close pores. Then use a face mask. Put it on, put 2 slices of cucumbers over your eyes and lay back and relax.
 Use massage oil and start by massaging your neck and shoulders. Use circular motions and massage neck and shoulders for about 10 minutes. Then move onto other parts of your body, and get a willing friend to massage your back for you.


Look up self-massage for the best techniques if you can't get a friend to massage you.
 File your fingernails, push back your cuticles and then apply a hot new color, or try a French manicure.


For your pedicure, soak your feet in a bowl of warm water and lotion. Then, file your toenails and paint them. If you do not want to paint your nails, that is perfectly fine. Just do all but that, and you will feel equally good!

, Lie around and be absolutely lazy. Soak up the vibes of being a relaxed and pampered person. This won't last, so make the most of it while you can.
 Clean your teeth, tie back your hair and put on moisturizer. Then head off to bed well pampered.


Don't forget the warm, fuzzy slippers.
Be sure to blow out the candles before going to bed.
 Put on a favorite movie, YouTube episode or anything else you enjoy watching. Or, toss the electronics and read a good book. Reading a book a day is a great health habit.

