 If your cat is suffering from bladder stones, time may be of the essence. Stones have been shown to grow to problematic sizes in as little as two weeks.Bladder stone growth may lead to severe pain, vomiting, and depression.If a blocked ureter is not diagnosed and treated quickly, the blocked kidney may become irreversibly damaged., Depending on the severity and location of your cat's bladder stones, your veterinarian may recommend something as simple as a change in diet, or a major surgical procedure.


Your vet may prescribe a special diet that will dissolve mineral deposits in your cat and alter its pH to prevent future deposits.Your vet may flush your cat's bladder. This involves the use of a catheter to remove deposits and any residual sediment.Your vet may perform a cystostomy, in which the bladder is surgically opened and the mineral deposits physically removed.Your vet may recommend a perineal urethrotomy, in which the urethra is surgically widened.
 If your veterinarian recommends surgery as the best option to remove a severe bladder stone, there are several steps you may need to take to prepare it for surgery.


Have your cat fast before receiving anesthesia. Any time an animal is anesthetized, there is a risk that, if vomiting occurs, it may be inhaled into the lungs. The best way to prevent this is to keep your pet from eating any food prior to the scheduled procedure. Fast times may vary, depending on your cat's age and size, and the specific anesthesia being used on your cat. Consult with your veterinarian to determine how long your cat should fast prior to surgery.Keep your cat hydrated. Unless your vet advises otherwise, you should be able to give your cat water overnight until the morning of the procedure.If your cat requires daily medication, ask your veterinarian whether or not to administer those medications prior to surgery.
 If your cat has undergone surgery, your vet will provide you with the information you need to care for your cat after its surgery. This will probably include giving your cat medication regularly, and may call for more frequent veterinary check-ups.


Your vet may want to send the stones away for analysis in a laboratory. Knowing the precise mineral content of the stones can make it easier to determine the appropriate prevention methods, including prescription medication to prevent the formation of future bladder stones.