 Do these kinds of exercises 30-60 minutes a day, every other day. You want to strengthen and tone the muscles that you show off in a bikini. If you want to work out on your own, you can find a number of great workouts online. For an easy exercise you can do at home, try the following workout:With your feet shoulder-width apart, put your arms straight up, hands facing forward.
Bring one leg up at a ninety-degree angle, and hold it for at least two seconds.
Bring the leg that was in the air down into a lunge, bringing your arms straight out to your sides.
Stay in the lunge for at least two seconds.
Repeat 10 times for each leg (20 times total), and use 2-pound weights if you want an extra workout.
 These balls can be great for sculpting and toning muscles. You can find a number of exercises that feature the balls online, but one good one for getting in shape for a bikini is the following exercise:With your back to the ball, take one step away.
Stretch your right foot behind you and put the top of your foot and shin on top of the ball.
Bend your left knee at a ninety-degree angle and hold for two seconds, then straighten for two seconds.
Switch legs and repeat. Use weights or a medicine ball for even more of a stretch.
 Both kinds of classes target the areas that are going to show in your bikini. You'll do lots of leg lifts, lunges, and squats and get your upper arms in positions that will challenge your muscles. Many studios and gyms also have classes under titles like “Body Sculpt” that will target these same areas with similar exercises., If you are already going to a gym, you might schedule a consultation with a personal trainer. Explain to him or her that your goal is to look good in a bikini and that you need suggestions of particular exercises or machines that will help you achieve your goal.
 Try short, high-energy intervals on the days when you’re not doing a sculpting or toning routine. For many people, the seven-minute workout has been an effective and time-efficient way to get in some great cardiovascular exercise.