 Acknowledge the absurd in life. These are the things that are ultimately meaningless but often are associated with emotional energy.Think about a time you may have been in a heated debate over something really inconsequential, perhaps what to have for dinner or who is the best superhero of all time.


Alice's Adventures in Wonderland is a great example of absurdism. If you aren't much of a reader, you can watch Disney's Alice in Wonderland.
If you struggle to find absurdity in your life, try creating some. You can easily goad a friend into an absurd discussion about pretty much anything.
 Surrounding yourself with funny people will increase the frequency with which humor is interjected into your daily experiences. People of similar humor tend to feed off one another increasing the frequency of your own interjections.


If you don't happen to share a similar sense of humor with those you regularly come in contact with, find a comedian who you find funny. You can experience his or her material online or at comedy shows. This will also give you something funny to share with others in your life that may strike a common humor chord.
 Tense situations can be lightened by changing your perspective. In order to do this, try removing yourself from the situation. Pretend you are an outsider observing the goings-on. Tragic circumstances can seem funny when we remove the perception of a real threat. By taking the perspective of an outsider, you will make the threat benign.If you are having a hard time removing yourself from the situation, try thinking of all the ways the situation could be worse. Then try thinking of really absurd ways the situation could be made worse. This will provide perspective and lighten your mood.
 You may just want to get through uncomfortable situations quickly, but taking a minute to acknowledge awkward social situations is a great comedic opportunity. Making a simple comment, like "awkward," will disrupt tense moments and offer unexpected lightheartedness.It's best to refer to your own discomfort, unless you are really familiar with the others present. People who suffer social anxiety may not appreciate you drawing attention to their discomfort.

