 Rather than just thinking about how cold you feel when you step outside, concentrate on feeling the exact temperature of your environment. There’s usually a stark difference: you’re hardly ever as cold as you think you are. Try to accurately gauge the cold around you so that you’re not exaggerating your response to it.Learning to feel how cold you actually are is part of taking control over your unconscious responses to stress.
 It may be a little brisk out for your liking, but what if it was even colder? This is a mental trick to keep things in perspective that will serve to make cold conditions not seem so bad by comparison. If you remind yourself that there are people living in much colder places like Antarctica or Siberia without complaining, a Midwestern winter evening won’t seem quite so harsh anymore., Whenever you find yourself shivering, force yourself to stop. Shivering is one of the body’s heat-generating mechanisms when it’s cold, but conditions generally have to be pretty extreme for there to be an actual need for the physiological response. If the temperature outside is right around or just below freezing and you find yourself shivering uncontrollably, you’re probably overreacting.


Shivering is an autonomic process in the body that produces heat by forcing the muscles to make tiny, rapid contractions, similar to the effects of exercise.Research has demonstrated that shivering in non-freezing conditions is mostly unnecessary and doesn’t have a much effect on combating mild cold., It’s instinctual to react with discomfort to unusual conditions, but discomfort and danger are two different things. There’s usually no harm in being in a cold environment, as long as the cold is not severe enough to actually lower to body’s core temperature and exposure is not overly prolonged.Cold exposure doesn’t become life-threatening until it drops the core body temperature to around 95 degrees Fahrenheit, before which time you’d be better off swallowing your pride and finding a place of refuge with heat.