 Store cycles occurs typically every 8 to 12 weeks. Depending on the specific store itself, making a weekly list of the prices of the products you purchase will allow you to guess and determine when its prices will be the lowest and how much you will need of it until the next sale.;
, These are the "eye openers" and "last chance" opportunities from the store. Everything else in between is considered to be "fluff"; these could be bargains (depending on the product cycle prices), a little lower than shelf price, or not worth getting.
 Three huge marketing techniques that are often seen are big fonts, the wording of the advertisement, and savings icons/images, such as dollar signs. These are the ways that companies "manipulate" the mind to interpret something big, but it's really not.


"One Day Seafood Sale!" = You must go on that specific day to purchase it for that price.
"Over ____ in Savings!" = This is the total amount of savings throughout the entire ad, if you were to purchase every single item on the ad.
"Buy any 10 items/$25.00 worth in this list in one transaction and get $5.00 off your next purchase" = You would need to achieve the minimum total in one trip. The "next purchase" means that you would have to complete another transaction or come back again in the future before the deal expires in order to use it.
 A lot of the times, you will run into a circular deal where it says "10/$10" or "Buy One Get One Free/50% Off". These marketing tools to combine such deals are to draw attention to the eye and make you believe that you can get more for a "better price".


Divide any money amount by the quantity. For example, you see "Buy 2 for $5.00". With simple calculations, you will know that each item will be $2.50. The only exception to this is if there is any fine print stating "or $2.99 each", in which you will need to purchase the multiplied sale amount to get the sale price.
Watch out for any "Buy One Get One ____" deals. At rare times, the store will provide a price on the circular, otherwise these deals revolve around the regular shelf price. This is also another reason why your price book comes in handy. Because you already have the shelf price in your hands, you don't need to spend time in the store looking for it (and eventually ending up purchasing last minute things while you're there). You will be required to purchase at least one item of the deal in order to get the multiplied item for the discounted price.
 By buying only the loss leaders and the items at their lowest price will guarantee you savings. When products are at extreme low or "rock bottom" prices, that is the time to stockpile until the next sale.
 These opportunities will give you additional savings along with the sale prices.

