 Attach the yarn to the crochet hook using a slipknot, then work a foundation row of chain stitches until the scarf reaches your desired length.


The total number of chain stitches in your foundation must be a multiple of three.
For a child's scarf, 90 chains will work well. For an adult's scarf 180 chains will work well.
If you need help making a slipknot or chain stitch, please consult the "Tips" section of this article.
 Work two double crochet into the third chain currently from the hook.


When counting chains, do not count the loop already on your hook.
See the "Tips" section for more information on making the double crochet stitch.
 Skip two chains, then double crochet three times into the chain after that.


Repeat this pattern across the entire row. If done correctly, you should have worked three double crochets into the final chain of your foundation row.
 Chain three at the end of the row, then work three double crochets into each chain-two space you created during your first pass.


Once you reach the beginning of the row again, slip stitch once into the top of your original chain-three. This completes the first full row.
See the “Tips” section if you need instruction on creating slip stitches.
 Chain three at the start of the row. Work a series of double crochets into each space of the previous row.


For each space:

Work three double crochets.
Chain three.
Work three double crochets into the same space.


Repeat this pattern all the way down the row. Work this same pattern in the corner of the first row, as well.
 Once you reach the end of the row, double back by working the same pattern into each space just created by your first pass through the second row.


Continue back down the row in this manner, but do not work this pattern into the last space of the row.
 In the last space of the row, work three double crochets. Chain three, then work two double crochets into the same space.


Note that your initial chain-three of this second row counts as a double crochet stitch, which is why you should only make two double crochets at the end instead of the three used in every other space.
After working these stitches, slip stitch into the top of the chain-three made at the beginning of your second row.
 Chain three at the beginning of the row, then work an alternating series of double crochet into each chain-three space of your previous row.


In the first space:

Work three double crochets.
Chain three.
Work three double crochets into the same space.


In the second space:

Work three double crochets.


Alternate back and forth between these two patterns across the entire row.
 Once you reach the end of the row, repeat the same alternating pattern, working back across the stitches you just completed until you return to the beginning of the third row.
 Once you reach the end of the row, slip stitch into the original chain-three at the start of the third row.


This action completes the third and final row of the scarf.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.


Weave this tail and the tail at the start of the scarf into the back of your stitches.
This step completes the project.

