 When you start working out again, try not to do too much. Pick an easy exercise that you are confident you can complete and that will not be too physically taxing. Once you complete it, you may be motivated to pursue something a little more difficult the next time.For example, if you want to get back into swimming, start with five laps and then add another lap each day, gradually building up to longer swims.
 If you are totally overwhelmed with the idea of working out, then just commit to a short workout. Take five or ten minutes to walk, stretch, or do some lunges. Once you start, you may find that you want to keep going.For example, if the idea of running a mile seems daunting, go for a ten-minute walk and see how you feel.
 If you hate working out in the morning, get all of your workout materials together the night before. That way, when you get up and feel like skipping your workout, you have one less thing to worry about. The fewer excuses you have to not workout, the better.The same strategy works for sticking with evening workouts. Make sure that your gym bag is ready to go when you get home from work or school.
 Because you will be sore and tired at first, you should take advantage of rest days. Your body needs time to heal and strengthen the muscles that you are using. Pushing yourself too hard initially can result in an injury that may sideline you for an extended period of time.Initially, you might consider giving yourself more rest days than exercise days. For example, in the first few weeks, consider only working out three days a week, filling the rest of the week with light physical activities like walking.
 A little positive reinforcement is a great way to get yourself motivated and to stay on track. If you are having a hard time getting excited about your workouts, work towards a tangible reward. This could be a micro reward for completing a day’s workout, such as an extra hour of TV at night. It can also be a macro reward for achieving a long-term goal, such treating yourself to a vacation for meeting a weight loss goal.A combination of micro and macro rewards can really help you stay on target.
 Many people who return to exercising overdo it, which leads to burnout. If you tend to push yourself too hard, make a conscious effort to moderate your exertion. The goal should be to stick with the plan, not achieve the plan on the first week.

