 Although it may appear that acting aggressive and excited will be the best way to intimidate your opponent, keeping a relaxed and even attitude will better convey your confidence. If you are acting overly animated, your opponent is likely to interpret your behavior as a mask for nervousness and fear. Demonstrating a relaxed attitude conveys confidence and self-assurance that will shake your opponent’s confidence.Avoid acting too nonchalant. This will convey to your opponent that you do not care and are an easy opponent.
 For a competition where you are not wearing a uniform and get to pick your own attire, wear something that exudes confidence. Professional attire, such as a suit, conveys authority and self-assurance. With extra padding and layers, these outfits can also make you appear more intimidating and help your feel more in charge.Make sure that your attire is appropriate for your competition. Wearing the wrong clothes conveys that you are ill prepared and are not a serious threat.
 If you are competing in a physical activity, demonstrate to your opponent that your body is ready for the challenge. Be sure to wear clothing that accentuates your muscles and highlights your physicality.


You may want to do some push-ups or other light exercises beforehand to make sure your muscles are looking firm, but do not overdo it. Save your energy for your event.
 Before you compete, practice your talents in front of your opponent. Hit a few three-point shots in warm-ups or demonstrate a complicated maneuver you have mastered. This conveys to your opponent that you are skilled and know what you are doing.


Avoid doing something that you are less capable of pulling off. If you try it and fail, your opponent will take you less seriously and it may shake your own confidence.
 Let your opponent know that you are not intimidated by having a congenial conversation. Ask your opponent how they are doing and if they are excited for the competition. This is good sportsmanship and conveys to your opponent that you are not afraid of them.


Do not talk too much to your opponent. This will help you avoid breaking the rules, starting a fight, or allowing yourself to be intimidated by your opponent.
Avoid trash talking. Although this may seem like a good way to get in your opponent’s head, it will distract you from what you need to do to win. It is also poor sportsmanship and, depending on what kind of activity you are participating in, may result in a penalty., It is important to control the flow of events during the competition. Being passive gives your opponent the upper hand and allows them to dictate the pace of the contest. However, it is important to avoid being overly aggressive or violent. Not only is this considered poor sportsmanship that may result in a penalty, it will also distract you from what you are trying to accomplish.Being violent will make it hard for you to be a good team player. Try not to let your opponent get you angry.

