 Your school may or may not have a supply list; if it doesn't, then the teachers will give you one in the first week of school. You should wait until open house or the first week of school for any less commonplace supplies, but there are some basic supplies you are likely to need regardless of your particular classes:


Pencils
Eraser
Sharpener
Pens
Ruler
Scissors
Glue Sticks (Liquid Glue is not very efficient in class)
Colored pencils;
, Ensure that it sits comfortably and is not harming your posture. Your backpack should not weigh more than you!

, When you change classes, be organized by ensuring that everything you need is in your backpack or locker.
 So if your first lesson starts at 8:30, the best time to wake up would be an hour to two hours before, in this case between 6:30 and 7:30.
 Have a shower every morning. Uncounted people have failed to survive school because they didn't shower. If you don't have the opportunity to shower in the morning, shower the night before. Even if you don't sweat a lot, it is more hygienic to shower every day/night.
 Breakfast is the most important meal of the day. If you don't have breakfast, you can't concentrate throughout the school day! Some schools also offer breakfasts in the cafeteria.
 If your school is free wear (no uniform) it is best that girls go to school in shorts and pants. Many of difficult situation can be more easily survived in shorts rather than a skirt. However, if you want to wear skirts or dresses, wear leggings or tights underneath. Even if you do have a uniform you can still look yourself. Add some jewelry or change up your shoes and you will look like yourself and still follow the school's rules., Just dress appropriately. You don't want to remember wearing short shorts and spaghetti straps in middle school when you are older.
Look your best on picture day. That means that if you school is free wear, don't come in something too sparkly and don't wear a lot of makeup; the light will make you look like the Mad Hatter!

, Even though your teacher may give a lot of homework, just make sure to think positive. School isn't about making you stressed out, it's about teaching you to become a successful adult. Talk to your parents if you feel like you've been stretched to your wits end because of all the work you're getting though. That's not good!

, Pay attention in class. The next thing you know after not paying attention is that your teacher asks you what she or he just said and you have no idea. If you need to, take notes so that you can look back on them for reference.


If you have trouble understanding the homework material then don't be afraid to ask your teacher.
Study hard for the exams. The exams in the fifth grade are nothing compared to the exams in the sixth grade.
Remember that school comes before fun! Colleges are mostly focused on high school grades, though, but that doesn't mean that you don't have to try now, too. If you do a good job in middle school, it will give you more opportunities in high school, which will help your chance into getting into a good college.
 Nobody in your future will look at your elementary/middle school grades. You're a kid, so relax!

, Be mature when you have to. For example, if you have to care for a parent with a disability or help out with your younger siblings, you need to be responsible.
 Don't take note of what other people are saying about you, unless it's positive. Focus on you, yet have empathy (consider other people's feelings).
 Be nice to people, and don't be mean. Being mean can lead to having no friends, which is not fun. Be friendly and be yourself. Then, you'll make plenty of friends.


Trying out for band is a good idea for you because you learn something new and make new friends.
 Don't take on bullies. You are perfect in every way, so don't fight back!


Understand that you will meet unpleasant people. That's a part of life.
 Having an intimate relationship just leads to heartbreak early. It's ok to have romantic feelings for someone, but don't let it distract you.'

, If they're good friends, they'll last for the rest of your middle school life, so make sure not to lose them! However, make sure that once you've established your friend group, you don't stop looking outwards.

