 Your primary care or your OB/Gyn will most likely be the person who gave you the diagnosis and is one of the best sources of information. Schedule an appointment to review your medical history, current health conditions and ask questions about PCOS.


Ask for an overall assessment of your health and an estimate of the amount of weight you need to lose and how that may affect your diagnosis.
Also ask about any medications, dietary supplements or lifestyle changes that your doctor recommends to help you manage your condition.
Heredity is the major indicator of risk: the daughters of women with polycystic ovary syndrome have a 50 percent chance of developing the syndrome. In addition, a family history of diabetes also increases your risk.Weight gain, impaired fertility, increased facial hair and depression are among the symptoms experienced by women with PCOS., Some dietitians are experienced with PCOS and weight loss.


There is a strong correlation exists between polycystic ovary syndrome and increased insulin resistance.A dietitian will be able to provide you with a specific meal plan or list of foods that can help manage insulin resistance.
Ask your dietitian for a weight loss meal plan, any foods that you should eat more of or stay away from and any other educational resources about PCOS and diet.
 One of the first steps after being diagnosed with PCOS is educating yourself about the condition as best you can. This will help you have a more active role in your health.


Ask your doctor what resources they think are the best. Purchase a few of those recommended sources to start with.
Also try reviewing credible sources online for more information. There are a variety of websites that are dedicated just to PCOS where you can learn a lot of information. Try: PCOS Nutrition Center, PCOS Foundation and Office Of Women's Health from DHHS.
 There are a variety of medications that may be prescribed to you to help you manage PCOS. Some medications are designed to help you manage insulin resistance, while others are used to help correct any hormonal imbalances or irregular menstrual cycles.Many women with this condition you have insulin resistance, and may be a candidate for medication called metformin, that can help with some weight loss.
Always keep a list of the types and dosages of all medications, vitamin/mineral or herbal supplements you're taking. Having accurate information to give all your health care providers will help them provide you with the best care.
Also track any side effects or symptoms you may be having from your medications. Inform your health care team of any symptoms that you experience.
 If you'd like, share your situation with friends, family members or co-workers. Having people to support you throughout a weight loss process is helpful in keeping the weigh off long-term in addition to helping you cope with the diagnosis of having PCOS.


Seek support from others who are living with PCOS. They will have experienced and overcome many of the frustrations you are facing. There may be support groups or online forums dedicated to PCOS and weight loss.
You may also find support groups through your doctor's office or through websites dealing with PCOS.

