 If a person is unconscious, try to rouse them by speaking to them; do not be afraid to speak up. If they do not respond to activity, sound, touch, or other stimulation, determine whether they are breathing.
 If no signs of breathing are apparent, place two fingers under the chin and gently guide the face pointing upwards to open up their airways. If any debris such as vomit can be seen, it is appropriate to move them onto their side to allow it to get out, which is achieved with the recovery position.Check for a pulse.
 Unless you suspect a spinal injury, carefully roll them onto their back and open their airway.If you suspect a spinal injury, leave the person where they are, provided they are breathing.Keep the head and neck aligned.
Carefully roll them onto their back while holding their head.
Open the airway by lifting the chin.
 In the center of the chest, just below an imaginary line running between the nipples, put your two hands together and compress the chest down approximately 2 inches (5.1 cm) at a rate of 100 compressions per minute (or to the beat of "Staying Alive"). After 30 compressions, give two rescue breaths, done by opening the airways, closing the nose and fully covering the mouth hole. Then check vitals. If the breaths are blocked, reposition the airway. Make sure the head is tilted slightly back and the tongue is not obstructing it. Continue this cycle of 30 chest compressions and two rescue breaths until someone else relieves you., The ABCs of CPR refer to the three critical things you need to look for.Check these three things frequently as you give the person first aid CPR.


Airway. Does the person have an unobstructed airway?
Breathing. Is the person breathing?
Circulation. Does the person show a pulse at major pulse points (wrist, carotid artery, groin)?

, Drape a towel or a blanket over the person if you have one; if you don't, remove some of your own clothing (such as your coat or jacket) and use it as a cover until medical help arrives. However if the person has a heatstroke, do not cover him or keep him warm. Instead try to cool him by fanning him and damping him.
 As you administer first aid, be sure to be aware of these things that you should not do in any case:


Do not feed or hydrate an unconscious person. This could cause choking and possible asphyxiation.
Do not leave the person alone. Unless you absolutely need to signal or call for help, stay with the person at all times.
Do not prop up an unconscious person's head with a pillow.
Do not slap or splash with water an unconscious person's face. These are movie gimmicks.
If the person appears in danger due to an electric shock, you may attempt to move it, but only with a non-conductive object.

