 The act of breathing supplies oxygen to your entire body. Breathing deeply uses the entire capacity of your lungs to oxygenate blood. Though normal breathing levels aren’t unhealthy, deep breathing reaches the peak level of oxygen flowing through your body.Pay special attention to your diaphragm while slowly inhaling and exhaling full deep breaths. Feel your diaphragm lowering while you inhale and exhale fully until you feel your stomach muscles tighten and your diaphragm lift., Like deep breathing, laughing forces more air out of your lungs, which leads to a greater inhalation of fresh air and a higher supply of oxygenated blood.Laughing also works abdominal muscles and increases lung capacity.
 Aerobic exercise doesn’t necessarily make your lungs stronger on its own. However, great cardio-respiratory fitness makes it easier for your lungs to supply your heart and muscles with oxygen.This puts less strain on your lungs, allowing them to function properly with less work.


The American Heart Association recommends at least thirty minutes of moderate-intensity cardio exercise five days a week or more in order to maintain good cardiovascular health., Studies have shown that diets rich in fresh fruit and fish are associated with benefits to lung health.This is especially the case with those who experience asthma, COPD, and other common lung diseases.A 2010 study also showed that a diet rich in cruciferous vegetables (broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, kale, bok choy) can decrease the risk of lung cancer., The hairs in your nose act as a filter and only let extremely fine particles through. Your nose can filter particles as small as a single grain of pollen with 100 percent efficiency.This makes breathing through your nose a much better option than breathing through your mouth.
 Sickness, allergies, and other conditions can all lead to common nasal congestion. A plugged nose means you’re pulling 100 percent of germs and pollution directly into your lungs by breathing through your mouth.This can exacerbate conditions such as asthma and other lung complications or even cause them in those who don’t already suffer from them.Treat common allergies with antihistamines or other decongestants to help keep your nose clear.Additionally, overly dry nasal passages that can accompany sickness make nose hairs less effective at filtering air. Consider using a humidifier or even an over-the-counter nasal mist to keep your nasal passage moist and properly filtering the air you breathe., In addition to its myriad other positive effects, drinking plenty of water is good for your lungs. You lungs have a mucosal lining, and staying hydrated keep the lining thin, which helps your lungs function more efficiently., If you have asthma or another respiratory condition, ensure you see your doctor for regular exams to help control the condition. Albuterol, a prescription bronchodilator, works well to help with asthma symptoms, for instance.
 Yearly flu vaccines and pneumococcal vaccinations can help lower the risk of respiratory infections.This also means less risk of developing associated lung complications such as pneumonia.


Smokers between the ages of 19 and 65 should get a pneumococcus vaccination. Also, anyone with chronic heart disease, chronic lung disease, alcoholism, chronic liver disease, or who is over the age of 65 should get the pneumococcus vaccination.

