 If you cannot get away from a noise, such as a radio playing at work, consider raising the matter politely with everyone involved. It is important that everyone in a workplace or study environment feels comfortable. You may find out that you are not the only one who has an issue!


If your colleagues refuse to keep the noise level to a minimum, consider talking with the HR department.
If you have to deal with noisy neighbors, always stay calm and polite. Disputes between neighbors can become ugly quickly.
 This is a short-term strategy to isolate the room you are working in. Make sure that your windows and your doors are closed. Sounds usually penetrate through holes and gapes. The following ideas can help you reduce the level of background noise:


Various barriers can mute distracting sounds. Place a few pillows against the wall to absorb the sound from the other side of the wall when in bed.
Buy thermal drapes for your windows. They stop outside sounds as well as the flow of heat.
Place a carpet on the floor to block the sound from downstairs.
 If you work at home and own the place, you can call a professional to soundproof your room. This solution will be expensive but will also give you more freedom and long-term satisfaction.


There are several ways to soundproof your house. Soundstop panels can be installed on the walls and rubber mats placed on the floor.
Always ask for a quote and call a few professionals to compare. Don’t pick the first one and try to bargain.
 Moving out of your rented house or flat might seem like a drastic solution but if you are poisoned by background noises and are working at home, this might be the simplest long-term option. You need to take care of your health and your stress level.


Plan your move correctly. Ideally, you should research different area and investigate the noise level. You don’t want to move in another noisy place! If you find a place you like, visit it at different times to be sure that the noise level is acceptable.
Identify potential problems. Do not move next to a football stadium or a nightclub. Avoid bars and places where there are high concentrations of students.

