 Hold on to yourself. If the hatred must change you, let it only make you stronger and kinder. Maybe this person is a terrible human being, but that doesn’t make it okay for you to be one too.


Use this as an opportunity to practise compassion. It’s highly possible that this person is behaving in a hateful way because they are struggling with something (or a number of things) about which you are unaware.;
, Does it help you in any way? Even if you find that your hatred energizes you on some level, you will likely also find that it drains you.


In the case of an ex romantic partner, Harriet Lerner, PhD, suggests that hatred is a way of staying attached to them. In addition, it may be a form of revenge — we might hope that our exes will someday see how much they hurt us, which is in reality unlikely to happen.Dr. Lerner also writes that for some people, to move on feels akin to forgiving, and that’s what can make it so difficult to do. It’s a cliché, but it’s true that “Living well is the best revenge.”Maybe your hatred drives you to be more ambitious, more competitive, more successful. Those are qualities that you can nurture in yourself without connecting them to the negative, exhausting emotion of hatred.
 In your daily life, keep track of the ways in which your hatred, anger, emotions, and judgements affect your behaviour and relationships. Write them down in a journal. This might help you become more aware of your own weaknesses, and could make you more compassionate toward others., If you are struggling with obsessive, hateful thoughts about someone, you may find it useful to speak to a therapist. Speaking to a professional will not only help you sort out your thoughts and feelings, it will also give you the benefit of a third party, more objective viewpoint on your situation.
 Keep track of how they operate in the world (i.e. via news, social media etc.), and model your own behaviour after theirs. Let them inspire you to be a kinder, more compassionate person., When you have too much time on your hands, it’s all too easy to dwell on things that bring you anxiety and stress. The more time you spend doing things that you enjoy, the less time you will have to spend on negative things like hatred.


Some ideas on how to spend your time: take up hiking, join a recreational sports team, sing in a choir, learn how to play guitar, volunteer for a cause that you believe in, write a book, hang out with people who inspire you.
 Forgiveness does not necessarily mean absolving someone of their hurtful actions; it is more about allowing yourself to move on and live a healthier, happier life.Ultimately, you are doing this for yourself, not them. Hate is exhausting, and your energy is better spent on things that make you feel good and help you move forward in life. In fact, studies have shown that people who are able to let go of negativity enjoy longer, healthier lives.If you find that you struggle to remain positive when in a certain person’s presence, you may want to consider avoiding them as much as possible, or at least to create clear boundaries for your interactions with them in order to minimize their negative impact on you.
 Set aside one hour, sit down with a pen and paper, and get it all out. Do not show the person the letter you have written. Do not send them the letter! This is just for you; you may even find it useful to burn it or tear it up afterward.


Things to write about may include how you feel about them, hateful habits they may have, and specific times that you have been most upset at them.
Besides allowing you to vent your anger, the letter may also help you better define why you feel the way you do.
 Depending on why you hate the person, it may take you a long time to work through your feelings toward them. Keeping a journal will help you process what you are feeling. You may even come up with some ideas for how to resolve your hatred., If you do decide to speak to them, ensure that you do so using nonviolent communication techniques such as non-judgemental language and specific examples.Questions to consider while making your decision: Will it help or hurt? Will they be receptive to what you have to say? Is it best left unsaid?
If you know that they will likely be unwilling to listen to what you have to say, it may be better not to waste your time and energy.
 Most people have some redeeming qualities; by focusing on these, you may be able to at least develop an appreciation of them, even if you don’t like them.


If it’s a colleague at your work or school, appreciate them for their strengths. Maybe they are good salespeople or compelling public speakers. Maybe they always meet deadlines. You don’t have to like them, but you can appreciate their value.
 Studies have shown that the way you feel about someone affects how you view their actions. It’s possible that the person you hate actually isn’t as terrible as you think they are. Even if they are terrible, viewing them from a new perspective, free from judgement, might help you see that they are only human, struggling along with the rest of us.


As an example of how this works, two people may be equally productive workers, but if you hate one of them, you’ll likely believe that they are less productive.
 The person you hate may be miserable and cruel. He or she may have done something terrible to you or someone you love. Try to consider how much pain they must be in to want to inflict that pain on others. Remember that we are all human, and we are all doing the best we can with what we have.
This is related to letting go.
 In a forgiveness meditation your focus may be on the person you hate, but it really is about you. The goal of this meditation is to help you let go of your hatred and anger so that you can move on and live a healthier life.Set aside at least 10 minutes in which you cannot be disturbed. You can spend longer on the meditation if you wish.
Sit quietly in a comfortable position, either on a mat or cushion on the floor, or in a chair. Lying down is also fine, as long as you don’t fall asleep!
Close your eyes and try to clear your mind of thoughts. Thoughts may enter your mind, but simply observe them and let them pass. Do not dwell on them.
Spend a few moments breathing deeply. Try for at least 4 seconds in, 4 seconds out (this will vary depending on the strength of your lungs and whether you suffer from conditions such as asthma). Breathe long and slow into your stomach (as opposed to your chest). Let your breath inflate your stomach.
When you feel calm and ready, visualize the person you hate. You may see them up close. You may see them far away, floating in darkness or maybe even in light. How you see them is up to you.
Taking in a long, slow breath, think to yourself, “I breathe in love and compassion.”
Breathing out slowly, think, “I let go of hate and anger.”
Breathing in again, think, “I send you love and compassion.”
Breathing out, think, “I free you from hatred and anger.”
With your next breath in, begin the cycle again, starting with "I let go of hate and anger." Continue to repeat the cycle until you are ready to end the meditation.
When you are ready to end the meditation, you may find it useful to once again clear your mind, and envision a healing light filling your body. This can be whatever colour you like. (Commonly chosen colours are white or golden.)
During the meditation you may find that distracting thoughts pop into your head. That’s okay. In fact, it’s pretty normal, particularly when you’re just starting out. You may find it useful to name the distracting thoughts before sending them away and returning to your intended focus.

As an example of naming your thoughts, a thought about work might be named “work,” or a stressful thought may be named “stress.”


There are many types of forgiveness meditations. What’s most important is to choose words that resonate with you, even if this means making them up yourself.

