 The easiest way to communicate with "M" is through the Messenger app for Android or iOS. You can download Messenger for free from your device's app store.You can also chat with M through www.messenger.com or through the Facebook desktop website.
You don't actually install "Facebook M," but instead interact with it through Facebook Messenger.;
, You can start interacting with M in this conversation; just type "Hi M, what are some things you can do to help me?" You can also find M by starting a new conversation with it:


iOS - Tap the "New Message" button in the Recent tab. Search for "M" and select it from the "Bots" section.
Android - Tap the "+" button in the Recent tab and select "Search." Search for "M" and select it from the "Bots" section. You may have to scroll to find it.
Facebook M is not currently available to the general public. In order to use it now, you'll need to receive an invite from either Facebook itself or another M beta participant. Availability should increase as Facebook expands the service., M is designed to interact with you using natural language. This means you don't have to try to guess the right keyword to use to get M to do what you want. Just type your question or comment like you would if you were chatting with a concierge or information desk, and M will take care of the rest. A human will step in if M is unable to understand your request, but this will not be visible on your end.For example, you could ask M, "Where's a good place to get a sandwich nearby?" After verifying your location, M will respond with several different options.
 The power of M really shows when you start asking follow-up questions to simple queries. For example, after asking for a sandwich shop recommendation, you can text "M, show me the Yelp page for this sandwich shop." If you like what you see, you can type, "I'd like to see a menu if possible." If M is able to find an online menu, it will send it to you.
 M can go beyond looking things up. You can have M place reservations, order products, and call customer service lines. For example, if you've found the sandwich you want, you can text, "M, place a takeout order at Restaurant for a turkey club." M will call the shop and place the order under your name, and then let you know when the order has been placed.

