 Tap the App Store on your iPhone or iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “Xend” on the search field and tap the “Search” button.
 Locate the app from the results, and tap on it. To download, tap the “Install” button beside the app.


This app is free.
 Locate the app on your mobile device. It has a blue icon with a capital “X” on it under a banner “MOBILE.” Tap on it to launch it, and you will be brought to the sign-in screen.
 Use your Xend account to sign in. Key in your email address and password, then tap the “SIGN IN” button.
 Upon initial sign in with a new mobile device, you need to sync your registered addresses for the app to easily identify your pickup locations. There’s a big circle in the middle of the app with “SYNC ADDRESSES.” Tap on it to start syncing.


All your addresses from your Xend account will be synced with the app.
 Your addresses in the app can also be synced manually. This is after the initial sign in, if you’ve added new addresses from another device or directly on Xend’s website.


On the main screen, tap the three small vertical boxes at the upper-right side. This contains the Xend app’s short menu, and the first item here is “Sync Addresses.” Tap on this to initiate a sync of your app’s addresses.
 The second item from the short menu is “Add New Address.” This is where you can add a new pickup address right from your iOS mobile device. Tap on this, and the Add Address screen will come out. Fill up the new address form, and tap the blue “Add Address” button to save the address.
 Editing or deleting an address cannot yet be done from the mobile app. You will have to go to Xend’s website to do these.
 The Book Now screen lists all your addresses, with their proper categories (e.g., Home, Business, etc.)

, Booking a pickup can be with just one single tap of your finger. Scroll through your addresses and select the one where you want the pickup to be. Right underneath each address are two buttons. The first one is “Book Today.” Tap this button if you want the pickup to happen today.


Do note that the cutoff time is 2PM. If you need a pickup today, you must tap this button before 2PM. Otherwise, you’ll get an error message.
If you’ve made the booking in time, you will see a success message with the pickup reference number. Wait for the courier to arrive at your doorstep.
 Scroll through your addresses and select the one where you want the pickup to be. Right underneath each address are two buttons. The second one is “Book Tomorrow.” Tap this button if you want the pickup to happen tomorrow.


You will see a success message with the pickup reference number. Wait for the courier to arrive at your doorstep.
 Bookings from the mobile app can only be done for pickups happening today or tomorrow. Anything other than those need to be done from Xend’s website.
 The bookings will be displayed with their pickup dates, reference numbers, and pickup locations or addresses. Review your bookings from here.
 If you want to send Xend a note or reminder about a booked pickup, tap the “Add Remarks” button found under each of the bookings. A Remarks window will appear where you can input your notes or reminders for Xend. Type in your message and tap the “Update” button.


You will see a confirmation message once done. Tap the “Close” button to return to your previous screen.
 If for some reason you’d like to cancel a booking, tap the “Cancel” button found under the respective booking. Another window will appear asking for your feedback or reason for cancelling the pickup. Type in your message and tap the “Cancel Booking” button.


You will see a confirmation message once done. Tap the “Close” button to return to your previous screen. The booking will be removed from your My Bookings list.

