 Books can open you up to new ways of thinking. A good book will describe people and places that you have likely never seen before. While this isn’t the same as actually visiting a place, it does give you a basic feel for something outside your day to day life. The story will likely inspire you to try something that you had never done before reading it.Even fictional places and characters are based on real social and cultural themes. You may not be able to physically go to the place in the story, but it will still expand your thinking beyond your day to day routine.;
, Many people enjoy a relaxing evening or weekend in front of the TV. It is common for people to be so habitual about their TV habits that they only watch one or two types of movies or shows. Instead of following this routine, try different shows and movies from different genres. A great way to force yourself to do this is to let someone else pick the show or movie some of the time.Avoid spending too much time watching TV. It will cut into time that you could be doing other things that you’ve never done.
 At a basic level, your immediate influences would been your childhood caretakers and parents, and your social circle. If you want to do more things, you have to learn what other things are out there. By studying what people do in cultures outside your own, you open yourself up to new possibilities. There is plenty of information online about other cultures, but the best way to learn is to plan a trip to experience that culture for yourself.You may not have to plan a long trip to experience another culture. Sometimes, even a trip to a different market or religious institution will give insight into how people in another culture lead their day to day lives.
 If you want to take your understanding of another culture to a more serious level, learn their language. This will give you a better understanding of the way people in that culture communicate. You can get a tutor or an online immersion software to learn many languages.


Many less common languages will not have software created for them. In this case, you will have to have a tutor that is fluent in the language.
Look into learning software like Rosetta Stone or Duolingo.
You can also look into online courses, such as on Udemy.com, where you can find language courses for a low fee.

