 OpenSecrets.org is the best source of information for Federal officeholders and their donor history. You can look up the donor history of a particular candidate or former officeholder, or political party. You can even see which Congressmen are on what committees and what outside groups have spent in an election cycle and where they spent it.OpenSecrets.org is a great source for finding information about political donations and expenditures, but it’s only a source for information about Federal candidates, officeholders, and races.
 The “Politicians and Elections” tab is located on the top left hand side of the OpenSecrets.org homepage. Let your mouse hover over the tab. There are three ways to research an individual politician’s donor history, depending on the office.If you’re looking for the donor history of a Congressional candidate or officeholder, click on either the “Congressional Election” button or the “Congress” button.
Narrowing by congressional election rather than by elected members of Congress is probably the more useful option, because you can find out information about candidates as well as elected officials. However, narrowing by officeholder does allow you to see what leadership positions a Congressperson holds.
Search for the race or candidate of interest to you. You can search by candidate name, by state, or by year.
 FollowTheMoney.org is a website run by the National Institute on Money in State Politics. It is the best source for researching contribution and expenditure history of state officeholders such as governors and legislators.Although FollowTheMoney.org also has information about federal officeholders who run at state and local level, like member of the US House and Senate, Follow the Money’s database is much larger than Open Secrets’, and it usually isn’t as up to date.
Using the FollowTheMoney.org site is simple, but if you want a mini-tutorial, there’s a one-minute intro on the homepage.
 Clicking on the “Election Overview” tab is the easiest way to find out information about a candidate’s contribution and spending history.After you’ve moved to the “Election Overview” page, you should see a drop down menu allowing you to customize your search by state/locality and year.
 Once you’ve move to the election overview for the state and year you’re looking for, click on the tab that says “Candidates.” From there, you can sort by incumbency status, district, total contributions, party, and office sought.If you want to find out as much information about one candidate, click on the candidate’s name from the candidate listing on the page. It will take you to a page specifically for that candidate, which then allows you to examine the candidate’s record for as long as they’ve been politically active. You can potentially find out who the candidate has given money to, who’s given money to them, which industries and PACs they are close to, and more.
Since different states have different disclosure requirements, you might find that some information about a candidate you’re interested in learning won’t be available.

