 This position can give relief to your lower back. Lie on the floor with a pillow supporting your head. If you need to, use a lumbar support cushion under your back. Lift your calves and place them on a chair or sofa. Make sure you hips and knees are bent at a 90 degree angle.You can stay in this position for as long as you feel comfortable, but make sure to try for at least 30 to 60 seconds.
This position should not cause you any pain.
 Stretching some of the muscles around your back can help untrap the nerve and relieve pain. Start with a core stretch. Sit down with your legs straight out in front of you. Twist your core as you place your hand on the opposite knee. Lean forward to stretch your back muscles as you twist. Hold for around five seconds, then stretch the other side.Stretch your sides by standing and leaning to one side to gently stretch out those muscles. Hold for a few seconds, and then stretch the opposite side. Go back and forth five to six times.
 Hamstring stretches can also help with back pain. Sit with your legs out. Lean forward, folding your body over your legs, and touch your toes. If you can’t touch your toes, touch your ankles, shoes, or any other part you can. Hold for a few seconds, then straighten and repeat.Lie flat on your back with a pillow under your head. Bend your knees. Bring one knee towards your chest. Grab the hamstring, or the back of the leg, with both of your hands. Straighten the knee as much as you can slowly and pull your leg towards you. Hold for around 30 seconds. Bend the knee, then return to start.
 Stretching your lower back can help with trapped nerves. Lie down on your back with a pillow under your head, and bend your knees. Bring one knee up towards your chest. Grab your knee with both of your hands and gently stretch the knee towards your chest. If it hurts, loosen it just a bit. Hold for around 30 seconds.Lie down on your stomach, and prop yourself up on your elbows. Keep your neck long and lifted as you push down with your hands to stretch your chest away from the floor. Your back should arch, and you should feel a stretch in your back and stomach. Hold for around 10 seconds.

