 Talk to your parents. Reassure them that you won't look crazy. You're not going to be able to use the Gothic look if they are not open to make up at all. Still didn't work? Try the below suggestions.;
, This means you need to be clean and groomed.
 This will help a lot.
 Your face must be completely fuzz free for this to work.
 This is key for this look.
 Carefully blend, perhaps blot with water. Be careful, because you will have this look for awhile until it fades. Allow mixture to dry 5 - 15 minutes depending on desired color depth. Then rinse off. Instant bronzer that you don't need to reapply everyday.
 It looks good as a bronzer and tastes good too!

, Use q - tips to apply to your eyelashes as mascara and curl with an eyelash curler or spoon.
 Use the chap stick on your cheeks too. Berry and bronze work especially well for cheeks. Buy the new shimmer chap stick to highlight eyes.
 Your parents said you can't wear makeup? Did they specifically forbid food on your face? If not, you've got a loophole.
 Do they forbid you facial items? That's OK! You can achieve a facial buy washing with a mild liquid soap, using witch hazel or your dad's aftershave as toner and honey or avocado as a mask.
 Make sure you use very little ammonia. Spray through your hair frequently and beam sunlight on it. This will give you highlights. Alternatively, you can apply honey or lemon for sometime & wash it with Lukewarm water,this will lighten your hair naturally. If you want to darken hair, use black tea instead of honey/lemon.
 When you wake up, undo the bed and use hairspray to keep your ringlets. For shorter hair, curl your hair around your fingers and pin to your scalp with bobby pins. Cover with a bandanna.
 In the morning, undo. Or you could just have a friend help you use a clothes iron to iron your like your grandma did when she was your age.
 Then buff them to a high sheen. Bleach the undersides of your nails with your tooth whitener gel for two minutes. Do this daily to look like you have a French manicure.

