 Is it for you and someone else? For specific people you have in mind? Or do you want to create a compatibility test that can be used by anyone?


Is the test meant for a private one-on-one activity or are you writing the test for a class or a therapy group?
Keep in mind categories that will make your test more specific: age groups, male/female, ethnicity, religion, or sexual orientation.;
, Compatibility examines how well people can function together.Functional relationships take many different forms:


Marriage
Friendship
Coworkers
Roommates
Teammates

, Relationships are based on common ways of thinking, feeling, and behaving - qualities that shape our personalities.,,What issues arise in any given relationship, and how might they be important to you? How important are they to others? This is what you're trying to find out with your test!


Marriage: trust, communication, arguments, sex
Friendships: shared interests, conversation, companionship
Coworkers: leadership, time management, collaboration, work ethic
Don't be afraid to brainstorm! If your test is meant as a group exercise, ask those peers for input.
 The structure of the questions will shape the overall "flavor" of your compatibility test.


Multiple choice and yes/no questions are less intense for the test taker, can be taken by many people, and are easier to grade when the test is complete. These formats also make it easier for you to include more questions on the test.
Short answer or essay questions can potentially provide you with good quality information but can be a lot of work to grade. A short answer compatibility test is better suited to an specific exercise between two people and not general use.
 The way that you phrase your questions will affect the answers that your audience gives.


For shorter questions, try to begin with "Do you _____" and present the reader with a yes/no response or a preference choice. "Do you like scary movies?" is a popular first date question.Open-ended sentences that start with "how" or "why" are better for essay questions like "How do you feel about yourself - physically, emotionally, mentally, and spiritually?"If you want the test taker to provide shorter answers, ask them to list 1-3 things that are important to them: "What three interests are you most passionate about?"or "Name one person you looked up to growing up."

, The questions you ask should be geared toward finding out what sort of lover/roommate/spouse/coworker the test taker is. Refer to the list you made!


Roommate compatibility questions tend to be more action-oriented, such as "how often do you clean?" or "do you smoke?"Marriage compatibility tends to emphasize personal values: "How do you most typically express your love for someone?"Personal values and activities often intersect in the workplace. A good question for coworkers might be "Do you lead a project by pitching in, or do you prefer to step back and supervise?"
All relationships are a blend of shared values and activities. Just look at your list; it probably includes both. Your test questions can too!

, This will help the test takers compare their results, especially if your test is meant for a group of people.


Essay and short answer questions can vary widely are thus more difficult to score using numbers. Review these compatibility tests qualitatively by setting aside time for discussion of each answer.
For multiple choice questions, responses could be listed with numbers ranked in order of importance. You could make numbers like 1, 2, and 3 mean "disagree, somewhat agree, strongly agree." Just remember to give each number a meaningful label and be consistent!
Numerical responses can be tallied and placed on a scale. For example, if your test has ten questions and each question has a minimum score of 1 and a maximum score of 5, then possible scores range from 10 to 50. Based on your questions, the range could indicate minimum and maximum compatibility. You could also judge compatibility by seeing how close individual scores are to each other on that scale.
Avoid scoring that is based on what you think are "right" and "wrong" answers.
 Time limits may depend on the format of your test:


If your test consists of longer questions or requires more complex answers, consider giving the test taker as much time as they need.
If the test is being given as part of a class or activity, a time limit is probably a good idea.
 Make them as easy to understand as possible, especially if your test is intended for a large audience. For instance:


A test could be called "How compatible are you and your spouse after 5 years of marriage?"
Instructions could say: "The following test consists of thirty multiple-choice questions. Each question presents an issue typically experienced by couples after 5 years of marriage. Indicate how important each issue is to you by choosing 'never', 'sometimes,' or 'always.' You have 30 minutes to complete the test using a pen or pencil. When complete, hand in the test to the counselor."

, Make preparations based on the format of the test and who will be taking it.


Choose a place that is quiet and free from distractions so that you or your test takers can focus on the questions and provide thoughtful answers.
Online compatibility tests are extremely popular. If your test is designed for a large audience, try sending it out using a free survey website.
Review the test and its instructions. Make sure your audience understands how the test works before you begin.
 Remind yourself and other test takers that they are personally invested in the outcome!


Relax and focus on one question at a time.
Make your responses as honest as possible. If you are taking the test with a partner, don't be tempted to give answers that you think the other person wants to hear.
Try to adhere to the time limit if one is given.
 You may opt to let the test takers grade their own work right after the test is finished. That could segue nicely into a discussion of the results.


Compare the results. How did two different people score on the test? Remember, you're testing the degree to which you're compatible with someone. Answers will certainly vary and are open to interpretation.
Don't work alone. Like the tango, it takes two to be compatible, so include your other test taker(s) in the discussion.
Revisit each of the questions in the test. Breaking compatibility down into its smaller parts - those values and issues - will help you understand how you and your partner are similar and different.
 There's a reason you wanted to know if you're compatible with someone. Did you want to ask someone out, but want to know more about them? Is this test an exercise to help you reconnect with your spouse? Are you trying to figure out the role you fill in the workplace?


Be open to new information that arises. You may think you know a person, but expect to be surprised by some of their responses.
Being compatible is great, but the differences between two people can be just as informative as what they have in common. Don't view those differences negatively.
Use your discussion of the results to address uncertainties or problems in your relationships.

