 Remove food, water and other things that could be highly prized by visiting cats. This reduces the "value" of the porch and makes it less worth it to stake a territorial claim.;
, An ideal deterrent is a canister of compressed air that is activated by a motion sensor. These canisters sense motion on the ground. Once triggered, they deliver a squirt of compressed air, which cats hate. If the visiting cat perceives your porch as risky or hostile, the cat will not want to visit anymore.


This tactic is one that the cat won’t associate with you. If the cat thinks you're causing the hostility, this might not solve the problem. For example, if you shout at the cat each time he is around, he will learn to wait until you are not around, and then he will come to pee on your porch. He associates the punishment with you instead of the porch. Therefore, the cat will avoid you but will visit when you're not around.
 No amount of deterrents is going to bring the problem under control until the neighborhood cats are neutered.Both male and female cats often urinate on your porch to advertise that they are sexually available to other cats. Talk with your neighbors to see if they will agree to neutering their cats.


You should positively identify your neighbor's cat before talking to your neighbor. Watch for the offending cat by either watching through the window or setting up a security camera.
Rule out your cat by trying fluorescein dye. Fluorescein is a harmless orange dye that, when ingested, turns urine bright green, and it fluoresces when illuminated with an ultraviolet light. Get fluorescein dye from your vet and add some of the dye to your cat’s food. After a day or two, inspect the areas on your porch where there is urine. Try this at night and shine a black light on the porch. If you see something fluorescent, your cat is the likely culprit, instead of your neighbor's cat., If you have a population of strays in the neighborhood, chances are they won't be neutered. There are numerous charitable organizations which are geared towards trapping and neutering stray cat populations. Search the internet for an organization near you.


You can also contact your local veterinarian. Chances are the clinic undertakes neutering at a discounted rate for any nearby charities. The vet can usually give you contact details for a local charity coordinator.

