 Studies show that learning from your mistakes improves your mental processes. Believe you can get better at thinking fast and you will! Take the time to examine your successes, but even more importantly, examine your failures. View mistakes as a necessary step in gaining knowledge., Your brain is a muscle that responds to training. As an added benefit, partaking in activities that promote quick thinking can actually improve your mood. You'll feel happier and more creative at the same time you are honing your fast-thinking skills.Try reading comprehension games. Read an article or book chapter as quickly as you can, then give yourself 20 seconds to summarize it quickly.
Go through the alphabet and recite words or names for every letter. Do this as quickly as you can, or try and come up with a given number of words for each letter.
Play games that use timers.
Try online quizzes or apps that provide brain-training activities.
Quickly name lists of things you've done or seen recently -- cars, books, movies, etc.Play improvisation games with a friend or colleague.
 The more senses you use, the more parts of your brain will recall the information you'd like to recover quickly. Associate colors, scents, or physical sensations with words or ideas.


For example, while reading a newspaper article, you might be able to remember the information better if you pay attention to the sensory details, such as the way the author describes someone’s appearance or actions.
 Use a calendar to keep track of events so you aren't committing precious brain space to information that is easily recorded for later reference.


For example, you can write down any appointments that you have, bill due dates, or to-do list items.
 Reciting information out loud or writing it down will reinforce the neural pathways that form memory.Try to recite important information to make it easier to recall that information quickly.


For example, you might want to recite the date of an important presentation or recite the names of your new classmates.

