 The first thing you should do to prepare the zucchini is to soak the zucchini in cold water for 30 minutes. As you soak them, you can scrub them to remove any dirt or grit. Soaking them will help soften them a bit. Then, use an apple corer to slice off both ends of the vegetable, and then hollow out the zucchini, trying to scoop out the centers so all you have left are little zucchini "boats" that will hold the meat stuffing.


Don't throw out the zucchini flesh. Instead, chop it up and set it aside to use for the stuffing later.
 Just pour 1 tablespoon of olive oil in the skillet and give it a minute to sizzle and be warm enough to cook the meat.
 Turn the ground veal as you cook it so it absorbs the oil evenly. Cook it for about 4 minutes, until it is golden brown or just slightly browned. Then, use a slotted spoon to move the veal to a bowl. Leave the remaining grease in the skillet.
 Now, place another tablespoon of olive oil the same skillet and cook 2 peeled and smashed garlic cloves in it. Give it about 2 minutes to turn golden, and then remove the garlic with a slotted spoon and discard it -- the garlic flavor will remain in the oil.
 Now, cook the zucchini flesh in the oil, which is infused with garlic and the grease from the veal, for about 5-6 minutes. Then, place the zucchini flesh in the bowl of veal.
 Mix the zucchini flesh with the veal and stir them well to combine the ingredients. Then, fill the zucchini "boats" with the stuffing.
 Place 2 more tablespoons of oil in a heavy skillet and heat it up over medium high heat. Once the oil is hot, after a minute or two, place as many stuffed zucchini as can fit in a single layer on the skillet. Wait for the zucchini to brown on all of their sides, and turn them when needed. This should take about 10 minutes. Once the zucchini are done, use the slotted spoon to move them to a platter. Repeat this with any remaining zucchini until they are all cooked.
 Cook it over medium high heat, stirring it until it becomes golden brown.
 Add 1/2 a cup of dry white wine to the pan and cook the zucchini there. The wine should bubble. While you cook the zucchini, sprinkle it with salt and pepper to taste. Then, add the seeded and peeled tomatoes to the pan. Alternately, you can used canned tomatoes if you want to save time.
 Turn the zucchini from time to time to make sure that they cook evenly. When they are tender, remove them from heat. Wait at least 5 minutes for them to cool a bit before serving.
 Enjoy these tasty pan-cooked zucchini on their own.

