 This is crucial and changes everything.;
, Make it interesting! Some tips on various tasks are in the "Tips" section below.


Don't get so involved in whatever distraction or diversion you choose that you forget to do the task at hand.
 If you're not looking forward to doing something, chances are that you're not getting it done any faster. Stop procrastinating, and get it over with.
 Upbeat music will help keep your energy level up, while an audio book or radio program will give your mind something to focus on while your hands focus on something repetitive.


If you find that the music or story slows you down or distracts you from performing your task safely or well.
 If you have a lot of something to do, divide it into pieces that are more manageable. Clean for fifteen or thirty minutes, or clean one room, or clean just an area of that room. Sometimes the momentum of getting started will keep you going. Other times, the promise of a break and an end in sight will make the task more palatable. Find out what works for you.
 See how many or how much you can finish in five minutes. Pretend you are showing off your superior laundry-folding skills to a talent scout.
 Did you know it's possible to fold a t-shirt in two seconds?


Make sure you're doing the task correctly. The right way may be the easiest way, and it may save you the trouble of redoing it or redoing it sooner than is necessary.
Don't work so fast that you will have to redo any of your work.
Don't do more than is necessary. Does it really matter if your underwear is neatly folded, or could you just dump it in a drawer? Don't scrub the floor on your hands and knees if a mop will do. And don't aim for perfection if it's not needed.
 Having someone with you will reduce your work, keep you company, keep you on task, and in some cases, help you to perform the task more efficiently (such as if parts of it require carrying large or bulky objects or using more than two hands).


Get the family involved, if the task is at home.
Ask neighbors or colleagues. Be sure to return the favor when it's their turn with a project or chore.
Hire help if you need to. It's more costly, but the phone book is an option to keep in mind if you find yourself overwhelmed or discover that a task is too difficult or time-consuming to perform on your own. There are services out there that will do all sorts of things for you, if you choose.
 Could you take your shoes off at the door or put down good mats? If so, you might not have to sweep or vacuum your floors as often. Is it really necessary to scrub every inch of grout, or would a wide brush or mop do the job?

, Do you look forward to having a clean house or pleasant garden? Do you look forward to having the task completed and getting on to something fun?

, How many or how much have you done? How much do you need to do?


Try counting down to zero instead of up. It'll feel like you're getting their faster.
Measure your work in an unusual or fun way. Walking to keep fit? Aim to walk far enough (over months or years) to get to someplace exotic that you'd like to visit. Clearing out clutter? Weigh the bags; you could lose 20 pounds in ten minutes. Lifting weights? How many Volkswagens does that come to?

