 Barbra Jean is anything but shy and you shouldn’t be either. Never be afraid to talk to someone or deliver a sassy response if you can think of one. That way you will break the ice and make the others feel more comfortable.;
, Whether it’s Germany or Beanie Babies – Barbra Jean always finds a way to tell others about the things she knows. Don’t hesitate to do so, too! Almost every topic is a good topic. Another clever thing you can do is using foreign words or slang; instead of “correct” say “correctomundo” and if somebody is getting on your nerves call them “mein Fräulein”. Although, Barbra Jean can be a little ditzy sometimes. If someone says something that you didn't understand, say "Huh?".
 Puns are fun and you should make them more often! Whether the cat is hidden in “the cattic (Attic) ” or you’re making a quiche for somebody “in quiche they’re feeling down” – be creative; it’s fun!

, If you are telling a joke that nobody is laughing about start laughing out loud immediately and never mind showing some teeth! That way you can you can spice up the joke; your joke might not be funny but your reaction is!

, Barbra Jean would never make fun of anyone else; if anything she’s making fun of herself. Be nice to others even if they aren’t nice to you – eventually they will feel bad for treating such a nice and charming person rudely.
 It’s no secret that Barbra Jean is different than others – or just plain nuts! She is unpredictable and you never know when she’s going to start shouting, singing or dancing like a mad person. That might seem crazy but people like being around her for that reason; she’s never boring. Follow her example but be aware that only people who really like you will appreciate that behaviour.
 Is there anything Barbra Jean will not wear? Probably not; she always has the right outfits for every occasion. If you’re going on a boat trip, wear a striped shirt, white trousers and a sailor’s hat and if you’re cooking with friends, wear an apron and a chef’s hat. That’s a great way of showing that you’re really interested in the activity.
 There are a lot more things you can try to be like Barbra Jean - from handing out photos of yourself to coming up with catchy mnemonic rhymes; the list is endless. Be creative and most of all: have fun!

