 To be, you must know. It's as simple as it sounds, but at times (depending on the subject), is complicated and large. Being bizarre is, sadly, complicated and large. Hence why not allot of humans share that factor very boldly. Know that there are people that like this stuff, and are also very famous. This is because they're so different, that it's special. Do you want to be special? Not in the mental way, of course, but rather in the emotional way. Being special is doing something that someone else has a hard time with, easily. In this case, that "something" is being bizarre.;
, Picking your nose is, as humorous as it sounds, not bizarre. It's weird. If you think of bizarre, think about something out of the ordinary, or out of place. Something that stands out in a strange way from the rather ordinary crowd. If you think of weird, think of sticking you finger in a place that is, well, inappropriate for you to be sticking it. It be your nose, it could be you butt. It doesn't have to be connected to you, either. It can be someone else's nose, and, as nasty as it sounds, it can someone else's butt. Gross, isn't it? Bizarre is a culture, weird is not. Remember that if you want to stand out in a good way, say that your mind is "bizarre", rather than "weird". It not only sounds more interesting, but it's a more formal way to put it.
 Do you want to be bizarre to be different, or do you think a more interesting approach? You probably can't really answer this question that well, and just say "I want to be bizarre because I want to.", and that is a good answer, too. This, actually, could be an optional step if you don't want to fry your noodle just yet.
 This is a very vital step in this guide. Culture can be Japanese Anime, Surrealism, Pinatas,anything that your own culture doesn't normally have. This article is written English, which is the most popular language in America. Language is French for language, for your information. So that means even if you don't understand this article, you at least have something new in your head. Back to the topic, in fact, rapping up the topic is more like it. Culture: important and almost mandatory to being a truly bizarre individual.
 You can look up more on the rest of the Internet, but the most known are David Lynch, Stanley Kubrick, Tim Burton, Johnny Depp, Jim Carrey, Salvador Dalí, and the man eating the extremely large burger that you often see browsing Google Images.
 Some suggestions are Eraserhead, 2001: A Space Odyssey, Begotten, Big Fish, The Thing, Spirited Away, and some others. (NOTE: Some movies listed above are not exactly appropriate for humans under the age of 17, more information in the Warnings tab)

, This guide may only at the moment be a rather rough beginning, but there are some suggestions that can really help out quite allot, such as the list of movies, or the cultural differences step. Also be aware that you can read the Tips tab for some suggestions of bizarre, everlasting material and actions. And remember, the true definition of the word "Bizarre" is a definition that only you can define, as the definition will always change from being to being.

