 The best way to level up Restoration magic is to purchase a few spells, and then heal yourself as you take damage. You can buy basic Restoration spells from Colette Marence in the College of Winterhold. During night hours (from 10PM to 8AM), Colette can be found in her room, which is located on the second floor of the Hall of Countenance. During the day, she spends most of the time in the Arcanaeum.;
, Approach Colette, and hit the X Button (PS3), A Button (Xbox360), or E Key (PC) to interact with her. When she asks if you need something, select the “What do you have for sale?” option.
 If you don’t already have them, purchase Fast Healing and Heal Other for a total of about 400 Gold.
 This should already be a point on your map, as it’s essential for the main quest. Locate the mountain next to Whiterun, and fast travel to the location at the tip of the mountain.


You can fast travel by pressing the O Button (PS3) B button (Xbox 360) or Tab key (PC), then toggling down to open the map. Select “High Hrothgar” to travel there.
 Ascend the steps up to the main sanctuary, enter the temple, then proceed forward to enter the courtyard.


Once in the courtyard, walk up the stairs located behind the fireplace, where a fierce wind is blowing.
 With Fast Healing equipped in both hands, stand in the wind and heal yourself as you take damage. Using this method, it should take a few hours to reach level 90.
 Once your Restoration magic has reached at least level 90, travel to the College of Winterhold. The college is located in the city of Winterhold, nestled high up in the northeastern mountains of Skyrim.
 You’ll find her in the same places and times as mentioned earlier. When she asks if you need something, select the “What else is there to be learned about Restoration magic?” option.


Colette will go on for a moment, thanking you for being such a devoted student of Restoration. After her brief spiel, she’ll say that it seems like you’re ready to speak with the Augur. Select the dialogue option “What does the Augur have to do with this?”
Colette will explain that the Augur is a very powerful mage who’s mastered spells that others could barely comprehend. Before you can advance further in the art of restoration, you will need his approval.
After your conversation, you will get a notification that you have started the Restoration Ritual Spell quest.
 Head to the Hall of Countenance in the College of Winterhold. Once there, descend the stairwell until you cannot proceed anymore. There is a trap door located at the base of the stairs that you can use to enter the Midden.


Proceed through the corridor until you reach an open room with two levels. Descend the stairs to your left, and continue through the corridor in the northern corner of the room. This hall will bring you to a door that leads to the Midden Dark; go through it.
Inside the Midden Dark will be a straight hall. Pass through it, over the bridge, and through the hall with ice walls. Take the next left you see, and continue forward until you reach a door. This door will lead to a room with a brilliant light hovering above what appears to be a magical well. This glowing light is the Augur.
 While facing the light, hit the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or E key (PC) to interact with the Augur. When it asks if you are prepared, you can select the “Prepared for what?” option if you’d like a further explanation of the Augur’s test.


The Augur explains that its test is meant to gauge only your restorative abilities. Tell the Augur that you are ready for the test, and it will direct you to step into the light.
 Step forward into the light, and the test will begin. Your character will be stripped of all gear and weapons, left only with their spells. Two ghosts will appear and begin to attack your character. These ghosts are completely immune to any attacks, so bringing a follower along is rather pointless.


Unlike most boss battles, your goal here is not to defeat the ghosts; it is a survival test. Equip your character with your most powerful healing spells and continually cast them to keep your character from dying. If your health and magicka get low, the best strategy is simply to avoid the ghost’s fire attacks.
After a minute has passed, the ghosts will disappear and the quest will be completed. For proving yourself to the Augur, you will receive a powerful spell called Bane of the Undead. This completes the Restoration Ritual Spell quest.
After completing the quest, you will also be able to purchase master level Restoration spells from Colette, such as Guardian Circle.

