 Flirting with a girl on Facebook, stay calm and talk about topics that you have in common. Avoid being too forward or asking questions that are too personal at first. Good conversation openers include:


"Hey, how's it going?"
"How has your week been?"
"Did you hear about ?"
"Did you hear ?"

, Both boys and girls enjoy talking about themselves, in real life and on Facebook. Asking questions about her not only keeps the conversation going, but allows you to learn more about your crush.


If you don't know much about her, ask questions such as

"What did you do this week/weekend?"
"How was your day?"


If you already know what she is into, ask about her hobbies.

"Have you heard any new good bands recently?"
"Have you read any good books lately?"
"Did you see ? What did you think about it?"



, It is possible to learn personal information about a girl, but do it in a way that is casual. Asking personal questions too soon can come off as creepy, so keep it light by asking questions like:


"Do you have any big plans for the weekend?"
"I noticed you have a cute pet, is that who you mostly hang out with?"
"I saw some of your vacation pictures, what kind of fun stuff did you do?"

, This lets her know that you are interested in being more than just friends. If you wait too long to compliment her while you have her attention, it might be too late next time. Good ways to throw in compliments include:


If you've just met her, use a compliment along the lines of "It's great getting to know someone as interesting as you."
If you already have information on her, use more in-depth compliments like "Your job sounds really interesting." or "It sounds like you got out of your past relationship at the right time."
If she makes you laugh, let her know! Something as simple as "You crack me up" is enough to let her know that you appreciate her sense of humor.
 Flirting on Facebook renders body language useless, which is a large part of showing someone that you are joking. If you do tease or use sarcasm, make it very clear that what you are saying is a joke by adding an emoticon or the word joke in parenthesis.


There is a big difference between a girl reading "Yeah, I'm sure you look just awful in the morning" and "Yeah, I'm sure you look just awful in the morning ;)."

, Part of the thrill of meeting someone new is uncovering the mystery. If she asks you a personal question, say something along the lines of "You'll have to find that out next time we talk" or "Perhaps I'll tell you later". Keep her guessing, but don't be too secretive.
 Don't simply end the conversation with "It was nice talking to you". Rather, show that you are interested in talking again with a statement such as "It was great talking to you , I hope we can do this again soon". This shows her that you are interested in maintaining contact and weren't just killing time. 