 While it is not your responsibility to educate others about homeschooling, you may be asked questions from well-meaning individuals, friends, and family members. Whether you are just beginning to homeschool your children or you have been homeschooling for years, you will likely find yourself having to explain your decision to others.


You may decide to homeschool your child based on personal preference, religious reasons, or if you find the public schools in your area to be unsatisfactory. It can be as easy to share your reason as, "Yes, my family decided that we weren't happy with the quality of education that our kids were getting at the local elementary school so we've decided to homeschool them."
Understand that many people are curious about homeschooling because they are less familiar with homeschooling than they are with traditional public or private schooling.
Everyone has different reasons to homeschool. Your decision to homeschool your children may be based on a very different set of circumstances or experiences than another parent’s decision.;
, Look for homeschooling groups or support systems in your area to feel more connected with the homeschooling community and use them as a resource. Support groups are a helpful way to meet other parents who have gone through the homeschooling process before and who have useful advice for new homeschoolers.Other homeschooling parents can share ways that they've confronted misconceptions about homeschooling before, which can prepare you for whenever you may face them.
Homeschooling groups are also valuable resources if you need advice on practical homeschooling matters, such as selecting a curriculum.
Finding a homeschool support group in your area has been made easy by organizations like the Home School Legal Defense Association (HSLDA), a homeschool advocacy group, which has sites that allow you to search for groups in your zip code., While you do not need to justify your decision to homeschool to others, you should listen to the opinions of others when you engage in conversations with them.


When you share your decision with people that you care about, be open to hearing the opinions of others. While their opinions may not change your decision, their support can be invaluable to your homeschooling experience.
If you receive unwanted or unsolicited advice from others about your decision to homeschool, feel free to steer the conversation away from homeschooling or end the conversation.
 There is a time and place for explanation. If you run into a hostile individual who is rude or refuses to listen to your reasoning, you must know when to walk away from a situation.


There may be individuals who feel strongly against your decision to homeschool and they will have their reasons for reaching that conclusion. If they cannot be respectful of your decision, you do not have to engage with them on the subject of homeschooling anymore.
Use reason and rationality to explain your decision, even when you're confronted with an emotional response. A simple answer like, "This is the best decision for my family and if you cannot respect that, I don't think it's helpful for either of us to speak about this again."

, Many misconceptions about homeschooling come from a lack of information or knowledge about what homeschooling entails. While you are most likely familiar with the benefits of homeschooling, it is often useful to have a wide pool of facts to draw upon when you confront misconceptions.


Education research can provide you with facts and statistics that can help you to better explain your decision. The National Home Education Research Institute, HSLDA, and the Coalition for Responsible Home Education are all great sources for research on homeschooling.
 Many people worry that homeschooled children do not have the same opportunities to socialize as traditionally schooled children. People may ask, "What do your children do to make friends?" You can share the ways that you've involved them in groups and you can say that, "Our children see their friends as frequently as they would if they were in a public school."


There are many ways that children have the opportunity to spend time with other children. You can enroll your child in an organized sports league, join homeschooling groups that take field trips, participate in religious organizations, and being active in your community.
Homeschooling does not mean that you want to deprive your child of socialization opportunities, but it can protect them from some of the more negative social aspects of the public school system, like bullying.
 If someone is curious about your decision to homeschool, feel free to share your reasons for coming to the decision to begin homeschooling with them.


Don’t feel obligated to share reasons if they are personal. Of course, the reasons that factored into your decision to homeschool may be intimate and private. You are under no obligation to share more information than you are willing to share.
 There are more than 2 million children being homeschooled in the United States in 2016 and they are from every social, economic, and ethnic background.Emphasize that there is no single type of homeschooling family. Many people have an idea of what type of family decides to homeschool their children, but this isn't an accurate depiction of who will homeschool their children.
Just like there is diversity in the type of homeschoolers, there are very different ways that you can choose to homeschool your child. Every family makes an individual decision about how they want to school their children. There are many different types of homeschool services to choose from, like online programs, college preparation curriculums, and families that homeschool their children in groups., If you have older children, they can be involved in your homeschooling decisions. As kids get older, their views on education and how they want to learn may change. If they no longer want to be homeschooled and can offer viable reasons why this is the case, consider transitioning to public schooling.


Bring your children to the library and have them pick out books that they’re interested in, and involve them in small parts of your curriculum development. .
Have your children share what they’re interested in and use that as an opportunity to engage their interests. For example, if your child becomes interested in animals and their health, go to the zoo or have a conversation with a friend who works in the animal care field. Let your child explore their interests, within reason.
 Families that decide to homeschool their children are able to choose from a variety of homeschooling services and curriculums.


In many school districts, homeschooled children are welcome to join sports team and participate in extracurricular activities at the schools.
Homeschooled students are more likely to get into college and to graduate and they test more highly than public school students in standardized exams., Your decision to homeschool your children is your decision, just as it is other parent's decision to enroll their children in a public or private school. Each of your decisions is your own.


Your decision to homeschool your child does not make you superior or a better parent than others who chose not to homeschool their children.
Homeschooling is not a feasible option for many people, including those who would otherwise want to homeschool their children. Being cognizant of other's struggles will help you to remain respectful of their decisions.
Return respect with respect. When other people respect your decision to homeschool, you should respect their decisions as well.

