 When you express your ideas and opinions does your friend make an effort to listen and receive what you are saying? Or does your friend ignore your opinions and just do whatever they want?


If your voice is not being heard in this friendship, it may be a sign that you need to end it.
 Boundaries are a necessary aspect of any successful and healthy relationship. If you have set boundaries with your friend for what you will and won’t accept in the friendship, then he or she has a duty to oblige.If you have told your friend that you value privacy and keeping confidences, but she goes and shares intimate information with the entire class, then she is not respecting your boundaries. Evaluate your friendship to see if there are a lot of boundary violations. If there are, you may not have a healthy relationship.
 Sometimes, because you are dealing with a “friend,” you might overlook what a real relationship should be like. Is your friend kind to you? Does he or she know about your life, past, likes and dislikes? Does he or she seem to enjoy spending time with you? And vice versa?


You need to consider overall whether you think this relationship is a positive element in your life or simply a toxic deadweight.If no matter how much you correct them, they still seem to mix up details about your life, put you down, and or make jokes at your expense, this friendship is probably not making you feel so good.
 Have they ever spread your secrets or spread rumors about you? Do they act one way with you and then totally different with someone else? If so, they are not worth keeping. They may cause a lot of drama in your life and that’s not a sign of a healthy friendship.
 If your friendship is off-balance—meaning you are always giving and your friend is always taking—it may be a sign that the friendship is unhealthy. Sure, at some point in every friendship, one person will be doing more. However, if you can honestly say that more times than not the giving falls in your lap, then it may be time to find a new friendship.Giving behaviors might include working around your friend's schedule when you make plans, discussing your friends problems together, supporting your friend at work or social functions, caring for your friend when she is sick, etc.
"Taking" behaviors include allowing your friend to listen to you and help you when you have a problem, letting your friend support you at an important school or work event, allowing your friend to care for you when you are sick, etc.

