 You'll have to weigh several factors before choosing a variety of grass that will become your new lawn, but climate is a primary consideration. Lawn-care experts separate sod types into 2 broad categories.
 They also can go dormant during droughts. These types experience 2 periods of shoot growth annually: in mid-spring and early fall. Some of the most common cool season grasses are bluegrass (Kentucky and rough), ryegrass (annual and perennial) and Bentgrass.
 They have a single, expanded shoot-growth episode during the summer. Most varieties require special care during the winter months, when blades tend to turn brown and areas of the lawn may require reseeding. Popular warm season grasses include St. Augustine, Bermuda, Carpetgrass and Centipede.;
, Certain grasses can withstand foot traffic better than others but wither in shade. Some sod flourishes in sunshine but shouldn't be installed over wide areas.


Heavy use: If you have kids who play in the yard or frequently entertain outdoors, consider grasses that can withstand foot traffic. Bermuda and Zoysia bounce back from stress better than many other types.
Sunlight: If your yard has a northern exposure or is heavily shaded, St. Augustine and Centipede mixtures are excellent options. Bermuda only thrives in bright sunshine.
Soil: All grasses will do well in rich topsoil, but homeowners in arid and subtropical regions may have limited options when choosing new sod. Bahia is popular because it can grow in infertile or sandy ground. Centipede, the "lazy man's" grass, also can withstand acidic soil.
Large areas: Centipede is a popular choice in warm regions because it requires no liming and occasional mowing. Expensive sods, like Zoysia, can be cost-prohibitive for large yards.
 Sod is in peak condition when it is first laid, so it usually requires only periodic watering. Once it takes root in its new environment, it will need more care. Check with an expert before you make a final selection. Some types require grow faster than others, requiring extra mowing and edging. Others may need additional fertilization, irrigation and aeration.
 Sod usually is delivered in rolls ranging from 2 feet (0.61 meters) to 10 feet (3.05 m) long and 1 foot (0.3 m) to 2 feet wide. Some of the key things to look for to ensure the health of your sod shipment include:


Uniform, deep-green blades at least 2 inches (5.08 cm) long.
A thick matrix of roots that don't tear easily.
A set-up in no more than 1 inch (2.54 cm) of rich, damp soil.
Lush rolls with no bare patches or thatch.

