 If you believe you were defrauded online, by either an individual or a website, gather as much information as possible to serve as evidence of what happened. Collect the other party's web address, email address, and records of your correspondence. Depending on the type of internet fraud that occurred, you may also need to collect bank statements and other types of evidence. Here are the most common types of internet fraud:



Monetary loss, a common occurrence that happens with money is wired to purchase goods that never arrive.

Debt elimination schemes, which involve websites advertising a quick, easy way to get rid of mortgage loans and credit card debts but don't deliver on their promises.

Investment fraud, in which a website offers false claims to obtain investments.

The Nigerian letter scam, also called 419, which involves an email from someone claiming to be a Nigerian official offering a share of cash in exchange for help placing money in overseas bank accounts.

Spoofing and phishing, which is when someone sends a forged email claiming to be someone you know, often as a scheme to dupe you into giving up credit card information.
 This is a US government agency set up to receive and process complaints related to internet fraud. To file a complaint,


Go to www.ic3.gov/default.aspx
Accept the "Terms and Conditions"
Fill out your personal information and a description of the fraud
Submit your complaint

, If you were defrauded online by a local perpetrator, you might want to file a police report to get an investigation underway. Go to your local police station and file an identify theft report. Have a copy of your FTC identity theft affidavit, any other evidence of fraud that you have gathered, and a valid ID.Fill out and file a report, and request a copy as well as a report number so you can keep track of the progress of the report.
 If you were defrauded by a local business, the Consumer Protection Agency and the Better Business Bureau should be notified. These institutions will investigate the business and prevent further fraud from occurring.


Go to www.usa.gov/topics/consumer.shtml to file a complaint with the Consumer Protection Agency.
Go to www.bbb.org to file a complaint with the Better Business Bureau.

