 It's recommended that you turn your TV off when connecting or disconnecting devices.
 You'll find this port on the back of the Nexus Player., You'll find the HDMI ports on the back of your TV or running along the side. Android TV requires an HDMI port and an HDTV., It will turn on automatically., The remote should come with batteries, but you can use any two AAA batteries.,, The labeling will vary depending on your TV., You can cycle through the inputs until you see the Welcome screen, or look at the label for the HDMI port you used and jump straight to it., If you see the remote pairing screen instead of the Welcome screen, you'll need to manually pair the remote:Press and hold the Back and Home buttons on the remote for five seconds.
 Use the navigation wheel in the center of the remote to move through the menus. Click the large, round button in the center to select something., The Nexus Player can only connect to a network wirelessly. Make sure you're in range of your wireless network., Use your remote and the on-screen keyboard to enter your wireless network's password., If there is an update available, the Nexus Player will download and install it automatically, which may take several minutes to complete. The Nexus Player will restart after the update has installed., You'll need to enter your Google account information in order to finish the setup. Any purchases made on the Nexus Player will be associated with your Google account. There are two ways to log in:

Select "Use your password" and then enter your Google account email and password using the on-screen keyboard.
Select "Use your phone or laptop" and then open a web browser on a phone or laptop on the same network. Visit https://g.co/AndroidTV and then enter the PIN that is displayed on your TV. If you're not logged in with your Google account on your phone or laptop, you'll be prompted to do so first.
 The Home menu is organized in rows of content. The first row shows recommendations. Your apps appear in the second row, and your games appear in the third row. You'll find the Settings menu in the bottom row., Speak directly into the remote to perform a voice search. You can search for TV shows, movies, music, apps, basic information like weather, and Google Images.

If your remote doesn't have a microphone button, you can click the microphone button at the top of the screen and then use the on-screen keyboard.
 You'll be able to buy and rent movies and TV episodes from this app, as well as find your purchased content., You can listen to recommended stations as well as music in your library. You cannot purchase music from the Android TV; you'll need to make music purchases on your computer or phone., This will open the Google Play Store, where you can find new streaming apps and games that you can play with your remote.

Many apps are free, but some will require payment.

