 A trademark lawsuit begins when the plaintiff files a complaint with a court that alleges you are infringing on their trademark. The complaint will name you as a party and the plaintiff will be required to serve you with a copy of the complaint as well as a summons. The summons is a court notice requiring you to respond to the plaintiff's lawsuit within a certain period of time.If you are served with a complaint and summons, read through them and quickly move into action.
 As soon as you are served with an infringement lawsuit, contact a qualified IP defense attorney. If you do not know one, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering some questions about your dispute, you will be given contact information for a number of qualified attorneys.Meet with an attorney as soon as possible to discuss your case. You only have a limited amount of time to respond (usually between 21 and 30 days).
While you will be short on time, be sure you choose a lawyer you trust can handle your case with success. Apart from asking questions about your particular case, make sure you ask about fees as well.
 Once you have hired an attorney (or if you are representing yourself), your first action in the lawsuit will be to file a formal response. One response you can file is an "answer." Your answer will respond to each paragraph of the plaintiff's complaint, admitting or denying each allegation. You might also state you do not have enough information to provide an answer to specific allegations., In lieu of filing an answer, if the circumstances permit, you might assert defenses to the claims being made against you by filing a motion with the court. If you are going to assert defenses, certain ones need to be included before you file your answer. If you do not include certain defenses, you may waive your right to ever assert them again (this does not apply to every defense). For example, Rule 12(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure lays out the following defenses that might apply to you:Lack of jurisdiction, which tells the court you do not believe they can enter judgment against you because they do not have personal jurisdiction over you or subject matter jurisdiction over the case.
Insufficient service of process, which asserts you were not correctly made aware of the lawsuit and therefore the lawsuit should be dismissed and the plaintiff should have to try again.
Failure to state a claim, which asserts that the plaintiff is not making a recognizable claim and therefore the suit should be dismissed.
 Once your answer or motion is drafted, you will file it with the court and serve it on the plaintiff.To serve the plaintiff, you need to hire a third-party, usually the sheriff's office, to physically hand your answer or motion to the plaintiff. Once this occurs, you will receive a proof of service that might also need to be filed with the court.
 If the judge does not dismiss your suit on a 12(b) motion, you will most likely move into the discovery phase of litigation. During discovery, you and the plaintiff will have an opportunity to collect and exchange important information about the case. You will be able to collect facts, speak with witnesses, and find out what the plaintiff is going to say at trial. In order to conduct discovery, you will be able to use the following tools:Informal discovery, which includes talking with witnesses, gathering publicly available documents, and taking photographs.
Interrogatories, which are written questions another party or witness will be required to answer. These questions are answered under oath and can be used in court.
Depositions, which are formal in-person interviews with parties and witnesses. They are conducted under oath and answers can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are formal requests to the other party for non-public documents. This might include emails, text messages, or internal memos.
Subpoenas, which are court orders requiring someone to do something.
 After discovery, you should have a good idea of how good your defense is. In a trademark infringement case, the plaintiff must prove it owns a valid mark, that it has priority over you, and that your mark is likely to cause confusion with consumers. If the plaintiff's trademark is federally registered, it is presumed in court that the plaintiff owns the mark and that he or she has the exclusive right to use it. These presumptions can be rebutted.


Your case will usually come down to whether the use of your mark will likely confuse consumers. A court will look at evidence to determine how similar the two marks are and whether your products are related to the plaintiff's products.If you feel you can successfully defend against an infringement action, you may file a motion for summary judgment or go to trial.
If you think your case is weak, you might try to settle before trial.
 As the defendant, you will have a chance to resolve the case before it ever gets to trial by filing a motion for summary judgment. This motion is usually filed by the defendant after discovery is completed. To be successful, you must show the court, through evidence and affidavits, that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.


The judge will review all of the evidence you provide and make all assumptions in favor of the plaintiff. If, after review, the judge thinks there is no way the plaintiff could win the case, he or she will rule in your favor immediately.
If your motion is denied because the court believes facts exist that might allow the plaintiff to win, litigation will continue., As a last ditch effort to avoid trial, it is usually advantageous to contact the plaintiff and try to settle your case. Settlement talks can be informal or can take the form of mediation or arbitration. No matter the form, engage in good faith conversations with the hope of coming to a resolution.


During informal talks, sit down with the plaintiff and discuss the strengths of your case. Talk about what you want out of the case, which is most likely to be able to use the mark in dispute. Try to find common ground in order to come to a resolution.
If informal talks fail, try mediation. During mediation, a neutral third-party will sit in on your talks with the plaintiff. The third-party will listen and try to help you both come up with a resolution.
If all else fails, you might submit to arbitration, which allows a neutral third-party to listen to evidence and act as a judge. At the conclusion of arbitration, the neutral third-party will issue a suggested settlement based on what he or she heard during the sessions.
 If you cannot settle your case, you will likely go to trial. During trial, you and the plaintiff will each have an opportunity to present your case and poke holes in the other party's case. The judge will analyze the arguments and the evidence presented in order to conclude whether you infringed on a trademark.


If you win at trial, you will be able to use the mark in dispute and the plaintiff will have no future claims. However, the plaintiff could appeal the decision if he or she felt there was some mistake of law.
If you lose at trial, you will also have the opportunity to appeal if you feel as though the judge made some legal mistake in your case.

