 The rehearsal dinner is usually held the night before the wedding. The time is dependent upon the wedding ceremony rehearsal. Most rehearsal dinners immediately follow the wedding ceremony practice, but they also may be held before the rehearsal.;
, Traditionally, the parents of the groom pay for and host the rehearsal dinner. However, like many wedding traditions, this isn't always the case. Often times, the bridal couple pays for the rehearsal dinner or the two families split the cost. The budget should include costs for the venue, food and beverages as well as decorations, flowers and place cards, as applicable.
 The rehearsal dinner is a way for the bride and groom to thank everyone who assisted with the wedding planning or wedding ceremony, so the guest list will vary. In general, the guest list for the rehearsal dinner should include the wedding party and their dates or spouses, the immediate families of the bride and groom, the officiant and his spouse, readers and musicians. If children are involved in the ceremony, they should be invited along with their parents. If there is a wedding coordinator or other people who have helped with the wedding, invite them as well. Depending on your budget, you may wish to invite extended family and out-of-town guests.
 Select a location that best suits your budget. Rehearsal dinners can be formal dinners at restaurants, or casual meals at someone's home. Be creative with your choice of venue and menu, and allow it to reflect your taste as a couple. Some ideas are a clambake on the beach, a backyard barbecue, a picnic at a park, or Chinese food at a family member's home. The rehearsal dinner could also be centered around an activity like a wine tasting, miniature golf, boat cruise or museum tour.
 Purchase invitations from a local printer, order them online or make your own invitations. Make sure the invitations reflect the style of the rehearsal dinner.
 If you would like flowers, table centerpieces or other decorations for the rehearsal dinner, order them 4 weeks before the event. Avoid selecting flowers that are the same as the wedding flowers. If budget is a concern, make decorations or use photos as table centerpieces.
 If the rehearsal dinner is a formal event, it is a good idea to have place cards at each seat. Place cards can also be helpful at casual events to encourage people to get to know one another.
 Traditionally, the father of the groom is the host of the rehearsal dinner and should offer a toast after dinner. If the rehearsal dinner is not hosted by the groom's family, the bride and groom may offer a toast to their families, friends and those who are making their wedding a special day.
 Many couples present gifts to the bridal party at the rehearsal dinner. They may also give gifts to family members or other people who were an integral part of the wedding planning.

