 If you don't practice then you'll never be good. It takes a lot of hard work.;
, Many drummers will tell you that they are self-taught. This leads some drummers to think that lessons are not necessary and they'll often avoid it altogether. We're here to tell you that, without a firm foundation, you could pick up some real bad habits that may take you years to "unlearn". Find a reputable, qualified teacher and study the foundation of drumming before you do anything else. Make sure you know how to read music and that you know the different styles of drumming.
 Remember that a drum kit is as good as the person playing it. A fantastic drum kit tuned and played by a beginner will sound awful, whereas a cheap no name drum kit that is tuned and played by a seasoned drummer can actually sound wonderful. That being said, sturdy hardware is no unnecessary luxury. Get a drum throne that suits your height and supports your weight, and that you can keep proper balance on. Make sure your pedals rum smoothly. And last but not least, make sure your drums and cymbals are stable on their stands.
 There is an old saying; "Out of Sight, Out of Mind" and it is one of the truest things ever written. You can be one of the best but if no one sees you play, you can't possibly get hired. Learn marketing techniques and get out in front. Make sure everyone in town knows who you are. Sit in on jam sessions and hand out business cards. Leave no stone unturned.
 One thing weightlifters understand is that progress in building a muscle really starts when you push past that point where you want to quit. The same goes for drumming too. If you'll really dedicate yourself and practice diligently, you will see a remarkable difference in your playing. Go the extra mile and don't settle for mediocrity.
 Warm up before every gig, play for the music (not for yourself), be on time, and act professionally. Your reputation will determine how much you work. If you don't take yourself seriously, other musicians won't take you seriously.
 You will learn much more playing in bands than practicing in your bedroom. Never turn down a gig and always be willing to play unfamiliar styles of music.
 You won't know what your style is if you only copy beats, and once you join a band you can't copy beats for your own music. Never double book yourself and if you really have to cancel a gig, make sure you recommend a reliable dep to fill in.

