 Fried green plantains are made with fresh unripe plantains. If you're new to plantains, look for large banana-shaped fruits with green skins. Green plantains are perfect for making a savory fried side dish. If you want the sweet version of fried plantains, you'll need to wait until the plantains are fully ripe.


Green plantains should be firm with green skins that have minimal bruising.
If you want, buy a bunch of plantains and use some while they're unripe and save some to make sweet plantains after a week or two.;
, The skin of green plantains is too stiff to be peeled away like that of a banana. Use a paring knife to chop the ends of the plantains. Run the knife along the plantain to slit the skin from one end to the other. Use your fingers to peel the skin from the fruit inside and completely remove the skin, then discard it.
 Lay a plantain on a cutting board and slice it on the diagonal into 1-inch pieces. This is the customary way to slice tostones.


Alternatively, slice the plantain lengthwise into long, flat strips that will curl when they fry.
 Pour the oil into a dutch oven or stockpot so that it rises up about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm). Heat it thoroughly, until it's hot enough to sizzle when you add a bit of plantain. It should reach about 340 °F (171 °C).
 Lay the plantain pieces in the hot oil and fry them until they're tender and golden, which takes about 5 minutes. Flip the plantain pieces halfway through the frying process. When they're golden, transfer them to paper towel-lined plates to drain.


Be sure to fry the plantains in a single layer, so that they cook evenly. Don't overcrowd the pot. If you need to, you can fry them in two batches.
Leave the oil on the heat, since you'll be frying the plantains once more.
 Fill a small bowl with water and a few shakes of salt. One by one, dip the plantain pieces in the saltwater. This process softens the plantain pieces a bit so that they end up creamy on the inside.


You can skip this step if you'd like, but the plantains will be a little on the dry side.
 Lay them on a plate and use the back of a spatula to smash them a bit. This will flatten the plantain pieces so they fry up crispy and thin.
 After dipping the plantain pieces in water, put them back in the hot oil to fry a second time. Fry them until they turn deep gold, about 3 more minutes, turning them as needed. When the plantains are golden brown, transfer them to a paper-towel lined plate to serve.
 Sprinkle the plantains with a bit of salt and serve them up. Fried green plantains are delicious with aioli, spicy mayonnaise, cilantro sauce, and sweet pepper sauce.

