


You may need to go to a mental health hospital if you are:

seeing or hearing things (visual or auditory hallucinations)
having bizarre or paranoid ideas (delusions)
having serious thoughts of hurting yourself or others
planning to harm yourself
thinking or talking too fast
jumping from topic to topic without coherence
feeling too exhausted or depressed to get out of bed or take care of yourself or your family
not eating or sleeping, One of the main reasons you might be hospitalized is if you are seriously considering or at a high risk of intentionally harming yourself or committing suicide. Self-harm tendencies and suicidality increase after being released from a psychiatric hospital.Cope healthfully with thoughts about harming yourself early on. Do not let your thoughts get so out of hand that you are considering suicide. Talk to a professional (psychologist, therapist) in order to make a detailed and personalized plan on how to cope with thoughts of self-harm.
Reduce self-harm behaviors. If you cut yourself or harm yourself intentionally in a way, stopping these behaviors can reduce your risk of hospitalization. Instead of harming yourself, use other coping methods to reduce negative emotions such as journaling, therapy, and exercise.
Keep in mind that if you are a real danger to yourself and/or those around you, generally you can be committed to a mental hospital despite your protests, as long as they have solid evidence that you require professional psychiatric assistance.
 Another reason you might be hospitalized is if you cannot take care of your basic needs (clothing, food, shelter) due to a mental health issue.You will be more likely to be hospitalized if you look and act like you cannot take care of yourself.


Make sure your activities of daily living (ADLs) are in check. Some examples are: taking a shower daily, washing and brushing your hair, brushing your teeth, and wearing clean clothes.
If you have trouble providing yourself with these basic needs such as clothing or food, contact your local government or social services agency for assistance. They may be able to help you find a shelter, housing, and local food banks. Some government agencies even provide you with some extra money every month, or a card for food.

