 Wrap a few ice cubes in a thin, clean cloth and apply directly to acne, making sure not to put too much pressure on your skin. Too much pressure can cause the pimple to break, causing even more redness and spreading bacteria.


Cool temperatures slow local blood circulation, reducing swelling and redness in the injured tissue. Many athletes use cold treatments (ice baths, localized ice, etc.) in order to treat inflammation caused by injury.;
, Eye drops are made to remove redness. They contain tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride, which helps get rid of redness (usually in the eyes).


Put a small amount of the eye drop solution on a Q-Tip and apply it gently to the pimple.
Alternately, freeze a Q-Tip that's been soaked in eye drop solution overnight. Apply it gently to the pimple. The cold will suppress the inflammation, and the tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride in the eye drops should help relieve redness.
Rubbing it on your entire face can cause more irritation. Only rub on affected areas. Don't use this technique too often or it could have an adverse effect.
 Aspirin contains salicylic acid, which is one of the main ingredients in many scrubs and topical ointments used to treat acne. Salicylic acid produces its anti-inflammatory effects by suppressing an enzyme responsible for inflammation.


Mix together crushed aspirin with a little water to form a paste. Apply to the inflamed area gently with a Q-Tip and rinse off once dry. While not an immediate fix, this will help with redness.
 Most toothpaste contains silica, which helps to dry out pimples. Silica is the same thing that is found in tiny white packets because it keeps dry food snacks, such as jerky, thereby slowing spoilage.


Cover the pimple completely with a thin film of toothpaste right before bed, let dry, and leave on overnight. Wash off in the morning.
Don't use toothpaste that has menthol or fluoride. These ingredients may worsen redness and cause more pimples to appear.
 Lemon juice contains citric acid, which could help fight acne bacteria, and studies suggest that citric acid has natural skin-lightening components, which could help with redness. Wring out a little bit of lemon juice from a lemon, soak it in a cotton ball, and apply to pimples at night.


Lemon juice will lighten your skin. It will take a long time and repeated uses for it to show, but it will lighten the pigments in your skin. If you only use lemon juice sparingly, however, and evenly over your face, it shouldn't be noticeable.
Avoid prolonged exposure to sunlight after applying lemon juice. Because lemon juice tends to dry out skin, it's especially susceptible to sun damage. Apply lemon juice only at night, wash your face in the morning, and always wear noncomedogenic sunscreen.
Lemon juice may interfere with other acne medications. Like all home remedies, its effectiveness is not necessarily scientifically proven, and care should be taken using it. Talk with your doctor or dermatologist about combining lemon juice with other topical products.
 Basically, compress applied to the acne will open up the pores, potentially drawing bacteria or pus to the surface, and allow for the cleansing of oils, dirt, and dead skin.


Get water that is almost too hot to touch. On your face, it should feel a little uncomfortable at first, but pleasant after a while. Soak your washcloth in the hot water, or take your hot teabag, and hold gently over your acne for 30-60 seconds.
Follow your warm compress with a good old-fashioned face wash. Facial scrub or wash will help remove some of the oil and bacteria that was drawn out by the warm compress.
 Find an 'Immediate Response' product; a pharmacist may be able to help you.
 There are concealers that contain salicylic acid to help dry the zit out while covering it.


Green colored concealers will take the redness out of your skin, a skin tone liquid make-up or powder then needs to be applied on top of it.
 Always moisturize your face after washing, and apply topical creams afterward.


Don't scrub too hard or use a rough-surfaced implement like a loofah or washcloth to wash your face. Your hands will work just fine. When drying your face, gently pat dry with a towel (or air-dry). Don't wipe your face too vigorously with a towel.
If you've been using over-the-counter treatments and home remedies for two months and see no real improvement in your acne, go visit a dermatologist, or skin doctor.
 Many doctors recommend drinking at least 3 liters (13 cups) of water per day for men, and 2.2 liters (9 cups) of water per day for women.Because it's easy to remember, the "8 by 8" rule is another recommendation: Drink 8 glasses of 8 oz. water per day.


When dehydrated, we lose moisture in our skin. This means that there is less circulation to the skin area to provide essential nutrients.When your body is not properly hydrated, your skin is the first places on your body to feel the deficit.
Drinking more water will help your kidneys and liver detoxify more efficiently and more effectively. Drinking water will also make sure your colon is working as best it can.
 Studies suggest that certain vitamins can help fight against inflammation and encourage healthier skin.Here are three vitamins that you might trying to fight against acne in general and redness in particular:



Vitamin A. A lack of vitamin A in the body has been linked to inflammation in the intestines, lungs, and skin.Vitamin A is an antioxidant, meaning it helps limit damaging cells called free radicals that harm skin cells and hasten signs of aging.Foods that are rich in vitamin A: Liver (pâté), carrots, sweet potatoes, spinach, squash, apricots, and cantaloupe.Vitamin B6. Vitamin B6 is water soluble, meaning you lose it as water in your body evaporates or is used.This means you should be restocking your body daily, preferably with foods rich in vitamin B6 instead of supplements. Foods that are rich in vitamin B6: Beef, turkey, nuts, seeds, legumes, and fish.Vitamin C. Vitamin C is instrumental in producing collagen, the basic building block of skin, among other things. Vitamin C also protects against harmful substances that contribute to disease and is another antioxidant. Studies suggest that it has some anti-inflammatory benefits.Foods that are rich in vitamin C: Hot chili peppers, guava, members of the citrus family (lemons, oranges, grapefruit), kale, broccoli, kiwi, and strawberries.
 Exfoliating means using a scrub or a mask to wipe away the layers of dead skin that accumulate over the course of the day or several days. Exfoliate once a week for skin that is brighter, healthier, and cleaner.


You can easily buy exfoliants at your local drugstore, or you can make simple ones at home.
 Scientists don't know exactly how stress causes acne, but they do know that there's a link: Cells that produce sebum have receptors for stress hormones, meaning that when you're stressed those sebum cells become unregulated.Sebum is the oily substance that clogs pores and leads to pimples.


Exercise. Even walking 20 minutes per day is a healthy way to exercise. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Volunteer to walk the dog. Exercise will decrease your stress levels, giving you a better chance at better skin.
Get involved in sports. Sports aren't just for jocks; there's virtually a sport out there for every kind of person. The most important thing is that you have fun, burn some energy, and give yourself a nice outlet for your stress.

