 Hearing about the trials and triumphs of someone you respect can fuel your own journey. Find a person in your industry or from a similar background who has overcome obstacles to achieve success. Study this person’s outlook and behavioral patterns. Identify what you find practical and emulate it.For example, read biographies or autobiographies of people you admire.
 When you learn something new, your mind opens to even greater possibilities. So, research a few books relating to your purpose or goals and devour them. Don’t stick to just one perspective. Read various viewpoints to get a global understanding of the subject matter, and to spark your own inspiration.Take your reading to the next level by joining a book club. That way, you can share your opinions and generate ideas relating to the book through group discussion.
 For some, seeing victories reenacted on screen is a great source of inspiration. Find some films that ignite passion and drive in you. Rewatch them whenever you need a push.Take notes while watching the film. Then, complete a journaling exercise about how the story in the film impacted you.
You don’t even have to watch stories that relate to you. Oftentimes, simply observing someone push themselves to overcome hardships is enough to move you.
 Today’s world offers an endless supply of motivating content for everyone. Much of this content isn’t even industry-specific but geared towards common struggles that all humans share. Locate TedTalks, podcasts, and YouTube videos of motivational speakers that light a fire in you.After you are finished listening, try to find one message from the podcast that you can tangibly apply to your life. For instance, if the speaker discusses time-management skills, you might find and remove time-wasters from your schedule.
 If you know someone who has similar aspirations as you, seek them out. Working beside someone who is fired up about the same field or topic can motivate you when you’re feeling uninspired.

If you can find someone in your industry, approach them for work sessions by saying “Jim, you seem really passionate about the work you do. I’d love to work beside someone like you. Can I join you some days for work sessions?”
If you can’t find someone in your industry, working with anyone else who is focused and enthusiastic will do.