 The success of training a capuchin to be quiet will depend on whether or not your capuchin respects you and bonds with you. Here are a few important things to keep in mind to increase the strength of your bond.Every time you go near your pet’s cage, stop and speak to your monkey.
Call it by name.
Offer it food or a treat.
Make sure you care for your capuchin’s needs and play with them daily.
Be patient because capuchins are known to be wary of strangers. Don’t expect to bond with them and train them overnight., To get your capuchin to listen and follow your commands to be quiet, you need to show your pet that you are in a dominant position.


Feeding, caring for, and playing with your capuchin will show them you are in charge of their care, and they will depend on you.
Be kind, but firm.
Do not use physical force to emphasize your point because your capuchin might respond aggressively and lose trust.
 When your capuchin is quiet and calm, make sure you offer positive reinforcement in the form of a treat or praise.Marshmallows, yogurt covered raisins, mealworms, or another favorite food works well.
You can also use a new toy or object your capuchin will find interesting.
 If your capuchin is behaving badly and won't be quiet, put your pet in their cage, and walk away. Do not look at your capuchin or interact with it for about 15 minutes.This teaches your capuchin that their behavior is unacceptable.
Because capuchins are social creatures, they will find this time out upsetting and try to avoid it in the future.
 Physical punishment is not effective since capuchins often interpret this as a threat and respond aggressively.Taking these actions jeopardizes your relationship with your pet.
Physical discipline often results in more negative, and violent behavior such as biting.
If you feel yourself getting frustrated with your capuchin, it’s best to take a break so you don’t lose your temper., Use the same commands or words with specific actions so that your capuchin will associate the action with the command.


For example use “Quiet” when you want your capuchin to be quiet. Don’t change things and start using the command “Silent.”

, If your efforts to quiet your capuchin don’t seem to be working and they are unusually loud, it’s a good idea to ask for help from an expert.


Get in touch with your veterinarian to make sure your pet is not ill or injured.
Contact an animal trainer. Although specialized trainers might be difficult to locate in your area, it is worth researching online.
For additional resources and communication with experts, join the Simian Society of America, a nonprofit organization established to improve the welfare of primates in captivity.