 There are two kinds of sexy: there's the traditional Jessica Rabbit sexy and then there's the kind of sexy that's more down-to-Earth. By conforming to one or the other, you'll be attracting people that are looking for different things. Use this to your advantage, to help you get what you're looking for.


Traditional sexy is great when you're trying to attract more temporary partners. This is because a lot of traditional sexy is about putting on a show, which hides or downplays your natural personality and looks (sending the message that you don't really care if someone likes you for who you really are).
The more natural sexy plays up your inherent personality and looks. This tells someone that you want to be thought of as sexy for who you really are, usually leading to someone who's looking for something more long-term. This kind of sexy tends to not get you very far when you're young, since often people aren't looking for their future spouse at 16, but it can be crucial to attracting good, stable people when you're an adult.;
, Confidence is the number one most sexy quality. Even people who don't have much to offer in the looks department can still manage to come across as sexy if they balance confidence with other attractive qualities, like personality, charm, and humor.


Act confident by working on your self esteem, standing up straight, speaking up for yourself, and starting conversations with people you don't know.
 While the 80s might have been all about piling on the dyes, makeup, and shoulder pads, these days sexy is about looking good in your natural state. Makeup should be subdued and look as close to your natural coloring as possible. The same tends to go for your clothes: skinny jeans or leggings, which show off the natural curve of your legs, are preferred over flare legged pants.


Play up your best features when you can, to really show off that natural beauty. For example, if your best feature is your eyes, don't hide them behind glasses.
 Practice good hygiene by bathing regularly, brushing your teeth, and wearing clean clothes. You should also exercise and eat a proper diet to get a stronger, healthier body. Doing things like this not only makes your body more appealing to others, but it shows that you think you're worth loving and taking care of, indicating a vital self-respect.


If you need help with exercise, see this article.
If you need help eating healthy, see this article.
 Smell plays a big role in sex appeal, but you might not be taking as good an approach as you think you are. Contrary to what Axe would have you believe, your best bet is a natural smell, not a cloud of body spray. Bathe regularly to cut down on the BO that scares people off and use a subtle but pleasant deodorant to keep the smell from returning. Pair with a subtle cologne or perfume (citrus is the most universally liked) if you really want to, but you should be letting your natural pheromones do most of the work.


Practice good dental hygiene as well. This includes brushing, flossing and even mouth wash. Clean your tongue with a tongue cleaner or a spoon every morning for fresh breath. Get a check up and have your teeth cleaned often.
 A haircut can make a world of difference in how everyone sees you. Generally, you want a sleeker look to appear more sexy, but "natural" waves and curls are also in right now. Experiment on your own or consult with a hair stylist to find a hairstyle that looks sexy and plays up all your best features.
 You want to project as adult look in order to come across as sexy. Cute looks or young looks will either overtly or subtly turn most people off. Update your wardrobe to look more adult (not slutty, just skip out on cartoon tees and lacy dresses). You'll also want to take a few other measures, depending on your gender.


Women: wear clothes that show your curves. You want to look like you've got hips and at least a little breast. Get a nice push-up bra and wear things like skinny jeans to show off your legs. You'll also want to wear heels to correct your posture and lift your butt.
Men: Trade in those ratty jeans for some slacks and that tee shirt for a button up. Your local thrift store should have plenty of cheap options if you don't have the money for new stuff. Shoes are also important. Have at least a few nice pairs.
 Different people are looking for different kinds of partners, and there are specific ways you can dress that attract those different kinds of people. People are often attracted to the qualities that they prioritize in themselves so by dressing a particular way, you'll send a clear message about what you like and what kind of person you want to date.


For example, if you're looking for a sporty person, wear your hair in a ponytail or sport the occasional hiking outfit or football jersey.
If you're looking for a bit of a geek, wear some Marvel merch or your favorite bow tie.
If you're looking for someone who's very driven, tend towards nicer, dressier clothes.
 Whether you're worried about stuffing a bra or about making your crotch look a little more full: don't. Media plays up the idea that women want guys with big crotches and guys want women with big breasts, but the actual spectrum of preferences pretty equally runs the gamut. Lots of guys like small breasts and lots of women look at big crotch, and just think "Ouch!".
 Talent is one of the easiest ways to come across as totally sexy, even when you aren't traditionally attractive. This describes most rock stars, especially from the days before auto tune. You can take a talent you already possess and make it even more impressive, or you can learn a whole new talent. You can find basic primers on many skills right here on wikiHow, or you can take classes or even just teach yourself using online materials.


Talents you could try include playing guitar or piano, drawing, fixing cars or other mechanical devices, computer technology skills, or other talents that speak to you.
 There's nothing quite as sexy as a look of passionate determination on someone's face. When you really care about something and you're working hard to get it, that really impresses people. They hope to have that same quality themselves and by having you around it inspires them. We also feel comforted, know that a potential partner could carry our weight if something ever happened to us. Find a goal for yourself and work hard to achieve it, whether it's working towards a future career or working to gain an important skill. Just wanting more from life and being able to try to get it can often be enough, if you lack direction or are too young to really know what you want to do.
 People don't fall for one-dimensional characters: they like people with quirks and interesting things about them. Think of it this way: would Joe Schmoe rather go for the cute waitress or would he rather go for the cute waitress who also dreams of being a nurse? By having qualities and dreams that are uniquely you, you show people a more interesting, more engaging person. Basically, there's just more to love. Let your interests and passions shine through and pursue new things that help you develop as a person.
 Stop trying to be someone else. Often we think we have to act like someone else in order to be sexy (girls emulating Kim Kardashian or guys trying to be Tom Brady). But being them isn't sexy because it shows that you're obviously trying too hard and lack your own merits. Be you, like the things that you like, and don't apologize to anyone. That shows confidence, which is one of the sexiest things out there.
 If you've got a great sense of humor, you're set. Even the most unattractive funny guys get all the ladies, right? Try to develop your sense of humor by watching stand up comedy and paying more attention to what's going on around you. It's a habit that can be learned. And don't feel limited if you're a lady: a funny girl is just as sexy as a funny guy. People just like to laugh, it helps them when they're having a rough time, and so this is a quality that many people look for in a partner.
 People naturally find evolutionary advantages to be sexy, even when they aren't looking for something long term. Be good with kids (even if you don't like them or don't want them yourself) and be kind and helpful to everyone around you. This will melt the heart of anyone you try to charm.
 A little mystery is pretty sexy, right? But that doesn't mean you should play out your life like a bad modern fantasy novel. You don't need to act like you've got some tragic backstory or keep one eye constantly covered by hair. Instead, just be a bit reserved. Don't automatically divulge every detail of your life. By creating this mystery, you throw down the challenge to someone that they should get to know you better and find what secrets lay beneath.
 We often communicate with people without using any words at all and the universal sexy language is really the language of the eyes. Try looking at them through your lashes with a playful smile on your face and then occasionally look away as you talk to them.


A little lip licking or biting is also a common sexy look.
Practice in the mirror. This is very important. You need to get used to making these motions and also have a good understanding of how they work and look good.
 This goes beyond just liking your body and having good self esteem, although you should totally do those things! Getting comfortable in your body means being good with moving your body. Work on developing your grace. Learn to dance. This will make all of your movements more natural and less awkward, adding to your sexiness factor.
 Sexy voice is difficult to teach, because a lot of it will depend on what your natural voice is like. However, it's worth at least trying to work on, because used sparingly and in the right situations, you'll have an incredibly powerful tool in your hands.


A good rule of thumb is to pitch your voice a little lower, speak slightly slow, and a bit quieter than normal.
You can practice by recording your voice and listening to yourself. Adjust until you reach a tone that you think sounds good.
 For many people, seeing someone who is usually very well dressed looking way more casual can be very sexy. This creates a feeling of intimacy, like they're the only one who gets to see you as you really are. You can try letting your boyfriend see you in your pajamas or wearing nothing but his tee shirt, or let your girlfriend see you without all that gel in your hair (girls love the bed head look).
 The ridiculous shows to try to look sexy are a turn-off for most people. Real life doesn't work like reality shows. You also don't want to keep your life full of drama. Constant fights and negative talk or gossip is a huge turn off for most people. When you act like this, it tends to make people just wonder if you'll talk behind their back too if they dated you.

