 At the annual appointment for your cat, bring up your interest in getting some grass for your cat. Talk to the vet about whether or not that would be beneficial for your cat’s individual health and circumstances. Ask them for tips regarding buying the grass and monitoring your cat’s health as they eat it.For example, you might tell your vet, “I’ve noticed that my cat is very interested in my houseplants. Do you think it would be a good idea to get my cat a bed of indoor grass to chew on?”;
, The benefit of buying seeds is that you potentially get a longer growing period as the grass will be good to eat for a full two weeks after maturation. However, you have no guarantee that planting seeds will result in quality, even grass. Buying a full-grown grass patch will allow to access the health of the grass, while allowing your cat the chance to eat it right away., Most pet stores, outdoors stores, and hardware stores offer cat grass plots or the seeds needed to plant your own patch. Before you buy, read any online reviews that you can find about the quality of the plants sold at that particular store. This is especially important if you choose to buy from an online vendor.Also, try to determine whether or not your purchase will be covered by some sort of guarantee. Many stores will offer to refund your money on any plants that don’t live past a certain period.
 If you would like to offer grass to your cat on a consistent basis, but don’t want to deal with the hassle of picking it up or growing it, then a delivery option might be good for you. Some online pet stores allow you to sign up for bi-weekly or monthly grass deliveries. Quite often, this cat grass is fully grown, ready to be consumed, and sometimes even organic.If you agree to one of these programs, make sure that they offer different types of grass so that you can switch in case your cat disagrees with a particular one.
With a delivery program, make sure that you have good place to receive the deliveries. You won’t want the grass sitting outside for too long before bringing it inside, for example.
 There are many different types of grass that fall under the general label of cat grass. You can choose orchard grass, common oat, barley, or even wheatgrass. These plants all have different tastes when eaten, so it is a good idea to purchase a few varieties or rotate them out for your cat. Then, watch to see if your cat eats more, or regurgitates more, of one type.Getting a mixed blend cat grass plot, or seed package, is another option. If your cat eats a mixture of different grass types this mimics what they might do in the wild.You may also find that certain grass types grow better in your home than others. Experiment with sunlight exposure and light levels with the grass varieties.

