 Climbers, bodybuilders, and others who use their hands and fingers for strenuous physical activity may also want to exercise fingers to increase strength. Two key components for exercising fingers include a balance of isometric and dynamic training activities.


An isometric activity means holding a static position for an extended period of time.A rock climber hanging by a particular grip while choosing his or her next move is an example of an isometric activity.
A dynamic activity means moving a part of the body while supporting a load with the same part.A push-up is a great example. You can see how you’re moving your arms during a push-up while supporting the load of your body on them as well.
Going from a dead hang (isometric) into a pull-up (dynamic) is an example of an exercise that offers both. You can even tailor pull-ups to include exercising your fingers by keeping your grip on the bar closer to your fingertips than the palms of your hands.
Make sure the when you are doing exercises where the hand/palm is holding the body up (push ups, planks, etc.), you are pressing through your knuckles and fingertips and not sinking into your wrists; this can cause wrist injury.
 Tendons are the sinew that connect muscles to bones and transmit force between them. Finger strength has more to do with the strength of the tendons that connect your finger bones to your forearm muscles than anything else.Tendons take longer to strengthen and less time to degenerate, so you must stick to a disciplined workout regimen.


For a general overview, you can find information at: How to Strengthen Tendons


, One of the easiest ways to exercise fingers is to keep the emphasis on your grip rather than simply the forearm and bicep muscles. When you transition too much of the load onto your arm muscles, then your fingers don’t get as intense of a work out, even when your hands are involved in holding the weight.
 A hammer grip is when you keep your palms facing one another during the range of motion while lifting a weight.Used most commonly with dumbbells, a hammer grip keeps the load on your fingers instead of resting it on the palms of your hands. This forces you to squeeze hard to keep your grip over several reps, which works both the finger tendons and associated forearm muscles.
 Another way to keep the attention of your finger tendons and forearm muscles is to use a wider grip.A wider grip means you will have to squeeze harder to maintain your grip. You can purchase a specialty strength-training item such as Fat Gripz to go over a pull-up, dumbbell, or barbell to add more circumference, or you can simply wrap a household item such as a towel around the bar.
 They may not be as glamorous as lifting large weights, but a plain old pair of handgrips with the metal tension coil between them can help you exercise your fingers as well. If you cannot find a pair, you can also squeeze a tennis ball, racquetball, or another household item with some give to it.
 Do not start by training to do chin-ups with only a few fingers on each hand or anything else beyond your training level. Tendon injuries require long periods of rehabilitation and often never return to pre-injury levels. The best thing you can do is train progressively.Finger strength will develop slowly, so start easy and develop a more difficult routine over several months rather than weeks.