 People are interested in mysteries because they want to know more. One key to being mysterious is keeping a rein on your personal information. Share your thoughts only with those people closest to you; it communicates to everyone else that there's more to you than they know.


Basic information can be revealed to people you really know and trust. Even then, don't reveal too much.
Avoid talking about yourself too much. Talk about other things instead.;
, Talking yourself up too much will make you seem vacant and self-absorbed. Instead, let other people notice your accomplishments and talents. When they compliment you or bring it up, smile and say thank you. Avoid going on and on about it.
 Weigh your words. Don't always leap to say everything that comes to mind. This will not only make you seem mysterious but also thoughtful and well-spoken.
 You might be tempted to enhance your air of mysteriousness by not responding, but that will only make you seem snobby. Talking back in a quiet, considered way draws people in and makes them want to engage you more.


Where appropriate, answer questions by saying "no" and offering shrugs. People beyond family and intimates do not need serious answers to their questions. Unless someone asks you something like "do you like my outfit" etc., which is best to be handled with a less enthusiastic "sure". You can't let anyone think you're really into something, but you can't let them think you hate it either.
 To do this, at the end of your talk, add something like "probably", "maybe" or something like that to add suspension to your conversation, then, simply walk away. This makes the person you are talking to think about what you said. An example: "I guess we could, but only if____. Probably."

, Naturally, most people like to talk about themselves. Steer the conversation in that direction, and you can still interact with people without giving away too much about yourself.
, This shows people that they need to impress you for you to appreciate their humor.
 This means no little squeals or hollering at any small thing. This also means you have to smirk at every other person you see. Not in a mean way, just a "Nyah nyah" way. Make it subtle and quick, so the person you smirk at will wonder if she or he really did see you smirk.
 Talking about other people makes your interests seem shallow and boring. Avoiding gossip signals that you're into deeper, more interesting topics and enhances your aura of mystery.
 When you're talking with someone or attending an event, excuse yourself just a little bit before the other person wants you to. It makes them eager to pick up where you left off last time, and leaves them wondering where you have to be.

