 The best relative to watch your kids is someone who genuinely enjoys the job. It's best for everyone involved, including your child, to select a family member who will eagerly accept the task.Avoid asking family members who are people pleasers by nature. If your sister, for example, is the helpful type, she may agree to watch your kids when she does not really want to. This can lead to feelings of resentment, which can be stressful for your children.
Instead, think about who in your family would actually want the job. Who gets along best with your kids? Who seems to have the most fun interacting with your children? This is the person to ask.;
, Not everyone takes to children and some people may even be nervous or uncomfortable around them. You want to ask someone who genuinely enjoys being around kids, as this will create the best atmosphere for your children while you are away.Some people may enjoy being around your kids for a bit, but do not like to linger. Maybe your brother, for example, enjoys holding the baby on occasion, but tends to get a little nervous once your child starts fussing.
Instead, choose someone who's good with children. You may want to pick someone who has kids of their own, or someone who works with children professionally. If your cousin, say, teaches kindergarten, they may be a great choice to watch your kids.
 Watching children can require some physical exertion, especially very young children that need to be carried on occasion. You want to make sure you ask a relative who's physically up to the task.Think about how high energy your children are. Older children may be more calm than, say, a toddler. You want someone who's capable of keeping up with your kids if they tend to run around and get into things.
Pick someone in decent physical shape. If possible, see if you can find someone who has young children of their own. This person may be best equipped to watch your kids.
 Childcare can be a tricky process. Your relative may have different ideas about child rearing than you do. You want to make sure you know what instructions to give. With this is mind, you want to pick someone who's willing to follow your rules without protest. Someone who is, say, very opinionated about raising children may not be the best choice if their opinions differ from yours.Think about all the basic rules in your home. How do you discipline your kids? When are meal times and what do you serve? What kind of schedule do you follow regarding things like chores, homework, naps, bedtime, and so on?
Jot down a list of any instructions you need to give. Think about someone who will follow these instructions. If your brother loves hanging out with your kids, but is more of a friend than an authority figure, he may not be the best choice. Instead, opt for someone who knows how to keep kids in line while still being caring and nurturing.
 With family situations, things can get tricky. If your mother is, say, very close to your son, and wants to be very involved with your life, you may feel inclined to ask her to watch him. However, choose the family member you feel is best equipped for the job. Remember, you have the right to make the decision that feels right for you and your child.

