 Try to have a discussion about your friend’s insensitive remarks in person, face to face. Confronting friends in a text, over the phone, or on social media can make it difficult for you to have a meaningful discussion. Set up a time where you can talk to friends in person so you can interact in an open, honest way.If it is not possible to talk to friends about their insensitive remarks in person, you may send them a private message online with your thoughts. Commenting on a friend’s remarks on a public forum, such as Facebook, can lead to more conflict and may make it difficult for you to get your points across in a helpful way.
Responding in a comment on someone's post, for instance, makes the conversation public and other people may become involved in the conversation as well. Your friend may also become defensive and be less likely to listen if they feel you are attacking or embarrassing them in a public forum. Try a private, direct message or text instead. You might say, "Can I talk to you about your Facebook post?"

, If you decide to speak up and address the insensitive remarks head on, start by responding directly to the comments made, not the person who made them. This means focusing on what was said, rather than judging or attacking the person who said them. Having this kind of approach will allow you to have a discussion with the person about their words without launching into a personal attack. Personal attacks on the person often lead to anger and conflict.For example, you may say to the person, “I am uncomfortable with what you just said. I do not think your remarks are sensitive or fair. I am not upset at you as a person, but I am bothered by your comments.”
Avoid saying something judgmental, like "Only a racist person would have that opinion."
Responding calmly and with tact can help you learn to be assertive and set boundaries with others. Speaking up against what you believe is insensitive is a good skill to have regardless of age.
 Focus on your reaction to your friend’s comment. Use “I” statements to express how the remarks make you feel. Let your friends know why and how their remarks bother you. Call them out in a way that focuses on your perspective of their words and why they may be hurtful or harmful.For example, you may say, “I want you to know that your remarks make me feel hurt and upset. I am offended by your comments because they stereotype black people.” Or you may say, “I am feeling angry and upset by your remarks. I feel as though your remarks are insensitive and hurtful to women.”

, As part of your response, you can offer to educate your friends and share knowledge. Often, insensitive remarks come from ignorance and a lack of knowledge about history or current events. Offer more information about why a remark may be insensitive to friends who are interested, especially if the discussion is going well and they seem to be listening to what you have to say.For example, you may discuss the racial history behind an insensitive remark that is made. Or you may send your friends links to information online that discuss why a remark may be insensitive.
Do not try to force any knowledge on your friends if they do not seem interested. Sometimes simply expressing your dislike for their remarks is enough of a response.
 Though you may hope that your friends come around and support your perspective, this may not always happen. Be prepared to agree to disagree with your friends, even after you have expressed your discomfort with their remarks. It may take time for them to accept your point of view, or they may not change what they say in the future. What matters is that you spoke up and expressed your discomfort to your friends.If you are bothered that your friends do not change what they say, even after you have expressed your disdain, you may decide to distance yourself from them.
You may also try to avoid talking about subjects with them that could lead to insensitive remarks, especially if you know their remarks will bother you or upset you. You may decide to avoid talking about politics and religion with this person, for example, because you know that it always leads to a heated argument.

