 Make sure you are always smiling and be sure to be positive. Guys tend to be more drawn to the type of girls that don't complain and argue. Be bubbly and cheerful. Also, it makes people feel more sympathetic (and not annoyed) towards you when you are actually having a bad/rough day. This may be hard.
 Try to stay away from asking people to do things for you when you can clearly do them yourself.

That being said, it's perfectly okay to ask for help when you really do need it.
 Help people every chance you get. Use genuine compliments such as, "You have a beautiful smile," "You just made my day," "You are too funny," and/or "You're so smart!" Don't gossip about anyone, because it shows whoever you would've gossiped to that you won't talk about them behind their backs., You don't want to be a stickler... especially if you are trying to attract someone. Try to be witty, quick, and funny but don't go too far with it. Don't overdo it (People might get annoyed and it's funnier if it's not expected/rare) and be very very careful not to hurt anyone's feelings. Make sure that you know who you're dealing with when joking around with people. Some people will take things too seriously or not think it's that funny., Don't ask other people to always help you do things that you can do yourself. Be energetic and be the first one to volunteer- whether it's taking someone's plate to the sink or answering a question in class., When someone says, "Let's go see what's in that cave!" respond with, "I'm all for it!" Don't act afraid of heights or the dark., When someone says,"Let's go on the roller coaster for the sixth time in a row," it's all right to say, "You go ahead, I'm still recovering!" and laugh kindly. If you push your limits with things, you could end up getting hurt or embarrassing yourself., Some guys like when a girl can be a little goofy and let a burp out every now and then; however, say excuse me afterwards and don't do it frequently. Burping and farting are things that can easily turn a guy off and prevent any attraction. Don't discuss them either. Be polite and say please and thank you. If you say their name when speaking to them it makes them feel more important., We all love talking about ourselves. Just remember that we have two ears and one mouth and that we have a mouth that closes and ears that don't. Guys love it when girls listen to what they are talking about and understand it. Talk about what he likes and what you have in common., Girls probably start to feel envious because you look great and act great and guys have a great time being around you. If they start making stupid, immature comments, just ignore it or say something back that is more mature and smart that will make that chick not talk to you again in a rude way. Know who your friends are and stick by them.
 Become friends with his friends (Don't ask too many questions or talk about him too much). Finding out what he's into and does and what you have in common (not in a stalker or creepy way) before starting a conversation will most likely help the conversation run smoothly. Or you could just save those questions to ask him., Don't script your conversations or have your friends type your texts to him., Shave your legs and armpits, "do" your eyebrows, don't forget to get rid of any facial hair, always have clean hair, brush your teeth and keep fresh breath (gum, mints), avoid acne (wash face, use acne medicine), wash off makeup from the night before, etc., Don't be a flirt or give your number out to a lot of guys. Be cool, calm, and relaxed around all guys and girls. Don't act awkward or seem uncomfortable. Be outgoing and talk to new people and make new friends often., Respect all adults and peers (children too). Say "yes ma'am" and "yes sir" to adults (only adults) but only when the time is appropriate so they don't think of it as a mockery. Let adults (and anyone) know that you respect them. When you disagree, be respectful and polite about it., Don't act flighty and/or ditsy. Be confident and use intelligent words (But don't overdo it). Don't think that guys are going to come after you, you have to be patient, but if that one guy is checking you out, make sure he is a good person and has good status so you don't get into trouble.
 You have to feel like you are a pretty and outstanding girl, because you are. By doing this, guys will start to feel it too.
 If you go around school ignoring anyone and looking unapproachable, people won't go up to you, and it is a turnoff for guys. You have to look like you are having a good time all the time, but when it is time to bring out your mature and serious time, bring it out. This will make guys think you are fun but controlled.
 You do not have to dress all glamorous and flashy to get attention. You can dress casually, like wearing regular jeans with a cute top. Or you can create your own personal style that will make you stand out, just make sure that your clothes fit and accentuate your curves. Make sure that they won't require adjusting all the time (straps, stretchy material slipping up, etc.), that will make you look fidgety and uncomfortable.
 If you feel out of place doing these steps, you don't have to do them, but if you want to give it a try go ahead. You need to believe if changing yourself, if you are totally opposite from this, it might not work, don't try it. It might take you a while to get these steps down, especially step one, but keep on trying if you want to go for it.
 Being a confident plus sized individual doesn't mean that you can't get a guys/girls attention. Just because a girl is jealous and tries to bring you down doesn't mean you should let her/him

