 Reading your Bible is sometimes a way God talks to you. It doesn't matter who you are, what you do or how old you are. Reading your bible is very helpful in your walk with God, and if you believe He will speak to you through it, He will--if you give Him enough time. Don't have time? Get up earlier. Not a morning person? Stay up later. Got to get up for work or school in the morning? Read it at lunch. It's that simple. No excuses. You can also download e-Sword (see link below);
, Prayer is talking to God. The bible says to pray without ceasing (1 Thessalonians 5:17). This doesn't mean heads down, eyes closed all the time. You can pray while you drive, while you're at work, while you're at baseball game, whatever, just talk to Him; He will hear you. If you're a writer, try keeping a 'prayer journal', and writing down your thoughts and problems, in a sort of letter to God. Leading a prayerful life means being a part of God, all the time. Constantly thanking Him, being with Him. God is everywhere- take notice! However way you choose to pray, tell God all your troubles and longings.
 Worship is an essential part of growing in Christ. Worship can be anything. Rocking out to your favorite song, holding hands with friends and praying, sitting around your dining room table and talking about the best part of being a part of the body of Christ. But bringing praise to Him doesn't have to just be praying and discussing Christianity--it is also living every single minute for Him. Obviously, we mess up, but He is willing to forgive if you are truly repentant. Try being more careful of your language, doing acts of kindness in His name, etc. All this brings praise to the Lord.
 Evangelism is a beautiful thing. You don't need to leaflet or memorize bible verses- just be prepared to share your beliefs and ideas with people who are interested. If you are truly living your life in a way that adores Christ, it will show through everything you do. The best sermons were lived, not spoken.
 The good news? You're already a part of it. If you are a Christian you're a part of the body of Christ. You can find fellowship anywhere. At a local church, at a local coffee shop, through concerts, family, friends - everything. The Church is absolutely everyone who believes in Christ. However, being involved and committed to a local church is critically important. Accountability can be found here, and so much of the New Testament is about staying with and loving fellow believers. If you don't have a church, talk to a few local pastors and see what they have to say about it.

