 Garlic is best grown when planted in the autumn and harvested in the early summer. It is important to know that it is a biannual plant which means that it will take 2 years to reach full maturity. After the 1 summer the planted garlic will produce a small garlic clove but when left an additional year, the size and taste will be much better.


Purchase organic garlic heads at your local nursery. Separate the cloves and plant them individually 8 inches (20.3 cm) apart. Water the soil. Plant the garlic 1 month prior to first freeze, about mid-October for Zone 5. It can also be planted in the spring, late March. This allows the roots to grow before the ground is too hard. Place a good coverings of hay on top of the soil to ensure it is protected from the cold & snow. No need to remove the hay in the spring, the garlic should appear mid-May. To ensure the plants have enough nutrients you can drizzle fish fertilizer on the plants occasionally.;
, If it appears to be flowering, break the stems off to slow down this process. When it is ready to be harvested, the tops of the stalk will appear brown, usually early July for Zone 5. When digging the cloves from beneath the earth, gently wedge a shovel beneath the soil and slowly pull them towards the surface. Avoid pulling them out with your hands otherwise the cloves may break in the process. Keep the necks intact! Bring them inside so that the necks do not dry out in the sunlight.
 Garlic is easiest to braid when it has very recently been harvested and the necks have not yet dried out. When they are newly harvested, the necks will still have retained the soils moisture, making it easier to bend. Don't worry about the soil on the head, it will fall off once it has dried. Also, only use the garlic if the outer leave are in tack.


Choose the three largest heads, these will be the ends of the braid. Begin the braid 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) away from the garlic head, and braid the leaves together. Add in additional heads as if you were French braiding. For your first garlic braid don't worry if the heads are slightly further apart, with practice they will become much tighter! Add in as many garlic heads as you fancy. When you're done, braid the remaining garlic leaves either into a loop or in a straight line. Wrap twine around the loop and down the braid to reinforce the garlic heads in place. Hang the finished garlic braid in the kitchen where it is exposed to much air. Pull garlic off when needed.

