 Go about your attempts in a quiet and modest way. Don't ask when other people are around. This will make it easier on both of you. You do not have to worry about being rejected in front of anyone, and she will not feel any pressure to say yes.


If you are around other people, you may say, “Hey, can I talk to you for a second? I wanted to ask you something.”
You can also send her a text message and tell her that you wanted to meet up with her.
 Do not try to impress her with a joke or some grand gesture. Just be yourself and be straightforward.Maybe you'll be lucky enough that she still wants to date you; however, given that you already rejected her, she might be very skeptical. The best way to do this is address it openly, acknowledging what happened and assuring her you are really interested.


You might say, "Hey Ashley, you know when I told you no before, I was pretty nervous and didn't know how to respond. I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings. I'd really like to get to know you better. Are you free this weekend?"
It’s best to ask her out in person, but you can also ask her over the phone or through a text message.
 Inviting her to a specific activity shows that you are really trying to get to know her and will take some of the pressure off of you.Some good activities are skating, concerts, mini golf, or bowling. If possible, choose an activity that you know she will like.


Tailor your conversation based on how she asked you out. You may say, "You know how you asked me earlier to go to a movie, and that didn't work out? Would you be free to see the "Transformers" movie next Tuesday? Because I'd like to take you."

, No matter what her answer is, be polite and respectful. She may still be hurt by your rejection or moved on to someone else. You want her to leave this conversation thinking that you are a nice person. She is more likely to reconsider if you end on a good note.


If this happens, you can say, “Ok, I understand. If you change your mind, the offer is always on the table.”

