 Your entrance should tell people about your character while getting everyone hyped up for the match. Consider having a signature song that plays when you enter the ring that gets you and the audience excited. In general, it’s a good idea to include the audience if possible. Something like tearing a sign supporting your opponent out of a fan’s hand can really make a match more intense.
 Don’t go for a crazy move right off the bat. You want to slowly build up tension and draw people into the fight. Push your opponent around and take a few hits from them. Don’t just charge right at your adversary and try to tackle them. You should circle around each other in the ring for a little bit to help increase the drama. Add more and more intense moves like body slams and arm drags until the fight has reached a climax and you know it’s time to finish it.
 Ideally you will have come up with a few original moves, since the overwhelming majority of WWE finishers aren’t suitable for backyard wrestling. They should be dramatic and incorporate showmanship, as these will be your finest moments as a wrestler. Come up with a unique name for your finisher so people will associate you with it. , Don’t drag out the match by sparring endlessly. When you're ready to pin them, hold your opponent’s shoulders against the ground and get on top of them so they can’t wriggle away. The referee should come over to make sure that they are actually pinned. If you can pin them until the ref counts to three, then you have won the match.
 Congratulations, you just finished your first backyard wrestling match! Did you come out on top or fail to beat your adversary? The ref will lift the victor’s fist into the air and declare them the winner while holding the loser’s hand by their side. Exchange your final words and walk off the stage so the next round can begin.


The way you end the match should embody the personality you made for your wrestler during the preparation stage. Sore losers should taunt the winner by insinuating that it wasn’t a fair match or otherwise insulting them. Good guys should win humbly and respect their opponent, but even they have their limits. Whatever you do, take advantage of the opportunity to let your wrestling persona shine through

