 English is difficult to revise, as many of the skills needed cannot be learned, only developed. There are no right answers as long as you back all your statements up - practice by doing past papers and have your teachers mark them, and tell you how you can improve. This can include spelling, grammar, providing more evidence, etc. A lot of these skills will be homed in class or coursework anyway.


For the reading papers there is a simple way to revise - read. Not just the TV guide but everything. Read newspapers often; broadsheets, not tabloids like the Sun or The Mail. Read with an active, analytical mind, considering the intended audience and purpose, separating opinion from fact, and any techniques the author uses to persuade/inform/explain. This does not, however, benefit everyone so as an alternative try reading good quality literature on any topic that interests you.
Make lists of the types of questions you might be asked (e.g. writing to persuade) and practice. Get past papers and questions from your teachers, then have them marked by your teachers who should enjoy the extra work load and the sudden interest in learning. Homework is not revision - it's just homework.
 Past papers and practice. Maths is one subject where it is easy to pass if you know how to do it - and you can learn how to do it with ease with practice. Past papers, while they do not repeat questions, will almost certainly feature specific topics.
 Past papers are also useful to find out where you have problems. Revise these areas carefully and do the past papers again until you understand everything you need to know for the exam.
 These are the exams that require knowing specific answers.


It is important to get the revision books to find out all the necessary information and memorize them.
To help with this, it's a good idea to make thorough notes on all of the required notes early in the year and revise these notes continually -- it’s easier to remember something when you have known it for a long time.
Flashcards and mnemonics are also helpful for remembering large quantities of information.
 It is not enough to simply know all the facts for history - you must become adept at finding information from sources and relating this back to your knowledge already about your topic. Revise everything you can for your subject area and tackle past papers.
 You should already be adept at practicing your instrument so keep up with that - you may wish to use it as a 'reward' for good work in another subject, if playing said instrument is a hobby for you.


Listening papers require a lot of pre-knowledge of your Areas of Study, so learn all the facts in a way that suits you.
Also make sure to listen to lots of different kinds of music with an active mind.
 These take more than theory work or memorizing facts. Take care to do some work in your sketchbooks/etc every day, and remember to explain whether what you did worked well or not.

