 Inspect between the panels on the outside of the ball. Make sure they are sewn together. Avoid glue and other bonds, which weaken more easily. Save yourself the trouble of replacing balls regularly by sticking to ones that are stitched, since they are more durable.Premium balls tend to be stitched by hand, while cheaper balls are stitched by machine., Depending on the type of ball, this may be anywhere from 6 to 32. As reference, consider the balls used by the U.S. Major League Soccer, which have 18. Expect the number of panels to affect the ball’s play. Based on your preference, choose:A lower number for more speed.
A higher number for easier control.
 Pick a ball that is less likely to hurt you and other players when kicked, caught, or headbutted. Avoid balls that feel especially heavy or rock-hard. At the same time, avoid very soft balls, since these are more likely to bounce and go off-target.Ideally, choose the lightest ball you can find. If this is for league play or training, refer to their guidelines about acceptable weight.
#5 balls typically weigh between 14 and 16 ounces (397 to 454 g).
#4 balls should weigh be between 12 and 13 ounces (340 to 369 g).
#3 balls should be between 11 and 12 ounces (312 to 340 g).
 Refer to the product description. Expect the bladder inside the ball to be made of either butyl or latex. For the best play, opt for latex, since latex balls are more responsive to footwork than butyl.One drawback to latex is that they need to be refilled with air more frequently than butyl.
 Expect most modern balls to be covered in either PU (polyurethane) or PVC (polyvinyl carbonate). Choose between them based on your needs, since each offers different strong points. However, be aware that the quality of material in each case may vary, meaning that not all PVC balls are equal to each other; ditto with PU balls.PU: more responsive to foot work; generally used for match balls.
PVC: more durable; used for training and indoor balls.
Leather: still used in some construction, but frowned upon due to its absorption of water.

