 Whether your sibling is blind or visually impaired, they probably just want to blend in every once in a while. Be the person that recognizes them for the person inside, not their disability. Hang out with them just like you do with your other siblings. Talk with them in the same way. Expect the same treatment from them, too., Your sibling may feel as if some of their choices have been taken away due to their disability, so be helpful by showing them the choices that they do have. This may mean describing their clothing options in detail. Or, go grocery shopping with them and detail aloud each of the labels. Then, when they make a decision, try to be supportive and considerate.This holds true unless, of course, the decision that they make could in some way lead to their injury. Then, you may want to bring in other opinions, such as your parents.
 Everyone can be scared when trying something new for the first time and your sibling is no different. If they decide to take up painting, for example, maybe agree to take a class with them. Or, if they’ve decided to perform a certain task at home on their own, try to brainstorm with them the best way to go about it.Also, be sure to share with your sibling your successes and failures. It will make them feel less isolated as they journey into unknown accomplishments.
 This may sound odd, but learning varying movements can be a great help to a blind or visually impaired person. This is also a great way to build trust. Ask them to hold your hand and start off with a very slow jog. Practice on a soft surface in case you fall. Have them hold your waist as you jump so they can feel the up and down movement and copy it.The same method goes for more complex tasks, like jumping rope or even skipping.
 Say positive words to your sibling and say them often. Odds are, your sibling will probably reciprocate and support you as well. Try to repeat this practice every day at least. Saying a simple, “Good job,” or, “Well done,” can make your sibling’s day, if you mean it.Be careful not to get condescending with your praise. Only say positive things when you mean them and try to fit what you say to the occasion.

