 Being late is inconsiderate, while being on time is an expression of respect toward others. You lack the power to restore time other people have lost waiting for you, so it's disrespectful to assume you have the right to take it from them without good cause. While the etiquette of being on time varies according to the occasion, punctuality is always respectful. The following situations all require punctuality:Eating occasions: Always be prompt for a meal – the cook deserves respect and the food grows cold as it waits.
As for a date in a restaurant, aim to be on time; it is unacceptable to be more than five minutes late.
When invited to a dinner party, time it well so that you're not early (the host will still be preparing and doing last minute fixes) and so that you're no later than ten to fifteen minutes after the invited time.
If you realize you're not going to make a dinner party on time, ring the host and inform them so that they don't keep warming the meal to destruction while waiting for you.
 In many situations, arriving late will prevent you from taking part in the activity you are planning.


Always arrive early for a movie or theater date with friends or others: If you have to purchase tickets, be there in plenty of time for lining up in what might be long queues. If you already have the tickets, arrive around 10 minutes before the show or movie begins.
Show up a few minutes early for appointments with doctors, lawyers, hairdressers, and other professionals. Be on time; their time is money as a business and by being late, you impact their earnings and the next customers. If you're going to be late, call ahead and advise them.
A job interview: Being late by even half a minute is too late. Always be on time for a job interview if you want the job.
A business meeting: Be right on time if not earlier to set up for presentations.
 Treat being on time as a matter of expressing love. Coordinating schedules allows you to be part of a team. Think of how much it means to your partner, friends, family, and even coworkers that you respect their time and appreciate their timeliness.
 If you're an optimistic person, or if you are dealing with ADD or ADHD, you may underestimate the negative consequences of showing up late.Spend some time thinking about the possible repercussions of missing an upcoming event.
Promise yourself that you will avoid these negative repercussions by showing up on time.
 Getting in touch with time requires focusing on it directly. People who are late often lack a consciousness of time as a concept that needs to be harnessed to get the most out of one's life.



Meditation may be a good way to open up the channels to a better understanding of time.
You might also try keeping an appointments diary, making plans for your day each morning, and writing estimates of how long each activity might take you and a record of how long it actually did take you.