 If it’s getting to the point where you aren’t able to have a discussion about politics without a huge fight taking place, it’s time to take a break from the topic. Agree to take time off from discussing politics at all. Together, decide on an appropriate time for the break. Perhaps after the break, you can begin to start discussing politics again.


To approach the subject you could say, “I think we need to stop talking politics for a little while. It seems like we fight more now because of the subject, and I love you too much to let this affect our relationship.”
Voicing that your concern about the relationship is the driving force behind this decision will show your partner you care about the quality of the relationship and want to make it work., Your spouse may think they stand with a certain political party, but they may also still be working out their beliefs. Being supportive and withholding from judgment or criticism can help them to develop their political values and opinions.


Part of being in a relationship is helping the other person become the best they can be. Let them know that you are there for them and leave your personal opinions out of the equation, unless they are asked for.
For instance, you could tell your partner, “Although we have a difference of opinion, I respect that you are working to develop your own political beliefs. I will be here to support and help you in any way that I can.” Letting them know that you want them to grow and become well-informed and strong in their convictions will show that you are able to put politics aside and focus on the bigger picture., If you and your partner differ politically, they likely aren’t going to want to hear what you have to say about other people whose views you oppose. Not only will your partner probably think you are negatively speaking about their own views, but they may take offense that you don’t seem to respect differences of opinion.


Instead, simply don’t comment on other people’s political views, especially if you know it is a hot topic for your partner.
You can also ask your partner to respect your loved ones as well, by not criticizing their political views. Showing this type of mutual respect can help your relationship become stronger., When the dust settles, your relationship will likely not be affected by anything a politician does. Chances are, you and your partner will go about your everyday lives and still enjoy spending time with each other. You probably won’t even talk about politics again until another election occurs. Remember this when the next heated discussion occurs.