 This means you will be on a different cycle, but that can be rewarding, as you will be shopping without crowds and long lines. Make sure you factor your social needs and other habits into your schedule.


Work hard at making a buddy who has the same hours as you. This can help provide you with social opportunities at times when your other friends and relatives are working or sleeping.
Spend the morning or evening with family and friends, so you do not miss them.;
, You will understandably need to sleep at "odd" hours, since you're working at night, but make sure you still get the sleep you need. Don't skip your precious rest time just because others are up and about. To help you sleep during the daytime, install 'blackout' shades and curtains in your bedroom. Use ear plugs if you are a light sleeper.
 Something as small and quick as a couple of sets of ten-pound curls will give your body an extra boost, and you will feel less tired.
 This matters any time, but "graveyard shift" employees can get sidetracked and start eating merely out of habit and convenience. Consume plenty of vegetables, fiber, and all the other elements you know are part of a healthy diet.


Avoid energy drinks and most supplements unless your doctor gives you the go-ahead. Our bodies sometimes "crash" when we run low on proper nutrients, and that can be draining.
 Employers usually allow one long break period for a meal, because it's the law, but you can actually adapt the whole break schedule to help yourself. If you eat part of your meal at each short break, your lunch period can become either a planning period or exercise time. Do not let labels dictate your health.
 Others might dislike the work and be negative about it, but that is their choice. If you are there, and you are earning money, do the best you can. You might notice that certain tasks are not being performed adequately. Volunteering to lend a hand is the right thing to do, as long as it doesn't interfere with the performance of your own duties. Volunteering might add to your on-the-job experience and even garner you a good reputation with your superiors.
 If your supervisor is wise, ask him or her for help. S/he might have a task that needs doing that would get you up and moving during your shift., Suggest a solution before it can become a serious problem.
 Understand that very little in life is perfect. Learn from any hurdles at work instead of getting angry.
 There may not be a direct and obvious link between these activities and being a better person, but they can't fail to make you a happier individual. That's half the battle at any time of the day.