 The tips above can help you to relax and deal with day-to-day fears and anxieties, but if your nervousness is chronic and severe you may need to seek help from a doctor. If you find it exceptionally difficult to deal with your nervousness, make an appointment with your doctor to talk about it. There are a number of possible diagnoses, including Generalised Anxiety Disorder and depression.A feature of Generalised Anxiety Disorder can be experiencing intense nervousness when there is no obvious trigger.If your nervousness is having a real impact on your daily life, go to see a doctor.
If you've had thoughts of self-harming, or suicide, contact your doctor, or a friend or relative that you can trust straight-away., It's important to be up-front and honest if you go to see your doctor to talk about your nervousness. It can be difficult to talk about your feelings, but you should do your best to give as clear a picture as possible and not leave anything out. She is there to help and needs as much information as possible to make a diagnosis and recommend the best course of action for you to take.


Think through what you want to say before you go. If you have been keeping track of your moods and the things that cause you to become overly nervous or anxious, share this information with the doctor.
 If your doctor tells you that you are suffering from Generalised Anxiety Disorder or Clinical Depression, don't think that you are being cast out from everybody else. It is estimated that one in every 25 people in the UK are affected by Generalised Anxiety Disorder.Talk about what these diagnoses mean with your doctor.
 There are a number of different ways to try to overcome your nervousness, including psychological treatments and medication. Your doctor will also most likely recommend you exercise regularly, eat healthily, stop smoking, and cut down on alcohol and caffeine.Your treatment may start with a period of self-help overseen by your doctor. You may do this alone, or in a group.
Some psychological treatments you may be prescribed, including cognitive behavioural therapy, which is aimed at altering how you react to situations., If the initial treatments are unsuccessful, your doctor may prescribe a drug to treat your anxiety. Be sure to discuss all the possible medications fully with your doctor, including potential side-effects and the initial duration of the treatment. There are a variety of drugs which can be prescribed depending on your symptoms.The main ones are:


Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). This is a type of anti-depressant which increases the serotonin in your brain. SSRIs are usually the first type of drug you will be offered.Serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). If the SSRIs have not helped your anxiety, your doctor may prescribe you an SNRI. This is an anti-depressant drug which increases the amount of serotonin and noradrenaline in your brain.
Pregabalin. You may be prescribed pregabalin if SSRIs and SNRIs are unsuitable for you. This drug is an anticonvulsant usually prescribed for those with conditions such as epilepsy, which has been shown to be beneficial for those suffering anxiety.
Benzodiazepines. These types of drugs are sedatives which are very effective at countering anxiety, but which can only be taken for short periods. Your doctor may prescribe a benzodiazepine during a severe period of anxiety as a short-term treatment.As with any medication, follow the given instructions closely and stay in regular contact with your doctor.

