 Instead of arranging desks facing forward, try some different arrangements to encourage discussion, like a U-shape or clusters of four desks with the students facing each other.
 It is important for teachers to show an interest in students beyond academic performance. To understand what motivates students, ask them about their hopes for the future, their hobbies, and their other interests. In return, share some of your own hobbies and interests to cultivate a two-way relationship.Learn student names and their proper pronunciation. If students believe that you see them as an individual, not just another member in the group, they will be much more engaged.
Ask students how they are feeling about the class and their progress, or how they are doing on a personal level as a periodic reminder to students that you care about them. If students feel more comfortable expressing themselves in writing, turn this into a weekly or monthly writing assignment.
 Students engage in class material more deeply if they can make a connection with it. This means knowing the unique demographic makeup of a class and adjusting class material accordingly.Integrate texts written by people of different genders and ethnic backgrounds.
Decorate the room with a variety of historical or inspirational significance of different genders and ethnic backgrounds.
Make sure the classroom and its materials are accessible to all students, including disabled students.
Allow students the opportunity to share their different perspectives and ideas with you and with fellow students.
 Though appropriateness of decorations may depend on the age group, students should be able to see themselves represented in the classroom environment.


Include pictures of the students, inspirational quotes written by students and their peers, or individual or group projects.
 If students feel like they have a hand in shaping their education, they are likely to invest more time and interest into assignments and classroom discussion. Try these strategies for encouraging students to take control of the learning process:Ask for students develop their for homework assignments around a specific topic.
Ask students (or groups of students if it is a group project) to share with the class how they solved particular problems, approached a project, or researched a topic. This allows students to feel that they are contributing in a meaningful way to the class, and it invites different perspectives and ideas to problems and topics.
Divide the class up into small groups and give them problems to solve together. Problem-based learning encourages students to think critically and creatively, while engaging with each other’s different perspectives.

