 Ice packs placed on your sores can help decrease the pain. Cover the ice pack with a towel to ensure that it doesn’t get too cold. Place the ice pack over the area with the sores. Make sure you use a fresh towel every time and wash the used towel in hot water.


If the ice pack doesn’t help, some people get more relief with hot/warm compresses. Use boiled water that has cooled to a warm-hot temperature. Soak a clean towel in the water and wring out excess water, applying to the painful area. Use a clean towel or washcloth to repeat.;
, You can help ease the soreness and discomfort of your sores with a warm bath. The heated water will relieve the irritated skin and help clean them as well. You can also add Epsom salt to your bath. This helps relieve the itchiness and heal the sore. It also helps the sores stay drier once your get out of the bath., If your sores are oozing, you can use baking soda to help dry them up. It also helps relieve the itching and pain. Take a cotton ball and wet it. Dip the cotton ball into some baking soda. Dab the cotton ball around your sores, coating them in baking soda. Repeat with a different cotton ball each time to avoid contaminating the baking soda.


Don't use cornstarch. Bacteria love to breed with cornstarch and can cause you to get an infection, especially if you have open sores., Olive oil not only is great for your skin, it has anti-oxidants that will help heal your sores. Take one cup of olive oil and heat it in a pot with a tablespoon of lavender oil and bees wax on medium heat. Once it starts to bubble a little, remove it from heat. Once it cools down, use a cotton ball to apply to your sores. Use a different cotton ball each time you repeat until all your sores are covered.


Don't let the mixture heat too long. Olive oil will burn., Propolis is a waxy resin made by bees that has anti-viral properties and appears to accelerate healing of sores. You can use ointments or salves that contain propolis to soothe and help heal the sores. You can buy these products at health food stores and drugstores.


Propolis comes in capsule and tinctures, but make sure you only use the ointments., There are many different herbs that can help treat your HSV sores. Lemon balm ointments can relieve the pain, itching, or discomfort of your sores. A combination of sage and Chinese rhubarb in a skin cream has been shown to be as effective as acyclovir at healing HSV infections of the female vaginal sores. St Johns wort for your skin is a traditional herb can inhibit HSV replication., Seaweed has been shown to have healing properties for the symptoms of HSV. Different varieties of seaweed such as red seaweeds from South America, Sea moss, and a red seaweed from India can inhibit HSV infections. These seaweeds can be used as medical food by adding it to salads or stews. They can be found as supplements. , Echinacea can be used to support the immune system. It also may help in reducing the severity of outbreaks. Try getting tea with it in it. Drink 3-4 cups of Echinacea tea a day. You can also get Echinacea as a supplement., There is some research indicating that certain supplements can help. For example, 1-3 grams of lysine/day may shorten the length of an outbreak. Some studies have indicated that it may be effective in reducing the number of outbreaks of oral herpes sores. However, the supplement should be taken for only about 3-4 weeks at most.


Be aware that lysine is an amino acid that may increase cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
Make sure you are consulting your doctor before using supplements. Some supplements can interact with certain medications., There is no cure for HSV infections. The virus is likely to be with you forever. Although not a natural treatment, some cases of genital herpes are severe. These symptoms can be treated with anti-viral medicines. These can reduce the pain, discomfort, and the frequency of the outbreaks. These medications may reduce the risk of infecting another person, but they don’t eliminate the risk.


Common anti-viral medicines to treat HSV include Acyclovir (Zovirax), Famciclovir (Famvir), and Valacyclovir (Valtrex).
These medications are given generally for the first outbreak and help control subsequent outbreaks. For example, an 800 mg pill of Acyclovir is taken 5 times a day for 7-10 days.
The most common side effects with these medications are nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, headache, fatigue, dizziness and muscle aches.