 If you are unsure if you're eligible, go ahead and apply anyway -- you can ask specific questions later if the show contacts you about being a contestant.


If you have appeared on any version of Wheel of Fortune in the past, you are not eligible to reappear. Also, if you have appeared on a game/dating/relationship or reality show in the last year or three of these shows in the last decade, you also are ineligible. In addition, you will be turned down if you work for or are related to anyone who works for Sony Pictures Entertainment Inc., the game show prize suppliers, or any TV station that broadcasts the show.;
, Visit the Wheel of Fortune site. In the blue navigation bar located under the header photo, hover over "CONTESTANTS." A pink drop-down menu will appear with several options. Click on "Be A Contestant."


The first question will appear, asking you about your age group. Click on either "Adult," "College Student," or "Teen."
Fill out the registration form completely and accurately.
 As an alternative to the form, Wheel of Fortune has started a "Face of the Fan" contest where prospective applicants send in a 60-second video to score an audition. This way, any person in any city can have a chance.


Visit their website for more information. Because a million people audition each year and only 600 or so are chosen, it is strongly encouraged that if you don't have video equipment to stick to sending in the application form.
 It's 39 feet (11.9 m) long, 13 feet (4.0 m) high and bright yellow. It rolls through cities, down highways and into America's heartland. Thousands of fans fill out applications and gather in front of the stage with a traveling version of the famous Wheel and Puzzle board. Applications are drawn at random throughout the event, calling individuals on stage in groups of five to participate in a brief interview, play a version of the Wheel of Fortune speed-up round and win special show-themed prizes.The most promising candidates are invited back to participate in final auditions for the show, usually held at a later date in the Wheelmobile host city.
If you want to be notified when the Wheelmobile comes to your area, you can fill out a form online to be notified. However, they do say that they may not be able to contact everyone., They're looking for players who clearly can have fun, are calm in front of the camera, and are good winners and losers. They want you to be decisive and logical in calling out letters and in strategy.


Energetic contestants with a sense of humor generally do the best. Of course, keeping a positive attitude is helpful, too. It's about having a good time, whether you win or lose., The auditions are often held in hotel ballrooms. The contestant coordinators bring about 70 wannabe contestants together and create a sort of mini version of "Wheel of Fortune," complete with puzzles and a miniature wheel. All the participants take turns standing, calling out letters, and solving puzzles.


Then they take a 5 minute written test, consisting of 16 puzzles (where you have to fill in the missing letters). Afterward, they grade the tests and hand outdoor prizes. Then the coordinators tell some of the people to go home, while other people are allowed to stay and play more mock "Wheel" games (as the coordinators size them up). It all takes about two hours.
Unfortunately, even if you do make it past the first round, you still won't know the verdict when you finally do head home. You'll have to wait indefinitely to be contacted -- if you've been selected, that is. Whether you're chosen or not depends both on your test scores and on their impression of what kind of contestant you'd make.