 One way you can network as a telecommuter is to join an online professional network like LinkedIn. These types of networks are great for connecting to other business professionals in your field. Having a profile on an online professional network can make finding potential clients and employers much easier. These sites usually have thousands of members, including professional headhunters and human resource representatives for large corporations and are often free to join.Many online professional networks allow you to store a resume online and allow you to list your professional skills as part of your profile. This can make it easier for potential employers or clients to locate you based on your skillset. Add your resume and other applicable information to your profile on the professional networking site so your profile is robust and engaging for potential employers or clients.
You can also try using community networking sites like hi5 and Jigsaw. These sites can connect you to job hunters, potential clients, and peers.;
, Social media such as Facebook, Instagram, Tumblr, and Snapchat can be great networking tools. These tools can help you connect to others quickly and constantly. Make a professional account on these platforms that you use for your career only. Then, follow industry professionals and other potential clients or employers using your professional social media account.Use a profile picture that is appropriate and makes you look like a professional in your industry. Include biographical details in your social media accounts that break down your skill set in a few words. For example, you may write, "I am a copy editor and translator based in the U.S." or "I am the owner of Smith's Bakery, a family owned bakery in Edmonton, Alberta."
Make sure you keep your professional social media accounts separate from your personal social media accounts and pages. Your professional social media accounts should look presentable and client-friendly.
 A professional blog can help you promote your skills and network with others in your field. This may be a good option if you are in a profession where you need to connect with others online on a constant basis and can promote your skills through a blog.If you are a professional copy editor, for example, a professional blog of grammar and style in writing may be a good way to network with other copy editors online. Or if you are an aspiring fashion stylist, you may start a blog to promote your fashion styling ideas and inspirations.
 A professional website for your business or brand is a great way to promote yourself to employers or clients. It is especially useful if you work on your own as a telecommuter and want to promote your skills on a larger platform. A professional website can help you connect with other professionals and allow you to promote your expertise and skills.You can also add links to other professional websites to your website so you can connect with others that way. Listing other professional websites and commenting on the sites of others can allow you to network more effectively.

