 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has a picture of an NFL player on it. Tap on it.
 The easiest way to find a trading partner is to look at the current fan feeds. These are the posts made by the players or traders, and they get updated in real-time. This means you can find an active trader by reading the posts here. Tap on the fan flag icon on the bottom toolbar to access the fan feed. Scroll through the fan feeds and find a trading partner.
 All the fan feeds are headlined by the trader’s codename. The trader’s ratings are indicated right below it. You can use this as gauge to check if the trader is reliable or not. Tap on the trader’s codename to begin trading with him.
 A menu will appear. Tap “Offer Trade” from here, and the trading screen will appear.
 On the trading screen, your partner’s cards will be displayed first. Swipe up and down on them to see his cards.
 Swipe up and down on your partner’s filtered cards to view them until you find the cards you want to get. Put the cards you want to get at the topmost panel by tapping and holding them one by one and dragging them there, or by double-tapping on them. Tap “Next” at the top right corner of the screen to continue.


You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade.
 The next trading screen will appear, with your cards now displayed. Swipe up and down on your cards to view all of them until you find the cards you want to give. Put the cards you’re giving at the topmost panel by tapping and holding them one by one and dragging them there, or by double-tapping on them. Tap “Next” at the top right corner of the screen.


You can select a maximum of nine cards per trade.
 A summary screen of your trade will be displayed for your review. Carefully check if this is the trade you want to offer. The partner’s codename is on the top left corner, the cards you’re getting are on the left box, and the cards you’re giving are on the right box.


Double-check and make sure the correct cards are being traded. Once you’ve sent the trade offer, your partner will see it and act on it right away. You may not be able to recover your cards once your trade is accepted.
 The trade will be sent to your partner. It’s now up to him to decide if he likes your offer. If he/she accepts, the cards you’re getting will be added to your card decks and the cards you’ve offered will be moved to his/hers.

