 Some people try to label relationships early to relieve some of the anxiety that they feel about where things are going.However, putting a label on your relationship in the early stages may be too much for your new guy or girl. It may also increase your feelings of anxiety if your new love interest does not want to put a label on what you have. Instead, try to avoid any labels for now and just have fun.


If anyone asks about your new guy or girl, just play it cool and say something like, “We just hang out sometimes. He/she is fun to be around.”;
, Your creativity may be amplified in the early stages of your relationship, so you may want to take advantage of that. Spending time on creative activities is also a good way to release anxiety and enjoy your alone time.For example, if you like to paint, then paint something. If you enjoy playing guitar, then write some new songs.
 Showing too much emotion early in a relationship can cause some people to feel uncomfortable. Men may gain an additional advantage by holding off on showing emotions too early on because some women associate a lack of emotion with manliness. It is good to be warm and loving in relationships, but holding back a bit in he first few months is a good idea.You may feel like you have found “the one,” but keep in mind that there are lots of other people you can date. Remind yourself that there are lots of other guys/girls out there who would love to date you.


If you start feeling the urge to call your new guy or girl several times per day or if you just can’t stop thinking about him or her, try thinking about other guys/girls you could date. Maybe the cute guy who rides the bus with you? Or the pretty barista at your favorite coffee shop?

, Although you may be afraid to be open with your new love interest, refusing to open up at all can also put a damper on a relationship. At some point, you will probably have to be brave and share something personal about yourself with your new guy or girl.When you are ready, try telling your new love interest something that you dream about doing, such as opening your own restaurant or getting an advanced degree. Or, share something that only your close friends know about, such as a fear that you have or something traumatic that happened to you as a child.
By sharing little personal things like this you will be building a closer relationship. As long as you do not share too much too soon, this is a healthy way for relationships to progress.

