 It is okay if you and/or your partner change views on parenting styles. Your views will evolve with experience. It is vital, however, to continue to communicate with your partner your specific views and opinions in a respectful manner.Parenting styles can be a broad category, but consider what you and your partner value in parenting. Do you want to raise your children with an emphasis on religion, education, physical fitness, etc?
Consider: How do you expect to discipline your children? How do you expect to educate your children? Do you want to travel with your children? There are a limitless amount of questions you can discuss with your partner regarding your children.
 You and your partner should communicate your approaches to parenting. It is important to be consistent in a number of ways when raising a child.Consider being consistent in the following ways:


Establishing rules. For example, do you and your partner agree on what your child’s bedtime should be? Discuss your reasoning and perhaps compromise on a set time. Providing a united front to your child helps to promote respect.
Providing discipline. Do you and your partner agree on discipline techniques? For example, do you think that spanking is appropriate while your wife does not? It is important to discuss, to communicate, and to compromise on the discipline of your child. You want your child to respect both of you equally and not resent one of you for being too harsh.Setting schedules. Discuss creating a schedule on parenting duties. For example, which of you will be making the kids’ lunches before school? Which will be driving the kids to soccer practice? Establishing a schedule and a routine with your partner (and your children) helps establish routines and limits the chaos of miscommunication.
 Your children are learning from you and your spouse. Model the behavior you would like your children to learn.This is especially important when interacting with your spouse; you two should model what a healthy, loving relationship should look like.


Avoid name calling. Even if you are fighting with your spouse, you should avoid saying hurtful things, especially in front of the children. If you are angry at your partner, keep it civil as possible or talk to your partner in private. Calling your wife by derogatory names or swearing at your husband sets bad examples. Instead, say something like: “I really do not appreciate the tone you are taking with me right now, can we discuss this later?”
Show respect. Do not demean your partner, especially in front of the kids. This will reinforce bad behavior. For example, if your partner does something wrong or silly, do not ridicule him in front of the children. An example of this might be if your husband suggests that Africa is a country. Instead of calling your husband an idiot, saying something like: “Do you mean a continent? I believe Africa is made up a lot of different countries.”

, Do not expect your partner to do all of the parenting. Raising children should be a joint effort; be present in your child’s life.


Being absent as a parent may breed resentment in your marriage as well as with your children.If you have to work or travel a lot and know you will not be present, try to show that you are still thinking about your partner and your children. This might be using a video program or telephone call to talk to your family while you are away.
 There will be rocky situations when parenting where you and your partner may disagree on things. However, it is important to present a united front when your children get into trouble, be it among themselves or in the real world. Consider:


How will you and your partner stop your children from fighting amongst themselves? You do not want to distinguish a “bad guy” if one of you the designated peace-keeper. Instead, talk about how you can mediate squabbles together.

