 One way of improving your swimming is by strengthening your technique. When you incorporate certain drills into your training, you'll benefit by strengthening your muscles and individual components of your stroke.
 Isolate your stroke to just one arm per lap. This will help keep your stroke symmetrical and balanced. Hold on to a kick-board if you are having trouble staying in a straight line. Keep your kick consistent and narrow throughout the drill.
 Keep one arm extended out in front of you while your body tilts onto its side, perpendicular to the water. Focus on maintaining a consistent kick. Your head will stay down in the water except when you rotate it to breathe. Switch arms after each lap.
 Practice your free stroke as you normally would, but keep your head extended out of the water, facing forward. This drill strengthens your kick, neck, and back muscles. Only practice this drill for shorts distances., There are plenty of pool exercises you can preform that don't require you to swim laps. Sometimes your gym or pool facility will have exercising equipment designed for the water like water gloves, paddles, or buoys.
 Position your legs in a wide stance in an upright position. Then bring your knees up to the surface and back to floor. While your knees are at the surface, plunge your hands down and scoop them up to the surface as your legs move back onto the ground., Position your legs in a wide stance and begin pumping them alternatively. Imagine you are doing high knees or squashing grapes. Extend your arms out away from you and bend them towards the bottom. As you are pumping your legs, do the same motion with your arms., Put one leg in front of the other in a plunge position, and keep your knee bent to a 90 degree angle. Hold your arms outwards, at the surface of the water, then bring them into your body.Use a buoy for increased tension.



You may use a kickboard that you can purchase or borrow from pool or gym.
Simply hold onto the kickboard and kick any kick you want. There are many different positions for your arms. Find whatever you like better.
You can also put your arms in a streamline and kick on your back.



Use a pull buoy that you can buy or borrow from your pool, gym, club, etc.
Put the buoy between you ankles or thighs, which ever you prefer, and pull.
Remember not to kick because it will make the pulling less effective.
 Instead of lifting your hand above the water, the swimmer drags his or her fingertips along the surface.

