 Natural products can contain natural ingredients that were grown using chemical pesticides, and as such, there may be higher traces of chemicals in a non-organic natural beer than in an organic natural beer. All organic beers will also be natural beers, however, since organic beer is made with natural ingredients.
"The USDA has specific guidelines about what products can be labeled with an organic seal. A product labeled as “100% organic” uses all natural ingredients that have been organically produced, and the product itself contains no chemicals. A product simply labeled as “organic” is at least 95 percent organic, but less than 100 percent. Usually, this means that some small trace of chemical was used during the bottling process.


Note that beers containing less than 95 percent organic ingredients but more than 70 percent can also say "made with organic ingredients" on the label, but any food or drink containing less than 70 percent cannot use the word "organic" on the label at all.
 If you are uncertain about whether or not the product is organic, a quick glance at the ingredients should give you a good idea of what you are getting into. If you spot any ingredient on the list that you are uncertain about, look it up to determine if it is natural or chemical before making your purchase.
 Reviews are helpful in two ways. Firstly, if another customer finds out that the beer is not truly organic, a review stating such will likely be posted. Secondly, reviews also give you a good idea about the taste of the beer. Buying organic is great, but that is no reason to give up on taste. Checking out reviews before you buy will give you a good idea of what to expect as far as flavor is concerned.


Go to a website that sells or reviews beer, but do not rely solely on the brewing company’s website to provide you with accurate reviews.The reviews on a brewing company’s website could be filtered or skewed.
 Read about what the company believes and how dedicated it is to producing a high-quality, organic product. A dedicated organic brewery will likely be active and informative, while a more lax company is more likely to provided limited information. The more information a brewery provides, the more trusted it proves itself, typically speaking.

