 Puberty can cause you to have all kinds of new feelings and emotions. These can be overwhelming and confusing to deal with. It might help if you try to get your feelings out in a creative way on a regular basis.


For instance, write about how you’re feeling in a journal, paint a picture, join the choir, or take a dance class. Expressing yourself creatively can help you work through the new things you’re feeling during this time., You may experience mood swings during puberty. Some of these may come about because you are feeling uncomfortable with the changes that are happening to your body, which can make you feel irritated or depressed. If this is the case, it may help to talk to your friends or a close family member, like an older sister or aunt, about what you’re feeling.If you’re not sure how to bring it up to your friends or family member, try acknowledging the fact that you’ve been extra sensitive or moody lately and ask if you can talk to them about why. For example, say “I know I’ve been kind of tough to deal with lately. Can I talk to you about what’s making me act that way?”

, Mood swings can be hard to control even when you know you’re having them. However, sometimes taking a small break from the situation can help you calm down and even out your mood. When you feel yourself getting overly irritated or sensitive, take a break and do something to calm yourself.


For example, count to 10 or sing a verse from your favorite song in your head. Sometime just taking a few minutes to focus on yourself instead of the situation can help you feel more calm., Not getting enough rest can make your already rough mood swings even worse. Being tired can cause you to feel extra irritated or make coping with your emotions more difficult. Aim to get at least eight hours of sleep every night so you can feel refreshed and ready for your day in the morning.Try some of the following tips to help you get a good night’s sleep:


Try to stick to the same sleep schedule every day. You might want to sleep in or stay up late on weekends, but it can help you sleep better if you stick to the same schedule every day. For example, if you get up at 7:00am for school, try to get up around this time on the weekends too.
Pay attention to what you eat and drink before bed. Being hungry or super full can make it difficult to sleep. Also, drinking too much before bed can cause you to have to get up multiple times in the middle of the night, interrupting your sleep.
Coming up with a bedtime ritual can also help you sleep. For example, listen to soothing music or read a book before going to bed. Stay away from watching TV or playing on your phone because electronic activities can actually interfere with sleep.
Make sure your room is cool, dark, and quiet. These conditions are ideal for sleeping. You can get room-darkening shades, ear plugs, or a fan to help create these conditions., Another thing you’ll deal with during puberty is an increase in sexual feelings. This might mean you begin to develop crushes, start to think about other people as “more than friends,” and become more curious about the opposite sex. These feelings are probably new to you so it can be a very confusing time. Do some of the following to help you cope with this aspect of puberty:


Talk to a trusted, mature adult about sexual health. Reading about sexual health can be helpful, too, but an adult can help you better understand your new feelings and educate you on the different aspects of sexual health.Ease into dating by going on group dates or dates that include some kind of activity. For example, go to the movies, play laser tag, or go to a school sporting event.You may feel pressured to engage in sexual situations if your friends and peers are, but remember that everyone is different. Never do anything you’re uncomfortable with.