 You will be prompted to delete your browsing history, your download history, your "Cookies and other site and plug-in data", your cached images and files, your saved passwords, your Autofill form data, your hosted app data, and any content licenses. You don't need to erase all of these categories, depending on why you are deleting your history. In most cases, it will suffice to delete the browsing history, the download history, and the cookies.
 Clearing your browsing history deletes the local record of any web addresses you've visited; the cached text of those pages; snapshots of those pages for images that appear on the New Tab page; and any IP addresses pre-fetched from those pages., The list of files you've downloaded using Google Chrome will be erased, but the actual files will remain on your computer. If you have downloaded sensitive files, but you have hidden them well on your computer, deleting your download history might make those files more secure. Furthermore, clearing your download history can free up a small chunk of memory (depending on how much you have downloaded) for other applications.
 These files contain user information, such as preferences for websites or profile information.
Site data: HTML5 enabled storage types including application caches, Web Storage data, Web SQL Database data, and Indexed Database data.
Plug-in data: Any client-side data stored by plug-ins that use the NPAPI ClearSiteData API.
 The cache includes the text and content of webpages you've visited in Google Chrome, and "deleting the cache" removes these files from your computer. Browsers store elements of webpages to speed up the loading of the webpage during your next visit. Thus, if you delete the cache, it may take slightly longer to navigate familiar websites.
 If you do this, all records of usernames and passwords will be deleted. If you're using a Mac, your password records are deleted from Keychain Access. If you decide to delete your passwords, make sure that there you have written down or otherwise logged them elsewhere—you don't want to find yourself locked out of an important account because you have forgotten a username or password that used to fill in automatically.
 This will delete all your Autofill entries, as well as the records of any text that you've entered on web forms. This may clear clutter—say, if your shipping address forms automatically fill in with the ghosts of addresses past, you can erase those Autofills forever. Bear in mind, however, that you will need to manually re-enter any information that you have set to Autofill: names, addresses, credit card numbers, contact information. It may be inconvenient to delete this data unless you are facing an excess of clutter.
 Selecting this box will erase the data from the apps you’ve added to Chrome from the Chrome Web Store. This includes the local storage used by Gmail Offline.
 The Google Chrome Support Team recommends that you deauthorize content licenses before selling or donating your computer.

