 If it seems obvious, that is because it is. That doesn't mean it is not the single most important thing you can do to succeed in college. In general, class is a small part of your overall day -- most students only have a few hours a day -- but they are the most important hours you have. This is where you get to learn, get to grow, and get to meet new people. Not every class, of course, will be a winner. But success requires that you challenge yourself every now and then. Suck it up, get out of bed, and get to class.


If you don't like your classes, or don't see the use for them, consider changing majors. Classes should not be a chore, they should be enjoyable.
Just because a professor doesn't take attendance doesn't mean you have a free pass to skip out. They know, however, that you only get out of a class what you put into it.;
, You're going to have to take some required classes, and you're obviously going to have to take many classes in your major. But the beauty of college comes from the in-between classes. Whenever possible, choose classes with the best professors, even if the class doesn't seem interesting at first. A great professor will turn a "boring" subject into a revelation, and a poor one will turn a subject you love into a bore. Professors are the difference makers in college -- seek them out.


Talk to older students, your adviser, or visit rating sites like Rate My Professor to get an idea of the most engaging professors.
 Professors have them for a reason, and most of them love to see and chat with students. Your professors are not like your high school teachers, for the most part. They want individual time to discuss and debate your questions. They're happy to help you when you struggle. Since most college classes are elective, meaning you choose to be there, they are happy to have people interested in their subject.


Professors make great job references later on, but don't expect a glowing review if you only see them in class.
In many fields, professors can open up research jobs, internships, and student scholarships for engaged and hard-working students.
 Getting your work done without someone over your shoulder is hard at first. But studying is a crucial part of college and something you're going to have to actively make time for. Research shows that the most successful students study at least 20 hours a week, roughly 2-3 hours each day. Many professors suggest spending two hours studying for each one hour in class.Make the most of your time by:


Finding a study spot, like the library or a classroom, outside of your dorm.
Studying in 1-hour chunks, taking short breaks in between.
Studying in groups, or with a tutor, when possible.
Asking for help and clarification from professors and fellow students.
Starting the work in advance instead of procrastinating, giving you time to ask questions if you get stuck.
 Good writers get jobs in every single field. That is because effective communication is useful no matter what you're doing -- and not enough people are good at it. Don't wait to write your papers until the last minute, as you're only shooting your future-self in the foot when you do. Go to office hours to discuss paper ideas or rough drafts with professors, and if you get a bad grade on the essay, ask why. Most professors are happy to help you improve, and some will even bump the grade if you show genuine interest in being a better writer.


Search out your college's writing tutors if you're really struggling. They are usually fellow students who can bat ideas around with you casually, helping find the best way to express them in writing., First and foremost, make sure that you understand the assignment completely, asking for clarification if you need. This, along with regular attendance, will almost assure that you do fine on every assignment. For major projects, get started a few weeks in advance. Even one hour of work here and there will pay dividends since it gets your brain thinking about the work and exposes any questions or holes in your knowledge early on.


Make a "master calendar" once you have all your assignments on the syllabus. This helps you see, and prepare for, difficult weeks well in advance. If you've got two papers due on the same day, you'll need to get one started ahead of time., College is one of the most incredible, mind-expanding periods of your entire life. Your job is to learn -- and that's it. How cool is that? If you focus on learning, finding the classes, professors, lectures, and events that genuinely interest you, your GPA will follow. Try to stay in the moment and appreciate your classes as a chance to grow intellectually, personally, and socially.Make an effort to speak at least once in every discussion class, even if it is scary at first.
Colleges bring in incredible speakers and guest lecturers every semester-- take some time to find and see the ones that catch your interest.
Your classmates are just as good a source of knowledge as anyone else. Ask about their interests, what they're studying, and where they came from.

