 Mix 2 cups (400g) granulated white sugar into 1 cup (240mL) water. Bring the solution to a boil, stirring until the sugar dissolves.;
, For the best flavor, scrape out a whole vanilla bean, mix in the goo, then drop the empty pod in as well. You can substitute 1 tbsp (15mL) vanilla extract instead, or use vanilla paste as directed on the label.Not all extracts are created equal, and in cold drinks like this the flavor difference is obvious.In the US, look for "vanilla extract" (or "vanilla flavor" for an alcohol-free option), and avoid "imitation vanilla." In Europe, look for anything labeled "natural." Most vanilla extracts from Latin America are inferior products, although often cheaper., Stir in ⅛ tsp (0.6mL) lemon juice or cream of tartar. This will "invert" the syrup, which makes it sweeter, helps the sugar dissolve, and increases shelf life.This ingredient goes back to at least 1852, and might be the reason it's called "cream soda."Some modern commercial sodas use it as well, so you might be familiar with the taste.There may be some health concerns related to the "unbounded fructose" in inverted sugar.Consider asking your doctor first if you have diabetes.
 Simmer over medium-high heat, reducing heat if bubbles are building up above the surface. The mixture is ready when a candy thermometer reads 220ºF (104ºC), or when it's syrupy, brown, and covered in small, thick bubbles.If you don't have a candy thermometer, you might want to take the pan off the heat while the syrup is still clear or light brown, to prevent burning. The lighter the syrup is, the less caramel flavor the soda will have.
Sugar syrup gets dangerously hot. Handle with care and keep away from children.
 Move the pan to another burner and wait for it to cool to a safer temperature.
 This gives the syrup time to absorb the vanilla, which is the main flavor of cream soda.
 When you're ready to drink your soda, stir the syrup into carbonated water (seltzer) and ice. Try 1–2 tbsp syrup per 12 oz glass (15–30mL per 360mL), then experiment to make it as sweet or mild as you like your soda. That's one of the benefits to making it at home!


If you used a real vanilla bean, remove the pod and throw it away. If you dislike the seeds in your drink, strain the syrup through a cheesecloth. (Try it with the seeds first — many people don't mind them, and the cheesecloth will soak up some of your syrup.)
Store extra syrup in the refrigerator. It will usually last at least a week., Most of the time, cream soda doesn't actually contain cream, but a spoonful of cream or half-and-half does give it a nice foam. For the full dessert option, use a spoonful of vanilla ice cream instead.


Since this soda is acidic, there is a chance that the dairy will curdle. Avoid this by pouring slowly and starting with chilled water. Lower-fat products (whole milk or skim milk) are more likely to curdle.

