 Approach people you’re interested in conversing with and simply say hello. Offer your name, and ask theirs. While it may feel awkward to start a conversation without an explicit reason for doing so, people are usually happy to be approached in a friendly manner.Alternatively, if you’re standing or sitting in a group and hoping to speak with one person in particular, don’t feel rushed to do so. Simply sitting, listening, and enjoying one another’s company is actually an incredibly effective way to become comfortable around other people.
Wait for a moment to introduce yourself unobtrusively. Remember, silence is a form of communication. Even in social settings, a comfortable silence indicates confidence and contentment that people will respond to positively.
In a group setting, be sure to ask each person that you haven’t already met what their name is. This indicates a general friendliness that is a key component of conveying to others that you are social and accessible.;
, People like to talk about what they’re interested in, and questions that are geared accordingly can be great conversation starters. There are plenty of specific options.Ask the person you’re curious about what they do for fun. Not only does this get a conversation going, it indicates that you’re curious about what they’re interested in and how they spend their time.
Ask them what they do with their life. Don’t ask about employment explicitly. Say something like, “So what do you do with your days?” This allows people to answer however they want, which gives them the chance to talk about something they want to talk about.
If you’re looking for a particularly interesting question, try asking them about a recent quote they came across that changed how they viewed the world.
 Refrain from talking about your radical political or religious beliefs as soon as you meet someone. Deeply personal topics should also be avoided, as well as private information.Even if it seems like you might share a certain point of view with another person, you don’t need to immediately re-iterate your shared belief.
Hold off on having conversations about worldviews or beliefs that you may share to allow for a deeper conversation on that topic later on.
 Watch your word choice and put effort into being courteous until you know a bit about the other person’s sense of humor or any particular sensitivities. There are a few conversational manners to always remember.Never cut another person off while they are speaking. This is harder than it sounds. Instead of thinking about what you’re going to say next, focus on what the other person is saying!
Don’t raise your voice. Though it may simply be the effect of excitement, speaking loudly may intimidate some people, or make you seem overzealous.
Concentrate on speaking clearly. Not only do you want to make sure you are not misunderstood, it’s much easier to listen to someone who is enunciating well.
A good concept to keep in mind is that you’re not competing for space within a conversation, you’re sharing it!

