 As a small business person, you are responsible for all aspects of your business. Ultimately, you should come to see the business’s success or failure as your own. Without taking intellectual ownership, you won’t be able to act as a true professional.


Embrace the idea of “the buck stops here.” As a business owner, you're the one who is ultimately responsible -- and accountable -- for any failure in your organization.
Don't blame your employees or others for the missed deadline. Ultimately, your organization failed to meet a deadline because the deadline was problematic or management failed.
Be hands on. Make sure to be an active manager. Do this by talking to or working with your employees often during the course of a project. In the end, they'll know that you are a caring and responsible manager., By enacting consequences, you'll institute another motivation for you or your employees in finishing a deadline.


Consequences should always be communicated to employees when they are presented with a deadline.
Consequences should focus on individual growth or improvement, rather than being punitive. For instance, employees who miss a deadline should spend more time in training or should have a higher level of training.
Take punitive action only after employees demonstrate a trend of incompetence. Consider termination only after an employee fails to make several deadlines and you've talked to and mentored the employee., If you or your employees have previously missed deadlines, you should spend some time thinking about why. After some thought, you'll undoubtedly notice trends or persisting issues that negatively impact your organization's ability to meet deadlines.


Think about what you could do to improve your work as a manager. Consider attending conventions, conferences, and educating yourself about being a better manager.
Meet with relevant employees or managers after a missed deadline. Ask them why they missed the deadline or why they think the organization was unable to meet the deadline.
Evaluate if an employee who missed a deadline was irresponsible. For instance, if John posts a lot on Facebook while at work, this will hurt his productivity.
Think about whether there were unique or unforeseen circumstances that hindered your organization's ability to meet a deadline. For instance, machinery breaking down would likely make it impossible for you to meet a production quota by a given date.
Offer ways for your employees to provide anonymous feedback. Your employees might be able to give you insight into a missed deadline if they don't fear reprisals., At some point, it might be necessary to reassess deadlines you've set. Ultimately, there's no reason to hold yourself to a deadline that does not make sense any more.


Question the feasibility of your deadline after project-related set backs. For example, think about whether a deadline is workable after a supplier has informed you that they won't be able to get you certain products on time.
Postpone or set your deadlines back, if need be. If you or your employees believe the deadline has become untenable, consider pushing it back.
Only push deadlines back for verifiable reason.
Postpone or cancel a deadline if it has become irrelevant. For instance, if you're on a tight deadline to complete a project so you can start on another project, consider canceling the deadline if the timeline of the next project has been extended.