 Before school begins for the day, make sure you’ve completed all your work and have it ready to go. Before class begins, organize everything you need and prepare yourself mentally and physically to listen and participate. Have your notebook out, your pencils sharpened — or your laptop fully charged, whatever the case may be., Actively participating — by asking and answering questions, working diligently, and so on — shows that you are trying your best to understand what your teacher is talking about. It also indicates that you are prepared and listening in class.Don't hesitate to ask questions if you don't understand something. Your teacher will be more than happy to help you. This implies that you want to learn and that you strive to do well in school.
However, it is possible to ask too many questions — if you seem to be interfering with class or frustrating your teacher, jot down your questions and bring them up after class or (if available) by email, etc. Generally speaking, though, it is better to ask too many questions than too few.
 Constantly falling behind on assignments, homework, and projects does not create a good impression. But doing your work on schedule — or even a bit ahead of schedule when possible — shows your teacher that you’re giving an honest effort to succeed.Dedicate yourself to turning in assignments on time. Late work can result in punishments, and your teacher won't be happy either. Turning in your first assignment late isn't a good way to make a good first impression. If you’re having trouble keeping up due to the difficulty of the work or some other factors, talk to your teacher about it immediately.
 Work hard in preparation for tests. If your studying results in A's on every test, great. But even if your hard work doesn’t achieve those highest marks, your teacher will take notice of (and appreciate) your ongoing effort toward improvement.If your studying doesn’t seem to be producing the results you expect, seek out advice on improving your technique. Teachers are usually eager to give out study tips — but you have to ask first.
 Seeking out study tips is one of many ways to ask for advice and assistance from your teacher. If you just can’t wrap your brain around a certain formula, or comprehend what Hamlet is talking about in that soliloquy, don’t be too proud or too embarrassed to ask for your teacher’s help. Most teachers entered the profession because they wanted to help kids learn — so give them the chance!


Asking for help is a sign of strength, not weakness. It shows that you are determined to give your best effort — and teachers value all-out effort from students above practically any other quality.