 One of the most important things coaches and trainers can do for wrestling concussions is to put a plan into place to deal with concussions when they happen. This plan needs to be laid out before a concussion occurs. Having a plan in place prior to a match or practice helps eliminate potentially harmful decisions being made based on match score or heated emotions.The athletic trainer should be the person to put the plan into place and make sure it is properly carried out.
Action plans may include evaluations a trainer can give the wrestler to make sure he does not have a concussion. These evaluations may include a standardized assessment of concussion (SAC) or a balance error scoring system (BESS). They may give important details about whether the wrestler should continue or not.
 Research has shown that only roughly 10% of concussions result in a loss of consciousness. To reduce any serious concussion-related injuries, coaches, athletes, and trainers need to know the initial concussion symptoms so they can make a proper judgement about their athlete.While coaches and trainers need to help make decisions about concussions, especially in young wrestlers, the wrestler needs to be aware of any symptoms. If the wrestler experiences the symptoms, he should let the coach knows and stop competing. Competing with a concussion can lead to serious damage.
These symptoms include dizziness, loss of balance, headache, fatigue, disorientation, slurred speech, amnesia, vomiting, or ringing of the ears.
 If the wrestler is suspected to have sustained a concussion, he should be removed from the match. The athlete should then be taken to a doctor to be checked out.Serious damage may occur to a wrestler if he continues to compete with a concussion. Wrestling with a concussion may lead to brain hemorrhage or swelling, in addition to other problems.
 No matter the state of a match or competition, the wrestler’s health is the top priority. This means that he should not be allowed to compete again until he heals from his concussion.Symptoms may subside and the wrestler may feel fine, but he may not be medically ready to compete again. Coaches should only allow a wrestler to return to competing after he is discharged by a medical professional., Many wrestlers have the attitude to keep going despite hardships. This may lead to better wrestling and wins. However, when a wrestler has a concussion, this go get ‘em philosophy will not work. Parents, coaches, and the wrestler should think about long-term health instead of immediate goals, like getting back to training, finishing a match, or getting back on the mat.Concussions may seem mild now, but repeated concussions may cause extreme difficulties later in life. These difficulties include permanent brain damage, memory loss, and even depression.
Parents and coaches should be especially mindful of young wrestlers. Wrestlers who are seven, ten, or even thirteen might not understand the severity of their injuries and want to get back onto the mat. Instead, parents and coaches need to put the wrestler’s health first and make sure he gets the proper recovery before going back out there again.

