 Just blot. If you rub the stain, you could lock it into the clothing. Do this if your cat has just urinated on the clothes. You'll have a better chance of removing the smell on the first wash if you can do it while the stain is fresh., Take the affected garment to the sink. Run a stream of cool water over the stain for a few minutes. Blot the stained area dry., Fill a sink with warm water. Add a scoop of oxygen bleach. Place the clothing in the sink. If the clothing is colored, allow it to sit for at least one hour. If it's white, soak it for up to four hours.This product may be sold as Oxiclean, Vanish, or simply oxygen bleach.
Avoid using chlorine bleach. When it combines with the ammonia in urine, it can create harmful gases., Vinegar is an acidic product that neutralizes the alkalinity of the urine.Either white vinegar or cider vinegar will work on colored clothing. Use only white vinegar on white garments to avoid staining.
 Throw the garment in the washing machine. Coat it with the vinegar solution. It's safe to add the rest of the laundry to the cycle, if you like. Just avoid a full load so that the soiled garment can get as clean as possible. Use a cool or cold setting. Warm or hot water could set in the urine odor., One cup (236.6 g) will do the trick.Thoroughly cover the affected garment before you start the wash. Baking soda will work with the vinegar to neutralize and absorb the urine odor., This process could take three hours if you're air drying outside. In an indoor setting, it could take 24 to 36 hours. When the garment is completely dry, do a sniff test to check if the urine odor is gone. If it is, you can wear it as you normally would. If not, re-wash it with an enzymatic detergent.Never use a clothes dryer. The heat could lock in the urine stain and odor for good and ruin your garment.
 Most detergents labeled as cold-water detergents contain enzymes. However, you should read the ingredients just to be sure. Enzymes allow detergents to fight stains at a much lower temperature than traditional detergents. If possible, choose a detergent that lists protease as an active enzyme ingredient. It's the best at removing urine stains.Make sure to choose a color-safe detergent to avoid bleaching your colored clothing.
 Set the washing machine to a cool or cold water cycle. You may add similar-colored clothing according to package directions. Make the load a little lighter so that there is enough space for the washing machine to clean the clothing thoroughly., Avoid using a clothes dryer, as the heat might lock in the urine smell. Drying time won't take as long in an outdoor setting. When the garment is completely dry, check it for a lingering odor.If the odor is gone, you can wear your garment as usual. If not, repeat the washing process one more time.

