 A diet designed to boost endorphins and other mood enhancing chemicals can help the withdrawal process in addition to the emotional effects of ending an addiction.


High-quality proteins are important. You should aim to get in 20 – 30 grams of protein three times a day. Opt for lean proteins like chicken, fish, and turkey.Consume a variety of fruits and vegetables as well as heart healthy fats that are found in olive oils, canola oils, avocados, and nuts.The consumption of sugar and processed foods should be limited, if not cut out altogether.Make sure to drink a lot of water. The rule of thumb is to drink eight 8-ounce glasses of water (1.9 liters) a day, but if you're detoxing from Suboxone you might need to drink a bit more., Daily exercise can boost endorphins, causing a more positive mood overall. This can lessen the psychological symptoms of withdrawal and help you stay focused on your commitment to a healthier, happier existence.


Exercise boosts mood, improves sleep, reduces pain and promotes good overall well-being. Strive for 30 to 60 minutes of vigorous exercise a day.How you choose to exercise is up to you, but know that people generally stick to exercise routines if they engage in behaviors they enjoy. If you enjoy long walks at night, incorporate a brisk daily walk into your routine. If there's a sport you enjoy, like tennis or softball, try to join a league in your area or find a friend to join you for a tennis match a few times a week.
 Talk to friends and family members whom you trust and explain your situation to them. Ask for their support during your recovery and have a few good friends you can rely on when you're having rough days.


Community is incredibly important to an addict's recovery. In a study on rats, researchers placed some rats in groups and some rats alone in a cage. The rats were presented with a choice of two different water bottles. One was laced with cocaine and the other was normal water. In both groups, rats tried both kinds of water; however, it was only the rats who were left alone who became addicted to the cocaine-laced water. Scientist believe this demonstrates that socialization and support are powerful tools in combating addiction.In people, this has proven true as well. During the Vietnam War, many soldiers were functionally addicted to heroin overseas. When they returned to their homes, 95% of soldiers simply stopped heroin use without rehab or treatment. Comparisons have been drawn between this and the rat study. Both rats and humans had an easier time combating addiction when placed in a happier environment.During your recovery process, reach out to friends. Try to see people on a regular basis. Have a weekly game night or book club. Go to a community center in your area and enroll in an art or cooking class. Try to meet people and form a comforting, happy environment for yourself.

