 It'll be hard to tune the guitar without knowing the proper notes for each string. Starting with the lowest, thickest string (which should be the closest to the ceiling when you're holding the guitar properly) the standard tuning for the strings is, from low to high:


E
A
D
g
b
e (thinnest string)
;
, Follow each string up to the corresponding tuning peg to make sure you know which peg to turn to tune each string, and which direction. Before you consult a tuner, pluck the string a few times and turn the peg to make it go up (clockwise) and make it go down (counterclockwise).









Depending on the guitar and how it was strung, the direction might be different. This is why it's important to check first. However, all professional stringing will be in this direction, since it helps keep the strings in tune.
 If you're using an electric tuner, turn it on and hold it close enough to the guitar so it can pick up enough sound. Pluck the string repeatedly and turn the tuning peg until it matches the pitch as closely as possible. You can also try to match each string to a guide track, like "standard tuning examples" found on Google or YouTube.









If you're sharp (too high) lower the note by turning the tuning peg to loosen it, making it lower, until you get it to the proper pitch.If you're flat (too low) then you need to raise the note by turning it smoothly up, creating tension on the string and making the note higher. Keep turning it until you reach the proper pitch.
You can also match the guitar to itself, to a piano, or any other instrument to match the pitch. If you're playing with a trumpet player, for example, ask for an E and adjust the tuning of the 6th string until you've matched the pitch.
 The 6th string, 5th fret note should be identical to the 5th string played openly -- they are both As. This system insures that the intervals between notes are identical, so that even if the guitar is not perfectly tuned, it is tuned relative to itself. To tune the 5th string, for example, you would play the 6th string, 5th fret note and match the tone of the 5th string exactly to this.









The only exception is on the B string. You must hold the 4th fret of the G string (3rd string) to tune the B string.
 An acoustic guitar is made of wood, and the resonance of the strings, even when tuned properly, might not sound exactly right. Play a G chord, or another first-position chord to check to make sure the guitar sounds correct and is in tune. Make slight adjustments as necessary.









The B string, in particular, will usually need to be tuned slightly flat to create a truly perfectly-tuned guitar. Experiment some and listen closely to make sure the guitar is in tune.
 Strings need time to stretch out when first placed, meaning they fall out of tune very quickly. To help get them in shape, tune the guitar, then play for a few minutes. Retune and repeat, playing until the strings stay more or less in tune for a few minutes straight.








