 The Demon Ruins are home to all manner of demonic beasts, and can be found deep within the Dark Souls world. The easiest route to the ruins is the path leading down from the Bell in Queelag's Domain, which you must ring as part of the story progression. In turn, Queelag's Domain can be entered from the swamps at the bottom of Blighttown. There is a staircase leading down almost directly behind where the lever to ring the Bell is located. Follow the stairs to the bottom and you will arrive at the lower level of Queelag's Domain. You will notice an area with broken bricks and a gap in the wall leading to a tunnel; enter this and follow the tunnel to its end. You have just entered the Demon Ruins.;
, The bonfire will make sure you don't start all the way back in Blighttown should you die. It would also be wise to kindle the bonfire as much as you can, as the enemies you are about to face are of a high level.
 There will be several Chaos Egg-burdened enemies around, but only two will actively harm you, and even they are easy to outrun, so there is little reason to be cautious at this stage.
 You will notice a bridge leading across to another path, and eventually, the Ceaseless Discharge boss.
 In order to reach the Chaos Flame Ember, you will need to kill the Ceaseless Discharge; once you kill him the magma will disappear, allowing you to reach the ember.
 He will not attack you until you pillage the corpse on the altar at the far end of the path, after which you need to fight for your life. See the article on killing the Ceaseless Discharge for tips and methods on the fight. After landing the final blow, a cutscene will show the magma hardening and forming walkable paths.
 In front of you, you can see some small pools of magma, a path to the left and a path to the right. The area to the right leads further down towards the Demon Ruin's main area boss, and is riddled with respawning Capra demons. The Chaos Flame Ember is located to the left side of the magma pools., If you get close enough you will see that it is guarded by not one, but seven Taurus demons. Yes, seven! In order to reach the ember, you will need to defeat all seven in combat; luckily they don't respawn so the fight will not be completely hopeless.
 Your best, and probably only, way to survive the Taurus demons is to tackle them each individually. This will require edging slowly forward until you gain someone's attention, after which it will chase you. If you rush into the area too quickly and too far, you will be attacked by several of the demons and have a really tricky situation on your hands. Once you have lured one out, lead it back towards the foot on the slope.
 At the foot of the slope there is a little ridge. If you stand on certain areas of the ridge, the Taurus demons cannot seem to attack you and have to walk around the other side to attack you - this buys you valuable time to drink an estus flask or launch a powerful spell, making the fight a tiny bit easier. As with the original Taurus demon fight in Undeadsburg, blocking the demon's powerful attacks, dodging underneath them and only attacking when you can safely escape a counter, will work here again. However, there is no easy exploit to the fight.
 This will take a little while, but if you die, you will only have to make your way back from the bonfire at the top of the slope., After taking a moment to celebrate your amazing achievement, examine one of the magma pools beyond where the demons were guarding. You will notice a corpse floating in the magma face-down. This is the location of the Chaos Flame ember.
 This is not necessary, but both rings reduce the effects of magma (with the Orange Charred Ring being far more effective) and will allow you to get the ember without dying. The Orange Charred Ring is gained by cutting the arm off the Centipede demon found deeper within the Demon Ruins (by following the right path through the magma pathways), while the Flame Stoneplate Ring can be looted from a chest located within Sen's Fortress.
 If you have either ring equipped, you should be able to run across the magma and pillage the ember from the corpse, before returning to safety. However, if you do not have either ring, you will need to jump to the corpse - and note, using this method, you will die, so recover any lost souls you may have left around before attempting it. Simply walking to it will inevitably kill you before you can reach the corpse, so jumping is the only way without the rings. Stand away from the edge, begin a sprint towards the corpse and before you hit the magma, jump into the magma. With precision, you will land on top of the corpse and just have enough time to retrieve the Chaos Flame ember before dying. Congratulations!

