 It is important that kids understand they should ask you for permission before they touch, come near, or interact with your dog. Explain that this applies not just to your dog, but to all dogs, and is meant to protect them from aggressive or antisocial animals.Try saying, “Bobby, I’m really excited you want to pet my dog. Thank you for asking me first! It’s important that you always ask before you pet, because some dogs don’t like to be petted.”

, Children are at a high risk of being bitten in the head, face, and neck by a dog. Therefore, it is important that you educate children to not put themselves at risk by placing their head near the dog’s head. This simple advice can prevent a catastrophic or disfiguring injury to the child.Try saying, “Sally, make sure you don’t put your face near the dog’s face.”

, It is common for a child to want to hug or kiss a dog. However, many dogs do not enjoy being hugged or kissed and can demonstrate signs of discomfort and even aggression from this type of human affection. Err on the side of safety and let children know that hugging or kissing your dog is not allowed.Try saying, “My dog likes to be petted on his chest, but he doesn’t want anyone to hug or kiss him. It makes him really scared when people hug or kiss him.”

, It is natural for children to want to play with a dog they meet. Many children will want to poke at your dog or even pull their fur or tail. Before you introduce your dog to a kid, make sure they know that these types of behaviors are off-limits when interacting with your dog.
 A child should never go near a dog’s food or bother a dog while the dog is eating or drinking. One of the most common circumstances for dog bites suffered by children is the guarding of resources like food and water. Explain to the child that a dog’s food, water, and feeding times are off-limits.Try saying, “Let’s all remember that we can’t bother the dog when it is eating or drinking. Dogs can get really angry if people go near their food or water. Let’s wait until after the dog finishes eating and then we can take the dog out to play.”

, If you have children, involving them in the dog’s care can be a meaningful experience for the entire family. It will help the children learn responsibility as well as bond with the dog. For example, you can let your kids take the dog on its evening walk and clean up after it.

