 Either have the pieces cut into the same-sized squares at the hardware store or be able to do this at home. (The squares should be large enough to form a little closet enclosure for the cat; take along measurements.);
, It should be as high as one of the squares. This will form the cat shape.
 The shape you choose must involve a lot of space under the cat or somewhere around the cat, that serves as a hole for the real cat to enter under. Some ideas for the shape include a cat sitting upright with space to the side, a cat stretching up high with space to the side or a cat arching its back, with plenty of space under the cat's stomach (centered). The hole area must be large enough for your cat to walk under or alongside.


If it's hard for you to draw a shape, look online for suitable cat shapes and print some off to trace around or copy.
 Next, hold the cur-out template against the wood piece and trace around it. This will provide the guidelines for sawing out the cat shape.
 Sand down the edges if needed.
 Paint it any color you like, adding features such as patches, paws, whiskers and eyes, etc. Allow to fully dry before proceeding.
, Allow to dry in place fully.
 This now allows the cat entry to and exit from the closet.
 Allow to dry completely. Check that it is firmly held together by pushing on the whole structure gently; make any adjustments needed.
 This can be made from net fabric, plain fabric or similar. However, it can be good to leave it uncovered, to allow you to peek on the cat as it sleeps inside the closet.


Temporary objects can be placed on top to provide the cat with more privacy, such as a newspaper, an oversized book, a piece of thick card, etc.
 Paint the sides of the cat closet or add patterns, stickers, etc.
 An old sweater wrapped about a cushion that is the exact size of the closet shape is ideal.


If you need to make a cushion to fit the dimensions, this can be done simply. Measure the inner square, and cut two pieces of fabric to this size. Sew together three sides and fill with stuffing. Then sew up the final side. That's all there is to it! And as puss doesn't care how neat it is, it's a great first sewing project for an older child.



Entice your cat inside by placing a catnip mouse in there. Your cat will soon get the message!

