 The clutch is located in front of the left handgrip. It is responsible for transferring torque from the engine to the transmission. The throttle located on the right hand grip. Rolling on the throttle increases the engine RPM to prevent the engine from stalling. The gear shift is a bar located in front of the left foot pedal. It is responsible for switching between gears. Practice the following:


Squeeze the clutch lever in, then slowly ease it out.
Roll the throttle towards the back of the motorcycle ("roll on") to go faster.
Roll the throttle towards the front of the motorcycle ("roll off") to go slower.
Press down on the gear shift to put the motorcycle into first gear. This only works if you are in neutral or second gear, otherwise, pressing down the gear shift will only take you to a lower gear.
Move the gear shift upwards to reach the remaining gears. The predominant gear pattern for manual motorcycles is one down, and four or five up. Neutral is found between first and second gear.;
, Make sure that you are resting in the neutral position. Neutral is indicated by a green "N" light on the meter console; all new bikes comes with this feature. At this point, you should be sitting on the saddle of the bike.
 Start by closing the throttle, and then pull the clutch in all the way. At the same time, move the gear shift into first gear by pushing downwards on the shifter. Then, slowly apply throttle while releasing the clutch gently until the motorcycle starts to roll slowly. After this point start increasing throttle input and release the clutch all the way.









Do not be in a hurry to release the clutch lever, continue to coordinate the throttle and the clutch until the motorcycle is moving. As the motorcycle increases speed, continue to ease the clutch lever out smoothly and slowly.
 When you have achieved sufficient speed to justify shifting to a higher gear, roll off, (close) the throttle as you squeeze in the clutch. Place the toes of your left foot under the shift peg, lift the peg up as far as it will go. You can continue moving into higher gears by bumping the gear shift upwards more. One bump goes to second, another to third, another to fourth, and so on. NOTE: an experienced rider does not need to operate the clutch to shift up. He simply lifts the shifter lightly with his foot, and then, when he down-blips the throttle, the next higher gear will engage. Doing this smoothly takes a bit of practice, yet saves shifting time, and also slightly increases the lifetime of the clutch plates.









If you are in first gear and you lift half way, you will find neutral.
If you release the clutch and roll on the throttle and nothing happens, you're in neutral, squeeze the clutch and lift again.
If you skip a gear by accident, don’t worry. It won’t damage the bike as long as you make sure to match the throttle to the gear you have shifted to., Roll off ("close") the throttle as you squeeze in the clutch. Press down on the gear shift peg, then release it. Smoothly adjust the clutch and throttle together to match the speed that you are currently traveling. If you are coming to a stop, keep the throttle closed, hold in the clutch and continue to press and release the shifter until you are in first gear.








