 You may choose to treat a small shallow cut or injured claw yourself, but for just about anything else, it is always best to take your rabbit to the vet. Your job is to minimize damage and keep your rabbit as safe and comfortable as possible en route. Know your vet’s hours and have a backup plan. If your vet is not available for emergencies outside of office hours, then you should have the number of another clinic or vet that is.;
, If your rabbit is bleeding, has been bitten, or has been stepped on, you should take him to the vet. But injuries are not always so obvious, especially since rabbits have high pain thresholds and instinctively hide pain. Less obvious signs of injury include:Lying on one side for extended periods of time.
Falling over.
Inability to walk in a straight line.
Limping or change in gait.
Awkward posture.
Licking, rubbing or scratching a particular area.
Failure to eat or drink for 24 hours.
Failure to pass fecal pellets for 8 hours or more.
 How you care for you rabbit will depend on the injury. If the injury is not immediately life threatening – i.e. the rabbit is bleeding heavily, paralyzed, or in shock – perform a brief exam:Nose and whiskers – Both sides should look the same. Look for discharge and swelling.
Eyes – Glassy or closed eyes are a sign of shock. Shine a light into them to see if the pupils constrict. If the whites of the eyes are yellow, this indicates a serious liver problem.
Gums and teeth – Lift the lips to examine them. Gums should be pink and the color should return immediately if after you push on them with a fingertip. Pale gums are a sign of sock. Make sure no teeth are broken.
Head and neck – Feel for lumps, bumps, or swelling. Head tilt may be a sign of shock or spinal injury.
Limbs - Check for redness, heat or swelling. If none is found, run both hands down each limb from the shoulder to the toes, flexing each joint. Stop immediately if your rabbit appears to be in pain. Cold feet are a sign of shock.
Torso – Run your hands along the ribcage and spine. Feel for swelling or abnormalities. Gently feel your rabbit’s stomach, searching for swelling or redness. Check for rapid breathing and heart beat, a sign of shock.
 Shock can kill a rabbit. If its eyes are glassy or closed, its extremities cold, and its heart rate and breathing rapid, wrap it in a clean towel, place it in its carrier, call your vet and take it in.Always place the towel and carrier beside your rabbit, so you will have to move it as little as possible.
If you suspect your rabbit is in shock, keep him warm and minimize stress as much as possible. If possible give him a hot water bottle wrapped in a towel (so he doesn't get scorched.) Place him in a covered box, so that he doesn't feel so exposed and vulnerable which rabbits find very stressful.
 Rabbits lose heat rapidly due to the stress of injury. If you believe your rabbit is injured, particularly if it has been kicked, stepped on, or sat upon, gently wrap it in a clean towel and take it to the vet.


Minimize his stress by giving him a dark safe place to hide. Rabbits have been known to die from pure stress, so while you are assessing his injuries, or waiting to hear back from the vet, make him feel as safe as possible.
 Do not attempt to splint broken bones, as this may cause more injury. Place the rabbit in a box so that he doesn't try to hop or move around. If the fractured ends of the bones are exposed through the skin, cover them with sterile gauze from a first aid kit. If you don't have sterile gauze then place a freshly laundered (clean) handkerchief over the bones to reduce the amount of bacterial contamination from the air. If you don't have a clean piece of fabric then leave the bones exposed but inform the vet so that they can decide if antibiotics are necessary. Never, under any circumstances attempt to push the bone ends back beneath the skin.


If a leg is dangling, at an odd angle, or cannot move properly, this may be a sign of a spinal injury. Practice extra care when moving your rabbit onto the towel and into the carrier.
 If your rabbit has been bitten, the wound is only skin deep, and your rabbit is not in shock, you can take time to clean the wound before taking your rabbit to the vet. Flush the wound using iodine solution diluted in warm water to the color of iced tea. If you do not have iodine, use an antiseptic soap in warm wateror make up a salt water solution, which consists of one teaspoon of salt to one cup of previously boiled water.


Be sure the water is warm, as cold water may induce shock.
If a cut is very minor, you may clean it and treat with antibiotic ointment yourself. Be sure to check it regularly to be sure it is healing well., Particularly if the bleeding from a wound is pulsing or gushing, applying pressure may save your rabbit’s life. Using a sterile gauze pad, or a clean towel or cloth if a pad is not available, apply firm but gentle pressure to the wound. Do not remove the cloth or pad if it becomes saturated with blood. Apply another one over it and continue applying pressure. Get your rabbit to the vet as quickly as possible.If you don't have help and need to drive to the vet, bandage the pressure pad in place.
 If a hot liquid or caustic chemical has been spilled on your rabbit, let cool running water flow over the burn for a minimum of 10 minutes. Do this before moving the rabbit to the vet as it is the most effective way of minimizing complications from a fresh burn.Do not apply any ointments, as this will interfere with the vet’s care for your pet.
If your bunny has suffered a burn from biting an electric cord, its mouth may be burnt or there may be fluid in the lungs. If he is breathing rapidly, the latter is more likely. Keep stress to a minimum, and place him in a well ventilated place while you fetch help.
 If the claw has been completely torn off, you’ll want to see your vet, but a broken claw, or one that has been trimmed too close, can be dealt with at home. Apply styptic powder to stop the bleeding (it may take several applications), and check regularly to be sure the claw is healing.

