 Many parents opt for a machine that produces noise to help soothe the baby, and also to block out other noises that might be disturbing. There are many types of machines to choose from. Some play white noise, some play soft music, while others play a sound such as a heartbeat. Some machines have various sounds that you can choose from.


There is a debate about how long you should keep the machine playing each night, so it may be best to try out different amounts of time to see what works for your baby. For example, many machines come with an automatic shut off after a pre-set amount of time. If you notice that your baby wakes just after it stops, you may want to try playing it for a longer amount of time.
It is important not to set the machine to a volume that could harm your babies hearing. For example, hospital nurseries in the US that use sound machines limit the machines to 50 decibels. You should also not place the machine close to your baby. In fact, experts recommend placing it as far away as possible so, for example, across the room from your baby’s crib., This won’t matter too much if you have a newborn, but as your baby gets older and more mobile, they will likely be looking around the room. Keeping toys and games that are used for play time in another room will help your baby understand that the nursery is for sleeping.If you don’t have the space to keep the toys somewhere else, try keeping them out of sight with something like a toy trunk.
 If the room is light your baby will have a more difficult time staying asleep. You can install thermal curtains, privacy film, or black out blinds on the window (if there is one), which will block out sunlight effectively. The room doesn’t have to be pitch black, but it should be dark enough so that your baby won’t be disturbed by sunlight.Turn off the night light too. Your baby is unlikely to fear the dark until they are at least 18 months old (if at all), so the night light will only make it more difficult for them to sleep. If you need a bit of light for night feedings try installing a lamp with a dimmer switch so you can very gradually increase the amount of light in the room, and decrease it when you are ready to go back to sleep.
 Your baby is not able to regulate their temperature as well as an adult, so it is important to try to keep the room at the right temperature. Anywhere between 61 degrees Fahrenheit (16 C) and 68 degrees (20 C) is good, with an ideal temperature of 65 degrees (18 C). You should never place heating blankets or hot water bottles in the crib, and the crib should not be placed next to a radiator.Overheating is another suspected cause of SIDS, so be sure your baby doesn't get too warm.
If it is very warm in the room, try placing a fan in the room (but don’t point it directly at your baby) or open a window to allow the air to circulate.
You can check whether or not your baby is too warm by feeling their chest or stomach. If the area feels hot or is sweaty, then your baby is too warm. The hands and feet are not a good place to check as they are typically cooler than the rest of the body.

