 Choose a Webkinz to be the hero, villain, and damsel-in-distress, and act out a totally original fairytale of your own!;
, Gather a few Webkinz plush toys, and have challenges with them! It's your job to judge the winner of each contest you make. In the end, give the winner a plastic trophy, or you could make one yourself., Grab all your Webkinz plush's and grab tiny whistles and items, and you could dress them up, and annoy your family members as you make your Webkinz parade around the house!, Just use paint or any other photo editing program to make your Webkinz look silly! You could also use tracing paper to draw over the picture.
 Have a sibling choose who did the "crime", and you try to solve the mystery by talking to "witnesses".
 Choose a Webkinz to be the brains, the brawn, the speed, the leader, etc.
 Make up their likes, dislikes, and deepest, darkest secrets! Just don't tell anyone!

, try to make one come from each state if you have 50 or more!

, try to see how far you can stack them up with out them falling!

, Have each Webkinz make up a small part of the story. This will end up differently depending on their "personalities".
 Pretend they're sick and try to "cure" them!

, Visit a friend who has Webkinz, so your webkinz can hang out with each other!

, Use things in your backyard to make beautiful (or ugly) clothing for your Kinz!

, Dress your Webkinz up as characters from your favorite shows, movies, books, and video games!

, Make little clothing to match the store and let them work and sell!

, Choose a webkinz and draw them with whatever background you please!

, Get a friend and divide your webkinz evenly between the both of you. Then, play some music, and start throwing! Whoever has the least amount of webkinz on their side wins! Take safety precautions.
 This is better to do with female Webkinz, you can have them play games, do makeovers, and dance!

, Pretend your bathroom is a spa and give them baths, trim their fur, and dress them up with accessories!

, Take pictures of your Webkinz doing things and organize and decorate them!

, Take pictures with them moving just a little and edit them on your computers movie making software. (Windows Movie Maker or iMovie)

, you can use a flash light or a button(like an Easy button) for the buzzers. Think up trivia or use some from Quizzy's Corner in webkinz world.(online)

, Choose counselors, activities, and come up with a great camp name!

, Pamper your own and friend's Webkinz and do Webkinz themed games!

, Pick a pet and take your pet wherever you go.
 This will make a rollercoaster for your Webkinz.
 If you have a loom set, which is colorful rubber bands that make bracelets, you can make super colorful collars for them!

, This will make something to look at in the future. Plus it's a ton of fun.
 You take a Webkinz as a waitress and some as customers.

