 Gargles aren’t always the most appealing, but they help to break apart mucus in your airways. Mix half a cup of warm water with 1-2 tablespoons of salt, and a pinch of turmeric. Stir the mixture to dissolve the salt a bit, and then take a swig. Gargle it as far down your throat as you are able for 1-2 minutes, 3-4 times a day.;
, Similar to drinking hot liquids, the heat and moisture of steam help to break up and dissolve mucus deep in your lungs and throat. Take a hot shower, or fill a bowl with very hot water. Place your face over the bowl and a towel over your head to trap in the steam. Hold your face there for as long as you are able, and breath deeply as you do.


You can choose to add in a few drops of peppermint or eucalyptus essential oil, which may aid in breaking up the mucus.
 This tip applies primarily to sleeping; keeping your head elevated will help promote drainage of mucus, rather than a build-up overnight. Use several pillows to try to keep your head raised a bit higher than your torso.
 Exercise may be the last thing on your mind when you’re sick, but certain yoga positions can help to open up your airways and drain out mucus. Try the reclining bound angle pose, in which you lay a pillow/bolster along the length of your spine on the floor. Lie down on the pillow so that your torso/head are raised above your legs, and then bend your knees. Lay your knees/legs flat on the ground with your knees still bent and the soles of your feet touching.


Maintain this pose for 10-15 minutes for the best results., Applying a hot pack or steaming hot cloth on your throat and chest will help soothe congestion and warm the airways externally. Lie down with your head elevated, and allow the heat to soak in through your skin for 10-15 minutes. It may be helpful to follow this up with a steam treatment to empty your body of the liquefied mucus.
 This can help to open your nasal passages so you can breathe much easier. On certain models there is a slot on front where you can add nasal medication for extra power.

