 Your fingertips are your most accessible and cost-effective tool. Start at the base of the cylinder or pad, grasp a clump of hair, and gently pry up and away. It’s important to take your time as hair strands break easily and will become difficult to remove. , When it comes to hairbrush cleansing tools, the miniature hairbrush rake tops the list. While this tool is similar to a comb, it is far more effective. Cleaning rakes vary in size, as well as in single or dual sides. For bristled brushes or if you have multiple styles and sizes of brushes, a dual sided rake is more versatile., Hold the bristled hairbrush over the sink, a trash can, or take it outdoors. Brush the nylon brush through the bristles of your hairbrush. This will remove hair buildup, as well as dislodge skin and dandruff flakes. Continue brushing until the nylon brush rakes cleanly through the brush bristles. Wash the nylon brush to remove debris and allow it to dry completely before reusing it for this purpose.
 Teasing combs are dual sided with bristles and a hair sectioning point called a rat tail. Beginning at the base of your bristled brush, slide the rat tail under the collected hair and gently pull away from the brush. Repeat this on all sides of the cylinder or across the entire face of the pad. Once you have loosened and lifted the hair from the shaft, simply use your fingers to roll the hair up and off. , Oftentimes, the hair will clump or knot in the process of removal. Make sure to have a pair of scissors handy for these occasions. Simple cut through the clump or knot to divide it into two or three sections. Be careful not to cut too much or the smaller pieces of hair may remain stuck., Tea tree oil is an all-natural and highly-effective cleansing agent available at your local drug store or health foods market. Pour one cup of warm water into a medium sized bowl. Add a few drops of tea tree oil and stir to combine. , For those with sensitive skin or allergies, using your own shampoo, plus baking soda, is a safe and gentle option. Pour one cup of warm water into a medium sized bowl. Add a teaspoon of shampoo and a teaspoon of baking soda and stir to combine., Using a clean toothbrush, dip the brush end in the solution. Make sure that the toothbrush bristles are completely soaked with the cleansing agent. , Take the toothbrush and brush the cylinder or pad from the base, where the bristles are connected to the brush head, all the way to the top. This will remove oil, dandruff, and leftover hair product. Move around the hairbrush methodically to cover the entire surface. Make sure to include small circular motions to help dredge up heavily soiled brushes. , After scrubbing the bristled brush cylinder or pad, dip the head of your hairbrush into the cleansing agent. This will help to remove any loose particles, as well as provide a second rinsing, which is particularly useful on stubborn hair product build up. If the hairbrush has a wooden handle or paddle, do not submerge the brush in the water. Most wooden brushes are coated in a moisture repellant, but they aren’t 100% resistant. Instead of submerging in the bowl of water, perform one or two additional toothbrush cleanings.
 Fill a second medium sized bowl with clean and cool water. Lower your hairbrush into the water gently submerging the entire bristled area. For circular brushes, you may have to twist your brush in your palms to make sure the entire area has been rinsed.

If you have a wooden bristled brush, hold the brush bristle side down over a sink or a towel. Take a mist or spray bottle and soak the cleansed bristles until the water runs clear from the bristles. , It's important to immediately remove any excess water that has collected in the bristles or on the pad of a wooden brush. Moisture can cling and seep into brush bristles, cloth brush pads, and wood causing mold and rot. Using a cloth, gently press between the bristles to reach the surface of the cylinder or pad. Make sure to use adequate pressure to soak up any excess moisture. , Once you have absorbed excess moisture, it's important to allow the brush to fully dry before use. Place the bristles facing down on a clean and dry towel and allow to dry overnight. , If you need to use your brush right away, use a hair dryer set to its lowest setting to speed the drying process. Go back and forth over the brush a few times to blow out any remaining water drops and to ensure that the hairbrush is now damp rather than soaking wet.