 Use the kind that can be found in costume stores and dollar shops what covers your face but has eye holes, mouth hole and nostril holes. This mask will keep the fabric away from your face, helping you to keep breathing and seeing okay.


Try the mask on for comfort. If it isn't comfortable, make any adjustments needed before gluing the fabric to it, as it's harder to do afterward.
 Lycra, spandex, etc. are good choices but if you're not sure, check with the fabric retailer who might be able to offer some options once they understand what you're trying to do.
 Attach the fabric to the mask by gluing it all the way around, overlapping the fabric edges to the back of the mask, going from the top of the mask down. A hot glue gun will make this easier but take care not to melt the plastic if it's a plastic mask.


As you glue, keep the fabric taut (stretched) so that it doesn't bunch up. Check that the fabric is smooth - wrinkles will spoil the end look.
Be sure to work around the elastic part that holds the mask to your head––it needs to be able to stretch normally still.
 This is the piece that hides the back and sides of your head and joins to the front mask, completing the mask piece.


Place the mask down on a wider and higher piece of material.
Trace a wide oval or circle around the mask, leaving at least 4 inches/10cm space between the edges of the mask and the circle or oval circumference, with slightly longer for the portion that goes down your neck (the part that tucks into the shirt). The back piece fabric needs to be large to ensure a good fit. Use your own head size to guide the final measurements.
 Overlap the top edge of the back piece (opposite end of the part you've designated as the neck end) to the back of the mask behind the forehead.


Continue gluing down the sides of the mask to the chin. This completes the back piece; the remaining unglued length at the base will tuck into the neck cover when assembling the mask.
 This part isn't essential if you find that you can see through the fabric but test it to see. Only do this if you can't see through the fabric. If there is any risk of the fabric running once pierced, seal the circle edges with glue or sew around the border with invisible thread (a very fiddly job).



Cut a length of fabric from the stretchy white fabric that is wide enough to roll around your neck and cover the neck into the shirt collar. Glue this piece into a stretchy tube.
 This piece covers the other two pieces for smoothing over the whole look.
 For wearing, simply add the separate items as follows:


Put the face mask on first. Adjust for comfort.
Put the neck cover or dickey on next. Push it down to the neck zone and tuck the ends under the shirt.
Finish with the pantyhose leg. This should cover both the mask and the neck cover, to provide a smooth finish.
 Go out and spook your fellow party goers.

