 Most clip-in hair extensions are straight, although some are curled. You want your hair texture to match what you are putting in. This will help it appear more natural.


Alternatively, you can straighten or curl the extensions to match your hair.
If you have thick or frizzy hair, straighten it first to get it nice and smooth. If your extensions are curled, add some gentle curls to your hair with a flat iron.
 Gather all of your hair from ear-level and above, and twist it into a bun. Secure it at the top of your head with a hair clip. Your hair will now be divided into two sections: an upper section and a lower section.Use a rattail comb to section off your hair. You want the dividing line between the two sections to be clear and unbroken. This will ultimately make the extensions more comfortable.
 Hold the extension behind your head, with the comb part facing your hair. Turn it upside down, so that the comb part facing the ground. You will be inserting the extensions upside down into the upper section of your hair. This will make them lay smoother against your head and make them more comfortable to wear.Funky-colored extensions usually come in single wefts and combs. Plan on inserting 4 to 5 in this section.
Natural-colored extensions usually come in longer wefts. Choose one that has 4 to 5 combs., Hold the extension just below the dividing line between the two sections. Bring it close to your hair, and slide it towards your head and up. You should feel the little combs or teeth get caught in your hair.


If you are using single-comb extensions, insert them one at a time.
 You will feel or hear a soft click when you do. Let go of the extension once you close the combs. It will fall down the back of your head like a waterfall. It will look a little silly now, but it will look great once you put it up.


If you are using single-comb extensions, insert the rest now. Again, work one at a time.
 Undo the clip at the top of your head, and let your natural hair fall down. At this point, you can choose to move onto the next step, or add more extensions for a more-streaked look. If you decide to add more extensions:Section off your hair again, this time 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) above your ears.
Add a 4 individual extensions or a 4-comb extension into the upper section of your hair, also upside down.
Let down your hair, and section it off one last time, 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) above your ear.
Add 3 individual extensions or a 3-comb extension. Insert this one as normal, comb facing up, into the lower hair section.
 You only want to brush the outer layer of hair. Do not go through the combs. If you do, you may accidentally pull them out, which will hurt., The ponytail should be right above where you inserted the extension wefts. Choose a hair tie that matches your hair color, and wrap it around the ponytail 2 to 3 times so that it is secure.


If you inserted multiple wefts, make a high ponytail. Position it between the top and middle wefts., Use your fingers to gently spread your ponytail apart in the back. This gives it some volume and reveals those streaks. You can also let down your bangs for a messy, natural look. If you want something more sleek and chic, smooth your hair back, and spray it down with hairspray.

