 Make a magic adjustable ring with three chains.

Form a loop with the thread and insert the hook beneath both overlapping ends.
Hook onto the thread from the ball end of the yarn, then pull it up through the original loop.
Make three chain stitches from the yarn on your hook to set the ring up for your pattern.
 Work nine double crochet into the center of the magic ring.

After making your stitches, gently pull the yarn ends away from one another to close the ring.

Slip stitch the last double crochet into the top of the chain-three to complete the first round.
 Chain one, then work one single crochet into the same stitch as the previous round's slip stitch.

Chain one, then work two single crochet into the next double crochet of the previous round; repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the round.
At the end of the round, slip stitch the last stitch to the first single crochet of the round.
 Slip stitch into the first chain-one space, then work five chain stitches. Single crochet once into the next chain-one space.

Chain four, then single crochet once into the next chain-one space; repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the round.
Slip stitch the last stitch to the first chain of this round.
 Cut the thread. leaving an 8-inch (20-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to fasten it off.

The actual doily ornament is finished once you complete this step, but you'll still need to attach it to an earring hook before you can wear it.
Do not trim or weave in the tail yet. You'll need it to attach the doily to the earring wire.
 Insert the tail end of crochet thread through the loop at the bottom of a blank earring hook. Knot the thread over this loop to attach the doily to the wire.

Pull the thread as taut as possible before knotting it, and try to make the knot as small as possible. Ideally, the knot should remain hidden behind the doily and should not be visible from the front.
 Weave the excess thread into the back side of the doily stitches.

Consider trimming the excess down to a length between 1 and 2 inches (2.5 and 5 cm). Since these earrings are fairly dainty, weaving too much excess into the stitches could cause them to become bulky and distorted.
 Follow the same steps to complete another earring that matches the first.

Crochet the doily, attach it to the earring hook, and weave in the excess.
After completing the second earring, the pair should be finished and ready to show off.

