 Even when the weather’s bad, your body still needs physical activity for optimal health and wellness. Tick this item off your to-do list in the morning and feel energized and productive for the remainder of the day. What’s more, physical activity offers the added benefit of releasing endorphins in your body that improve mood. Exercise also brightens your self-image and reduces stress.Have a dance party with a friend. Browse YouTube for a challenging indoor workout. Or, make the trip to your nearby gym to use their equipment. When you’re feeling down, the best solution is to get your body up and moving.
If possible, take your exercise outside to get some UV rays. Even if the sun isn’t out, you can still get exposure from UV rays that help regulate your body’s sleep cycle and lift your mood., Your garbage is spilling over. You have weeks’ worth of laundry to be washed and folded. Your desk is so covered with documents that there is no longer space for your laptop. If you can’t venture outside, it can boost your outlook by tidying up your indoor space. Believe it or not, having too much stuff lying around can negatively impact your mood and health.


You may not be able to tackle all the clutter in your home in one day, but try to do away with a little at a time. Come up with a vision that you would like to see for your space and take small steps to realize that goal.Reducing clutter may consist of virtually anything from getting your paperwork organized, coming up with a more effective laundry system, or simply not waiting too long to do the dishes. Make small changes and see how it affects your mood for the better.
Try turning on some extra lights while you clean or even just when you are hanging out. Bright artificial lights can help to boost your mood when the weather is bad outside.
 When was the last time you took time for effective goal-setting? If it’s been a while, you can use the bad weather as a stimulus to make good changes in your life. Goal-setting allows you to focus in on the direction you’d like your life to move in and take careful actions to progress down that path.Take some time to write down your thoughts about your current life situation. Are you okay with this reality? Now, think about where you’d like to see yourself in a month or even a year. Spend a few moments reflecting on your dreams. Go into a room with few distractions and think in quiet.
After you have spent time thinking about your dreams, establish some clear goals. Follow the SMART goals acronym, which relies on developing goals that are Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Time-sensitive. Come up with some detailed actions you can take to start progressing towards your goals today.
While you have the time, it can also be helpful to think about how you will hold yourself accountable to reaching your goals. Contact a reliable friend or family member and see if this person is willing to be your accountability buddy. Request that they check in with your regularly to motivate you to achieve your goals.
 Being inconvenienced by weather is a perfect example of the age-old challenge of turning lemons into lemonade. Getting yourself down because rainy, stormy, or snowy weather has ruined your plans is understandable. However, becoming overly upset may simply reflect poor flexibility. That’s right, your ability to adjust to various life situations can actually impact your mood and life satisfaction.


A key feature about adaptable people is they don’t wait around for happiness to find them. They learn to seek out and cherish positive experiences.To become more flexible, strive to view situations from multiple perspectives.For example, someone may see a snow day as a hindrance to productivity (e.g. not being able to attend work or school), while someone else may view it as an opportunity to catch up on tasks as home. Yet another person may be thrilled by the chance for adventure—that is, making a snowman!
In the same vein, try to look at the overall picture. Consider how small situations play into the larger whole. Is bad weather today really going to negatively impact your life a week from now? A month from now? A year? It can also help to remember that you have no control over the weather, and that there are undoubtedly hundreds (or even thousands) of other people who may be inconvenienced by bad weather, too.

