 Feed your Pixiebob a diet of high quality dry and canned food. Pixiebob cats are not known to be fussy about what they eat and will respond well to a mix of dry and canned cat food. You may also feed your cat freshly cooked meat as long as it does not contain bones.Make sure you stick to the same high quality brand food for your cat, as this will ensure they get used to the food and can digest it easily.
You may ask your vet for recommendations on food brands for your Pixiebob cat.;
, Your cat should have access to fresh water in a porcelain or ceramic water bowl. Fill up your cat’s bowl with fresh water every day and/or at every meal time.Do not give the cat cow’s milk, as this can actually cause digestion issues for the cat. Stick to fresh water only.
 Put your Pixiebob cat on a regular feeding schedule, where they are have their meals at the same time every day. You may write out a feeding schedule and post it where you can see it easily so you know when to feed the cat. Regulating your cat’s meals will also ensure they do not go hungry or bother you about food until meal time.Do not overfeed the cat or give the cat human food, as this can lead to weight gain and obesity.
You may decide to invest in a food dispenser that dispenses the cat’s food on a timer. This may be ideal if you travel often or are away from home and want to ensure the cat still gets its food.
 Pixiebobs can have short or long coats. Either way, they are easy to groom and require combing or brushing on a weekly basis. You may use a grooming brush to give the cat a light brushing once a week to maintain its coat.Brush your cat’s entire coat, from their head to their tail. Most cats enjoy a brushing session with their owner as a way to bond.
 You should also trim the cat’s nails so they do not get too long. Nails that are too long can end up carrying bacteria and increase the cat’s risk of an infection. You can use a special nail trimmer for cats or a small nail trimmer.To get the cat to stay still during the nail trim, you may try putting a clean towel over its head, leaving its paws exposed. Hold the cat in your lap with the towel over its head and trim its nails so they do not get too long.
You can also invest in nail caps for your cat to protect their nails and prevent them from getting too long.
Getting your cat a scratching pad that they can scratch and play with can also help to keep their nails short and under control.
 You should also get in the habit of checking your cat’s ears on a weekly basis. You may squeeze in an ear check at the end of their brushing session, when they are relaxed and calm. Look for any signs of redness inside their ears or on their ear flap. You should also check for a bad smell coming out of their ears, as these could be a sign of an infection.If the cat’s ears appear dirty, use a cotton ball dampened with water or an animal ear cleanser to clean them.
If you suspect your cat may have an ear infection, bring them to the vet right away.
 As part of your grooming routine, you should brush your cat’s teeth with toothpaste that is approved by your vet and meant for animal use. Brushing your cat’s teeth on a consistent basis can ensure their dental health is good and that they have fresh breath. Try to brush your cat's teeth at least two to three time a week.You should try to get your cat used to regular teeth brushing early so they become used to it and consider it part of their grooming routine.
 If you feel overwhelmed about doing all the grooming for your cat yourself, you may bring your cat to a professional groomer. Look for a groomer who has worked with Pixiebob cats in the past and ask around for recommendations from friends or family who own cats. A professional groomer can help to ensure your cat looks clean and healthy on a regular basis.


If you find professional grooming expensive, you may only bring the cat to the groomers several times a year or before a big event, such as a cat show or a stay with friends while you are out of town.
 Like most cat breeds, Pixiebob cats respond well to daily attention and affection from their owner. Take the time to pet and scratch your cat at least once a day. You may also spend time snuggling the cat on the couch or in bed to show your affection.You should also try to have at least one play session a week with the cat as a way to show them attention. Play with a favorite toy or scratch pad.
You may take the cat on a walk around the neighborhood on a leash and collar, if the cat shows an interest in doing this.
 Pixiebob cats are known to be a loyal breed, showing affection and care for their owner. They are also fairly quiet cats, as they are not known to be very vocal or aggressive. Pixiebobs can be quite smart, making them ideal family pets.You may notice that your Pixiebob cat will greet you when you come through the door, much like a dog would. This is one sign of their loyalty to their owner and their social nature towards those close to them.
 Pixiebob cats are known to be a relatively healthy breed and are not at risk of any particular medical issues or conditions. You should still make sure the cat sees the vet on a regular basis to ensure they are in the best of health.Some Pixiebob cats can be sensitive to certain vaccines. Your vet should be able to advise you on the best course of action if your Pixiebob cat becomes ill or develops a health issue.

