 Do you want style, fuel economy, interior space, safety, a car that doesn't effect the environment as much as others, or a car with a specific price. Which one of these factors is most important for you, and which is least important. It is helpful to make a list of your priorities, so you will know exactly what you are looking for., Visit the websites of major car companies and see what models they have to offer. Some companies to consider include Cadillac, Dodge, GM, Honda, Jeep, Toyota, Chevrolet, Mazda, Mitsubishi, Subaru, Volkswagen, Ford, Chrysler, Volvo and there are many others. Keep in mind that not every car company will have a car that fits you, but most will.
 This decision is a personal one. However you should be aware that there are valid reasons for either decision. Experts suggest asking yourself a few questions to help determine whether you want to buy new or used.If you are thinking about a used car, figure out if you can afford the possible maintenance and repair costs that come with buying used. Moreover, are you in a position to handle the time that your car may be in the repair shop?
If you are thinking of buying a new car, ask yourself whether you have enough money or trade-in value for a down payment. Also ask yourself if you are willing to take the depreciation hit, as new cars lose value as soon as they are driven off the lot.
 Try to come up with a list of 2-3 cars that match your needs. Look up the closest dealership that carries those specific models, and set aside a day to see the cars in person. Talk with a salesperson and be sure to take the car for a test drive. All of these steps will ensure that you are a well informed buyer.


When test driving, remember you will be spending a lot of time in this car. Ask yourself the following: are the controls easy to use (i.e. is the steering easy)? Are the seats comfortable and supportive? Does the air conditioning and heating work well? How is the stereo and does it work with your phone or mp3 player? Does the vehicle have enough power to merge on the highway? How does the car take a corner? How is your visibility? Is there too much road noise?, A car is a major purchase, so take time to reflect on the knowledge you have gained before deciding to purchase. When it is time to purchase know exactly how much the car you are buying is worth, and get the most value out of any trade-in. Always ask if there are any rebates available, as dealers typically offer them for students, military, and more.It is best to buy at the end of the month because dealers receive monthly incentives from manufactures.
 Dealerships would actually rather have you finance, so you can get a better price by financing. Think about talking to your bank about getting pre-approved for the loan you will need for the car, that way you will know exactly what you can afford., There are several tricks a salesperson may use that you need to watch for. They will try to get you to focus on a monthly payment, when you should focus on the total price of the car. They may also try to give an unfair price for your trade-in.By being well informed, you will be able to overcome these tricks.

