 Lemongrass can be grown from seeds for very little money and with very little supplies, most of which can be found right near your home. The best time to begin growing is mid-February to early March , however, with the right care, you can grow them any time of year.


Stop at a garden store to find a 5 gallon container for every plant you’d like to grow, as well as sterilized seed starting mix, potting soil, and several planting trays with plastic domes - plastic bags also can work as a substitute. Seeds are sometimes harder to find at garden stores, but you can also buy them online at multiple nurseries.
If your seeds will not be constantly at least 70 degrees while they are germinating, consider buying a seedling heat mat as well to help nurture your seeds at a constant temperature as they grow.
If you wish to speed up the process, you can also purchase a nitrogen organic fertilizer like Alfalfa Meal or Blood Meal.;
, At this stage, the seeds are too fragile and vulnerable to go directly into soil, so you need to give them 1-2 weeks in a dark, warm place to sprout by tending to them very carefully. This is easier in a warm environment, but it’s possible to do in a colder place as well.


Put your seed starting mix into your seedling trays, inserting them about ¼ of an inch deep.
Place the domes, or your plastic bags, over the seeds so they are covered.
If the area around the seeds is cold, place your seedling heat mat beneath the trays.
Spritz the seeds with water daily, keeping them moist but not wet, replacing the dome or plastic bag each time.
When green seedlings appear from the seeds, remove the dome or bag from the trays and move them into full sunlight.
 Seedlings need more room and nutrients in order to grow into stalks, and each will need their own 5 gallon container to do this properly. So when your seedlings are roughly 6 inches long, it’s time to transplant!Fill each of your 5 gallon containers with four gallons of rich, well draining soil.
If you purchased fertilizer, mix a ½ cup of this with your soil before filling your container.
Move each seedling to its own pot, placing it roughly a ¼ of an inch down into the soil.
Water your plants at least 2 or 3 times every week, or a few times more if the weather is over 80 degrees and the soil feels dry like sand.

