 As children get older, they may wish to participate in sports at a more competitive level. Organized activities such as track and field, or organized sports, teams, classes or lessons can all take your child's abilities to the next level. Qualified coaches can help your child develop skills and to achieve higher levels of accomplishment or competition., If your kid has watched the Olympics and become interested in gymnastics, you may want to let them take gymnastics. After your child watches the mat and bar routines, they may want to try those activities themselves. Consider letting your child start taking classes, or tumbling at home.A low-pressure way to get into gymnastics is to "play" gymnastics at home with some mats and 2 x 4 balance beam. Try somersaults, cartwheels, and headstands with blankets and pillows for padding.
You can call around your town to see if there are gymnastics studios that offer classes for children.
Your local gymnastics club may have open hours for kids to use the facilities, or gyms like the Y may offer gymnastics classes or equipment. You may also look for a trampoline park.
Decide if the price for gymnastic classes is worth it. Determine if your child will take the classes seriously, or if they will lose interest after a few weeks.
 Your child may have watched Olympic boxing and decided they want to try it. Some boxing gyms may have classes or training facilities for children. You may be able to let your child try a class or get a one-on-one session in which they learn the proper way to punch a heavy bag or do partner drills.Call your local boxing gyms to discuss whether they allow children. If they do not allow children to work out in their gym, you may be able to ask if they will give private lessons to your child.
 During the winter Olympics, your child can watch various sports that take place on the ice. This includes figure skating and ice hockey. Your child can take lessons to learn how to ice skate if they’ve never skated before.


Start out by trying to skate together with your child. Go to a nearby rink, rent skates, and get out on the ice with your child — learning a sport with your child is a great first step to encourage their participation.
After learning how to ice skate, they can start figure skating or playing ice hockey.
Both of these activities can be done with others. Figure skating can be done with a partner, and ice hockey is played as a team.
 The Olympics are a great time to watch martial arts with your child. Your child may watch fencing, judo, or tae kwan do. If these events get them excited, consider enrolling your child in a martial arts class.You can sign your child up for karate, judo, tae kwan do, or even mixed martial arts.

