 Stand with your skates parallel to each other, a little more than shoulder width apart. Shift your weight slightly to the inside by bending your ankles a little, and push your knees forward.Keep your chest high. The shooter should be able to see the logo on your jersey. Not only does this add balance to your stance, it maximizes net coverage.To keep your chest at the correct level, keep your shoulders parallel.;
, Some professionals recommend that you always stay on your feet. Others will suggest "butterfly" goaltending, a method where you drop to your knees to block low shots. If you want to be successful goalie, vary your blocking tactics.To execute a butterfly block, think of driving your knees into the ice from your basic stance. Keep your butt off the heels of your skates. You want your upper body to be in much the same position as it is in your basic stance.When on your feet, you should be able to quickly move from side to side. Work on shuffling and skating backwards. As a goalie, you should be comfortable in the crease, or the area just in front of the net.Don't depend on any one tactic to block the puck. This can make you vulnerable and your opponents may soon figure out ways to score on you., Blocking shots is only a small part of a goalie's job. While you may block a lot of shots in a game, most of the time you will be positioning and recovering.You have to be a strong skater so you can follow the shooter and be quick in the crease., As a goalie, you should be well protected by a full set of gear. A puck can come in fast, but it's your job to stop it. When you practice, keep a clear head and focus on guarding the net.Have a coach or teammate take shots at you and try to focus on stopping the puck. Don't let the fear of getting hit get the better of you., The goalie is the last line of defense. When you find yourself defending a shot, it is because your teammates let the other team through. You may want to blame your teammates for this, but instead, encourage them.Encourage your teammates to work together when you see them struggling. Be there for them both physically and mentally.