 Take four 40 inch (101.6 cm) pieces of 3⁄8 inch (1.0 cm) ribbon in four different colors and a plastic headband.


Hot glue two lengths of ribbon together, end to end, so you have one extra long piece of ribbon. The ends should overlap by about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm).
Do the same with the other two lengths of ribbon.
 Take one of the extra long ribbons and position the seam (where the two colors meet) over the inside edge of the headband. You want it to form a diagonal angle with the end of the headband. Glue the ribbon in place.


Take the second extra long piece of ribbon and do the same -- except this time you are positioning the seam over the outside edge of the headband, going in the opposite diagonal.
In other words, the two lengths of ribbon should form an "X" shape over the end of the headband.
 Fold the the upper left ribbon down across the seam so it is now on the right side and fold the upper right right ribbon down so it is now on the left. You should have two different colored ribbons on each side of the headband.
 Now that you have correctly set up your ribbons, it's time to start weaving. The weaving method described below will create a pretty pattern of triangles and diamonds. Although it's possible to use this technique with ribbons of the same color, using four different colors will make it easier to keep track of which ribbon goes where.

Take the right front ribbon and wrap it around the back of the headband. It should emerge beneath the other two pieces of ribbon on the left.






Take the right back ribbon and wrap it across the front of the headband so that all four pieces of ribbon are on the left, two at the front and two at the back.






Take the upper back piece of ribbon and wrap it around the front of the headband, weaving it between the two front ribbons. It should end up on the right side of the headband.






Take the upper front ribbon on the left and wrap it around the back of the headband, weaving it beneath the back piece of ribbon. It should end up on the right side of the headband.
 Now you are back to your starting position, with two pieces of ribbon on the right and two pieces of ribbon on the left.


Continue to use the same weaving pattern until the entire headband is covered.
Use alligator clips as you make your way along the headband to keep the ribbon tight and prevent any gaps.
 When you get to the end, continue weaving the ribbon for about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) past the end of the headband, then glue the ribbon in place and cut off the excess. Remove the alligator clips and enjoy your pretty woven headband.