 Many men think that regular washing of their hair will lead to increased hair loss or will increase the appearance of thinning hair. However, the opposite is true. Greasy or unwashed hair tends to clump together, leaving areas of the scalp exposed to a greater degree. Find a hair washing regimen that seems to maximize the appearance of volume and stick to it. A number of volumizing shampoos and conditioners will coat the hair follicle with a special polymer designed to increase the appearance of volume and can be used in your regular washing routine. Before deciding on a post-shower hair treatment, be sure to try shampoos and conditioners that are specifically designed to increase volume.To achieve the best results, try pairing a volumizing shampoo with a volumizing conditioner. Suggested combinations can often be found on the label of volumizing products.
Volumizing shampoos and conditioners do not actually add volume, but rather the appearance of volume. You should notice a difference in the appearance of volume of your hair directly after using these products, drying, and styling your hair.;
, Never rinse shampoos and conditioners out of your hair with hot water. Hot water can damage your hair follicles and exacerbate the appearance of thinning hair. Warm or room temperature water is ideal for washing volumizing shampoos and conditioners out of your hair., A wide variety of waxes, sprays, mousses, gels and other topical styling products claim to increase the appearance of volume in a man’s hair. However, these products are not uniformly effective for each individual. Try to identify where and why your hair seems thinnest and choose products that can help increase the appearance of volume in that area.








Use a "light" or "airier" product. Heavy gels, sprays, waxes and mousses can leave hair matted down and greasy looking, which will increase the appearance of thinning hair. As a general rule, the less you feel the product in your hair, the better it is for increasing the appearance of volume.Mousse is generally preferable to wax or gel-based styling products. This is because mousse tends to leave less residue in your hair after it has been styled.The effects of volumizing styling products should be evident immediately after use.
 If a volumizing styling product leaves your hair feeling “crispy” or “crunchy” it is probably not ideal for increasing the appearance of volume. The more flexible your hair is after using a volumizing styling product, the more effective it will be in increasing the appearance of volume., While gels, mousses, waxes and sprays do help increase the appearance of volume, their effects are temporary. You will need to maintain a consistent regimen when using these products to most effectively increase the appearance of volume.It is best to follow the label’s recommendations for applying a volumizing product. Generally, overuse of any topical styling product, volumizing or otherwise, leaves too much of that product in your hair throughout the course of the day, leading to a patchy or matted appearance. So, use an amount of the product that is recommended on the label or, if possible, use less than recommended.
Most styling products recommend application to damp or moist hair. This helps the product to uniformly coat your hair follicles.
 Dry hair tends to appear more voluminous than wet hair or hair that has been oversaturated with product. For the best results, blow dry your hair after using a volumizing styling product.







