 Art charities need gifts of all levels. Even small gifts are gratefully received. It’s true. No matter how many zeros you can afford ($10, $100, $1,000, $10,000, $1,000,000, etc), each gift is valued and critical to the success of the organization. Each year, arts charities design “Donor Pyramids” to reach their goals – and need lots of special people to fill in the bottom and middle level gifts, and other special people, but fewer, to provide the higher level gifts.;
, Again, no matter what size your gift is, you need to ask if you want it all to go to one place or you want to spread your philanthropic dollars among several places. One year you might decide do it one way and the next year you change your method. You might want to give 50 percent of your total to one charity, and the rest to several others. One possible way to think about this is consider the benefits you receive for each level of gift. Besides the personal benefit of giving, if you want the social benefit of your name on a list, or on a wall, you need to find out what amount of gift is necessary for each level. Some donations will bring you more social activities. On each charity’s website you can see the benefits of giving list.
 You have broad interests, but limited money. Do you want to focus on one art form, such as theater or museums or orchestras or opera or poetry or dance? Or maybe two arts? Usually, donors choose what they love the most, what they are most familiar with. They concentrate their giving where they can feel, and see, it the most. But sometimes a special program pops up that just moves us. Sometimes a friend or a child is personally involved in a different art, and you want to widen your focus to support that.
 Most arts donors give locally, because they know and enjoy those organizations and see the value they give their local community. You can also include places where you vacation or visit family frequently. Or you can consider important but more distant arts institutions that relate to your local favorites—perhaps regional theater or a summer writing program—or that are in high poverty areas. And no matter where you live, you may want to consider large national and even international institutions, because you know they are proven stars of the arts field. And don’t forget advocacy groups that work every day to improve the political and public environment for the arts in America.
 Do you want to support the finest, largest, most polished art organization in your geography? Or do you like the idea of experimental, scrappy, rough-on-the-edges art groups? Do you want to help children specifically? While some organizations exist solely for children, others have children’s programs. Some donors feel safer supporting the larger, more established charities having the largest audiences, while others feel that need looms greater on the artistic fringes or with smaller organizations. You need to give where you feel your gift will do the most good according to your philanthropic style.
 Now that you’ve identified the amount you will give and your favorite (1)  art(s), (2) geography and (3) giving style, you have probably already come up with several names of charities. If you have your final list for now, then skip down to the next step. However, if and when you need more names to pick from, here are some suggested research ideas:


Conduct online research combining your art form plus your geography and see what comes up. For example, “museums Bronx” or “poetry California” or “theater Asia” or simply “arts New Orleans”.
Read with more focus on the arts of your preferred geography. Of course, check out the arts and culture articles in your local newspaper, but also look at online blogs, websites and reviews.
Make sure you are familiar with all the local examples of your preferred art forms. Get out more and see them personally. See where dollars are spent. Ask the staff what they like best about the place. If you are thinking of eventually giving a large gift, start small and get to know the place and its dreams (unless you want to gloriously surprise everyone and bring tears of joy to their eyes).
 You are looking for exciting arts programming, excellent and ethical management, and fiscal health.


First thing, look at their websites. Remembering that not all charities have had the funds to keep updating their online presence (because they are spending on direct programs), see if you are drawn to their mission, goals, activities and style. Are they conservative where you are conservative and daring where you like to be daring? Would you like to help them do more? How have they changed over time? On the website, you can find how to give online or where to send your check.
Conduct online searches for news reports and gossip about your favorite charities.
Remember that most American charities are well-run organizations filling a need in our society. Ticket prices and entrance fees cover only a small portion of a creative organization’s expenses. They need to pay necessary costs for accounting, human resources, websites, building up-keep, marketing and advertising (ironically, the first line item to be dropped for cost savings) even between exhibitions and programs.
However, pay attention not just to the vitality of the art programs, but also to their financial and management health. By law, U.S. charity financial records are public. Thankfully, one organization (a non-profit) has put them all on-line, for free. Guidestar.org holds years of IRS returns for more than 1.8 million non-profits. At the most basic level, Guidestar can tell you whether the organization has filed its forms or not.
Research two other leading sources of information: Charity Navigator and the Better Business Bureau.
 Some ways to be truly engaged include:


Become a member.
Attend member events and get to know several layers of staff.
Volunteer at events; help the staff with whatever they need most. Learn what they wish the organization would do.

