 Most big cities, museums, and sites of cultural and historical significance offer tours. Tours might give you some inside information that could enrich your experience of a place without forcing you to respond or engage in communication with the other folks on the tour.Conduct careful research on any tour company you contract with to ensure you get the best value for your money.
Avoid tours of first-timers and families that might have their kids in tow.
If you’re active, you might enjoy a canoe or bicycle tour. These tours often attract other introverts who just want to take advantage of the luggage-porting services the tour company provides.
 As an introvert, you might be doubly reluctant to engage in speaking a foreign language. If you have a bit of practice before arrive, though, you’ll gain the confidence you need to communicate when practicing with others in foreign language classes or in real-life situations.Get a detailed dictionary and self-learning language book in order to better understand how to read and write the language. The best books will also come with an MP3 download code or CD so that you can practice hearing and speaking the language. If they don’t, get an audio series that teaches the language and repeat the phrases you hear.
There are many online resources to learn the language you’re interested in. For instance, check out DuoLingo or Lang-8, which can help you learn through games, videos, and chat rooms.
You probably don’t need to really learn the local language unless you’re planning on staying in a particular country for some time. However, a few crucial phrases like “Where is ___?” and “How much does it cost?” could come in handy.
 During your conversations with other travelers, you might have the good fortune to chance upon other introverts. If the person on the bus next to you also has their nose tucked into a book and has their noise-canceling headphones on, nudge them gently and ask, “What are you reading?” Strike up a conversation about where they’re headed and explore the possibility of staying in contact with them when you both arrive at wherever it is you’re headed.Introverts tend to enjoy learning and educating themselves. Look for classes that are being offered in the area to meet other introverts.If you’re in one country for a while, you might be able to meet others through classes in the local language.
Sites like Meetup.com are also great for finding people in the area who share your interests.
 If you find that you’re tired of being alone for a bit and want some human contact, check into a hostel or an Airbnb house. These arrangements will put you in direct contact with other people who you can connect with to make a few outings and adventures together.Ask your fellow guests or hosts about local attractions. Ask, for instance, “What can I do for fun around here?” or “What is worth seeing in this area?”
You can also talk to your hosts about areas where you can find a great meal. Ask them, “Do you know of any good locations to dine in this area?”
If you’re planning an extended stay and need help with the local language, ask motel clerks or heads of households where you’re staying for a few useful phrases and tips.

