 To a certain degree, you may be limited by where you can place larger appliances. Make these considerations first and use what flexibility you may have to get a placement that works for you.


For example, stoves and ovens may need to be hooked up to gas or electric power, refrigerators will need electricity and sinks will need to be near the existing plumbing.
However, you can of course spend money to have a contractor move existing electrical, gas lines, and plumbing. This is, however, often very expensive.
 Once you know where large appliances must go, you can begin to consider where you would like your cabinetry placed. Keep windows in mind when placing upper cabinets and storage solutions in mind when designing your lower cabinets.


Certain types of storage should go next to certain types of appliances. For example, pots and pans should go next to the oven and stove and cleaning supplies should go near a sink.
 You will need to consider how you will use the kitchen when placing appliances and counters. You will want to easily get from one area to another while cooking, and avoid as much as possible being backed up against another counter while trying to work. A kitchen should make it as easy as possible for more than one person to be cooking at a time. There should be ample work space and ability to move around each other.


For example, try not to have the sink very far away from the stove. You will want to be able to easily fill pots or dump hot water from cooking noodles.
 It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a person in possession of a kitchen must be in want of more storage space. No matter how big your kitchen is, you will undoubtedly find yourself wanting more storage space. Small appliances and kitchen gadgets accrue faster than we can understand. Before you know it, you’ll have 40 frozen burritos and nowhere to put them. Plan ahead and find ways to save as much space as you can.


Use metal storage tins on the side of your fridge to store spices. Place corkboard on the inside of your upper cabinets to pin seasoning and sauce mix packets. Use vertical storage for cutting boards, cookie sheets, and cutlery.
 You can use a number of methods to draw out your designs before executing them, as well as figuring out the best way to use the space you have. Using either traditional tools (like paper and pencil) or design software, you can determine the best layout and get a good feel for how everything will work together.


Many software programs are available for free online or for purchase (if you want something a little more powerful). Make sure that if you download software it is from a reputable source. With these programs you can not only find the best arrangement of your kitchen, you can also make color schemes and see 3d renderings of what your kitchen will look like.
If you aren’t comfortable with computers, you can draw the layout blueprint-style on graph paper. Have one sheet with the layout of the room (drawn proportionally) and draw all of the objects onto another sheet (also proportionally) and cut them out. Rearrange them until you find a layout that you like.

