 In some cases, people with high cortisol levels become sick easier than people with lower levels. This is because cortisol suppresses the immune system as a way to save energy and use it to combat stress.In addition, some research indicates that anxiety may also be related to lowered immunity.Wash your hands frequently and take care when you are around people with colds and other contagious illnesses. For example, you may want to ‘fist bump’ instead of shaking hands with your sniffling co-worker.
Get regular health check-ups and recommended immunizations. For example, consider getting flu and pneumonia vaccines.
You may want to take supplements such as vitamins C, B6, E, and also zinc and magnesium. These micro-nutrients have been reported to support immune health., One of the commons effects of high stress, high cortisol levels, and anxiety is trouble sleeping.And, in turn, trouble sleeping can leave you feeling tired, confused, and irritable which can make you feel more stressed and raise your cortisol levels and anxiety. Try to get enough sleep each night to feel rested the next day.


Create a sleep routine that allows you to get six to eight hours of sleep each night. For example, you might have to go to bed an hour or so earlier to make sure you’re getting at least six hours of sleep.
Try to start preparing for bed about an hour in advance in order to relax yourself. For instance, an hour before you go to bed you might take a bath and read a book while having some apple cider.
Make sure that you avoid light from screens, such as from your phone, television, or computer before bedtime. The blue light that these screens emit can interfere with your sleep., Physical activity is a great way to boost your overall health as well as manage stress, high cortisol, and anxiety. Being active can calm you, energize you, reduce tension, and help address the heart disease, weight gain, and belly fat associated with high cortisol levels.Low intensity exercise has been found in some studies to lower cortisol levels.Consider taking a daily walk, trying Pilates, or giving tai chi a try.
Some research suggests that physical activity may also help manage anxiety., Consistently high cortisol levels have been related to digestive problems and weight issues.In addition, eating processed, high fat foods has been related to increased anxiety.Although there is no food that can eliminate stress from your life, there are certain foods that can boost your overall health and that have specific benefits that can help lower your cortisol levels and your anxiety.


Include healthy proteins like lean white meats, nuts, and beans in your meals and snacks. They contain tryptophan which helps your body make serotonin which helps you feel calmer.Berries like strawberries, raspberries, or blueberries contain phytonutrients and antioxidants that boost your immune system.Most seafood contains omega-3 fatty acids which can reduce anxiety and high cortisol levels.Leafy greens like spinach and kale are packed with folate which helps your brain make dopamine, a chemical that can help you feel less tense and more happy.Drink water, tea, and natural juices instead of drinks with lots of sugar, artificial ingredients, or caffeine. For instance, try starting your day with a glass of water.
 A number of research studies have investigated the effectiveness of several herbal supplements and remedies on both anxiety and cortisol levels. Although you shouldn’t believe any herbal remedy that claims it will ‘cure’ you permanently, there are herbal supplements that do have proven benefits when it comes to lower cortisol levels and reducing anxiety.


Ashwagandha, an Indian herb, has been found in some studies to decrease both cortisol levels and feelings of anxiety.Some research suggests that phosphatidylserine, a natural occurring compound in the body, may lower cortisol levels and decrease anxiety.