 You can use a health savings account (HSA) if you are in an IRS-designated high-deductible health plan. You deposit money pre-tax, which lowers your overall tax burden. Check with Human Resources whether your health plan has been designated as a high-deductible plan.


The IRS defines high-deductible plans as those with a deductible of at least $1,300 for an individual or $2,600 for a family.Your employer isn’t required to offer an HSA even if your health plan is high-deductible. However, you’ll be able to open an HSA on your own.You don’t need insurance through your employer to qualify. Instead, anyone with a designated high-deductible plan can open an HSA.
 They share many similarities. For example, you make contributions on a pre-tax basis. However, there are differences you should think about as you choose which option works best for you:


HSAs are not available to everyone. For example, if your health plan isn’t designated as a high-deductible plan, then you don’t qualify.
If you don’t spend all of your money by the end of the year, then you can keep it in your HSA. You can’t with an FSA.The money you contribute to an HSA is yours, which means you can take it with you if you retire or change jobs. By contrast, you can’t take the money with you from an FSA.
 If your employer offers HSAs, then you might want to go through them for the sake of convenience. However, you can also shop around for an HSA. Check with banks and other financial institutions.You should comparison shop. For example, ask for a fee schedule and whether you will use checks or a debit card.The IRS limits how much you can contribute to your account. In 2017, the limit is $3,500 for individuals but $6,750 for families., You can’t spend your HSA savings on just anything. Instead, the IRS decides what qualifies as a medical expense. For example, you can spend the money on doctor’s visits, diagnostic tests, dental treatment, operations, and physical therapy.If you withdraw money from your HSA for non-medical reasons, then you must pay taxes on the money. If you are not yet age 65, then you’ll also pay a 20% penalty on top.