 Most of these materials are household items that are easy to find. To make this electroscope you will need:A clear jar (glass or plastic)
The jar lid
14 gauge copper wire (can be obtained at any local hardware or home improvement store)
A plastic straw
Scissors
A hot glue gun (can be purchased at any craft store)
Aluminum foil
Wire cutters
Pliers
A ruler
A hammer
Tape
A balloon;
, Ask for adult assistance to cut the copper wire with wire cutters. The straw can simply be cut with scissors. Measure with the ruler and cut to the desired length.When cutting the wire, sometimes pieces will snap away during the cut. It is recommended to wear eye protection during this step.
 The hole in the lid needs to be large enough for the straw to fit through. Ask an adult for help with this step. Position a nail or punch in the center of the jar lid and hammer through until you have a hole of appropriate size.


Take caution with this step. It is recommended to wear eye protection in case bits of plastic fly during the hammering process.
If you punch the hole too big, simply add more hot glue in the next step to secure the straw in place.
 Insert the straw into the hole until half of the straw is above and below the lid. With the hot glue gun, secure the straw in place by gluing all along the edges of the straw and hole.Ask for adult supervision with the hot glue gun as it is very hot and can cause burns.
 This spiral is important because it allows electrons to be transferred from an object to the electroscope. More surface area means more electron transfer and a bigger response from the electroscope.


Hold on to one end of the wire with the pliers and twist it around to form the spiral shape.
Make a loose spiral with some space between each curl.
 Insert the straight end of the wire into the straw so that the spiral is on the top side of the lid. With the last inch of the wire, shape the straight end into a hook. This hook will hold the foil leaves in place.Grasp the end of the wire with the pliers to properly shape the wire.
The hook does not need to be perfect, it just needs to be able to hold the foil pieces in place.
 The size of the triangles will slightly depend on the size of your jar. You don’t want them to touch any sides of the jar. A good starting point is to make the height of the triangle about 2 inches (5 cm) and the base around 1 inch (3 cm). Cut out two separate triangles, but make them identical.


Punch a small hole into the top of each triangle. The hole needs to be large enough to fit through the copper wire.
If you rip the foil leaf, simply make a new one.
Avoid crumpling the foil during this process. Try to leave them as smooth as possible.
 Hang each triangle onto the copper hook you made. Make sure the foil leaves are touching each other.If the leaves do not touch each other, try altering the shape of the hook so that they can touch.
Carefully, screw the lid onto the jar to complete the electroscope.
 Rub a balloon on your hair to charge it with static electricity. Bring the balloon close to the copper spiral and watch the foil pieces push each other apart. The electrons transfer down the copper wire and into the foil. Because both pieces of foil become negatively charged, they repel each other.You can also rub the soles of your shoes rapidly on carpet and then place the electroscope near your shoes.
Testing works best on a dry day because the electrons cannot escape into the moisture of a humid day.

