 Not all California citizens are eligible to apply for Medi-Cal and receive benefits.


If you receive SSI/SSP payments, your Social Security administration office will automatically set up Medi-Cal for you. You don't need to separately apply for Medi-Cal.
Usually, but not always, individuals who meet one of the following requirementsare eligible to receive Medi-Cal benefits:

You are aged, blind or disabled
You have tuberculosis, breast cancer or HIV/AIDS
You care for a foster child
You are pregnant
You have a child in your home whose parent is deceased, disabled, unemployed, or not living in the home.

;
, Visit a local County Social Services office in the state of California and ask for a Medi-Cal application or apply online at C4Yourself.com or at BenefitsCalWin.org, depending on which county you live in. Check each websites to see where you should apply.
 Depending on your family situation, it can take some time. It requires a good deal of attention, but is pretty straightforward. If you need help filling out any of the forms, call the county social services agency. They will be able to help you out. The application asks for information on:

Whether you are married, disabled, pregnant and/or have served in the military.
Whether you have received SSI, food stamps, and/or cash aid benefits.
How much income you receive and whether you have any other assets available for liquidation.
Whether you pay child support and/or alimony.
Whether you have any pending medical expenses.
Additional information.
 You will need proof of income and resources/assets. The eligibility worker handling your case will tell you exactly what is needed. Examples include:


Current paycheck, bank statements, and tax documents from the previous year.
Unemployment or disability stubs.
Birth certificates or passports.
Social Security cards (or numbers) or alien cards (for legal residents).
Vehicle registrations
Possibly other items like proof of pregnancy.
 If you apply online, the office will automatically receive it. Just be sure to write down your e-app number and keep it for future reference. You will need it in case your application gets lost in the shuffle.
 Each case is different. Your determination of eligibility may take some time, as it is a very complex process for the eligibility worker. However, the quicker the application and proof is returned to the social services office, the quicker your case may be processed and the quicker your benefits begin.


If your eligibility worker has any questions about your application, s/he will contact you for clarification.
It generally takes 45 days for the county to process an application that does not involve a disability. It can take up to 90 days to process an application associated with a disability.
If your eligibility worker decides that you are not eligible to receive benefits, you may file for a hearing on the back of the Notice of Action the county sends you. You are granted at least one appeal.
 An eligibility worker will be available with the answers to any questions you have. Don't think any questions are stupid. It is better to ask and fully understand everything about Medi-Cal before being covered than to find out later that you made a mistake accepting coverage.
 The combination of the two will allow you dual coverage, and could mean you don't have to pay as much out of pocket for either program.
 If your family income is under the Medi-Cal limit, you won't have to pay for any Medi-Cal services. If your family income is above the stipulated limit, you'll have to pay your share of cost (SAC) only for months in which you incurred medical expenses. Medi-Cal will foot the bill for the rest of the medical expenses after you've paid SAC.
 If you are hired and experience a pay-bump, you can access Transitional Medi-Cal funds for up to 12 months. Families who increase the collection of their child support payments may be eligible for Transitional Medi-Cal for up to 4 months.

