 When it comes time to get some shut-eye, negotiate your space and lay down as best you can. Recline your seat back or fold down the rear row of seats if possible so you’ll have some leg room while you drift off. You’ll wake up feeling much more rested and refreshed if you don’t spend all night in a cramped, unnatural position.For those who drive smaller cars, try laying across the back seat on your side with your knees slightly tucked.Some trucks and SUVs may be large enough for you to completely stretch out in.
 A good sleeping bag will provide warmth and breathability overnight no matter where you’re stopped. If you don’t have one, invest in a couple oversized thermal blankets so that you don’t freeze when temperatures drop overnight. Fold your sleeping bag or blankets up and stash them away once you’re mobile again to save space for other items.Storage space permitting, carry a pillow or bedroll with you to make sleeping in a confined space a little more pleasant.
Cars are poorly insulated, so it can often get very cold overnight, even during the warmer months.
 Privacy can sometimes be an issue when sleeping in your car—no one wants to wake up to a prying set of eyes gazing at them through the window. Remedy this by using towels, blankets or some other improvised screen to create a barrier over the windows that will hide you from view when you turn in for the night (and block out the glare of the early morning sunrise). Window screens will also come in handy when you’re changing clothes or performing personal hygiene.Additionally, covering your windows can help keep your car cooler in hot climates by softening direct sunlight.
Crack a couple windows or the sunroof to ventilate your car while you sleep. That way, you won’t be greeted by the stifling humidity of your own breath when you wake up., When you’re drained from a night of driving or sight-seeing, the thing you dread most is to be forced awake by the first glimmer of light. Strapping on a cheap eye mask will improve your quality of sleep at any time of day. This will be especially useful for quick naps, or those times that you’re driving all night and sleeping through the afternoon.This invaluable little accessory can be bought for just a few dollars and is guaranteed to give you longer, more restful sleep.
Just be careful—you may sleep so well that you lose track of what time of day it is!

