 Figure out if you want a full hybrid, an assist, a plugin, or a mild hybrid. Weigh the pros and cons of each before making a purchase decision.


One design option you need to choose is whether to get a parallel or a series hybrid. A parallel hybrid is one in which both electric and gas engine can be used in tandem. Most hybrids are of this type. Some, however, are of the series type, in which only the gas or only the battery can operate at any given time.Full hybrids can run on electricity alone. Mild hybrids are those in which the gas engine is on all the time, and the electric battery only provides an extra boost.
Plugin hybrids can be plugged into the wall at your home or (if facilities exist) your workplace, but the gas engine will not recharge the batteries as in a non-plugin hybrid.
The decision you make about what kind of hybrid you want comes down to your motivations and your budget. If you’re an eco-warrior, you might want to choose a full or parallel hybrid. If you make a lot of long trips but still want to improve your gas mileage, a series or mild hybrid might be for you. Always purchase a car within your price range.
 Many employers offer financing and rebates for employees who want to purchase a hybrid car.Hyperion, for instance, offers $5,000 for employees who wish to purchase a hybrid. The company commits $1 million each year toward its hybrid incentive program. Google, likewise offers $5,000 for employees that purchase “fuel-efficient” vehicles, which means many hybrids qualify for this rebate. They also offer $2,500 for leased vehicles.


The federal government offers rebates of up to $7,500 on plugin hybrid vehicles that were purchased after 2010.Many states also offer similar incentives on purchasing fuel-efficient or hybrid vehicles. Check federal and state regulations to determine if you could get a rebate on your vehicle.
For a full list of state incentive programs, check out http://www.afdc.energy.gov/laws/state.
For a full list of vehicles that qualify for federal rebates and incentives, visit https://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/taxevb.shtml.
 Look around and compare prices on the car you want. Purchase your hybrid at the lowest price possible.


Additionally, plan on negotiating with the dealership salesperson. You can often knock ten to twenty percent of the posted price of a car with some haggling.
You could also compare prices among different hybrid cars. For instance, if two different hybrid cars vary in only a few unimportant features (for instance, maybe one has passenger video screens in it while another doesn’t), you should choose the car with the lower price.
Always test-drive cars you think you might want to buy. If the car doesn’t meet your specifications, look elsewhere for one that will.

