 What you want to achieve with yoga? You can use yoga to increase agility, build muscle, help heal your inner self, relax, build happiness and enlightenment.;
, Accept your physical limits. Find a path of yoga that suits you and is possible for you.
 Avoid the exercises that you can not do, and for others only push yourself as far as it is comfortable. Move only gently and carefully. Stop if pain develops. Pain is a warning signal. They show you what works and what does not.


As you get to know what moves work and don't work for you, develop an exercise program from exercises that you can practice and that are useful for your goals.
 Breathing always goes. If you no longer breathe, you're dead. Deep abdominal breathing brings you to peace. Rapid breathing with the abdomen (fire breathing, Kapalabhati, bellows breathing) reinforces your energy.
 Visualization triggers internal stress and activates the kundalini energy (chakras, energy channels). If you can not do yoga physically, visualize the exercises. This also has a great effect. It brings inner peace, strength, happiness and enlightenment.
 Observe your thoughts. Some thoughts do you no good. They rob you your peace, your happiness and strength. Stop it. Think as long the mantra "stop", until the negative thoughts disappear. Or find a positive thoughts. "My negative thought is ... My positive thought is ..(I am strong. I go my way.)"

, Yoga was originally by Patanjali only positive thinking, breathing exercises and meditation. That's enough for the path of enlightenment. You only have to do this with stamina and wisdom (everything at the right moment and in the right way). Goraksha then added some physical exercises (mainly sitting postures) and especially Kundalini exercises (visualization, breathing, inner sound, mudras, bandhas).
 Connect yourself every day with your spiritual role model. Visualize yourself as your role model (Shiva, Buddha or Jesus). Behave as your role model. Think the mantra "I am Shiva (Shivo ham). I am Buddha. I am Jesus. I am everything." Find your personal enlightened master. Visit his events or watch his videos on the internet. Read his books. Feel connected to him and he will bring you into the light and help you on your way.
 Send every day all beings light. Wish a happy world. Do a good deed. Even that brings you into love and enlightenment. Move a hand in blessing and think, "I send light to (name). May all people be happy. May the world be happy."

