 Place a 10 to 12-inch saute pan or skillet over medium heat. Drizzle a teaspoon of olive oil in the pan. The oil can keep the salmon from sticking. Heat your pan till you feel warmth coming off of the pan when you hold your hand about 4 inches above it.


Choose a non-stick skillet or cast iron skillet. These can prevent the salmon skin from sticking to the pan.;
, Your salmon should be cut into fillets of about 2 inches wide. If you bought a long fillet of salmon, carefully use a sharp knife to cut the salmon into individual fillets. For this recipe, you'll need two fillets that weigh about 6 ounces each. Remove any pin bones from the salmon fillets before you cook them.To remove the bones, feel the sides of the fillets for any sharp or prickly bones sticking out. Use needle-nosed pliers to pull the thin bones out of the fillets.
 Pat the salmon dry with paper towels to remove moisture. Drizzle the flesh of the salmon with 2 teaspoons of olive oil. Try to drizzle the oil evenly so both fillets are lightly covered with the oil. Sprinkle 1/4 teaspoon of kosher salt over the fillets and grind a few twists of black pepper over them.The oil will help the flesh of the salmon brown as it cooks and prevent sticking.
 Use your favorite spices or seasonings to add extra flavor. If you don't want much additional flavoring (beyond the salt and pepper), but want extra color in your salmon fillets, sprinkle paprika over them. This will help make a reddish-brown color as they cook. For unique seasonings, try:A dry barbecue rub
Chinese 5-spice
Garam Masala
Ras el Hanout

, If you want crispier skin, place the salmon skin-side down. If you're not planning on serving the skin with the fillet, place it flesh-side down. You should leave the salmon on while cooking since it's easier to remove after it's cooked and it can help prevent overcooking the salmon.If you decide to make more than two fillets, make sure not to crowd the pan since this can lower the temperature of the pan. Instead, just pan fry them in batches.
 The salmon will probably begin curling in towards itself during the first minute or two of cooking, especially if you placed it skin-down. To keep the fillet flat as it cooks, press down evenly using a fish spatula.A fish spatula is a narrow metal spatula that gets wider at the end. It's flexible but strong enough to lift up a delicate fillet in one piece., Salmon fillets that are 6 to 8 ounces in weight will need to cook for a total of about 4 minutes. If you have thin fillets, cook each wide side for 2 minutes. If your fillets are pretty thick on one end and taper to thin on the other end, consider pan frying the large wide sides for 1 1/2 minutes each and 30 seconds on each narrow small side.It's a good idea to use a timer to cook your fillets. Thermometers can be inaccurate since the shape and size of the fillets varies and cooks at different speeds.
Avoid flipping the salmon repeatedly. This will prevent a good crust from developing., Remove the salmon to plates and cover the fillets with a large piece of aluminum foil. Let the salmon rest for about 5 minutes. This gives the fish a chance to finish cooking and the juices will redistribute within the fillets. Serve the salmon while it's still warm.


You can cook the salmon ahead of time and refrigerate it. Use this in recipes that call for cooked, flaked salmon. Be aware that the skin will lose its crispness, so you should probably remove it before serving it.

