 Playing Scrabble is an excellent tool for learning, but be aware that the official rules may limit its usefulness. Consult the rules beforehand and change them however you wish in order to expand its potential. For instance:


Each player is only supposed to have seven letter tiles per turn.However, in the interest of increasing vocabulary, you may wish to increase the number of tiles per player.
Official rules forbid abbreviations, hyphenated words, and those that are always capitalized. But say you’re playing adjectives. The adjective “worn” can be built on to become the adjective “worn-out,” as in “a worn-out pair of sneakers.”
You’re only supposed to check the dictionary in the event that a word is challenged. But let’s say you’re asking players to identify all the parts of speech that one word satisfies. In this case, you may want to check it regardless, just in case there’s one that no one has thought of on their own.
 Traditionally, Scrabble scores are determined by adding up the points of each letter tile used to form one or more words per turn, with additional points given for using all seven tiles and/or placing tiles on colored squares that award more points.However, as with other official rules, expect this standard to potentially limit the educational benefits of the game. Consider instead:


Eliminating points altogether (especially for beginners) or only awarding a single point for each word formed per turn.
Awarding an extra point for identifying additional parts of speech that a given word may double as.
Allowing all players to compose a sentence using each played word according to its part of speech, and awarding an extra point for correct usage.
 Technically, there are only two ways to build words in Scrabble: either by adding letters to a word that’s already on the board (like turning “walk” into “walked”), or by using a letter in that word to build a new one alongside it, as long as the two are either parallel with each other or at right angles. If you’re playing with beginners, try adjusting these rules to allow more play. Consider:


Placing new tiles on top of existing ones, such as placing “T” on top of “W” to turn “walk” into “talk.”Allowing tiles to be placed on the board diagonally instead of just vertically and horizontally.
 Expect each Scrabble bag to contain 100 letter tiles, with a set number of tiles for each letter. For example, there are twelve E’s per bag, but only one Q.Depending on the part of speech you’re playing, the limited number of certain letters may further restrict the number of words that can be played. To get around this, purchase one or more replacement bags to beef up the total number of tiles available. Then either:


Add key letter groups from the replacement bag to the original bag before playing (for example, adjectives often use the suffix “-ive,” while adverbs often use “-ly”).
Grant each player an extra number of complete letter groups before the game begins so everyone has equal opportunity to use them.
Add extra blank tiles to the original bag. You can also allow these to stand in for hyphens and periods as well as letters if hyphenated words and abbreviations are allowed.

