 Your choice of a skillet is extremely important when making your skillet chicken pot pie. Make sure not to use a skillet that is too small or too large. Start in the middle, and feel free to use larger or smaller skillets after you’ve perfected your pot pie.


Use an 8-inch skillet.
The skillet can be cast iron, stainless steel, or non-stick.
Make sure the skillet is free of rust or grime.;
, Spices and broth are critical elements of your pot pie as they’ll add flavor and moisture to it. Without the proper spices and broth, your pot pie won’t taste right.


You can use vegetable broth or chicken broth. If you use low-sodium broth, you’ll have to add more salt later.
Consider garlic, sage, thyme, pepper, and parsley. Spices can be fresh or dried -- whatever you prefer., Next to chicken, vegetables are the main substance of your pot pie. Without a variety of vegetables, your pot pie may lack flavor and be boring. Thus, make sure to add at least a few key vegetables. Consider:


Onion (1 small)
Carrots (2 medium).
Squash (1 or 2 small).
Celery (2 or 3 stalks).
Green peppers (1 medium)., Your chicken is one of the most important items for the chicken pot pie. The better the chicken, the tastier and better your pie will be. Make sure to include:


Breast meat. Feel free to use white or dark meat.
A half a pound to a pound, depending on how much chicken you want.
Buy it precut in quarter inch to half-inch cubes., The final thing you’ll need for your pot pie is a pastry puff or some other sort of pre-made pastry to lay over the vegetables, chicken, and broth.


Make sure you buy extra pastry material in case you run out. Try using 2 8-ounce pastry rolls.
Feel free to experiment with different types of pastry topping. If you prefer a seasoned or flavored topping, try it out. If you want a slightly sweet topping, use one., The first step in preparing your pot pie will be to cut your ingredients to your desired size. Ultimately, your ingredients should be cut so that they will cook easily and be easy to eat.


Cut your vegetables and chicken in quarter or half inch squares.
Slice your onions and garlic, if you use them, in small pieces.
Make sure to separate your ingredients into different bowls.
 The first step in cooking your pot pie is to cook the ingredients in your skillet on a stovetop. By doing this, you’ll be able to combine your ingredients together while they’re cooking. This will lessen the amount of time your pot pie will need to be in the oven, ensuring your crust won’t burn.


The burner should be on medium-high.
Put a tablespoon of oil in the skillet. Feel free to use olive oil or vegetable oil.
 When putting in your vegetables, you want to make sure to put them in deliberately and to time which ones you put in first. Make sure to:


Put your onions and green peppers in first. Allow them to cook for a minute or two before adding anything else.
Place your carrots and celery in next.
Drop the rest of the vegetables in.
Wait 2-4 minutes before adding anything else., There are a variety of spices and flavors you can add to your chicken pot pie to suit your personal taste. Feel free to experiment and customize as you see fit. Make sure to use your spices in proper proportions.


While you can be liberal with garlic, avoid more than 3 or 4 cloves.
Think about a tablespoon or two of sage.
Add maybe a half a tablespoon or a full tablespoon of thyme.
Put in a teaspoon of pepper. Consider more, if you like your pot pie peppery.
Add parsley to your taste.
Allow your vegetables to cook for two minutes before moving on., After adding your vegetables and spices, it’ll be time to pour broth in. The broth will add moisture and flavor to your pot pie, so make sure you add the appropriate amount for your pie.


Pour in half a cup of broth at a time.
Taste and then add an appropriate amount of salt.
Bring to a boil and then reduce heat to a simmer.
Add chicken after reducing heat.
Wait 8 to 10 minutes before moving on., The final step in making your pot pie is to take your pastry material and lay it completely over the top of the skillet. Take care when doing this, as the pastry top is the signature characteristic of the skillet chicken pot pie.


The pastry material will cover the filling and go over the edges of the skillet.
With a knife, cut 4 to 6 slits in the crust so that the pie will be able to vent heat., Preheating is essential, since you want to make sure the pie is cooked properly and evenly.


Consider preheating the oven while you are finishing preparations of the pot pie, for example, before you put the pastry top on your pot pie.
Set your oven to 375 degrees., After preheating, you need to carefully place your pot pie in the oven. Make sure not to displace the pastry top when putting it in the oven.


Put the skillet on the middle shelf of your oven. You want to make sure that it’s not too close to either the bottom or top heating elements.
Your pot pie should be in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes.
Set a timer for 20 minutes., Finally, you’ll be able to remove your pot pie from the oven. However, you need to make sure your pie has cooked properly, for the right amount of time, and at the proper temperature.


Verify that the temperature is still at 375 degrees.
Remove your pie once the pastry top is golden brown.
Allow your pie to sit and cool off for about 10 to 15 minutes after removing it from the oven., Serving your pot pie is also a relatively tricky endeavor, since there is no bottom crust to hold the pie together. As a result, you'll have to do a little extra work to provide a unique dining experience.


Cut the crust with a bread knife.
Use a pie server to remove the crust and place it on a small plate.
Take a large serving spoon to scoop out the pie filling and place it a large serving plate.
Relocate the pie crust from the small plate to on top of the pie filling.
Consider serving your pot pie with a fruit salad, sweet potatoes, or green vegetables like brussels sprouts, broccoli, or green beans.
Think about garnishing your pot pie with fresh parsley or rosemary.,