 When you set up an account on Facebook.com, they will ask you to choose whether it is personal or if you are setting up an account for a business or organization.


You must already have a personal page in order to set up a business Fan page. Fan pages are run by administrators who have personal accounts. When you create a Fan page, you will be added as an administrator, and you can appoint others to be administrators and post to the page as well.
If you choose to combine your personal account with your eBay sales, it is a good idea to announce to your friends, family and acquaintances that you will be starting to showcase a few of your eBay sales online. You can ask them to please pass the item on to anyone who they think would like it. It is a good idea to only post sales occasionally, so that people do not get annoyed by constant posting and "unfriend" you.
If you create a Facebook Fan page, the term for a business page, then you should create a brand and personality before you start posting eBay sales. Ask a graphic designer to design an attractive profile picture and Timeline cover that boost your image as a professional, reliable business. Also, post professional pictures of yourself and welcoming information in your information and on your wall. In general, social media users do not like a "hard sell," so be ready to mix your eBay sales posts with interesting and fun information.;
, You can do this by clicking on the downward arrow next to your account and changing your account settings. Under the "General" tab, find the "Linked Accounts" section. Click on "OpenID" and add your eBay URL.
 Start by giving the popular app "eBay Items" access to your account. You should also consider adding eBay classifieds, eBay selling feed and eBay for iPhone.


Try out each eBay app and decide what best fits your selling style.
 They will be able to see what your focus is, and then share your page with people they think will be interested.
 Also, include a "Like us on Facebook" link in all your emails to clients. Cross-promotion through regular marketing, social media and eBay is the best way to increase brand awareness and sales.
 Tell people that if they buy certain products they will receive something for free, or that you are giving away a product to the person with the best product tagline. Get people involved with sharing and visiting your page by giving them incentives.
 As an administrator, you can remove any inappropriate comments. However, you should consider social media marketing as a conversation, so be friendly, deal positively with customer service problems and say "thank you" whenever possible.

