 Most elevators are secure when they are stuck or stranded. They will not go into a state of free fall and are secure even when stopped. The elevator is also not airtight so you will have more than enough oxygen to stay in the elevator safely. Remember all of this when you are in the elevator so you do not panic.You should also not worry about being trapped in the dark in the elevator, as most elevators will still have working lights even when stopped. There is also likely emergency lighting that will come on in the elevator if the power goes out.
If for some reason there is smoke in the elevator, you may try to pry open the door to let in fresh air or to try to escape. But this can lead to injury, so unless the smoke is overwhelming and severe, you should avoid tampering with the elevator doors in any way.;
, Look for the alarm or call button on the panel in the elevator. The button will be labeled “call” or “alarm.” Press this button to notify building maintenance that you are stuck in the elevator. There should be someone on the other end who can answer your call and get help.If there is no alarm button, there may be an emergency telephone in the elevator. Use the emergency telephone to call for help.
 If no one is answering the call button in the elevator, try using your cellphone to call for help. Dial 911 and speak to an operator about being trapped in the elevator. Speak calmly and clearly to the operator, providing the building number and where the elevator is located in the building.Depending on your cellphone provider, you may not be able to get reception in the elevator. Keep trying to call 911 regardless.
 If no one is answering the call button and you do not have cellphone service, try banging on the elevator doors for help. Making noise in the elevator can alert someone on the other end to get help. Shout “help” loudly to get someone’s attention.This is especially effective in buildings that have a lot of foot traffic and where the elevator is used often. There will likely be someone around to hear your calls for help and assist you.

