 These two units will make up the bulk of your army. Barbarians draw the attention of defenders and take some damage, while archers hang back and destroy buildings from afar.


You're going to need around 90 archers and 60-80 barbarians;
, Goblins are great for getting loot, as they automatically target resource buildings from the start. They are also the fastest unit in the game. They don't have much health, so they'll need to be deployed behind your main troops if you want them to survive.
 These guys will let you get through tough walls much quicker, giving your troops more time to attack buildings before they succumb to defenders.
 Upgraded units will survive much longer in combat. Upgrading your units should be one of your early priorities so that you can increase your returns from battles.
 Split your training up between Barracks to create a well-rounded army as efficiently as possible.


In the first two Barracks, train 45 archers each to reach your 90 total.
In the second two Barracks, train 40 barbarians each to reach your 80 total.
Split your support troop training across all the Barracks.
 There are a lot of players who either left playing Clash of Clans or have not been playing it for a while. How can you tell which bases are inactive? You need to check the following things:


Check if the trophy icon is grayed or not. Trophy icon is located at the top left beside the player's name. If it is gray, then it means that player is inactive.
Deploy one archer in front of any resource collector, either gold or elixir. See how many you get from each hit. If you get anything above 500 in one hit, it means that player is inactive for quite a while.
If you get more than 1,000 from 1 single hit, it means that you have hit a jackpot. Don't leave this base.
If you see that all the workers in the builders hut are sleeping, then you can see that the player is not playing for a while.
If there are many bushes and trees, it's another sign of inactivity.
 Bases that have resource collectors and storages placed towards outside of the base are the best.


See where the gold storage is placed by pressing the gold storage icon.
See where the resource collectors are placed by pressing the collector icon.
Snipe the town Halls. This might sound weird, but you can get big loots from the snipes. If a base has 200-300k loot, and you are sure it's mostly in the storages, snipe the town hall; you can get at least 70k loot, which is decent for a town hall snipe.
 This will help you decide where you should place your troops. Your target will depend greatly on the layout of the base and its defenses.


If going for resource collectors, look for resource collectors that are placed outside the walls, stacked together, or outside of the range of defenders.
If you are going for storage, look for the easiest way to reach the storage buildings and for storages that are bunched together.
 Select the desired troop by tapping on the troop icon at the bottom. Deploy the troops at the enemy's base by tapping anywhere on the base. Do not deploy troops all at one place, or mortars will destroy them in one single hit.
 Identify the weakest sides of the base, or the closest locations to any storages or resource collectors, and deploy your barbarians. Once your barbarians have started taking fire from defenders, send in your archers to start attacking everything in sight.


Use your Wall Breaker to clear a path for your barbarians to pour through.
 After you have deployed your barbarians and archers, and a path has been cleared, send in your Goblins. They will make a beeline for the nearest resource buildings, so make sure you deploy them in a location that takes advantage of this.
 If resource collectors are placed outside the walls, hit them with your troops. If the enemy's defense is in the range and it killed your troops, deploy a stronger troop like a giant first so that it absorbs the damage done by defense and you can deploy attacking troops.

