 Sometimes being honest means being silent. You may find an honest expression of your desire for peace (i.e., remaining silent) outweighs the desire to speak your mind.People feel compelled to express their strong opinions. Sometimes people do so to provoke a debate or change someone else's mind. This usually leads to a confrontation and unavoidable hurt feelings.
 Pay attention to their reaction and what they say. This will help you gauge how they will receive even your honest opinion.


If they decide not to discuss the issue, honor their wish. Perhaps it is the wrong time or place. Try asking again later. If they repeatedly rebuff you, you may need to express your opinion unsolicited or avoid it altogether.
 Then try to understand what their opinion is based on. Some disagreements are based on fundamental political, religious, and moral beliefs. Knowing those bases you can be respectful of the opinion and avoid hurt feelings.
 Be patient, kind, and attentive throughout their story. This shows you respect them and are genuinely interested in them.
 If you want to avoid hurting feelings, you must allow for the possibility that they are right and you are wrong. You can say "I've thought that..." instead of "You are wrong."

, Chances are that you are about to hurt their feelings if you haven't already. Let them know you respect and value them.


Apologize if you accidentally said something that hurt their feelings.Apologies are a signal that your respect the other person.Doing this early you can move on easily. Wait too late and the hurt may take much longer to repair.
Do not overuse apologies. Saying "I'm sorry" too much--especially when you did nothing wrong--can lower the value of an apology.The goal is to identify when you've done something wrong and be sincere about your apology.
 This gives you an opportunity to end the difference of opinion on a positive note. Be sure to comment that you understand where they are coming from and hope they understand your perspective too.

