 After you experiment with different learning styles, you can spend some time clarifying which style is best for you. This is a fast and simple way to determine your learning style. Many reputable websites offer online quizzes that will analyze your learning style based on your responses. Search the web for a reputable site, and take the quiz.Avoid sites that appear to be overtly selling a product. Look for a site such as HowToStudy.com that focuses on educational resources.
Start the quiz. Be prepared to answer questions such as "What kind of book would you like to read for fun?" or "What are you most likely to do when waiting in line?"
Most assessments are multiple-choice. They generally take between 5 and 20 minutes to complete.
Remember that there are no right or wrong answers. Everyone learns a little differently, and that is ok.
 The results of your self-assessment can give you a good idea of which learning style applies to you. However, it is important to take some time to think about your personal preferences. Think back on some of your most memorable learning experiences.Maybe you vividly remember learning about the Civil War in elementary school. Was it because your teacher asked you to build a model of a canon? That might mean you are a physical learner.
Perhaps high school English was your favorite class. Did it really make an impression when your teacher read Shakespeare aloud? You might be more of a verbal learner.
Take what you know about yourself and combine it with the results of your self-assessment quiz. This should give you a good indication of your learning style.
 It can be helpful to get some additional feedback to determine your learning style. Talk to one of your current or past teachers. Ask if the instructor has some time to talk to you about your education.Prepare some questions to ask. Try saying something such as, "Do you have any particular observations about the way I learn?"
You can also ask, "Did you ever notice a topic or skill that I seemed to struggle with?"
Ask the teacher for tips about how to improve your quality of learning. Talk to more than one person if possible.
 Once you start to understand your learning style, you can tailor your educational experiences so that you can learn more quickly and easily. For example, if you believe that you are a visual learner, seek out images and pictures when first approaching a new topic.As you get to know yourself better, you'll figure out the best way for you to access and remember information.


Maybe you are having trouble understanding the chapter you're reading in your biology textbook. If the paragraph on photosynthesis just doesn't make sense, try searching for online images. A chart or illustration might help cement the information.
If you are an auditory learner, it can be hard to succeed in largely verbal subjects such as English. Try having a friend read aloud some passages to you of "To Kill a Mockingbird."
Perhaps you are trying to teach yourself a new skill, like knitting. If you are a physical learner, don't spend too much time becoming frustrated by reading a description of how to knit. Instead, pick up the needles and start learning with your hands.

