 The sight of trees and decorations streamed all around the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney Hollywood Studios and even the one at Disney's Animal Kingdom is always free to all guests to enjoy.


Recognize that some of the Walt Disney World resorts (including the Boardwalk, Contemporary and Grand Floridian resorts) get all decked out in holiday motif that they have a large gingerbread house on display in their atrium near their front entrance ways.
Get used to the holiday performances of the Dapper Dans orchestra. This group may sing and perform comedy during the rest of the day, but during Christmas, you'll get tunes inspired by the season in what appears to be spontaneous (but tends to not be so spontaneous) times. Look for this show at least 9 times a day and most often this will be before 2pm along the boundaries of Main Street USA.
If you can catch a performance of the Holly Jolly Trolley Show, watch it. Most people might say it's cheesy, but when the tunes are holiday-based, your opinions definitely matter.
Watch the parade called "Mickey's Once Upon a Christmastime. This choreographed parade will definitely get you set into the holiday spirit and ready to end your day. Not only will the parade astound you, but it's additional falling snow (caused by a soap-bubble solution) and additional Christmas lights along most of the buildings, will definitely set you all aglow and ready for the parade. With show times twice per day and once per party night(separate ticket event as you'll read later), this will surely astound most guests who come to visit it.

Visit with Santa Claus Goofy within the confines of Magic Kingdom's Main Street USA. Go right towards Santa Goofy as the park gates open at 10am or right before park guests are escorted out at 5pm for the shortest wait times.
Pass on the A Totally Tomorrowland Christmas stag show near Rocket tower Plaza in/near Tomorrowland. Not only does it have no official seating, but it's also not shown for a very long time, with performances every day between December 21st and December 31st (and at all separately-ticketed Mickey's Very Merry Christmas Party).
Look for Santas at some of the country building attractions near World Showcase in Epcot to entertain guests with Christmas shows after about 11:30am and dusk(during the separately-ticketed Mickey's Very Merry Christmas Party). Santas from their respective country are on hand to speak to guests about their traditions in their country (in the Holidays Around the World Storytellers attractions) in the English language. (Catch these Santas at Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway, inside the American Adventure and United Kingdom pavilion areas.)
Catch the Candlelight Processional in Epcot, even if you aren't a religious person. It's beautiful and inspiring, though the tale it tells is about the story of the birth of Jesus with a 50 piece orchestra to go along with it. It is shown several times every evening (though one of it's times is during each of it's parties.
Look for Santa and Mrs. Claus intermittently in the American Adventure in Epcot's World Showcase pavilion between November 29th and December 24th from 11am to park closing time.

Catch the Voices of Liberty singing Christmas carols with their various performances for 20 minutes each day inside the lobby of the American Adventure pavilion (the times for New Years Eve differ so check your Times Guide accordingly).


Get involved with the performance of the Citizens of Hollywood skit over at the Disney Studios. This improvisational skit will sometimes base it off of crowd answers. If they ask for volunteers, make yourself look like you'd like to be chosen; make eye contact and wear something colorful, stand in front of the crowd and smile. Look for this group along Sunset Boulevard (often in front of the Beverly Sunset Theater) and Hollywood Boulevard.
Ask a Disney Employee inside the Disney Studios when you enter when and where a showtime for The Comedy Warehouse Holiday Special will be held. It doesn't appear too often, but is definitely worth seeing at least once in your life. Songs based off of completely improvisational people's few questions. Most often times it's at the Premier Theater along the Streets of America, but check with employees when and where the showing will be shown. as times and dates of availability vary.
Watch the 1983 theatrical holiday film called "Mickey's Christmas Carol" from inside the ABC Sound Studio at the Disney Studios. Take a break and watch it, if you feel you need to take a break during the day.
Watch the Mulch, Sweat and Shears show that has holiday performance from mid November through December. Most often times, this group will choose a female from the audience to join them in their musical skit.
Watch Mickey's Jingle Jungle Parade in Disney's Animal Kingdom. This parade, besides the decorations inside the park is the only real holiday festivity to check out that is Disney parks inspired inside this park (due to the animal's issues with other nighttime festivities). Holiday lyrics of a now-former Disney's Animal Kingdom parade adorn all viewers. If you'd like to be selected to ride in a rickshaw, there are even people who are able to sit in these spots. This parade is shown twice per day (to and from it's African village in the Africa section of the park).;
, If you plan late, the quality of your Disney vacation is on the line. Procrastination is not the best way to go. If you book the night before, you could be sleeping in the hotel's basement!


The earlier in the Christmas season you plan for, the better the crowds will be once you arrive during the season. Disney World seems to set up their Christmas activities starting around November 8and continuing through Christmas and New Years.
 If unwrapping presents on that cold Christmas morning or other Christmas traditions are that important to you, you can always plan around those traditions! Don't go changing any of your other Christmas activities around if you really don't have to.
 Much like during Disney World's summer peak season, Christmas is the second peak season during the year. Many people visit the Disney parks during Christmas. If you get a Fast Pass, you will sail through the lines with ease

, With the holiday coming and goings, you will need to firm up all your plans for the holidays.
 There are several rides and attractions that change their attraction for the Christmas season. Some of them include The Haunted Mansion, It's a Small World, and several other decorations and parades all over most of the parks.There's even a place in Disney's MGM Studio's that has it's own separate Christmas themed area that's been there for close to 3 decades.


As of 2013, even the Jungle Cruise "dresses up" for the occasion. They become the "Jingle Cruise" and even their boat names become names of the famous Christmas "stars".
 This special ticket isn't included in the cost of your park ticket and must be purchased separately. You can purchase these at the Walt Disney World Ticketing and Guest Services locations, over the phone (at 407-939-5277) or from Disney's Website (tickets can be mailed to you, printed out on a printer or can be picked up later at the Magic Kingdom Will Call window.) They can also be mailed to you for a separate fee.


Recognize that this special party doesn't happen every day of the season, though there are a great majority of days that are generally planned each year for the party, throughout November and December and even into the first few days of January.
 For those guests, expect to see a few Disney employees holding up a sign with letters that spell out "See Ya" (or See Ya Soon) on items that look like candy corn. All other non-ticketed park guests will be escorted out of the park and a second trip around the park by a Disney employee will be made looking for those trying to escape not paying for the service 15 minutes later., Each individual park has it's own services that it gives guests after dusk.


Magic Kingdom

Look for a stage show called Celebrate the Season in front of Cinderella Castle at Magic Kingdom. This 20 minute show, shown 4-5 times a day is filled with lots of holiday music and serenading to get the holiday spirit back into the guest.
Watch Cinderella Castle get lit up in it's holiday icicles every night of the party in an event the Disney Parks call Cinderella's Holiday Wish. Plan to be in the viewing area in front of Cinderella Castle at least 15 minutes before viewing time one time per night (viewing time generally will be about 6:15, though this can change should storms be impacting the area).
Watch the Holiday Wishes show from Main Street USA. Although all the Wishes shows definitely astounds it's guests for it's 12 minute performance, this Holiday Wishes show will definitely top the cake (almost literally, but you'll have to see this for yourself to understand what this literal definition means).


Epcot

Catch the Candlelight Processional in Epcot, even if you aren't a religious person. It's beautiful and inspiring, though the tale it tells is about the story of the birth of Jesus with a 50 piece orchestra to go along with it.
Get the party started with watching the nighttime fireworks called Illuminations:Reflections of Earth with an additional Christmas/holiday addendum performance narrated by Walter Cronkite and featuring the song Let There Be Peace on Earth. Catch this at about 8:45pm(though the fireworks don't generally start until 9pm). Try to catch this in World Showcase Plaza; on top of being the closest exit point out for the hordes of people who will try to trample you down, it's the closest and easiest to see vantage point to see the show.


Disney Studios

Catch the Osbourne Family's Spectacle of Dancing Lights at least one time in your life. Typically along both the New York Street and San Francisco Street and even some in the plaza in front of the Lights, Motors, Action attraction, a canopy of lights overhead of guests are synchronized to the music. Between the lights on the sides of the buildings along with the canopy of lights and a lot more Christmastime favorite sets of lights, this spectacle features over 5 million LED lights which had previously been created by the parents of Jennings Osborne, but were legally asked not be hung there in the 1980s. Only those who've seen this spectacle live, know just how astounding this display of lights really are. The lights get turned on at about 6pm, but arrive a half hour early for the best entry time.



