 Most modern vehicles have more than one fuse box located throughout the vehicle for various electronic components. Use the vehicle’s owner’s manual to identify the box with the fuse powering your factory car alarm. The fuse box may be located in the engine bay or the cabin of the car. If it is located in the cabin, you may need to remove some trim pieces to be able to access it.Be careful when removing plastic trim pieces of your interior, as they may be brittle and prone to breaking.
Place trim pieces off to the side to ensure you don’t step or sit on them as you work.
 Many fuse boxes will have a diagram on the underside of the fuse box cover. If there isn’t one there, check in the vehicle’s owner’s manual as well. Identify the fuse in the diagram that powers the car alarm, then locate its corresponding fuse in your vehicle. If you do not have a diagram on the cover or in the manual, you will need to utilize the “guess and check” method of locating the fuse for the alarm in the next step.You may be able to locate a diagram of your fuse box online if you don’t have one available to you.
The fuse box diagram will be in your vehicle’s repair manual if you have one.
 Once you have located the correct fuse, use a pair of needle nose pliers or plastic tweezers designed to remove automotive fuses to pull the fuse out of its location in the fuse box. The alarm should power down immediately with the fuse removed. If you were unable to identify which was the correct fuse using a diagram, remove and replace fuses one at a time until you remove the one that makes the alarm stop.The alarm will shut off immediately when you remove the correct fuse.
Some aftermarket car alarms may not have a fuse in the fuse box.
 Use the pliers or tweezers to slide the fuse back into place once the alarm has shut off. The alarm should be reset and should not turn back on once the fuse has been reinserted into the fuse box. If the alarm reactivates as you slide the fuse back into place, it means the alarm is not functioning properly.If the alarm comes back on, you will likely need to take the vehicle to be repaired by a professional.
If the alarm comes back on a few minutes after you reinsert the fuse, something must be setting it off, such as a faulty key fob or an issue with the electronic control unit of the vehicle.

