 Over-the-counter menopause tests measure the levels of follicle stimulating hormone, or FSH, in your urine. This hormone increases temporarily each month during ovulation, but it also spikes when your ovaries stop working and menopause begins. It is important to remember that an increase in FSH in the urine does not necessarily mean that menopause has begun.An at-home menopause kit typically comes with two individually-packaged testing strips that detect your levels of FSH.Ask a pharmacist for recommendations or talk to your doctor about purchasing an at-home testing kit.
The process of testing will vary with each kit, so it is important you read and closely follow the instructions included with the kit. If instructions are different from what is described in this article then follow the instructions from the kit.
These tests are sold at most pharmacies for about $20 dollars.If you are on birth control, you will not get an accurate reading from this test. Birth control keeps your FSH levels low, so the levels in your urine will already be altered by the medication.;
, If you drink a lot of liquid a couple of hours before taking the test, the results could be invalid. An increase in liquid may dilute the concentration of FSH in your urine. Limit fluid intake one to two hours before taking the test., Wash your hands with warm water and antibacterial soap to remove any bacteria or dirt from your hands. Carefully remove the testing strip from its foil packet.
 While sitting on the toilet, hold the test in one hand. Place your testing strip into your urine midstream. Be sure to place the absorbent end of the strip into your urine.


Alternatively, you can dip the strip in a cup of urine.After washing your hands, collect a sample of your urine in a sterilized cup.
Some testing strips will have a line marking where the urine sample should end. Look for a max line on your testing strip.
Some testing strips will resemble an at-home pregnancy test and will be encased in a plastic cover with a removable cap. Remove the cap and insert the exposed strip into your urine stream., While you are waiting for the test results, place the testing strip on a clean, flat surface where it will not be contaminated or disturbed.Chemicals within the testing strip will react with the hormones in your urine. This process can take between 10 and 20 minutes. The test should be discarded after 30 minutes as it may not yield reliable results.
 The chemicals will react to the presence of FSH to produce a colored line or symbol to appear on the strip. Each type of test will provide different symbols and colors to indicate the level of FSH in your urine, so be sure to consult the instructions for your particular test. If a line, set of lines, or symbol does not appear, the test is invalid., If you receive a positive result after taking your FSH test, schedule an appointment with your doctor to go over the results. A positive FSH test indicates that the levels may have increased, but it does not necessarily mean you are peri- or menopausal.Your doctor will consider the results and discuss the next steps for you, which may include treating menopause symptoms like vaginal dryness and hot flashes, or they may suggest that you take a test at the clinic so that your levels can be accurately checked in a lab.


Do not stop using contraceptives if you have a positive result., Do not assume that you are not in perimenopause or menopause because the FSH test provided negative results. Other variables could have caused the test to produce a negative result, so it is important to visit your doctor to discuss the test. Your doctor may wish to schedule other hormone tests, and they will talk to you about your menstruation cycle and if you are experiencing any other symptoms of menopause., You may experience signs and symptoms of menopause like hot flashes, night sweats, irregular periods, or mood changes for several years leading up to menopause. This is known as perimenopause. Tests typically aren't needed or required to diagnose the onset of menopause, so a home menopause test or saliva test at your doctor’s office will not be able to determine an accurate start date. Keep a record of any changes you experience so that you and your doctor can determine when menopause has begun.

