 Knowing the causes can help to eliminate (or cut back on) any environmental factors that may be triggers for your cracked skin.These include:


Long showers or long baths (soaking can actually dry out your skin)
Harsh soaps (mild cleansers are better for dry cracked skin)
Swimming pools
Cold, windy weather
Irritating clothing (such as scarves) that may trigger a skin reaction;
, The less time your face is exposed to water and cleansers, the better. Use mild soap or cleansers, and refrain from scrubbing.
 You'd think lots of water would be helpful to re-moisturize your skin, but too much water can actually dry skin out. Keep baths and showers to 5-10 minutes duration.It can be helpful to add ingredients such as a natural oil (like mineral, almond, or avocado oil), or adding either 1 cup of oatmeal or baking soda to your bath if you are going to have one.Bathing can be soothing to dry skin (as long as not done in excess or for long periods of time), and adding any of these ingredients can help to keep the moisture in your skin.
Gently pat your face dry after your bath or shower. Vigorous drying with a towel can make cracked dry skin worse.
Also choose milder soaps for bathing as they are less irritating and less drying to the skin., Also apply a moisturizing agent right after bathing, as well as at other times during the day.


If your skin is sensitive and prone to allergic reactions, choose a moisturizing cream or lotion that says "hypoallergenic" on the label.
If your skin is prone to acne, choose a moisturizing cream or lotion that says "anti-comedogenic" on the label.
If your skin is extremely dry in certain location, petroleum jelly (Vaseline) can be a great option.For a less greasy option, you can also try Aquaphor. When used on the areas of particular dryness, it can lead to a fast recovery as it is extremely effective. However, the "look" is less conducive to going out in public as it can leave a shiny, greasy appearance, so it is best to use it at night.
Coat your face in Vaseline or Aquaphor if you live in a place that gets especially dry and cold during the wintertime. This will help to protect your face from becoming dry and cracked.
,


Good hydration gives your skin the best chance of staying moisturized; although it is not a guaranteed "cure," it can certainly help the situation.
 Also, if you have red or scaly lesions on your face that are getting worse, it is best to see a doctor or a dermatologist (a doctor specializing in skin care) sooner rather than later.


Although dry cracked skin is relatively common, specific lesions on your skin (unusual lumps, bumps, or colors), sudden onset, or rapid worsening of your skin warrant a visit to your physician. There could be something going on that could benefit greatly from a medicated cream or ointment or, in rare instances, from more complex medical treatments.
Changes in your skin can also be a sign of a new allergy or sensitivity. Talk to your doctor about this possibility if you skin is changing.

