 With five minute transport times between gate to terminal and terminal to gate, back and forth, this can be a real time-waster, but can be a necessity that can make time go by if you have multiple minutes and have done everything you can do on this list already. Admire the area around the station, and enjoy the train ride.
 If it's warm or you overdressed, take off an extra layer of clothes. If it got cold at the gates or in the terminal, put on another layer of clothes. If you are heading back from a trip to Walt Disney World and are still wearing a Magic Band or similar and aren't planning to take another trip there soon, take off your magic band and pack it away. MagicBands+ can become mementos of your trip until you take another one to the Walt Disney World area.


Pack or unpack a sweatshirt and music player (MP3 or CD player such as an iPod or other device) in preparation for boarding the plane for the long journey to the next (or final) location. Make some final changes to your daily ensemble. For example, if you were vacationing at a Disney resort and have a MyMagic+ band that you used in Walt Disney World, take it off and stow it in your carry-on luggage, as you won't be needing it anymore. If your kids are upset about this, explain that they can keep them as a souvenir, but they don't need to wear one at the airport and risk losing it.
Reorganize your carry-on luggage or personal items you were able to cart through the TSA stopping point. Place those items you'll want to access during the flight (such as a book, sweatshirt, and iPod) on top or in your side pockets so that you'll be able to reach them quickly when you want them. Also leave accessible any items you'll need only when you arrive at your destination in hidden spots out of the way of lurkers who may look your way, such as your car or house keys if you are flying back home. Though most people have good intentions, there are a few who might have different plans that you want to be aware of.
 Although this airport no longer has payphones you can use, cellphones are often the only form of communication to friends who aren't nearby. Tell a friend about your vacation or to relay messages to them before you get to them, or make plans for when you arrive back at home. Having a great conversation with a friend can be a fantastic way to kill a lot of time when you have nothing else to do.