 Though it may be difficult to do well on a literature exam with multiple choice questions if you have not read the assigned text, you can use certain methods to improve your chances of doing well. It's important that you take your time and read each question carefully to ensure you understand what the question is asking and to find possible clues or hints within the question.


Look for qualifiers in the question. Qualifiers are words that alter a statement, such as "always", "most", "equal", "good" or "bad". You may be given a statement that has a qualifier and asked if it is true or false, such as: "Raskolnikov is always angry at the world in Crime and Punishment." The qualifier "always" makes this statement false as it is too extreme and unlikely to be true.
You should also look for negatives in a question. Negatives are words like "no", "not", "none" and "never", as well as prefixes like "il-" (illogical), "un-" (uninterested) or "im-" (impatient). Remember that a prefix is the same as "not", so illogical means "not logical", for example, and impatient means "not patient". You may be given a question like: "What does Raskolnikov do that is illogical in Crime and Punishment?" The question is really asking, "What does Raskolnikov do that is not logical in Crime and Punishment?"
Use grammatical clues in the question and/or the multiple choice options. Try to eliminate multiple choice options that do not make sense grammatically, even though they may contain correct information. For example, you may have a question like:
In Crime and Punishment, Raskolnikov commits his awful crime:
a. due to madness
b. because he is from Russia
c. there is no justice in his world
d. as a result of a young student's speech in a bar


Answer option (c) is missing a connecting phrase and is not grammatically correct when placed after the beginning of the statement. As well, answer (b) has no connection to the "crime" in question. You can then eliminate these two options and are now left with option (a) and option (d).
 If you are heading into an essay exam, you may have limited time to write the essay. Focus on maximizing your time by brainstorming and creating an outline before you write the essay. You should do some online research about the assigned text before the exam to help you create an outline around the essay question.Be sure to read the essay question several times to ensure you understand what you are required to do in your essay. You should then brainstorm a thesis statement. Use your online research to help you create a thesis statement in response to the essay question.
You should then create an outline for the essay. You do not need to follow the five paragraph essay format, unless your teacher specifically asks for a five paragraph essay. Use your thesis statement as a guide for your essay and always include an introductory paragraph and a concluding paragraph. If you are not following the five paragraph essay format, you can write as many paragraph between your introduction and your conclusion as is necessary to explore your thesis statement.
 If you need to take an oral exam for your literature class, you should always prepare a few days before the exam, even if you have not read the assigned text. Use your online research or a study guide provided by a classmate to help you prepare for the oral exam. Being prepared for the oral exam will help you do well, even if you did not read the assigned text.You should be prepared to lecture on the material. You will need to present your ideas clearly, give example from the text to support your ideas, compare different approaches or concepts in the text, and defend your ideas with eloquence and clarity. Begin by writing down your oral responses and practice them so you remember your responses and can recall them quickly.
Use a mirror or a blank wall to practice your oral presentation. You should speak clearly and confidently, using eye contact and not simply reading from your notes. If possible, you should also practice with your classmates or other students who are also preparing for an oral exam. Have your peers ask you questions that your teacher may ask you so you can practice your responses.

