 Comments that are not valuable or pertinent are seen as spam and taken down by moderators.
 This means ensuring the pages that you choose to comment on show up regularly in search rankings with your keywords.


Install several tools in your Firefox browser to ensure you get the best possible search results. Install SEO Quake as a Firefox toolbar. This will help you identify education websites with the best possible page ranking.
Install the NoDoFollow tool on Firefox. This will tell you what websites transfer information from the original site (the edu) to your page. You want websites that are referred to as "Do Follow."

, The care you take with finding the right edu sites will improve your chances of creating links that improve your SEO.


Do a search engine query to find appropriate edu blogs. Do this on Google, Yahoo and Bing using your Firefox browser with the new tools installed.
Enter the following query into your search engine: site:.edu inurl:blog "post a comment" -"you must be logged in" -"comments closed" "your keywords"
The first site and URL reference tell the search engine to look for blogs on edu sites. The words in quotation marks tell the search engine to look for sites that allow you to post a comment and those that have specified keywords that people use to find information about your product. The words in quotation marks with a minus sign before them tell the search engine to exclude sites that make you log in or those that have closed their comments section.
 Unless your keywords are very obscure, and they should not be, this search should yield you hundreds of results.
 This will allow you to give priority to sites with the best ranking.
 Those that are in red are No Do Follow, according to your Firefox plugin.
 Start to leave comments on sites that will provide good backlinks.


Give preference to websites that have a few or many user generated comments. In some cases, blogs with no comments indicate that the moderator does not approve many comments or does not approve them regularly.



Browse the comments section. If there are user comments that contain URLs, leave your full URL in the text portion of the comments section.
If there are not any URLs, then you should leave the website in the author portion of the post.
 You want to increase your edu backlinks slowly so that the search engine crawler does not flag your website as spam.
 Identify when they are approved by the moderator and appear in the section.
 This will tell the search engine that the page has been updated.

