 Cancelling your Weight Watchers membership by email isn’t as simple as just sending an email, unfortunately. You still have to fill out an online form which you can find here.
 You will be asked to enter your account information like your name, email address, and address.


Weight Watchers says that the cancelling process via email will typically take 72 hours to go into effect.
Look for a confirmation email detailing your cancellation.
If you do not receive an confirmation email within one week of filling out the form, you may have to submit another request.
 You can call 800-651-6000 to cancel.For the quickest results, don’t waste time by waiting for prompts.To get a human as fast as possible, press “4” for existing members.
Then press “5” followed by “2” to skip the survey and go directly to an actual customer service representative.
Be prepared to wait. You may have to wait an average of a half hour before you get connected.
 Just like with an online cancellation, you will most likely encounter attempts from a customer service representative to prevent you from cancelling outright. Just calmly tell her you don’t wish to hear about any alternatives, and you would simply like to cancel your Weight Watchers membership.


Dealing with people on the phone can be frustrating. But it’s best to remember that in most cases this person is doing her job and probably following a script. Being rude will only make the process more difficult, so it’s best to calmly and firmly state what you want.
You’ll also be asked for account and billing information so it’s best to have all of that on hand so you can complete the process as quickly as possible.
Make sure that you receive a cancellation number before you hang up.
 If you cancelled by email, online, or even by phone but haven’t been sent any records of cancellation, you may want to call the customer service number to ensure that your Weight Watchers membership has indeed been cancelled.


If you are calling because you have already cancelled your membership make sure to have your cancellation number on hand.

