 The top number of your blood pressure reading is your systolic blood pressure (pressure when your heart beats). The bottom number is your diastolic blood pressure (pressure in between beats). Typically, if one number is elevated, the other number will also be elevated.


As such, practices aimed at lowering your systolic blood pressure will usually lower your diastolic blood pressure, as well.
In rare cases, you might have isolated diastolic hypertension, in which you experience elevated diastolic blood pressure without experiencing elevated systolic blood pressure. This condition usually isn't dangerous on its own, but generally, you'll develop an elevated systolic blood pressure if you don't take care of your diastolic number now--and an elevated systolic blood pressure is much more dangerous., This allows you to determine whether your diet and lifestyle habits are effective at lowering blood pressure, and can be done using a blood pressure cuff at home, at the pharmacy, or at your doctor’s office. High diastolic blood pressure readings come in at 90 mmHg or higher, while those at risk for high blood pressure have diastolic blood pressure readings between 80 and 89 mmHg. The normal diastolic blood pressure range is between 70 and 80 mmHg.If you've been diagnosed with high blood pressure--either overall high blood pressure or high diastolic blood pressure only--start by checking your blood pressure twice a day for a week (once in the morning and once in the evening). Afterward, switch to two or three times a week. Once your blood pressure is under control, you can ease back to once or twice a month.Keep in mind that it is possible to have a diastolic blood pressure that is too low. If you have an abnormally low diastolic blood pressure, it means that your heart is no longer pumping enough blood to reach all your vital organs. As a result, you may inadvertently increase your stroke and heart attack risk. Unless told otherwise by a doctor, always keep your diastolic blood pressure about 60 mmHg, and aim for a range between 70 and 80 mmHg for optimal heart health., Even if you manage to track and lower your diastolic blood pressure at home, it’s still a good idea to consult with your doctor or other healthcare provider about your heart health. Together, you and your doctor can work out a treatment plan that can improve and maintain your health with regards to blood pressure concerns.


Your doctor will be able to guide you on ways to manage your overall heart health while lowering your diastolic blood pressure, and can also advise you on how to lower your diastolic blood pressure to a healthy level without reducing it too far.
Talking to your doctor about your blood pressure is always recommended, but it's especially important if you have a chronic illness/condition or if you're taking any medication.
 Visit your healthcare provider to receive prescriptions for drugs that can help manage and lower your blood pressure. Combining prescription drugs with healthy lifestyle changes has been proven effective at helping you lower diastolic blood pressure.


The exact medication your doctor prescribes may vary, typically based on other health concerns you may have. Thiazide diuretics are the most commonly prescribed drug for relatively healthy people.If you have other heart problems or a family history of heart trouble, your doctor may prescribe a beta-blocker or calcium-channel blocker.
If you have diabetes, heart problems, or kidney disease, your doctor may consider an ACE inhibitor or Angiotensin II receptor blocker.
Note that you generally won't need medication if you only have elevated diastolic blood pressure without also having elevated systolic blood pressure. Diet and lifestyle changes are usually enough to address the problem, but it's still a good idea to consult your doctor, especially when diet and lifestyle changes have yet to fix things.
 If you don’t want to take medication, you can either bring up your concerns to your normal doctor or consult a doctor who specializes in holistic/naturopathic medicine. Holistic and naturopathic doctors can help you lower and manage high blood pressure effectively through nutrition and lifestyle without relying on drugs and medications. If avoiding medication is important to you, you can work with your healthcare provider on developing a natural treatment plan that addresses the underlying cause of your high blood pressure.
 This helps prevent or delay complications associated with high blood pressure, and lowers your risk for related health problems. For example, if your doctor recommends exercising several times per week to lower blood pressure, make physical activity a priority so you can become healthier.On a similar note, if your doctor prescribes medication and that medication has negative side effects, ask your doctor about reducing the dose or switching, but do not stop taking your medication without consulting your doctor first.

