 A puppy born with aortic stenosis may show no symptoms at all. This may be especially true if the problem is mild and the heart is able to compensate for the problem. However, Aortic Stenosis is a genetic condition, meaning that the problem may be passed down from parents to puppies. Get the health records of the parents, and grandparents, if you can, to see if the disease is in the puppy's genetic history.;
, With this disease, the aorta is abnormally narrow, which causes turbulence in the blood flow leaving the heart. Your veterinarian may be able to hear this with a stethoscope when he or she listens to the dog's chest.


An aortic stenosis refers to a narrowing of the aorta, which is the main artery leaving the heart that carries oxygenated blood to the organs. Blood leaving the heart via the aorta is under a huge amount of pressure, as the heart is providing the energy to push blood all the way around the body. If the aorta is narrowed, this adds resistance to the heart as it pumps., Unfortunately, the signs of aortic stenosis are not specific to this condition. With aortic stenosis, the heart has to pump extra hard to overcome the extra resistance caused by the narrow aorta.If the narrowing is severe or the heart is fatigued, there is a restriction on the circulation of blood to the rest of the body and the dog starts to show clinical signs of heart disease. If your dog has any of these symptoms of heart disease, you should take it to the vet to get checked out:


Tires easily: The dog is happy but tires easily with exercise, play, or exertion. This is a very subjective thing but you know your own dog. If the dog's endurance starts to drop and it regularly lags behind where once it would have bounded ahead then take note.
Cough: The dog coughs persistently. The cough is due to a buildup of fluid in the lungs and tends to be a moist. How often the dog coughs depends on the severity of the fluid build up. In mild cases, it might be infrequent (a few times a day) while in more advanced cases the cough could be several times an hour.
Fainting: The dog faints or has brief episodes of collapse that are triggered by getting up from rest or by exercise.
Blue-tinged gums: A blue tinge to the gums and the membranes lining the mouth, which gets worse when the dog exercises.
 When a puppy or a dog visits the vet for a check-up or vaccination, it is routine to listen to its heart sounds using a stethoscope. Aortic stenosis causes turbulence in the blood as it leaves the heart. This turbulence may be heard as a murmur.


If the narrowing is only slight, then the murmur may be too quiet to hear. However, in moderate or severe cases the vet may hear a heart murmur. The loudness of the murmur can often be related to the severity of the aortic stenosis.The narrowing can worsen as a dog grows larger, so a murmur can develop up to the age of 12 months., It is not possible to be definite about the nature of the problem based on listening alone. There are several different heart abnormalities that also present with a heart murmur in young dogs, such as PDA (patent ductus arteriosus), VSD (ventricular septal defect) and mitral valve disease.The treatment and long-term outlook vary depending on the cause. This means it is important to investigate further and be sure what the problem is.
 In an adult dog, if the clinician hears a murmur it could be "innocent" or a sign of distress. A blood test can be done to figure out if the murmur is a cause for concern.The proBNP blood test looks for markers in the blood that signal that the heart muscle is distressed.


This is useful to know in adult dogs because it can help determine how serious the problem is and if investigation and treatment are required.
This is not so useful in puppies. A loud murmur indicates a severe problem, so the test isn't necessary. If the problem is mild then the chances are that the heart hasn't become fatigued yet, so a normal blood test may give a false sense of security.
 This will allow you to see how your dog is coping with the condition. X-rays can show a clinician how the heart and lungs are coping. For example, x-rays can show if there is fluid build up in the lungs (pulmonary edema), which is a sign that the heart is struggling and treatment is required.On an x-ray that is taken looking down on the dog's backbone, a bulge in the aorta just after the narrowing may be evident. When looking at the heart as a clock face, the bulge is located at around 12 - 1 pm position.
 An electrocardiogram (ECG) is another test that can give information about the heart's health but does not specifically diagnose aortic stenosis. The ECG readings can show enlargement of the left ventricle, which is the chamber that pushes blood through the aorta and is under maximum stress.Once the heart muscle becomes fatigued it tends to thicken and the chamber enlarges, as suggested on an ECG trace.
 This will give the most complete picture of the aortic stenosis. If you are short of money and can afford only one test, then an echocardiogram is your best option. This is because this type of ultrasound exam images the heart and the great vessels and gives a 2D picture of their structure and shape.


In the hands of a skilled ultrasound operator it is possible to see both the narrowing of the aorta and the 'post-stenotic bulge' (the bulge after the narrowing). It is also possible to see the blood flow within the aorta and to visualize the turbulence within the aorta.The operator can also measure the thickness of the left ventricular wall, which can give information about how well or poorly the heart is coping.
 The treatment options depend on the severity of the aortic stenosis and the age of the dog. A mild case may not need treatment. If heart failure develops in later life then treatment with diuretics to relieve congestion in the lungs is advisable.


As with all serious health problems in your pets, you need to balance your desire for the animal to live a long and happy life, its quality of life, and your ability to pay for medical care. It is a good idea to have veterinary insurance for your pet, so that the cost is not the determining factor in your medical choices.
 In some cases, drugs that slow a racing heart beat can help the heart function more effectively. Also, if the dog is prone to fainting or collapse, then restricting the amount of exercise it gets is important. This will help to avoid overloading the heart, which can cause fatality., In a young dog with a severe stenosis, a specialist veterinary cardiologist may consider doing surgery. The surgery consists of dilating the narrowing using special techniques called balloon valvuloplasty.


However, there are real risks to this procedure. Most importantly, it is risky to give a dog with a severe heart problem anesthetic and this procedure does run the risk of completely rupturing the aorta.

