 You will need some specialized bricks for this build, such as bricks with holes in them, thin rod-type axles, and separate wheel rims and tires. These come in LEGO Technic sets, or you can buy them separately from a LEGO Store or online.You will need 2 1x10 bricks with holes in the sides, 1 2x4 plate (thinner than a 2x4 brick), 1 8x4 plate, 1 1x4 brick, 1 2x4 brick, 1 2x2 brick, 1 2x8 brick, 2 Technic axles, 4 LEGO wheel rims, and 4 LEGO tires.You will also need 2 rubber bands.
 For optimal energy transfer, you should have two larger wheels for the back and two smaller wheels for the front. Set these aside for now.
 Place the 1x10 bricks side by side, like railroad tracks. Snap the 2x4 plate and 8x4 plate to the tops of the bricks. Now you should have a chassis that is 4x10.
 This will be the structure that the rubber band attaches to in order to create the power to move the car.


Snap the 1x4 brick to the very front of the chassis.
Forming a “T” shape, snap the 2x4 brick to the middle of the plate just behind the brick you just placed.
Snap the 2x2 brick to the very back of the chassis. Place it in the middle of the plate so there is 1 stud on either side.
Attach the 2x8 brick so that it covers the last 2 studs of the “T” shape. The back of this brick should hang out over the back end of the chassis.
 This is an easy knot you can tie with two closed loops (like rubber bands are).Wrap one rubber band around the finger and thumb of your non-dominant hand.
Slip the other band through the center of band #1 and pull about halfway through.
Slide one end of band #2 through the loop formed by its other end and pull to secure.
 Slide one axle through the last hole of the 10x1 bricks at the very back of your car. Attach a wheel to either end of the axle.
 To do this, slide one end of one band up and under the axle until you can see a little loop. Thread the other end of the bands and pull to secure.
 The band should run under the whole length of the chassis. Slip the end of the rubber band under the protruding part of the very top brick.
 Slide the other axle through the first hole of the 10x1 bricks at the very front of your car. Make sure the rubber band is under the axle. Attach a wheel to either end of the axle.
 To wind up the car, place the car on a flat, smooth surface and pull the it backwards. This will build up tension in the rubber band. When you let go, it should go speeding away!

