 It is a great option if you'd like a little more hands-on experience, or if you can't get canned pumpkin puree., Don't use a large "jack-o-lantern" type pumpkin. It will give your juice a weird taste and texture., You can do this using a large metal spoon, an ice cream scoop, or even a pulp scooper from a jack-o-lantern carving kit.Discard the pulp; you can save the seeds for roasting or for another recipe., Place the pumpkin pieces face down on a baking sheet filled with ¼ inch (0.64 centimeters) of water.Put the baking sheet into the preheated oven, and let the pumpkin roast. You can test whether or not it is done by poking it with a fork. If it's soft, it's done.The water will prevent the pumpkin from burning or becoming too dry. This will give your drink a smoother texture and better taste.
 The skin should peel away easily. If you need to, score some vertical lines in the skin first with a knife, then peel it away. If you need to, use the edge of a spoon to help catch the edge of the skin first. Discard the skin when you are done., Cut the pumpkin into wedges or cubes first, then place it into a blender or food processor. Pour the water over it and blend. Keep blending until the pumpkin and water are evenly mixed. You will get a thick, soupy liquid. This is your pumpkin juice base., This includes the apple juice, the apricot nectar, vanilla essence, pumpkin pie spice, and sugar. If you have any leftover pumpkin juice base, pour it into an airtight container, and save it for another recipe.

For a healthier option, try it with honey instead.
For a twist, try it with brown sugar instead of white.
If you can't find apricot nectar, you can use peach nectar or pear nectar instead.
 Keep stirring until the ingredients are evenly mixed together, then wait for them to come to a boil., This allows all the flavors to infuse into one another. It also reduces the amount of water in the drink, giving you a more flavorful juice., The easiest way to do this is to fill a large bowl with ice and add just enough water to cover the ice. Then, pour the pumpkin juice into a smaller bowl, and place it into the ice; don't let any water get inside! Stir the juice to let the steam escape, then place it into the fridge once it reaches room temperature.

You can drink the juice while it is warm, but many people find that it tastes better while it is cold.
 For an added touch, you could make some "Pumpkin Juice" labels on your computer, print them off onto adhesive paper, and stick them onto glass bottles. Pour the pumpkin juice into these bottles, and enjoy it—just like in the films!