 If you can take longer, that’s even better! It takes at least twenty minutes for your brain to tell your body that you’re full. If you’re finishing your meals faster than that, you’re missing out on crucial signals that may be telling you to eat less.Use a kitchen timer, your smartphone, or a wristwatch to keep track of the time.
You should begin to notice that you’re naturally eating less. These smaller meals should really help you lose weight.
 To slow down your eating, cut your food into very small bites. Eat these bites one at a time, and chew each one completely. Take a sip of water when you’ve swallowed your food.You don’t have to count your chews, but you can if you’re struggling to slow down. Try for 30-40 chews per bite for weightloss., If you’re right-handed, move your fork or spoon over to your left hand. (Vise-versa for lefties.) You’ll automatically slow down, and you’ll focus more on your meal as you try to avoid spilling it on the table!, Don’t eat in front of the TV or browse through the internet on your phone while you eat. Instead, have your meal at a table dedicated just to eating. Turn your attention away from the world and pay attention to what’s on your plate.If you don’t have space for a table meant only for eating, use a countertop in your kitchen. You can also use the coffee table in your TV room, but resist the urge to turn it on while you’re eating.
 Think through the food’s journey to your plate, from its place in the field, to the sun and rain that made it grow, to the harvest.Pay special attention to texture, taste, smell, and color.As you think about your food and what it took to get it you, you’ll eat more slowly, appreciate how the food is making you feel, and stop as soon as you’re satisfied.

You can also keep a food journal to get in the habit of pausing to ask questions about your food. If you don’t want to write in it while you’re eating, make entries after you’ve finished your meals.
It may seem a little weird that you’re supposed to appreciate food more to eat it less. But because mindful eating is all about taking the time to enjoy meals, you should eat smaller (but better) meals naturally.

