 John Walsh provides updates and alerts about missing persons and fugitives on his official Facebook page. If you wish to stay abreast of the latest news or think you may have a need to contact him in the near future, follow him on Facebook.


Log on to Facebook and type “John Walsh Official” in the search bar at the top of the website.
Hit enter.
Under the heading “Pages” you will see a picture of Walsh and the name of his page “John Walsh (Official)” in bold. Click on the image or the title of his page.
Locate the banner at the top of his Facebook page.
In the lower right corner of the banner, find the button that says “Like.”
Click on the button. Your newsfeed will now include Walsh’s latest posts.;
, If you don’t have a tip for Walsh, you may still comment on his latest cases. When you comment on one of his posts, you will become an active participant in the conversation with other interested parties. Walsh may or may not read your comment. Also, note that there is no comment box on the John Walsh page, though, so you cannot post a comment directly to his wall.


Go to Walsh’s official Facebook page.
Scroll through his post until you see one of interest to you.
Directly under the content of the post, you will see three buttons: “Like,” “Comment,” and “Share.” Click on “Comment.”
Type your comment in the activated text box next to your profile picture.
Once your comment is complete, press the “Enter” key on your keyboard or the “Post” button on your phone or tablet screen to post it to Walsh’s wall., If the content of your message is of a personal nature or you wish to contact Walsh directly, you may send him a private message through Facebook. Facebook is the only social media platform that allows you to contact Walsh directly. Remember, however, that he may or may not respond.


Locate the banner at the top of his Facebook page.
In the lower right corner of the banner, find the button that says “Message” and click on the button. A direct message window will appear.
Type your private message into the active text box.
When you have finished typing, press the “Enter” key on your keyboard or the “Send” button on your tablet or phone screen to send the message., In addition to Facebook, Walsh is also active on Twitter. If you wish to stay up to date on the his latest cases and breakthroughs, follow him on Twitter. As a follower, all of Walsh’s latest Tweets will appear on your feed.


Locate the “Search Bar” at the top of your Twitter Home timeline.
Type his Twitter handle “@john_walsh” into the search bar.
Use the arrow keys and strike the “Enter” key or your mouse and click on the correct page.
Locate and click on the “Follow” button. It is on the right side of the screen directly under the banner at the top of the page. You will now see all of his latest Tweets on your feed. , The best way to contact Walsh directly on Twitter is to Tweet at him. You may also reply to one of his Tweets. You may only send Walsh a direct message if he is one of your followers.


Tweet at him. Locate and click the “Tweet” button at the top right corner of your screen or find the Tweet text box at the top of your Twitter Home timeline. Type your Tweet, which must be 140 characters or less, into the text box and include Walsh’s Twitter handle, “@john_walsh.” Once complete, click the “Tweet” button to send it.
Reply to his Tweet. Scroll through Walsh’s Tweets until you find one of interest to you. Locate and click on the small left-pointing arrow directly under the content of the Tweet. A Tweet box will automatically pop up on your screen. It will contain the appropriate Twitter handles for the reply. Use your remaining characters to reply to Walsh’s tweet. Once finished, click the “Tweet” button to send it.