 For instance, if they’re in the market for a new skateboard, and their friends all have skateboards of their own, they should find out what sort of skateboards their friends have, where they bought the skateboards, and whether or not their friends are satisfied with their boards. Your teen could even ask their friends to take a spin on their friends’ boards to get a feel for different brands before purchasing on themselves., By simply typing a word string into their favorite search engine, your teen could locate dozens – even hundreds – of reviews for products of all sorts online. For example, continuing with the skateboard example, your teen could type “best skateboard for teens” into their search engine of choice. They’ll get a mix of longer, more in-depth professional reviews, and shorter consumer reviews.Help your teen identify and understand average product ratings. Some ratings are on a system of 10, others on a system of five, or based on some sort of star rating system.
Remind your teen that a single good review – or a single bad review – should not cause them to finalize or discount their decision to buy a product. Smart buyers will invest serious effort into understanding the pros and cons of an expensive product before deciding whether it’s worth it.
 Consumer Reports is a magazine available at many public libraries that includes systematic ratings for all major new products. If your teen is thinking about buying a car, for instance, help them locate a copy Consumer Reports’ most recent review of automobiles., Many people engage in impulse-buying because they see deals that urge them to “Act now” or buy an object that’s available “For a limited time only.” However, these phrases and terms that encourage immediate action are often misleading. Explain to your teen that ads are designed to sell things, not to provide a balanced worldview or accurate information.Help your teen understand that sales are cyclical, and occur with regularity around holidays and during the end of seasons.

