 You'll need a small, closed off area of your home to play this game. This area is generally dark, though you could also choose one that is well lit. You might also want to include chairs for players to sit in, though this is not necessary to play the game.Some locations you might consider for your game include a closet, a bathroom, or a laundry room, to name a few.
If you want the room to be dark at all times, you could remove the light bulb(s) from the fixture(s) in the room.
Be sure that the area is clear and free of any obstacles that might be dangerous, especially if you've removed the lights from the room.
To keep players from watching the clock, you may want to remove clocks from the room where you'll be playing the game. This may include cell phones and watches.;
, Typically, this game is played with a roughly equal number of boys and girls, though depending on the preferences of the players, this might not always be the case. A group of 10 - 14 is common, though the game can be played with as few as 6 people.


You may want to play with friends from school, your neighborhood, or if you're at camp, you might try to play the game with campmates.
 Now that the room is prepared and you have your players gathered, you'll need to explain the rules of the game. This is particularly important because there can be many different variations of 7 Minutes in Heaven. Generally, the rules include:


Selecting two people at random.
Sending the chosen two into the room for a private 7 minutes. Don't forget to close the door!
Letting the chosen two out of the room at the end of 7 minutes.
You might also create "house rules" when you play, like "the lights have to be on/off" or "no watches or cell phones allowed in the room."
To prevent anyone from feeling uncomfortable, you may want to make a rule that no one has to go into the room unless they want to., This is how you're going to select the two people sent into the room for their 7 minutes in heaven. You might spin a bottle to randomly select two people or draw names from a hat. If you want to ensure that a boy and girl each are sent into the room, you could arrange your lottery by gender.To split your lottery by gender, you might spin the bottle once for the boys and another time for the girls. The person the bottle points to in each group will be sent to the room.
When drawing names from a hat or container, you might have one container for girls and one for boys. Each round of the game, you can select one name from each.
 Each round of the game consists of two people in the room for 7 minutes. You can play the game for as many rounds as you want, though you may want other activities, like a board game or cards, to keep other players occupied while waiting for the chosen two to finish their 7 minutes in heaven.A timer with a dramatic alert, like a siren, can add to the atmosphere of this game while helping you keep track of time.
When the timer is up, knock on the door and let the chosen two know that it's time to come out. Then you can select two new players with your random lottery.
You may want a dramatic reveal at the end of the 7 minutes in heaven. If this is the effect you desire, you could open the door suddenly when the time is up.

