 Start with clean, dry hair before you begin curling. Make sure that it is free of knots and tangles too. Next, apply a curl enhancing product to your locks to ensure that they will hold the curls.








Curl enhancers come in a variety of formulas, but when you’re doing pin curls, it’s best to use a spray product.
 To make it easier to curl and pin your hair, it helps to divide it. Depending on how thick and long your hair is, you may just want to separate it into two sections, one on either side of your head. If you have a lot of hair, though, you may find it easier to work with three or more sections








Use hair elastics or clips to separate each section. That way, the other sections won’t get in your way when you start to curl.
 To start your first curl, take a piece of hair from the top of the section you’re working with. Keep in mind that the size of the section you take will determine what your final curls look like. A small section, approximately 1-inch or so, will result in tight curls. If you use larger sections, you’ll wind up with looser curls.When you take hold of the section you’re going to curl, brush it out to ensure that it’s smooth, and spray it with some more of your curl enhancing product.
 Starting approximately 1-inch from the end of the section, begin rolling the hair back on itself to create a loop. It helps to use your finger to twist the hair back over to hold the curl shape in place as you work. Roll the section of hair all the way back toward your head, placing it flat against the scalp.








Make sure to tuck the end of the hair into the loop to ensure that it’s curled as well.
 With the section of looped hair pressed to your scalp, use a bobby pin to secure the curl in place. Depending on how thick your hair is, you may need another bobby pin to keep the hair in place.








Be sure to have plenty of bobby pins on hand. You don’t want to have to go hunting for pins when you’re trying to hold a curl in place.
 Once your first curl is pinned, you can move onto the rest of your hair. Complete the process for the first section of hair that you’re working with, and then move on to the next section until your entire head is done. Make sure that you curl every piece of hair, so there are no random straight pieces when you’re done.








Be sure to do the top of each section first. It’s more difficult to do the lower pieces if the top layer is in the way.
 When all of your hair is pinned, it’s time to ensure that your curls will last all day once you take them done. Use a firm hold hairspray to mist your entire head. Ensure that you apply the spray evenly to every pinned curl so they’ll all stay in place.








Don’t hold the hairspray too close to your hair when you’re spraying or your hair may wind up feeling really hard and crunchy. Hold the bottle approximately 8-inches from your head while you’re spritzing.
 To ensure that you get the best curls possible, you need to leave the pins in for at least several hours. Three or four hours can often be enough, but you’ll get the best results if you leave the curls in place overnight. Because they’re pinned flat against your head, pin curls are usually comfortable to sleep with.If you want to go out while you’re waiting for your curls to set or keep the curls undisturbed while you sleep, fold a large scarf or bandana into a triangle and wrap it over your hair.
 When you think your curls have had time to properly set, being removing the pins and uncurling your hair. They’ll be fairly tight when you first unroll them, so use your fingers to gently comb through and style them.








If your curls are too tight, use a brush instead of your fingers to work through your hair. That will help smooth them so they have more of a wavy appearance.

