 This means that you should eat meals that are low in fat. For instance, proteins that are low in fat are easier to digest than those higher in fat. Red meat and high-fat dairy products are harder to digest than bananas, rice, or low-fat yogurt.Fat is hard to digest and can cause diarrhea if you eat too much of it.For example, avoid foods that are deep fried. This will add a lot of fat to your diet as well.;
, Simple carbohydrates, such as white rice or white bread, are easier to digest than complex carbohydrates, such as beans and whole grains, because they break down easier in the gut.If you have digestive issues that cause diarrhea, eat simple carbohydrates to help with the problem.


It is important to note that the fiber in more complex carbohydrates also has an important function in digestion. It is not easily digested — in fact, it is not digested at all — but instead serves to help move food through the digestive system smoothly.Don't eat complex carbs if you are having acute digestive problems, but they should be a big part of your normal diet.
 The probiotic bacteria in yogurt is great for digestion. It adds good enzymes to your gut and eliminates harmful bacteria that can be bad for digestion.Choose a plain low-fat yogurt that does not have a lot of added sugar to your diet to help your digestion.


However, it can be helpful to eliminate other types of dairy from your diet if you are wanting to promote good digestion. Specifically, many people have problems digesting lactose, one of the sugars contained in milk. If you have a hard time with lactose, eliminate dairy or choose lactose-free dairy products., If you need a diet that is really easy to digest, consider following a BRAT diet. The name of the diet stands for "banana, rice, applesauce, and toast." This is a very bland diet that can help you overcome digestive discomfort and diarrhea.


This diet should only be used temporarily to help with acute digestive discomfort. It is not good for long-term nutrition.
 Bland foods are easier on your digestive system than spicy ones. If you have a delicate digestive system, spicy foods, such as chili peppers, are likely to upset your stomach or to cause you to produce excess stomach acid.People with digestive illnesses, such as ulcers or chronic heartburn, should avoid spicy foods. They can make the symptoms of these diseases worse., Simple, whole foods are generally easier to digest than highly processed foods. If you have a choice between a whole food, such as a piece of fruit, or a processed food, such as a frozen dinner, choose the unprocessed food.


There is a range of processed foods. Frozen meals, such as frozen pizzas, are usually highly processed and contain a lot of extra sodium, salt, and preservatives. But the term "processed foods" also includes things that are very minimally processed, from washed and bagged lettuce to vegetables that are simply flash-frozen. These are acceptable options, as they do not have a lot of added ingredients that are bad for you.If you're unsure, check the ingredient list.
 It is a myth that drinking water during a meal will harm your digestion. Instead, adding a beverage to your meal can actually help digestion.Cut out caffeinated beverages from your diet if you are having digestive issues such as stomach pain or heartburn.These can dehydrate you and cause excessive stomach acids to be produced.
 Digestion can be aided by chewing your food thoroughly. Chewing your food thoroughly allows your digestive system to do a better job at digestion because the food has already been broken down into small pieces and the food is covered in saliva, which contains enzymes that break down food.Remember that the digestive process begins as soon as the food enters your mouth.
 Eating smaller meals allows your digestive system to work more efficiently. Instead of overloading the system with a huge meal, multiple small meals allows the food to be properly digested, in addition to helping to maintain your blood sugar and maintain your metabolism.On that same note, avoid overeating. Eating too much food overwhelms your digestive system, requires excessive digestive acid, and doesn't allow you to digest food efficiently.
 Don't do a lot of activity right after eating. Allow your body to focus on digestion instead of physical activity. This will allow your body to use all the blood it needs for digestion instead of using it elsewhere in the body.


Eating right before extreme physical activity, such as working out, can cause nausea, acid reflux, and vomiting. Instead, wait until after you exercise to eat a big meal.