 If you are resigned to handling the job yourself and don't have a sand blaster, painting is another option. For the most part, you'll only want to be painting over graffiti on surfaces that were painted in the first place.


Painting is a good option for smooth surfaces like fences and some walls.
If the wall is a smooth and fairly non-porous surface, painting over the offending graffiti is much easier.
 Ideally you'll know exactly what paint was originally used.If you don't, you may want to test your potential match against a small section of the surface. You wouldn't want to paint over graffiti on an ivory white fence with eggshell white - you'd end up needing to paint the rest of the fence eggshell white as well.
 Even though you are simply painting over an eyesore, you'll want your job to last. You will want to clean the surface, let it dry, and then apply a paint primer. If you need to be careful not to get primer or paint on other surfaces, be sure to line the edges of those surfaces with painter's tape.Some paints do not require a primer. Primers are also more often used on porous and non-uniform surfaces., As the primer dries, pour your paint into a paint tray. Once the primer is dry, it is time to get your brush or roller ready.
 For small jobs a brush will suffice, but for larger jobs you'll want to use a paint roller. You'll want your tool covered in a heavy coat of paint that isn't so thick that it drips. Using slow and even strokes, paint over the offending graffiti. Depending on the colors involved you may need to use several coats - perhaps even allowing your first coats to dry and then re-applying.


Don't squeeze the paint out while brushing or rolling. Just roll or brush it out! Pushing too hard and squeezing the roller cause lines in the paint and damage to your roller. , After the paint dries you'll want to step back and get perspective on your work. Often (and particularly with white surfaces) you may see an outline of the graffiti under your paint. If so, apply another coat. Store your tools in case you need them again in the future.

