 The other player will start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. This document will describe the incident as the other player remembers it. The complaint will also state how much the player is suing you for.You should be served a copy of the complaint along with a “summons.” The summons will tell you how much time you have to respond to the lawsuit. Note the date.
You must respond to the lawsuit before the deadline on the summons. If you don’t, then the other player could get a “default judgment” against you.Default judgments are very hard to set aside. Instead, you basically lose the lawsuit without having a chance to defend yourself. Accordingly, you need to commit to answering the complaint before the deadline.;
, You will need an attorney to help defend you in the lawsuit. A qualified attorney can listen to you describe your case and offer advice about how to handle it. As soon as you finish reading the complaint, you should try to find a personal injury lawyer to defend you.


Get referrals from other players. Maybe teammates have been sued for violence before. If so, ask your teammates if they would recommend their lawyers.
You can also get a referral by contacting your local or state bar association, which should run a referral program.Once you have the name of a lawyer, you can call and schedule a consultation to meet.
 You have some defenses to the lawsuit, which you should discuss with your lawyer at your consultation. Take all evidence that you have and show it to the lawyer. Your possible defenses can include:


The athlete is not as injured as he or she claims. You might not win the lawsuit with this defense. However, you could reduce the amount of money you have to pay the other player as compensation.
Your state doesn’t allow an athlete to bring this claim. If your state doesn’t allow players to sue other players for injuries, then you can ask the judge to dismiss the lawsuit.
You acted negligently, not recklessly or intentionally. Generally, you can only be sued if you intentionally or recklessly harmed the player. You cannot be sued if you behaved negligently.For example, if you deliberately beat a pitcher with a baseball bat, then you have intentionally harmed him.
If you stepped on a football player’s back without intending to hurt him, you nevertheless acted recklessly. You knew your action was very likely to result in injury, but you ignored that risk. That is reckless conduct.
If you only carelessly tackled a football player, then you are not responsible for the player’s injuries. Your careless behavior was merely negligent. You can defend yourself by arguing that you acted only negligently, not intentionally or recklessly.
 You respond to a complaint by filing an answer in the court. Your lawyer will draft this document for you, as well as all other legal documents. In the answer, you respond to every allegation made in the complaint. You either admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny.If you don’t respond to an allegation, then the court will consider it admitted as true.
You can also raise any counterclaims that you have in your answer. For example, if you got into a fight with the other player, you could sue for any injuries you also suffered.
For more information on answers, see Answer a Civil Lawsuit.
 The player who filed the lawsuit is the plaintiff, and he or she must get a copy of every document you file with the court. If the plaintiff has a lawyer, then the lawyer will get the copy of your answer.Your lawyer will schedule service.


Your lawyer will have to hire someone to make personal hand-delivery on the plaintiff. Typically, your lawyer will hire a professional process server.
Each court will have its own acceptable delivery methods. Your lawyer should be well-versed in the court’s rules.
 In some instances, your lawyer may be able to get the lawsuit kicked out of court before it even gets to discovery. A motion to dismiss is a formal request your lawyer will make asking the court to throw out the lawsuit. The motion can be based on a number of theories, some of which include a lack of jurisdiction or failure to state a claim., After you file your answer, the lawsuit enters a fact-finding phase called “discovery.” In discovery, you and the other player can request information from each other.You should try to find out what evidence the other side has to support its case.


You can request documents. For example, your lawyer will want to see all of the plaintiff’s medical records, as well as a list of doctors and hospitals the plaintiff visited. These records might show that the injury isn’t as serious as the plaintiff claims.
You can also ask witnesses questions, either in writing or in person during a “deposition.” For example, you can question the plaintiff about whether he or she has been following doctor’s orders. If not, you can use this evidence at trial to show that you are not responsible for the entire injury the plaintiff suffers from.
 After discovery, ask your lawyer if a motion for summary judgment is warranted. This motion asks the court to end the litigation and rule in your favor before a trial ever happens. It is usually filed at the conclusion of discovery. To be successful, you will need to show that there are no disputed material facts and that you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. You will show this by submitting written evidence and affidavits. When the court analyzes your motion, they will make every assumption in the other party's favor.Even if your motion does not end the litigation completely, it may resolve some causes of action. In that case, you would have less to worry about during your trial.
In a claim of player violence, one claim you will want to resolve is whether the assault claim is covered under an assumption of risk law. This should be brought up in your answer and can be covered again in your motion for summary judgment. If successful, the court will be saying that the activity was inherently dangerous and the plaintiff should have known of the risk or that the plaintiff contracted his or her right away and cannot sue., Before entering negotiations, you and your lawyer should try to come up with a strategy. Your strategy will depend on the strength of your case. If you have a strong case, you can be aggressive in negotiations and insist on settling for only a low amount. If your defense is weak, then you might want to settle for an amount close to what the plaintiff is asking for.


If the plaintiff has video evidence of you intentionally attacking him, then the plaintiff has a strong case. However, also consider what the video does not show. While a video may not necessarily lie, it is also not likely to tell the whole story. For example, maybe something happened before or after the video was recorded. You might need to settle for 90% or more of the amount asked for.
However, you might have a stronger case if there is no video, and witnesses disagree about what happened. In this situation, you might only want to settle for less than 50% of what the plaintiff has asked for.
 You might meet in person to negotiate, or you could negotiate through letters. If you meet in person, then you should let your lawyer handle most of the negotiation discussions. Nevertheless, you should certainly attend and offer your input.


Remember not to settle too quickly in negotiations.You should try to get the best deal that you can. For example, you might only want to pay $50,000 but be willing to pay $100,000. If the plaintiff’s first offer is $100,000, you should continue to negotiate and try to get closer to $50,000—or even under that amount.
Always justify your counter-offer. Give reasons why you think it is a fair amount. For example, your lawyer could say, “The medical bills only total $40,000 and you don’t have much documented pain and suffering. I think $50,000 is a fair settlement.”
Some negotiations may take place during settlement conferences, which will take place in front of your judge. In this instance, the judge will try to help both parties see the strengths and weaknesses in their cases with the hope of coming to an agreement and avoiding trial.
 Your lawyers should draft the agreement, which will serve as a contract between you and the other player. You both must sign it. If the plaintiff has already filed a lawsuit, then you can file the settlement agreement with the court when the plaintiff files to dismiss the case.


Also make sure to get a “full release” of liability. By signing this document, the plaintiff agrees not to sue you at a later date for injuries stemming from the same incident., If informal negotiations do not work, you may offer to go through mediation. During mediation, a neutral third party is hired to help you and the other party find common ground. Mediators can be hired through the American Arbitration Association.Once hired, you and the other party will meet with the mediator, who will discuss chances to settle.


A mediator will not make any claims about who would win or who has the stronger case, their job is to help both parties reach an acceptable agreement.
 If mediation does not work, you may move on to arbitration. During arbitration, a neutral third party will act like a judge and review evidence and come to conclusions. Unlike mediation, where the third party is simply there to foster communication, arbitration will look more like a trial.


You and the other party will submit your evidence to the arbitrator, who will review everything over a period of weeks. Once the arbitrator has reviewed the evidence, he or she will provide their opinion on who should win, and how much should be awarded. Your arbitration will likely be non-binding, which means neither party has to agree with or follow the arbitrator's decision. However, if you are subject to binding arbitration, the arbitrator's decision will be final.
 Before the trial starts, you will have to pick a jury (unless both you and the plaintiff agree to let the judge decide the case). Jury selection is called “voir dire.” During this process, the judge calls a panel of potential jurors up to the front of the courtroom where the judge asks them questions.


The judge will ask potential jurors basic questions about their lives, such as their jobs and their hobbies. The judge will also ask if jurors know either you or the plaintiff and if they are aware of the alleged violent incident.
You can ask the judge to remove a juror “for cause” if you don’t think the juror can be fair. For example, the juror might admit to having watched the game when the violent incident took place. He or she might confess to having already decided that you are responsible for the injuries. In this situation, your lawyer will ask the judge to dismiss the juror for cause.
The judge will also give you a limited number of “peremptory challenges.” With these, you can remove a potential juror without having to give the judge a reason or having to get the judge’s permission. The only limitation is that you can’t use them in a way that is discriminatory based on race, ethnicity, or sex., The other player will present evidence first, since he or she is bringing the lawsuit. Generally, the plaintiff will call as witnesses anyone who saw you allegedly attack the plaintiff. Other witnesses can include doctors and the plaintiff.


Your lawyer might have several goals when cross-examining a plaintiff’s witness. One goal would be to get helpful information. For example, a doctor might admit that the plaintiff’s injuries could have healed faster if he stopped playing sports for a few weeks.
Your lawyer might also try to undermine the credibility of other witnesses. For example, the plaintiff might be lying on the stand. Your lawyer can impeach the witness by bringing to the jury’s attention contradictory statements the plaintiff made in a deposition., You will be able to present evidence second. The evidence you present will depend on the circumstances. For example, there might not be any video evidence that captured what happened between you and the plaintiff. In this case, the plaintiff relies on eye-witness testimony about how you attacked him. You could present your own witnesses to contradict the plaintiff’s witnesses.
 You will probably have to testify, since your actions are the subject matter of the lawsuit. However, if your actions are also the focus of a criminal investigation or criminal lawsuit, you may want to consider pleading the fifth and not taking the stand. When you plead the fifth, you are invoking your constitutional right to not incriminate yourself. If you are going to testify, prepare for your testimony by doing a trial run with your lawyer. Your lawyer can pretend to be the plaintiff’s attorney. Remember the following tips for being an effective witness during your trial:Dress professionally. The judge and jury will form opinions about you based on your appearance. You should try to wear a suit if you have one. For other tips, see Dress for a Court Hearing.
Be honest in your testimony. Don’t be evasive. Instead, answer the question squarely.
Do not guess. If you don’t know the answer to a question, then say, “I don’t know” or “I can’t remember.”
Have the attorney rephrase or clarify a question if you don’t understand it.
Avoid humor. A trial for personal injuries is not the time to try to be funny. You could lose credibility with the jury if you try to lighten the mood.
 The judge will read the jury its instructions after all evidence is in. Then the judge will dismiss the jury to deliberate. When the jury has reached a decision, you will be notified to show back up in court.


In many state courts, juries do not have to be unanimous. Instead, the plaintiff could win if nine or ten out of twelve jurors agreed with him.
In federal court, juries must still be unanimous.If even one person agrees with you, then you will win the lawsuit.
 You might want to appeal the verdict if you lose at trial. You can start the appeal process by filing a Notice of Appeal with the trial court. You will only have a short amount of time to file, typically 30 days or even less. In some states, you might only have 10 days.Before filing your Notice of Appeal, you should talk with your lawyer about whether an appeal will be worthwhile. Appeals can take up to a year, and you can only win if the judge made a serious error or if the jury’s verdict is completely unsupported by the evidence.

