 This will be especially valuable if you’re doing tasks such as cleaning cages and helping care for the various domestic animals. This practical training will appeal to zoos and show that you’re willing to perform the tedious roles that come with caring for animals., This will often allow you to get hands-on experience with wild creatures in a much shorter time than it would take at a zoo. At a rehabilitation center, you can feed baby birds and mammals, bandage injured animals, provide public-information talks, or help maintain endangered-animal databases.Volunteer positions are great ways to build up your experience working with animals in a professional setting.
If there is not a wildlife rehabilitation in your area, there are many other locations to volunteer at, although these may not all feature wild animals.Check if you can volunteer at: local farms, horse stables, or veterinary offices (especially with vets who specialize in large animals).
 Most of today’s zoos are no longer run for the primary purpose of displaying exotic animals that most people would otherwise never see. Today’s zoos serve as a way to preserve endangered species.


Endangered species groups work to preserve animal habitat, and also to educate the public about the plight of endangered animals—whether they are harmed through poaching or through continual habitat loss.Volunteering with an endangered species is a great way to gain experience, especially if the endangered species is of particular interest to you.
Endangered-species work will also look attractive on your resume to your potential employers at a zoo.
 Specifically ask about their education and experience. When you talk to them, as specific questions like:


“What was your college major? Do you think this major helped you get your animal-keeper job, or would another have been more helpful?”
“How many years of animal-related experience do zoos look for when hiring a zookeeper?”
“What does the majority of your day-today work look like?”

, This is an excellent way to get hands-on experience in working with exotic animals and develop an understanding of the actual work involved in maintaining happy, healthy animals in a zoo setting.


These departments will acquire animals, whether by purchasing them from other zoos, or working with police to confiscate endangered or threatened animals that are illegally owned (e.g. in a private residence or an illegal circus).
Internships are available as both paid and volunteer positions. If you only qualify for the volunteer internship and can afford to do it for no pay, take the opportunity. The experience will prove valuable in the future.
 Whatever level of school you are in (even middle school or high school), you can study animals and the ways that zoos breed, train, raise, and care for their animals.Read whatever books you can find about animals, especially if the books relate to a specific type of animal that holds your interest or discuss zoos and the animals who live there.
 Most zoos require their exotic animal care specialists to have a minimum of a Bachelor’s of Science in Zoology or Animal Science (or a related field, such as Animal Husbandry).Although four-year degrees in Animal Husbandry or Zoology are most common, there are colleges that offer two-year Associate degrees in related fields.
Even if you are not planning to attend a two- or four-year college, you can still enroll in individual zoology courses through a community college.
 Even if you’re already majoring in Zoology or Animal Science, you can still take classes that delve into animal-related topics outside of your own major. This will look good on your resume and show that you have a broad awareness of how to work with animals.Take courses like:


Specialized biology topics like mammalogy, herpetology, etc.
Wildlife and forestry.
Ecology and ethology (topics of animal behavior).
 Familiarize yourself with the tasks frequently performed by zookeepers and, whenever possible, perform them yourself (in an academic or volunteer setting). As a zookeeper working directly with animals, you’ll need to be able to:Prepare the food for animals, and often feed them.
Shovel and dispose of animal excrement, and keep their cages clean.
In some cases, you’ll need to answer visitors’ questions about animals, and show visitors certain features of animal behavior and habitat.
Apply rudimentary veterinary knowledge to the animals in case they are injured or ill.
 This is a great resource. Look for for volunteer job openings that you are qualified for, and apply for the job. Getting a foot in the door and proving your abilities and willingness to help may help in getting that coveted job later. Some of the most common volunteer openings in a zoo are:


Grounds-keeper assistant
Gift shop attendant
Special events or fundraiser assistant
Children’s zoo volunteer
Maintenance worker

, Since most zoos draw their zookeepers from a relatively small group of people (e.g. animal enthusiasts), they will often advertise these positions in publications related to animal science.Specifically, check zoo-based job listings in:


The Zoo News Digest website.

Cage & Aviary Birds magazine

International Zoo News magazine

, There are other zoo-based jobs, other than simply being a zookeeper, which will allow you to work closely with animals.Unless you are determined to be a zookeeper specifically, consider planning to work as a:


Veterinarian or animal-health technician.
Field researcher or research assistant.
Animal behaviorist or animal trainer.

