 Either use one that you already have or build one from scratch. If you are using an existing one, it must be wide enough to accommodate the top of the stage that you'll be building in the next part. If building one from scratch, cut three base panels to the height of choice, using the following widths:

Cut one piece 59" long for the front panel.
Cut two pieces 34" long for the two side pieces.


The height should be determined by what will be high enough to cover an adult squatting down behind the panel. Only your hands should be observed (covered in the puppets), none of your body or head.
 Screw these into place firmly. You may also need to glue the edges together for a firm fit, that depends on how well the brackets are holding the pieces together.





The image demonstrates another option for attaching the panels together, using metal square pole joints instead of bracketing the wooden pieces closely together.
Cut the flagstaffs (long poles, see image above) to size.
Don't make any shelves, as they'll only get in the puppeteers' way. If you need a place to hold items, boxes can be shifted in and out from the back of the stage, as needed.
 After you've built the lemonade stand, you have made the base of the puppet stage. You'll now need to make the top of the stage, from which the curtains will hang., They are now ready to be cut as follows:

Cut two pieces 59" long. These will become the long sides of the curtain-top frame.
Cut another pair of pieces 34" long.These pieces will become the short sides of the frame.
Cut two 23" lengths which will become the filler pieces.


 

;
,





Place the 34" side pieces first. One goes on the left and the other on the right.
Set the 59" front and back pieces perpendicular to the 34-inch side pieces, with their ends resting on top of the 34" pieces. This forms a rectangle.
Set the 23" filler pieces on top of the 34" side pieces and between the 59" front and back pieces. You should now have a rectangle in one plane on the top. Square up the pieces using a framing square to align the outer edges.






Carefully lift up the filler pieces and put carpenter's glue along the bottom surfaces.
Replace them and check the alignment with a framing square again.
Drive four #8 or #10 x 1-1/4" long screws through each filler piece into the end pieces below, securing the two pieces.
, Holding the long side in place, drive three 1/4-inch screws through each end, into the side piece below Avoid driving a screw in the extreme outside corner of each corner; you'll be drilling holes for the curtain rods there later.,, (Perfection is not required.), At each corner, square a line 3-% inches in from each outside edge, so that you have two lines that intersect. Use an awl to punch each intersection point.
, Repeat at the other three corners., Square lines across the nearer long side 28 inches (71.1 cm) in from either end. On one of these lines, mark a point 1 inch (2.5 cm) in from the near edge of the frame.,, Mark the point where the two lines intersect. Do the same on the other far corner. If there is a screw in the way at these crosshairs, rake it out now., Drill a hole all the way through the top frame at each of the four points you've marked.

These smaller holes are for the curtain-rod ends.
 Each one should measure 11 f 'ct by 12 inches., You should now have three 11-feet by 6-inch lengths of cloth., surface. Clamp the frame in place. Then find the center of the front edge of the frame and make a small pencil mark there., At the midpoint, staple the unfolded edge of the cloth to the center of the front edge of the frame, keeping the edge of the cloth flush with the top edge of the frame. At this stage, the unfolded edge of cloth should be stapled to the wood and the folded edge should hang down.


Grab hold of the top edge of the cloth a few inches to the left of the midpoint.
Bring that top edge back against the midpoint staple, making a loop of cloth that points out toward you.
Keeping the top edge in position, flatten the loop to the left and staple its end to the edge of the frame. The new staple should be just about an inch away from the midpoint staple. You've just made one pleat.



Grab the cloth a few inches to the left of the pleat, pull the top edge back to the staple you just placed.
Fold the loop of cloth down to the left, and staple it flush to the top edge of the top frame.
Working to the left, create a series of flat, folded pleats across the top of the top frame. The end result will appear just like the tops of old-fashioned curtains.


Try to keep each of the folds even, stapling every inch or so. You may also find that pleating may be an easier task with two people working together, one to fold and hold the cloth and the other to staple.
 Get another length of fabric, and keep going. Overlap the new fabric over the "ruffle" of the old fabric by an inch or so.
, At this point, cut the fabric about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) longer than you need, and fold this extra underneath before putting in the last staple, just before the corner.,, Start at the end of one short side, moving across the front, and finishing on the other short side. Cut off any excess ribbon when you are finished.

Gluing, smoothing, and holding the ribbon in place may require a few extra sets of hands.


The result will be a beautiful finished ruffle.
 Each piece should be 5 1⁄2 feet (1.7 m) long (but longer is okay too).,, Iron it down. Then, staple it in place., Then bring the other piece of fabric to the work surface, ironing and stapling using the same three folds., Figure out how much you'll have to fold over to make the final width of each cloth 36 inches (91.4 cm). If your fold is more than 2 inches (5.1 cm), use two or even three rows of staples to hold it down.

Alternatively, you can trim off some of the extra cloth to make your fold less than 2 inches (5.1 cm).
 Start at a corner and place a clip every 6 inches (15.2 cm) or so., Bend them until they are basically straight.






To bend (or straighten) the tubing, grasp it with both hands, with your thumbs pointing toward each other and about an inch apart. Gently push in with your thumbs until you feel the tubing move. Shift your hands along the tubing and press down again with your thumbs, bending the tubing just a little in each place along its length to avoid creating kinks.
 Mark both tubes together at three even intervals where the tubing is going to be bent into shape: a bend in from each end of the tubes and one bend in the middle. The two end bends at each side should be exactly the same measurement in from the ends, about 11 inches in from each end, while the center bend is dead center, 31 3/4 inches from the end (see the image to help you see where to make the bend points).
 Hold the end you have just measured from in your right hand. About 11/2 inches (5.1 cm) from the end, begin bending the tubing. Bend a little, moving your hands farther down, then bend a little more. When you reach the first layout mark on the tubing, stop bending and check your progress.

Your goal is to make the tubing turn 90 degrees evenly between the end of the tube and the first layout mark. Adjust the curve being shaped by bending more (or unbending if necessary), spreading your efforts along the whole length of bent tubing. (Perfection is not required, and you will be able to make adjustments later.)

, Begin making a second bend along a horizontal plane, trying to complete a 90-degree turn by the time you reach the third layout mark. You should end up with a left-hand bend., Make the end bend as for the first end bend., The second curtain rod will be a mirror image of the first., Hold the completed curtain rods up to the curtain frame to check their alignment, remembering that they overlap at the center of the frame., The rods should curve around the outside of the larger holes (so that on opening night the curtain can follow the same path around the pole that will run through the holes). If the rods are out of alignment, bend them into position now., Slip the curtains onto them., Work the ends of the rods down into the holes until they reach all the way through the frame to the work surface., Drive the sheet-metal screws into the tubing until the screw head contacts the wood frame. This is an unorthodox use of screws and copper tubing, but with some extra force, the threads should bite into the copper and flare it right against the sides of the drilled hole.




