 Rocks glasses, the classic whiskey cup, are short, round glasses made for 12-14oz or liquid. Tulip glasses are curved wide at the bottom and thinner up top, concentrating the smells near your nose, and are used for more high-class whiskey tastings. While any glass will do, these are the two typical glasses used to serve whiskey.Two fingers means that you pour the whiskey up to the height of two fingers held at the bottom of the glass.;
, Whiskey gets its color from contact with the wooden cask it is aged in. In general, the darker the color, the older the whiskey. Purplish tints can mean the whiskey was aged in sherry or port barrels, giving it a slightly fruitier taste.


Some older whiskeys are aged in bourbon barrels that have been used 2-3 times already, and thus stay light colored despite their aging. This is much more common in bourbons.
Some younger, cheaper whiskeys, like Jack Daniels, have caramel coloring added to them to give them the appearance of "classic" whiskeys. This is why even cheap whiskey can look dark., Don't jam your nostrils in, as the scent of alcohol will be so overpowering that you won't notice any of the flavors. Instead, bring the glass to your nose slowly until you can smell it well. What do you notice? What sorts of flavors are present? Smell is often the best indicator of a whiskey's flavor, and many master blenders use their noses more than their tongues when making whiskey.Some common smells include:



Vanilla, caramel, and toffee are the classic "whiskey flavors," and are a byproduct of the aging process in wooden casks.

Floral and citrus flavors are becoming more and more common in whiskeys, especially blends.

Maple flavors are common in many American whiskeys, particularly in Tennessee Whiskey like Jack Daniels.

Smokiness is common in Scotch whiskey, particularly from the region of Islay. The smokiness comes from the peat fires used to dry the whiskey out., This drop of water not only dilutes the whiskey slightly, making the flavor a bit more manageable to novice drinkers, it also opens up the flavors and makes them more noticeable. Whenever possible, use distilled or bottled water to preserve the flavor of the whiskey.This is because high-alcohol whiskeys can feel like they burn your tongue, preventing you from enjoying many of the flavors.


If you choose to skip the water, you're ordering the whiskey "neat," which means without water or ice.
The amount of water you add is up to you, but try 1 "cap-full" to start. Add more as necessary. Many people like to take one sip without water first in order to compare the flavors, then add a few drops to enjoy the rest of the glass., Take a sip of the whiskey and let it coat your tongue, lingering on your palate before swallowing. Don't chug it or down it like a shot. A medium-sized sip, enjoyed slowly, is the best way to drink whiskey. There is a variety of questions to ask yourself after tasting, but the first and most important is simply, "Did you enjoy it?" Other considerations include:


"Was it thick or thin on your palette?"
"Did the flavors change or evolve at all as it was in your mouth and swallowed?"
"Did the taste subside quickly or linger in your mouth?", Whiskey becomes a bit dull when it chills, so serious whiskey drinkers usually skip the ice or add no more than 1 cube. Ice not only chills the drink, it usually adds more water than you want as it melts, diluting the drink too much and making it watery.