 Research on lupus is still ongoing, and there is much about the disease that is still unknown and unverified by scientific evidence. For this reason, there are a number of traditional and alternative treatments that might help reduce your lupus flares, even if they are not yet widely adopted. However, you should discuss these treatments with your physician before beginning any of them.


Your physician will need to be informed about all treatments you are using, so that he or she can provide you the most effective care plan.
Your physician can also tell you about potential side effects or complications of using an alternative treatment method, based on your particular case and symptoms.
 This type of medication, a weakly androgenetic steroid, can stabilize the symptoms of lupus, as studies have shown an inverse relationship between the levels of androgen in the body and the progression of lupus. Ask your physician if this treatment is right for your case, and about potential side effects (such as acne-like skin eruptions)., Flaxseed is a substance thought to lessen inflammation. There is some indication that it may help kidney function in some lupus patients (kidneys are some of the organs most affected by lupus).Try adding flaxseeds to cereal or to tomato or orange juice.
Flaxseeds can also be taken in the form of flaxseed oil. The recommended daily dose (usually only a teaspoon or two) can be taken with water or mixed with salad.
 Fish oil can also be used to handle lupus flares. Recent studies have shown a potential decrease in lupus flares among people taking fish oil regularly. Fish oil contains omega-3 which can help decrease inflammation.Fish oil is usually taken in the form of oral capsules.
Talk with your physician about the amount of fish oil you should take each day, based on your health condition.
 Because lupus is an inflammatory disease, eating a diet that reduces inflammation is important. Stick to fruits, vegetables, proteins, and other foods that do not promote inflammation and avoid foods that are known to cause inflammation.


Avoid the nightshade vegetables, which include peppers, eggplant, tomatoes, and white potatoes. These foods contain solanine that contributes to inflammation and pain., Astragalus (Astragalus membranaceus) is an herb that can be taken to reduce an overactive immune system in lupus patients.Astragalus root is boiled in water for a few minutes to make a brewed tea.