 Freckles are a hereditary trait caused by an uneven distribution of skin pigmentation. A freckle occurs when there is a large concentration of the melanin pigment underneath one spot on your skin.Most natural freckles are small and essentially harmless. They tend to show up on areas exposed to sunlight, like your face, and these are probably the type you're longing for. They also range in color and may be tan, brown, black, yellow, or red.
Sometimes freckles form as the result of sunburn. These are larger and often have irregular borders. While regular freckles usually fade after sunlight exposure decreases, sunburn freckles stay put.;
, If there are no freckles in your genetic line, you will not be able to develop natural freckles. The people most likely to develop freckles are those with red hair and pale skin, but freckles are not exclusive to this set of characteristics. People with dark hair are less likely to have freckles, though it is still possible for them to have them. People with light hair and light colored eyes are also more likely to have freckles.


To determine if freckles are in your family line, look at your family. Siblings, parents, grandparents, and others who you are directly descended from are your best sources to consider, but extended family whom you are not directly descended from still share some genetic traits with you.
 Freckles are drawn out with exposure to UV light. If you have natural freckles, spending a little time in bright sunlight might bring them out of hiding. Be careful, though - you should never stay out long enough to get a burn. Wearing sunscreen that's 20 to 30 SPF will still allow your skin to tan while protecting you from getting burned.


When UV rays hit the epidermis (the outermost layer of skin), it thickens slightly, causing the cells in your body to produce more pigment. As a result, the pigmentation of your freckles darkens, making them visible.
If you would rather skip the sunbathing, consider exposing yourself to UV rays at a tanning salon. Follow the salon's recommendations concerning the amount of time to spend tanning, since tanning too much in a salon can lead to cancer.
 Too much exposure to UV rays can be a major risk factor for skin cancer. Even though UV rays can seem like your best friend if you want freckles to form, they can have some very nasty side effects. As such, it is strongly recommended that you limit the amount of time you spend in the sun without sunblock or protective clothing.

