 Texas requires that you must be a parent, managing conservator, or legal guardian of the child whose name you are wishing to change.Both parents or guardians of the child must be served with the name change petition.If both parents agree to the name change, they can sign the name change petition or testify in court to state their agreement.
If both parents do not agree to the name change, a court hearing will be ordered. Different forms and processes may apply., You do not need a court order to change a child’s name on his or her birth certificate if you are correcting a minor error, such as a misspelling.You can also file an amendment form with the Texas Department of State Health Services if you need to add or correct information about the child’s biological parents.If you have any other reason to change your child’s name, you must request a court order to change it.


Any name change must be shown to be in the child’s best interest. For example, changing a child’s name because you have adopted him or her is in the child’s best interest, because you want to all have the same family name to build a cohesive family. However, changing a child’s name for frivolous reasons -- such as wanting to call your son “Khal Drogo Skywalker” -- is unlikely to be proven to be in the child’s best interest.
 If the child is 10 years old or older, you must get the child’s written consent to change his or her name. This consent must be included with the name change petition.You can get a form for your child to provide written consent from your local court.
 You must include information about your child and the reasons why you are requesting a name change. The information you must provide includes the following:The child’s current legal name and place of residence
The child’s date and place of birth
The reason the name change is requested
The full name you are requesting for the child
Whether the child is still subject to continuing court jurisdiction
Whether the child is required to register as a sex offender
Written consent from a child 10 years of age or older

, Changing your child’s name requires a court order. You will need to get an Original Petition for Change of Name of Child form from the court serving the district or county in which you live. You can also use the online template from the Collins County Law Library.Do not sign the forms until you have brought them before a notary!

, Your information must be verified to apply for a name change. As the petitioner for the name change, you must provide a notarized statement that verifies the truth of all the information in your name change petition. You must also verify all the information in your petition. You can verify this information by providing a notary with appropriate identification and signing the form in his or her presence.


The Verification statement can be obtained from your local court, or you can use the Collins County Law Library sample.Do not sign the Order Granting Name Change. This must be signed by a judge first.
You can find notaries at most large banks during regular business hours. If you hold an account at the bank, the notary will usually witness and sign your form for free. If you do not have an account, you may be charged a small fee.
The Texas Secretary of State has a search feature that can help you find a local notary., Make at least two copies of all of your forms before filing the notarized originals with the court.You will need to pay a filing fee. If you cannot afford this fee, you may apply to pay it in installments or request a waiver of the fee.
 Once the court approves the name change, it will sign the Order for Change of Name. You must file this order with your county or district court clerk’s office. Once the Clerk’s Office stamps the signed order, your child’s name change is official.


If your child has been involved in a custody or child support order, you must send a copy of your child’s name change ot the Central Record File at the Texas Bureau of Vital Statistics.