 Be sure your frog's water dish is clean and full of fresh water. Spray your frog and its enclosure daily with water to keep everything moist and help with the overall humidity in the habitat.Frogs have permeable skin – they drink water as well as breathe through their skin.
Always use Reverse Osmosis (RO) or distilled water for your frogs.
Standard tap water, even if dechlorinated, will still have heavy metals and other contaminants which can harm your critters.
 Your frog will enjoy many types of insects, including crickets, moths, pillbugs, and small dubias or lobster roaches. Feeder insects can be purchased online or at pet stores.Try to feed your frog insects that are no larger than the width between its eyes.
Don't feed your frog bugs you catch outdoors, because they may be infested with parasites or full of poisonous pesticides.
Some insects are toxic for frogs. Never feed your pet frog ladybugs, stinkbugs, millipedes or praying mantis.
 Proper nutrition comes from a well-rounded diet – this will lengthen your frog's life and improve its resistance to illness. In addition to bugs and other insects, your frog will enjoy other small prey animals that are small enough to fit easily into its mouth. These should be purchased at a pet store or online – it can be harmful to your frog to feed it wild bugs and worms from your back yard.Bear in mind that frogs eat live prey. If you are squeamish about putting live insects into your frog's habitat, you may want to consider a different type of pet.
Try feeding your frog caterpillar larvae, such as wax worms, horn worms, and silkworms.
You can also feed your frog the occasional small earthworm or red wiggler.
 Lightly coat their prey items with calcium powder with D3, multivitamin powder, and minerals. All these are readily available, last a long time, and are not very expensive. Dust an adult frog's food every two to four feedings, more often for juvenile frogs., Once a month, be sure to totally clean out the aquarium and thoroughly wash the items inside with hot water and let cool before returning the items to the enclosure. Also, a regular (daily) inspection and cleanup is recommended to help remove feces, damaged plant matter, and dead prey items.If you need to handle your frog in order to clean his habitat, always wet your hands with de-chlorinated water (water from a water bottle.) The natural oils in your skin can be toxic to frogs.
Avoid using chemicals to clean. When cleaning the frog's enclosure, never use chemicals. Even trace amounts of chemicals can burn your frog's skin, or even kill him.

