 The Court of Master Sommeliers (CMS) is an international organization that offers sommelier courses and qualifying exams in North America or the United Kingdom to get certified as a master sommelier.


You may need to create a CMS Student ID before you can register online for a CMS course.
Have at least 3 years of experience in wine service or a related food/hospitality industry before taking the first-level sommelier course.
Pay the required course or exam fees. They can range from 150 to 800 U.S. dollars. Your employer may pay the fees for you.;
, You will learn proper wine service, how to do blind tasting of wines, and receive an overview of wine-growing regions, alcoholic beverages and spirits. You must pass the written, multiple choice exam at the end of the course with a minimum score of 60 percent.
, This is a 1-day exam and may be known as exam level 2.


You must be professionally dressed in business attire and properly equipped to perform wine service. Equipment for wine service can include a corkscrew, ice bucket, the proper types of wine glasses, and a tastevin, which is a sort of silver cup sommeliers may wear around their necks and use to taste wine.
The exam involves blind tasting 2 wines, a written exam demonstrating knowledge of wine, beer, and spirits, and a practical exam demonstrating your ability to serve wine, champagne or perform decanting. The latter means pouring wine from its bottle into another container for serving.
 This course is 3 days of intensive lectures and tastings given by Master Sommeliers.
 This level of testing is 2 days and tests your salesmanship and serving ability with restaurant wine. It also includes a written exam to test the more in-depth knowledge needed for this level of sommelier and a blind tasting of 6 different wines.
 You must wait at least 1 year after passing the Advanced Sommelier Exam before taking the Master Sommelier exam for the first time.
 The exam consists of serving and recommending appropriate wines and spirits, an oral exam to demonstrate knowledge of wine-making and other related subjects such as other alcoholic beverages and cigar production, and clearly and correctly describing 6 wines in a blind tasting.


You have 3 straight years to pass all 3 parts of the Master Sommelier Diploma Exam. This gives you time to retake any portions of the exam you did not initially pass.

