 Lifting heavy objects improperly is the most common cause of back injuries, including bulging discs. Lift from your legs rather than your back. Stand as close as possible to the object that you wish to lift, with feet spread apart to give you a wide base. Then squat down and bend your knees, lifting up using the large muscles in your legs. As you lift, hold the object close to your body to reduce the strain on your back.Do not bend at the waist!
If an object is too heavy for you to lift on your own, seek help.
Also keep in mind that there is a greater risk of injury within one hour of waking up. This is because your spine has been in a horizontal position during sleep and has not fully rehydrated. Avoid lifting anything within one hour of waking up, especially if the movement involves twisting and bending.
 A correct posture will keep your head, shoulders, and hips aligned and your head up and reduce strain on your back. Incorrect posture, conversely, places extra stress on the spine. If you are standing or walking, stand up straight with your shoulders back and abdomen tucked in. If you must sit, use a pillow or other object to support your lower back if you do not have an adjustable, ergonomic chair to support your body. Your feet should either rest flat on the floor or be elevated.Try using a footstool to elevate your feet and legs when you are seated.
Riding in a vehicle for long periods can be quite stressful on the spine. Consider moving the car seat forward as much as possible to avoid leaning forward. Try to stop and walk about for a few minutes every hour, if possible.
 Extend good posture to your sleep. Sleep on a firm mattress. To keep your mattress firm, replace it every 8 to 10 years and flip it every 3 months. While using the bed, sleep on your back or on your side instead of on your stomach or in the fetal position. Sleeping on your back and on your side will reduce your risk for a bulging disc., Stretch your back whenever you have to endure long periods sitting down. This will prevent you from becoming stiff while at work or on a long car trip. Try the following quick exercise as a way to keep limber.


First, stand up straight and spread your legs hip-width apart. Bend your knees slightly and place both of your arms straight out in front of you at the height of your shoulders, keeping your shoulders down and relaxed.
Clasp one hand with the other hand, then drop your head toward your chest. Pull your abdominal muscles inward to protect the lower section of your back and slightly round your lower back.
Then, create the letter "C" shape with your torso by tucking your hips slightly forward, stretching your arms in front of you until you feel your shoulder blades moving apart. You will then begin to feel the stretching of your upper and lower back and your shoulders.
 Make sure that you take time every day to stretch your leg muscles, such as your hamstrings, calves, and thighs. It’s important to stretch all of your lower body muscles to avoid any tightness that might affect your back.

Try doing a forward bend, hamstring stretches, or a butterfly stretch.

