 Fill the tray with compost or planting soil until it’s as deep as the seed is wide. Water the soil until it is thoroughly moist, but not oversaturated. Plant the seed, layering just enough soil over it to cover it without burying it too deep.Continue to water as needed to keep all of the soil uniformly moist.Starting your seeds off in a tray will allow you to move them as needed to keep them in the shade and/or ideal temperatures.
To prevent the soil from drying out so quickly, set a sheet of glass over the tray to trap moisture.
Gardening “flats” and “trays” are the same thing, but may be labeled as one or the other depending on region.
 Watch for the seeds in your tray to grow into seedlings. Wait for them to grow at least two leaves that resemble your vegetable’s leaves once it is fully grown. Once they do, clear out any diseased summer vegetables currently in your garden. Then break up the soil with a trowel to a depth of four or five inches (10 to 13 cm) for better circulation.Since temperatures may still be high, utilize the shade cast by any summer vegetables that are still growing. Plan to transfer your seedlings at their base to keep your fall veggies out of the summer sun.
The roots of your remaining summer vegetables should be strong enough by now to be unfazed when you rake up the soil close to their base.
If you didn’t grow any summer vegetables, till the soil to remove weeds and other unwanted vegetation.
 Once you’re ready to transfer the seedlings to your garden, check the garden’s soil for dryness. If necessary, water the soil to moisten it (not soak it). Then, with a trowel, dig a hole of equal depth to the seedling’s roots in the tray. Make it twice as wide as the root itself so the root isn’t damaged from contact with the hole’s sides.If you grew summer vegetables, there should still be plenty of nutrients in the ground to feed your seedlings.
If not, layer a bed of compost and soil amendments over the existing soil. Dig your holes here instead of in the ground underneath.

