 You need to make sure you are eating the proper nutrients to sustain your health. By eating a healthy, nutrient-rich diet you can help ensure that your menstrual cycle is regular, which may prevent heavy bleeding.Choose healthy and nutrient-dense foods such as proteins including nuts, iron rich foods like dark green leafy vegetables, and dairy products like yogurt or cheese for calcium.You may want to follow the Mediterranean diet, which consists of healthy food combinations of fruits, vegetables, fish, meat and whole grains. It is low in animal fat and high in fish and vegetable oils, which some studies have shown will regulate your menstrual cycle.Consider healthy oils and seeds such as olive and flaxseed to help relieve menorrhagia., Green beans contain high fiber and are enriched with vitamin B, which prevents abdominal cramps.


B vitamins are essential components in the conversion of excess estrogen within the liver.It also promotes the synthesis of prostaglandins, which are an essential compound in reducing abnormal blood clots.Choose breads and grains that are fortified with iron, Vitamin B, fiber and protein.Vegetables such as green beans contain Vitamin B., Iron plays an essential role in the formation of red blood cells, and an iron deficiency may lead to anemia, which can cause heavy bleeding.Iron and vitamin C have a synergistic effect, with vitamin C being necessary for the effective absorption of iron. Incorporate foods containing both to help with menorrhagia.Eat vegetables such as broccoli, kale, sweet potatoes, and spinach to help you get iron, calcium, and Vitamin C.Eat fruits such as oranges and strawberries for Vitamin C. Prunes and dried apricots are a good source of iron.
 Magnesium is a vital mineral to balance female hormones such as progesterone and estrogen. Increasing your magnesium intake may help level off hormones and reduce heavy bleeding.As magnesium concentration decreases, your estrogen level increases and results in heavy bleeding.A good source of magnesium is rich dark chocolates.
 If you are suffering from anemia, you can try taking iron supplements. This may not only help cure your anemia, but also help reduce your menstrual flow.Follow packaging instructions for taking iron supplements.
You can get iron supplements at most pharmacies and many health food stores.
 Some studies found that acupuncture or acupressure can help relieve menorrhagia by releasing chemicals into the muscles and brain that control your menstrual cycle. Schedule a session for yourself with a certified practitioner to help relieve heavy bleeding.Acupressure can help increase blood flow to your back and uterus, which may alleviate cramping.Research suggests that acupressure or acupuncture may balance hormones, which can relieve hormonal shifts and pain associated with your period.