 In addition to eating a balanced diet, increase foods that are known to help with depression. These include foods high in omega 3 fatty acids, such as salmon, sardines and walnuts, and food high in other healthy fats, such as avocados and coconut oil.
 There are many supplements on the market that are said to act as natural antidepressants. Be sure to talk with your doctor before adding supplements to your routine, as many are contraindicated with certain prescription drugs.


St. John’s Wort is a popular supplement that is said to treat depression and anxiety.
5-Hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) is derived from an African plant, and is said to be an effective natural mood stabilizer.
S-Adenosyl Methionine (SAM or SAM-e) replaces natural compounds mammals produce to stabilize moods.
Green tea contains L-Theanine, a natural antidepressant. This may be taken in pill form or consumed as tea.
 Alcohol and drugs might alleviate the symptoms of depression in the short term, but they almost always make things worse after a while. To gain full control over your emotions, it’s best to cut them out entirely.


Alcohol is actually a depressant, and sometimes causes negative feelings to grow worse even while it is being consumed for pleasure.
If you’re struggling with an addiction to alcohol or drugs, it’s important to get treatment right away. You won’t be able to lift yourself out of depression without outside help. Contact your local AA or NA group for more information.
 When you don’t feel you’re able to conquer your depression alone, know when it's time to seek outside help. Therapists are trained to help people develop new thought and behavior patterns to ease depression and prevent it from happening again. Your therapist will develop a treatment plan tailored to your needs.


There’s strong evidence that talk therapy, particularly cognitive therapy that concentrates on changing negative thought patterns, can be an effective treatment for depression, either alone or when combined with drugs.
Pastoral counseling and 12-step groups can also offer a place to talk out your feelings and get help with circumstances that accompany or are caused by depression.

