 You may want to sit down with other family members every once in a while to discuss how your living arrangement is working out and address any concerns. Agree to be open, respectful, and honest in your conversations.


Discuss finances and the household budget. It may be helpful to save old bills and receipts for your records and discussion. For example, you could say, “I noticed the water bill really went up last month. I think it’s because Kevin is taking such long showers. Could you talk to him about making sure he’s not in the shower so long?”

, Living with your in-laws can be stressful at times, and you may find yourself disagreeing with how they do things. Determine what kinds of issues are worth confronting your in-laws over, and what other problems are just common annoyances of living with someone.Be respectful and confront the problem as soon as you can. Don’t let resentment build up and make you angrier. Remember, letting time pass may mean that the other person may have no memory of the incident.
Your in-laws may be more receptive to talking to the person they are related to, rather than the person who married into the family. Therefore, if you have a problem with someone’s behavior, it may be the most helpful to discuss with your spouse or child first, instead of going directly to your father- or daughter-in-law, for example.
For example, you could say to your spouse, “Your mom agreed to clean the downstairs bathroom, but she hasn’t done it in about three weeks. Can you please remind her it’s her job? Sometimes I feel like I am nagging her when I remind her.”

, You will likely have disagreements with people you live with, whether they are your in-laws or not. Even if you don’t see eye-to-eye with each other, you can still discuss your differences


Try to understand where the other person is coming from. For example, you could say, “I always listen to music when I’m working at night, but I had no idea you could hear it in your bedroom. I can understand why you’re so annoyed!”

Apologize and agree to change your behavior in the future, if necessary. For example, “I’m so sorry I didn’t call that I wasn’t going to be at dinner. I completely forgot, but I’ll put a reminder in my phone so that I remember to call you next time.”
Don’t get defensive. If your daughter-in-law says, “You forgot to pay the gas bill,” don’t respond defensively, like “I always remember. Don’t act like I never do it.” A better response would be, “I’m sorry, it must have slipped my mind.”

, Practice your patience. Everyone gets on each other’s nerves from time to time. When you are feeling frustrated, remind yourself of the benefits of your living arrangement, or find some ways to take time to yourself.Remember that not every opinion needs to be expressed. You may hate the look and contents of your mother-in-law’s curio cabinet, but there is no point in bringing that up except to be hurtful.
You could take a walk, offer to run some errands by yourself, or have planned activities during the week that get you out of the house.
Vent to someone who will listen to you without judgment. Just make sure you are talking to someone who won’t take your frustrations back to your in-laws! And don’t vent on social media -- the internet never forgets, and an angry post could find its way onto your in-laws’ computer screen.
 There are lots of benefits to having several generations living all together. When you are stressed out and frustrated with your living situation, try to think of some benefits to your situation:You may have a much lower cost of living than if you did not live with your in-laws.
You may get free childcare, or get to see your grandchildren every day.
You may get more date nights with your spouse.
You can feel secure that when you go out of town, someone else is watching your house.
 Have fun with your family. Come up with activities you all enjoy and can do together to grow closer and bond with each other. For instance, you could:


Cook together. You could all decide to try out a new recipe and serve all your creations at dinner.
Have a movie or sports night, watching a movie you all enjoy or a team you all support together.
Have a game night, playing your favorite board or video games.
Go on outings together. Take in local sights or museums in your area as a family.
Celebrate holidays and birthdays together. Come up with new household traditions.

