 Being a YouTube partner is a tough achievement and it takes months (maybe years) of commitments. Are you ready to take on all the criticism? Keep in mind what you think could be entertainment might backfire. But remember to do what you think is fun!;
, This isn't a must to get more views, but it can be good to have the right equipment anyhow. You need editing software, cameras, microphones, lighting and props. Sometimes you can rent out locations to film, just as an example.
 Keep in mind that if you don't think it's funny; there is a big chance it's not. Also don't rip off famous YouTubers and movies. Make sure the audio in your videos aren't copyrighted. You might get complaints in the comments. Or even a warning or two.
 It sounds superficial but it might be true in some ways. Most people get attracted to looks, and that's what might bring them to watch in first hand. You don't have to go all out if you aren't confident enough or just don't want to. All that matters is, after all; the subject of your video and how you entertain.
 Most likely you won't get your scenes perfect on the first try. Pick the best scenes of your filmed material and add effects if you like.
 Don't however, force people to like it or comment. Try to get them to tell the truth and not sugar coat it if you do.
 This one will be you casually just filming around. You can still edit the bits you don't like. Maybe get a friend to join in.
 Facebook, Google+, Twitter and other popular websites.
 But only do this as you have received a big fanbase. If you got the money already it's fine. Try to find manufacturers to make shirts. This is only when you are getting known pretty well. If you would like to, try making a iPhone app.
 It might get hard to get a hold of them if you are not well known already. If you hit about 1,000,000 subscribers then ... you might try. Who knows?

, It will be easier to keep up with everything at one site, than many others at once.
 When YouTube gives you an opportunity to become a partner, think it through. If it is your thing, please do go for it! Do not care about the haters, make sure to live of that love!

