 Accepting it for what it is can help you decide if you want to keep on loving this person and waiting for him to love you, or if you want to move on. Being honest with yourself about the situation will help you be happy with whatever you decide.


For example, If your love interest is in a long-term relationship and has told you he doesn't love you, then don’t pretend he just needs to get to know you better. It will just hurt you in the long-run.
If your crush doesn’t know that you love him, then be honest with yourself that this isn’t one-sided love. It could simply be a lack of communication between you two.
If you love your ex, be honest with yourself that there might be good reasons why aren’t together. Think about why you broke up and if this is really the right person for you.
 Be honest with yourself about what you know about your love interest and if this is the type of person that is worthy of your love. Knowing that the person is worth your love will make you happier in your decision to love her.


Are there big warning signs that you are overlooking? Is this person mean to you or others? Does she cheat on her current love?
Is this someone that you know well, like a friend, and accept both the good and bad about her?

, There are lots of different reasons why people end up in one-sided love. Figuring out why you are will help you know what to do about it to be happy.


For example, is this a pattern for you?Do you fall in love easily or just love being in love, regardless of whether it could really work out or not?
Is the person sending you signs that he might love you also? Is he keeping you hanging?
Is this your ex and you still want to be together?

, We think that magically things will work out like they do in the movies. Being honest about whether or not the person will ever love you is a big step in being happy with the situation.Think honestly about how you will handle it if your love interests tells you she loves you, too.
Consider how you will take it if she tells you that she will never love you.
Think about how long you can honestly be happy while you wait for her to love you.
 Decide if this is what you really want.Once you are honest with yourself about the possible outcomes for this situation, you can make a decision about what you want to do. Thinking about your options in this situation can help you figure out what is really going to make you happy right now and in the future.


Consider whether you want to keep loving this person even though he doesn't love you. If this will make you happy, then accept that it won’t be easy but that you will make the best of it.
Think about whether you will be happier if you move on and allow yourself the opportunity to love someone else and be loved in return.
Don’t limit yourself by thinking this is the only person you will ever love. Someone else will come along for you to love and to love you in return.