 Your panic may be greatly reduced by developing a tentative itinerary for your trip. Knowing what you will be doing and when can help you feel more in control. Plus, having an idea about different events and attractions can help you prepare in terms of clothing choices and/or equipment, too.


Although it’s nice to have a tentative plan for your trip, trying to fill every waking hour can actually cause even more stress. Most trips always include a few surprises, whether bad or good, so it’s smart to remain flexible. Arrange for your travel and hotel, but try to keep everything else flexible to account for any changes you might have to make.
For example, you might lock in activities for the first one or two days to help you feel more in control. Leave your itinerary open for the remainder of the trip, though, to free up space for interesting opportunities that come up during your travels., You can’t possibly anticipate every unexpected element of your trip. However, if you plan for common problems, you’ll feel more at ease. Anticipate typical issues like being bored on the plane or getting sick. Have a plan in place to manage such situations.For instance, you might pack headphones and a tablet to watch movies on the plane. You might bring along over-the-counter meds to fend off minor illnesses, and identify a physician near your hotel for more serious issues.
If you are taking a business trip, you might need to figure out if your tech devices will work for a presentation, or try to rent or borrow a device from someone in your network.
 Feeling isolated from those you love can make a potentially wonderful trip an uphill struggle. Before you leave, pass along the contact info for your accommodations to your closest loved ones.Let family and friends know when you are due to arrive and depart. Arrange for regular calls or Skype meetings to ease any homesickness.
 In addition to keeping in touch with family and friends, it can be comforting to bring a small memento of home along for your trip. Having a little trinket with you can help minimize any anxiety you may feel in a foreign place.Pack something sentimental in your bag like a photograph or a hand-woven quilt that reminds you of home.

