 Lemons are the main source of flavor in limoncello, so it’s important to pick ripe and flavorful ones. Also, because the zest will be soaking in the alcohol, it’s best to choose lemons that have been grown without pesticides and haven't been waxed.


To determine if a lemon is ripe, gently press it with your thumb. If the lemon gives a little, that’s a sign that it’s juicy and ready to eat.
Choose lemons with smooth rind, because this will make them easier to peel.
Most lemon lovers opt for Meyer lemons whenever possible, because they're sweeter, less acidic, and have a more complex flavor than other lemons.;
, To make limoncello, you'll need a vegetable peeler, large jar with a tight-fitting lid, fine-mesh strainer, coffee filter, large bowl, small saucepan, funnel, and three to four sterile bottles for storing.


To accommodate the lemon zest and the alcohol, use at least a 1-quart (946 ml) jar.
If you don’t have a vegetable peeler, you can also use a microplane grater, zester, or a knife.
Instead of a coffee filter, you can also use cheesecloth.
For storage, you need a bottle or bottles that can hold about 60 ounces (1.8 L) of liquid. Clean wine bottles work well, but make sure you have a clean lid or cork to seal the bottle.
 Remove any fruit stickers that are on the lemons, and peel off any sticker residue. Hold the lemons under clean running water and scrub the rinds with a vegetable brush or clean toothbrush. Pat the lemons dry with a clean towel.The lemon zests will be soaking in alcohol, so you need the lemons as clean as possible. Otherwise, any dirt, residue, or pesticides left on the lemon rind will infuse into the alcohol.
 Remove all the zest from the lemons by peeling off long strips of the yellow zest with the vegetable peeler. Don’t peel too deeply, or you'll end up with pith (the white part) on the zest, and this will make the limoncello bitter.


If you do get some pith with the zest, cut it off with a knife.
To use a microplane grater or zester, remove a thin layer of zest from around the entire lemon.
You only need the zest to make limoncello, but you can reserve the remaining portion of the lemons for juicing, baking, or lemonade., Transfer the lemon zest to the clean jar. Pour the vodka over the zest and swirl the jar to stir up the alcohol and lemon. Screw the lid onto the jar and close it tightly.The best alcohol for limoncello is high-proof (at least 80) grain alcohol or vodka.
 Place the lemon and vodka mixture somewhere dark and out of direct sunlight. Let the mixture infuse undisturbed for a minimum of four days, and up to a month.


The longer you let the alcohol infuse, the bolder and stronger the lemon flavor will be. Also, the longer you leave in the lemons, the more yellow and golden the vodka will become., When the lemons have had time to infuse into the vodka, remove the jar from its dark place. Line a fine-mesh strainer with either a coffee filter or cheesecloth, and position the strainer over a large bowl. Pour the contents of the jar into the strainer and let the vodka drain through into the bowl.If the strainer gets blocked and the liquid stops flowing, stir the mixture in the strainer to move the lemons around.
 Heat the sugar and water in a small saucepan over medium heat. Dissolve the sugar, then increase the heat to medium-high and bring the mixture to a boil. When it boils, reduce the heat to medium and let it simmer for three minutes.After three minutes, remove the pan from the heat and let the syrup cool completely, about an hour.
Simple syrup traditionally combines equal parts water and sugar, but this limoncello recipe uses more water., When the simple syrup has cooled completely, add it into the limoncello mixture and stir to combine. Place a funnel into the neck of your storage bottle, and carefully pour the limoncello out of the bowl to fill the bottle. Fill a second sterile bottle if necessary.When all the bottles are filled, replace the lids or cork the bottles.
 Limoncello is best served cold. Transfer the bottle to the fridge or freezer and let it chill for at least four hours before serving or adding to other cocktails.


Leftovers can be stored in the fridge for up to a month, or in the freezer for as long as one year.