 Another option many people use if they cannot find a donor through people they know is putting their name down on a donor list through their transplant center or their doctor. You may then find a donor once your turn comes on the list or if a suitable match for you appears through the transplant center’s list of donors.The donor list may be very long, depending on your transplant center and the need for kidney donors. But putting your name on the list will ensure that you have a possibility of finding a donor once your turn comes on the list.
 If you are not able to find a donor in your family or your group of friends, you may decide to look for a donor on social media. You may create a Facebook page and share it with your friends online to let everyone know you are looking for a kidney donor. Or you may post a message on your social media profiles to let everyone know of your need for a donor.In your posting, you should outline why you need a kidney donation and how you are doing medically at the moment. Include information on what makes a good kidney donor, such as the age range for the donor, blood type, and a good medical history.
Keep your posting personal and specific to you. Try to sound approachable and friendly in your posting so you can appeal to people that may not know you personally.
For example, you may say, “This is hard to post but I feel I need to be honest about my health. My kidneys are currently failing and my doctor says they will likely shut down completely in the next few months. My hope is to get a transplant so I do not need to go on dialysis, but the waiting list is very long. So I am doing my best to educate everyone I can about my situation and appeal for a kidney donor in other ways.”

, You can also reach out to the online community by joining an online donor group. You may search for kidney donor groups or forums online on your own or ask your doctor to refer you to online donor groups.Many of these forums can help you find support and guidance as you deal with your kidney issues. You may also be able to get a referral for potential kidney donors through other users in the group.
Keep in mind about 24 percent of living kidney donations are done through living unrelated donors. Finding a donor that you do not know personally may feel challenging, but you can end up finding a suitable donor through reaching out to the general public.

