 There's always one problem color that'll never come out correctly despite your best efforts. There's some great software to help you out. Adobe Photoshop and Lightroom can be a bit costly. However you can just download and install freeware and then find plugins from Adobe that can really help to bring your pictures to their best light.



Photoscape is a freeware editor that has a lot of color correction features including color temperature and remove color cast. Very lightweight and fast. Also comes with a built in .RAW to JPG converter.

Gimp the popular "Photoshop replacement" also has features that include color correction and enhancement features and can use most Photoshop Plugin "8bf" files. It however comes in a new updated version that may or may not work well on many Windows computers and uses lot of memory space on the hard drive. It's best to use the portable version. Do not use the clone GimpShop because of bugs and risk of virus.

Deep Paint by Right Hemisphere has a freeware version called 2.0 downloadable from the site named Chip.eu now loadion.com can easily use many Adobe Plugins by just moving the files to the plugin folder.
 Photoshop's Cast Removal Tool doesn't work on .JPG and this format doesn't store color information in precision like in .RAW. Updated versions might not have this problem but you can always convert JPG to RAW format using another software.
 Some are free and some are expensive. Some are good and others not so good. Some are the exact same features already on the main software only under a different name. Gimp and some other programs can use Photoshop plugins with some extra steps or just by moving the files to the plugin folder. Action files do not work in such applications.


AAA Filters site disappeared in 2015 but is still downloadable via other websites.

Smart Curves Gives you precise color correction with the use of curves you adjust by moving and adding points and sliding the line up and down.
 Many digital cameras and smartphones come already equipped with photo editing tools on them. Many of these are simply finding the color fixing tool you want and moving the sliders.
 Some softwares color correction tool is simply the curves tool. Some softwares can correct color cast by extra steps and procedures which you can find by searching Color Correction and the softwares name on a search engine, whether watching a Youtube video or viewing a tutorial page.

