 Although the number of cat-owners who advocate serving your cat a raw diet is growing, there are certain concerns that you should discuss with a vet or an animal nutritionist. Although raw foods are the most natural, there are always associated health risks.For example, raw meats may be contaminated with bacteria, or may carry parasites.


Additionally, it can be difficult to put together the right raw diet for your cat. Cats have specific nutritional needs, and without the help of a veterinarian, it will be challenging to assemble a nutritionally complete raw diet for your cat.
 Cats are notoriously picky eaters, and will be as particular about their raw food as they would be about any other type of food. Purchase commercially prepared raw meat at your local grocery store: start with common types like poultry, beef, and pork. Some cats may also prefer game meats, such as pheasant, quail, and rabbit.Before serving, cut the meat into smaller pieces that your cat can chew without much difficulty. Aim for pieces that are about a cubic inch (2.3 cubic centimeters).
Give the raw food to your cats at two or three specific mealtimes during the day. Avoid letting the raw food sit out for more than 30 minutes, as it may accumulate bacteria or begin to spoil.
 While the majority of nutrition that a cat needs will come directly from the meat, it’s also important that cats have calcium in their diet. You can purchase a calcium supplement at your local pet-supply store or health-food store. Consult the nutrition label or speak with your veterinarian to determine how much daily calcium your cat needs.Some more ambitious raw-food enthusiasts will purchase beef or pork with the bone still in, and then grind the bone itself to supplement the cat’s diet.
Do not serve your cat cow’s milk. Cats are lactose intolerant, and cow milk can be harmful to their digestive system.
 Since cats are obligate carnivores, they need a meat-based diet, but can have other occasional additions. For example, since meat is low in fiber, cats can benefit from occasional servings of a vegetable, in order to provide roughage and keep their digestive system working well.Occasionally serve your cat steamed broccoli or carrots, in addition to their raw food, at regular meal times. Although you can try mixing a vegetable in with your cat’s meat, they may be more inclined to eat the broccoli or carrots if you place them in a separate dish.

