 Before you start cleaning your carpet, you should remove any objects in the room. This is both to allow easier access to the whole carpet and to protect your furniture from cleaning products and Scotchgard. Ask for help if you’re moving particularly heavy furniture.


If there’s furniture or other objects you can’t remove, cover them with a plastic tarp to protect them while cleaning your carpet and applying Scotchgard.;
, Slowly pass over your carpet, making sure to go in both directions. Starting at one corner of the carpet, vacuum in a straight line, going directly across the carpet. Turn and follow the line you just travelled, only in the opposite direction. Step to the side, and start a new line that just touches the line you vacuumed. Continue until you’ve cleaned the whole carpet.


This will work best if you use a rug attachment for your vacuum., Of course, a new carpet won’t need cleaning before applying Scotchgard. You can buy steam cleaners from home improvement and hardware stores, though you need to be prepared to pay up to $300. A better alternative might be renting the device instead. Some machines are smaller, with a nozzle you use to apply steam mixed with a cleaning solution to your carpet. Others are larger and are pushed along the carpet; the cleaning action is usually found at the bottom of these.


Alternatively, you can hire professional carpet cleaners to do this for you; you’ll be sure to get a deep clean with no mishaps., Before using Scotchgard on your carpet, you should always test a small inconspicuous area first. Spray a small amount of the product on a hidden area of the carpet then scrub with a white cloth. If there’s any transfer of color to the rag, avoid using Scotchgard on your carpet., Hold the can of Scotchgard upside down about two feet (61 cm) above the carpet. Push down on the button at the top of the can (now the bottom). The product should come out as a white foam. Spray it evenly over the surface of the carpet.


You don’t want to spray on too thick of a layer, just enough to cover the rug., It can take between two and six hours for the product to fully dry. If you have pets or children, you should restrict access to wherever the carpet is kept. If the carpet covers the floor of a whole room, that may mean closing the door until it’s dried.
 You’ll want to improve airflow to help the carpet dry more quickly. Try keeping windows open in the room. Turn on the ceiling fan if the room has one. Otherwise, add a standing fan., Even when protected with Scotchgard, you should regularly vacuum your carpet to keep it clean. If you find any dirt or other particles have fallen between carpet fibers, you should spot clean the carpet by vacuuming up this debris. You should also vacuum the whole carpet regularly to prevent odors and unseen dirt from accumulating., Scotchgard will prevent liquids from soaking into the carpet fibers; they’ll essentially bead on top of the fibers, making them easy to wipe away. Use a clean rag to dab and wipe away any spills.


With carpets, you typically want to avoid scrubbing or wiping liquids as this will make them soak into the carpet fibers. A Scotchgard coating will prevent liquids from sinking in, meaning you can safely wipe them away., While a Scotchgard coating is long lasting, it’s somewhat weaker than professional grade products and needs to be reapplied regularly. Foot traffic, moving furniture or excessive spills can wear down the coating further.


If you have to get your carpet professionally cleaned, you should reapply a Scotchgard coat after it’s been cleaned.