 As long as you have chips on the table you’re in the game. Playing fewer hands is a strategy to win Hold’em that involves you waiting for the right cards.


In Hold’em, there are a 169 combinations of hands of you can be dealt, not including hands of the same suit. suits.Only five of those hands are premium hands that will give you the best chance at winning.

AA
KK
QQ
JJ
AK - if they’re the same suit.


There are fifteen hands that are considered top hands including the five above. Other combos include the Ace and face cards, along with high numbered pairs like two (2) tens.
That means that you should focus on playing hands that are most likely going to reward you instead of trying to constantly bluff or out bet other players with a weaker hand.
 This doesn’t mean immediately folding if you get dealt one of these hands, especially if you’re either big or small blind and have already bet.


Hands like 2-2 ,5-5 or 7-7 lose most of their value after the flop unless you make a set (three of a kind) so it’s better not to hold out for something down the river and just cut your losses.
You don’t always have to fold on a small pocket as they could lead to a winning hand, but don’t let yourself get carried away just because you start with a pair.
 If there is a large pot, say $100 and your opponent has raised another $100 then it’s usually a mistake to chase the pot hoping that you can end up with something like a flush or straight. This strategy typically has you losing more than winning.


Don’t always chase straight and flush draws even though it’s tempting. A skilled opponent won’t let you see the next card without first paying up unless he’s confident he has your draw beat and is trying to win the pot as quickly as possible.
While making large bets is a tactic to forcing other players to fold, sometimes a bet that’s very large can be an indication that your opponent has the winning hand.
 Remember that these strategies for winning Texas Hold’em rely largely on you being patient and taking in as many small or medium pots as you can instead of a couple larger ones. If you’ve employed the other strategies here and have waited for quality hands, you can use what you know to beat your opponents.


For example. The odds of getting two cards that you need on the turn or the river is less than 1%. So as soon as you have a hand you’re confident you can win with, bet like you’re going to win.
Raise before the flop and if you hit your hand keep betting, but don’t overdo it, one pair won’t often win big pots, but a high pair can lead to a solid win if you can force other players out quickly. When you play aggressively, you can put your opponents onto the defensive and can force them out making it less likely for someone to make a better hand than you.

