 Bring a book, magazine, or newspaper from home, or buy one or several from the airport to read during the flight. Or load an e-reader or tablet with e-books to save space in your luggage.


Keep your reading materials in an easily accessible place throughout the flight, either in a small bag you’re allowed to keep under the seat in front of you, or take them out of a carry-on bag before the flight begins and put them in the seat pocket so you can reach them.
If you’d rather listen to books and save some space in your luggage, try downloading audiobooks to a phone, MP3 player, or tablet and make sure to bring headphones so you can listen to them.
Try bringing along a guidebook or other travel book for the destination you’re heading to so you can prepare in advance.;
, Load your phone or MP3 player with music you can listen to without an internet connection. Or bring a handheld gaming device with games to play.


Remember to bring your own headphones or earbuds. The airline usually provides them, but they are often low-quality or of a special type with two prongs that will only fit into the seat for the in-flight entertainment.
Never listen to music or have your game sounds on out loud without headphones. Even when you do wear headphones, make sure the sound isn’t so loud that others around you can hear it.
 Bring along a notebook or journal to write down the experience of your trip, or write a story, poem, or letter. Doodle or draw in a sketchbook, or color in a coloring book.


Try drawing or writing about other passengers on the plane, the clouds out the window, or other things you see and hear on the plane.
 Go through and edit photos, play games, or other things you can do when you aren’t connected to the internet on a laptop.


Your plane may even have WiFi available, in which case you can do everything you normally do using the internet, like browsing social media, chatting with friends, or playing internet games.
 Get your favorite movies or TV shows, or ones you’ve been meaning to start watching, on your laptop so you can watch them during the flight. Choose just what you want to see instead of being stuck with the limited in-flight options for TV and movies.


Make sure you download shows or movies for offline viewing, because your plane may not have WiFi available.
Never pirate or download TV shows or movies illegally. Stick to iTunes or other credible sources to download any media for personal use.
 Do a crossword or sudoku puzzle, or play a game with a nearby friend or family member like I Spy, 20 Questions, or other verbal games that you might typically play in the car on a roadtrip.Try playing a game that’s unique to airplane travel, like counting the snowflakes or frost swirls on plane windows, or picking the item you’d most like to have on every page of the SkyMall catalog.Try a handheld game, too, like a Rubik’s cube, Etch-a-Sketch, or something else that will keep your hands busy for long periods of time.
Make sure the game you choose isn’t too loud or requires a lot of movement that will disturb other passengers.

