 An important part of kicking any habit is to make yourself completely conscious of it. That includes figuring out when you engage in that habit the most, what is happening around you when you engage in the habit, and what you get out of it.Try to determine when you most crave a piece of bubble gum. Is it something you do to cope with stress, for example, or do you chew gum to freshen up your mouth compulsively? In other words, what rewards does gum give you?Think about any feelings you may attach to chewing bubble gum. Is it something you associate with childhood trips to the candy store? Do you chew gum to avoid other bad habits, like smoking?
See if you have any environmental, emotional, or situational triggers that tend to send you reaching for gum. It will be helpful to know those triggers as you move forward.;
, Before you try to actually break your bad habit, it's important that you commit to the change you're about to undertake. Studies have shown that commitment is an integral component of any behavioral change, and is vital to your success in that undertaking.Determine whether you're just giving up bubble gum (and will still be able to chew regular gum), or if you're giving up all types of gum. Having some other type of gum to fall back on could make it easier to quit bubble gum.
Understand why you're choosing to break this habit. Is it for health/hygiene reasons, financial reasons, or something else altogether?
Knowing why you're quitting can make it easier to keep yourself motivated. You'll see more money in your wallet, for example, or you might notice your teeth and jaw hurting less.
Think positively about the outcome. Believe in yourself and your ability to change.
Consider recruiting the help of others. Ask your friends, family members, and coworkers to stop you if they see you casually reaching for a piece of bubble gum.
 When deciding to break any habit, it's a good idea to set a realistic end date that allows you to make progress at a healthy pace. There is no set consensus on how long it will take to break a habit, as everyone's body/mind work differently with habit formation. A good rule of thumb is to give yourself at least two months to kick the habit entirely.


Studies show that daily habit formation can take an average of 66 days before the new behavior (in this case, whatever replaces bubble gum) is fully integrated., It may be difficult to stop chewing bubble gum entirely overnight, especially if you've chewed for many years or used gum to cope with stress. If you go into the challenge expecting immediate and total results, you may be disappointed with yourself. Instead, set mini goals that will help you ultimately achieve total freedom from gum chewing.Break your casual, everyday gum chewing habit first. If you used to reach for bubble gum whenever you were bored, watching TV, or traveling, work on kicking that part of your habit first.
It may be very hard to stop chewing gum when you're stressed. Consider stress chewing a goal that will come later, perhaps as the last allowable gum-chewing occasion.
Set an end date for yourself. Decide that you will completely kick the habit by a certain date, and try to set reasonable dates for each step of your progress along the way.
 It's important to keep track of your progress, both to motivate you and keep you on track with your goals. The easiest way to track your progress with any new lifestyle change is to keep a log or journal.Keep a written long each day about the times you caved and chewed bubble gum, as well as the times you overcame your cravings.
Take note of the time, day, and circumstances of each craving you either overcame or gave in to. This may help you have greater insight into your habits and cravings.
 Many people trying to break a habit end up accidentally sabotaging their own efforts. They do this most often by reasoning that, after some level of progress, they deserve a "treat" by indulging in the habit they're trying to kick.Get rid of any bubble gum you currently have, and avoid buying any more.
Don't make excuses for yourself. It's expected with breaking any habit that slip ups will happen, but acknowledge them as slip ups instead of "cheat days".
 It's important to treat yourself to little rewards whenever you reach a milestone. This can help motivate you to try even harder for the next milestone, and it can also help you feel like your efforts are worth it. However, it's important to reward yourself with healthy treats, instead of allowing yourself to chew bubble gum after all your hard work to quit.


Try treating yourself to activities you enjoy. Buy a movie ticket, visit a museum you love, or take a day trip to your favorite amusement park.
You can give yourself food rewards, too - but try to choose healthy rewards, such as a single square of dark chocolate. It's counterproductive to eat an ice cream sundae when you're trying to give up bubble gum.
 Don't just think of breaking this (or any) habit as the mere cessation of one activity. Instead, consider what you're doing as a way of reinventing yourself. By breaking a habit, you're effectively ushering in a new way of living that is not hindered by your emotional or physical dependence on a habit.Use this way of thinking to help motivate you. Any time you feel like cheating, remind yourself that the "old" version of yourself needed to chew bubble gum, while the "new" you is stronger.
Consider incorporating other lifestyle changes into your new way of being. Perhaps the new you also works out more often, or makes an effort to get involved in volunteer work.
 If you used bubble gum to satisfy a need for something to chew on, try eating healthier snacks instead. You can choose crunchy or chewy snacks that won't wear down your teeth or increase your sugar intake."Gummy" fruit chews, and string cheese can all be used as a healthy, dental-friendly alternative to gum.
Crunchy foods like apple slices or baby carrots can also satisfy your need to chew without rotting your teeth. They also increase saliva in your mouth, which reduces bacteria that can cause cavities and other dental problems.
 If you chewed bubble gum to maintain a fresh, clean mouth, you can find other, healthier ways to freshen your breath and clean your teeth. The key to keeping a clean mouth is to remove food particles and plaque, as well as kill the bacteria that cause odors on your breath.Avoid smelly food to reduce your urge to chew gum.
Brush and floss instead of chewing bubble gum. Use a toothpaste that leaves your mouth feeling clean and fresh, and carry a travel toothbrush, toothpaste, and floss with you in your purse or backpack.
Add a travel-size bottle of mouthwash to leave your mouth feeling extra clean. Mouthwash will also help kill odor-causing bacteria to ensure your breath is as fresh as possible.
Carry breath mints, a breath spray, or breath strips that dissolve in your mouth. All of these will help you have fresh breath on the go without reaching for gum.
 Some people chew gum to help manage stress at work, on the road, or in day-to-day situations. But there are healthier ways to manage stress, many of which are more effective and provide longer-lasting results.


Get some exercise. Even a 20 minute walk or run can help relieve stress and leave you feeling energized instantly.Use deep breathing techniques to calm down immediately. Breath in and out from your diaphragm (below your rib cage) and draw your breath slowly. Count to five on the inhalation, hold it for five seconds, and exhale for five seconds.Try meditation. Sit comfortably and focus on your breath, using the deep breathing technique. Try to keep your mind free from distractions. Any time your mind wanders, return your focus to your breath.Reduce your intake of caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol. These can leave you feeling anxious or even physically jittery., Gum itself is not necessarily unhealthy, but bubble gum is full of sugar that can may increase bacteria in your mouth. Instead of bubble gum, try chewing sugar-free chewing gum instead. Chewing gum increases saliva in your mouth, which will reduce bacteria. If you chew it after a meal, you can even neutralize acids in your mouth.If you are worried about finding a healthy gum, look for the American Dental Association (ADA) Seal of Acceptance. This is only granted to sugarless chewing gums that have been found to be both safe to chew and beneficial for your mouth.

