 They can be small to large and encompass not only plants but fish and fountains as well. Research the different types of plants you want to consider.;
,


Locate an area that has full sunlight or at least 5 hours of direct sunlight. Your plants will grow better with a lot of sun and the sun will help keep the water clean.






Find a spot that is wide open and does not have trees. Trees will provide unwanted shade and you will have to continuously clean leaves and tree debris out of the garden.






Build or place your water garden on level ground. You can add hills and varying heights when you put the water garden together.






Use an area that has convenient access to electrical connections and fresh water.



Choose a small water garden if you are not sure where to locate it. When it is small enough, it can be moved from site to site until you find the right place. Small water gardens are also good if you do not have a lot of space.






Use a large water garden if you want to have a lot of plants, fish or a fountain.



Pick a container for your small water garden, such as a wooden barrel or tub. Line the barrel with plastic or the rotting wood may damage your plants.






If you want a large water garden, choose the appropriate lining. Your water garden liner can be concrete, brick, clay, plastic, butyl rubber or fiberglass – it depends on the type of weather you get and which you prefer. Liners can be either rigid or flexible.
 Fountains and waterfalls generally require a pump and filter.



For a flexible liner and different types of plants, create your hole to be shallow at one end and then have it gradually deepen. The depth depends on whether you want fish, if you have freezing winters and what kinds of plants you wish to plant.
For a rigid liner, dig the hole large enough to insert the container.
,,


If you are using a flexible liner, start at the center and lay it outwards.
If you are using a rigid liner, place the container in the hole and back fill dirt around it to keep it in place.
 Smooth out the flexible liner as you pour the water in.
, Choose between floating, submerged or edge plants. Each type of plant will give you a different look for your garden.

