 If you want to report immigration fraud and you are currently located outside of Canada, the easiest way to do so is to find the Canadian embassy or consulate nearest you.You can find locations of all Canadian embassies and consulates by visiting the Travel page of the Government Canada website.
Immigration fraud also can be reported to your nearest visa center. Visit the Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) website for locations if you want to file your report with a visa center.
For some types of fraud, you may want to report to the embassy or consulate in the country where the fraud is taking place, rather than the embassy or consulate nearest you.
While you can file your report at any of Canada's immigration offices abroad, you can save time by directing your report to the embassy or consulate that likely has contact with the individuals involved.;
, Before you submit your report to Canadian officials, gather any documents or evidence you have and write a comprehensive outline of all the factual details you know so you don't leave anything out.The more information you have, the more likely it is that embassy or consulate officials will be able to investigate and uncover the fraudulent activity.
However, don't worry if you don't have much information, and don't put yourself in danger attempting to acquire more information for the sake of a report.
 Once you've got your information together, contact the Canadian embassy or consulate where you've decided to file your report and talk to an official about what you know.These reports are always confidential, and you may be able to remain anonymous if you want to do so, for example because you fear for your safety.
Although Canadian officials don't invoke penalties for reporting false information, do your best to make sure that the information you provide is complete and accurate to the best of your knowledge.
Include as many details as you can, and don't leave anything out. Something you think is unimportant could turn out to be the fact that breaks the case for the investigators.
If possible, get an identification or case number for your report so if you need to follow up with additional information later you can do so without repeating the same information over and over again.
 Authorities typically won't give you information regarding any investigation that follows from your report, but if you learn any new facts you should contact the same embassy or consulate where you filed your original report.If you were provided with a case number, you can give it to the official with whom you speak so your new information will be connected with your original report.
Even if you don't have a number to identify your case, you still should provide additional information as you come across it. Just be sure to give the official enough information to connect the two reports so they aren't treated as separate.

