 You can write the scenes yourself or you can pull them from a book. You can even look up scripts online and re-act your favorite movies or shows. The best way to practice acting is to act, so grab a friend and work together to improve your skills.


YouTube has created a market for short, fun scenes or videos. Consider starting a short web series with a friend.
When possible, record your practice sessions, or have another friend watch and give advice on ways to improve.
 If you want to be an actor, you need to study. Pay attention not just to the teacher but also other students. You can learn something from everyone, even if you don't agree with their acting decisions. Think about how you would play each role, and learn from your classmate's successes and shortcomings.


You may end up playing roles later on with your classmates, and you never know when someone will get their big break. Be kind and supportive to your classmates -- they will form your acting community as you grow.
 Improvisation is a crucial skill, even if you never plan on doing improv comedy. This is because improv forces you to react to any situation, and stay in character. Acting is not just about delivering lines -- it is about inhabiting the character no matter what is happening on stage or on screen.If you don't want to pay for classes, you and several acting friends can look up improv games online. Use them to practice in your own home.
 Don't box yourself into one type of role or genre. Not only does this make it harder to get jobs, but it limits your skill set and prevents further development as an actor. Anything that puts you in front of an audience, from movies, commercials, plays, and even stand-up, can help your practice your acting skills.


Paul Rudd started life as a wedding DJ before getting acting jobs, but used the time to learn to interface with a crowd.
Stand-up comedy is basically a one-person show, and you need to write and act out your material by yourself. This makes it an incredible practice opportunity.
Even if you want to be a movie actor, try to perform in a play. The dedicated time in one role and need for consistency is invaluable for any actor., Even if you're not acting, start making connections with people than can help you get on stage. Place yourself in jobs that connect you with directors, producers, and other actors, even if you start as a lowly PA. An old but true cliche is that "people hire people." It is not your resume or a faceless email that gets you the next big role. You need to be out in the world meeting people and getting your feet wet whenever you're not acting.