 Unwind a stretch of yarn roughly the same length as your forearm. Use your fingers to spread out the yarn so that it looks like netting.


The bottom edge is thinner and usually has metallic thread running through it. The upper portion looks like train tracks with alternating small and large holes. For this project, you will only be crocheting into the large holes of the portion.
 Fold the raw edge of the yarn diagonally under at a 45 degree angle. Slip stitch the loops of the fold to the loops of the main yarn underneath, working from the top edge to the bottom edge of the main piece.


Note that you do not need to attach the yarn to the hook with a slipknot, as you would do with most crochet projects that use standard yarn.
To slip stitch for this project:

Insert the hook into the indicated loop.
Grab the side of the next loop from the back of the yarn, then draw it back through the loops already on your hook. This completes one slip stitch.


You'll need to slip stitch four or five times, working with a different loop each time, as you work across from the top to the bottom.
 Work a chain stitch in the next large hole along the thin bottom edge. Repeat 49 more times, creating a total of 50 chain stitches.


When finished, the chain should be about 10 inches (25.4 cm) long.
For each chain stitch in this series, insert the hook through the next hole and pick up the yarn from behind that. Pull this loop through the first first hole and through the yarn on your hook to complete the stitch.
 Turn the work, then fold the skein side of the yarn under at a 45 degree angle. Slip stitch across the wide edge from the bottom to the top of the yarn.


Slip stitch as you did earlier: insert the hook into the next loop in the series, then use it to grab the side of the next loop from the back. Pull this second loop through the first, then draw it through all the loops on your crochet hook to complete the stitch.
This diagonal fold should match the diagonal fold you made at the beginning of your chain.
 Make a slip stitch in each loop across the thin edge of your work until you reach the end of this edge.


Insert the hook into one of the loops along this edge, then pick up the loop lying next to it. Pull this second loop through the first using your hook.
Continue at this pace and in this manner until you stitch across the entire thin edge.
These slip stitches are roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) apart. If you want the ruffle to be fuller, pick up every other loop along the thin edge. If you want a more subtle ruffle, pick up every loop, instead.
 To create the rest of the shawl, repeat the previous two steps five more times, or until you work through the rest of the skein.


Start each row by turning the work over and folding the skein side under at a 45 degree angle. Slip stitch across the fold to hold it down.
Slip stitch across the bottom of the previous row as before, working into every loop or every other loop (repeat the same pattern as before). Continue slip stitching you reach the end of each row.
 End the work along one of the vertical sides of the shawl. Turn the work, then cut off any excess yarn, leaving a tail measuring 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so. Use a sewing needle and matching thread to tack the end in place.


This step completes the project.

