 Perhaps you haven't been going to church, haven't made time for prayer or meditation, or have ceased to read your faith-based tomes. Whatever the source of the lack of spirituality in your life, try to identify it.


Perhaps you feel you've lost intimacy with god or the spiritual form you believe in. It may feel as if the blessings are missing in your life and that success has come at a cost to your inner life.
Listen to your heart, not your head. Is there a lack of spiritual presence, guidance and oneness?
Have you taken time to reflect, pray, think about your faith; or have you set aside time to carry through your faith rituals? Is running to and from your home and job soaking up everything and preventing you from this intimate time with your faith?;
, Use this time for spiritual reflection, prayers, faith reading or simply admiring the wonder of what your life is. This quiet time can be your spiritual haven before the busy routine of the day kicks in.
 For example, perhaps develop a pattern or praying three times a day in short prayers instead of one long prayer that feels as if you're stealing time from work or family. Those three shorter prayers can help sustain you throughout the day and you will feel more focused and happy to pray among your tight schedule. This can also work for meditation, reflection, consideration and reading faith tomes.
 Use this to write down the elements of your faith that resonate with you and bring forth the elements of your faith that guide your life. This might include:


Passages or verses from your faith book or books.
Reflections from authors in the field of your faith, comments and statements they have made that help guide you and make you think.
 Write down promises and guidance emanating from your faith, your god, or your spiritual guide. These can be written both in your journal on small cards which you can carry about in your wallet, bag or purse for instant reminders. You could even download these to your mobile digital devices, allowing you to read them whenever you get break time, allowing you to relax and be reassured by your faith guidance. Reading these at any time throughout the workday will strengthen your faith, especially when you are reminded of the blessings and peace your faith brings you.
 This may be family prayer time, family faith reflection or family faith rituals. This will depend on your faith and the approaches taken to honoring it but there is always room for shared communion and time spent with your loved ones pursuing your shared faith. This is an opportunity for all of you to stop whatever you're doing, pause and reflect and think about the role of spirituality in your lives.


If you live within an inter-faith family or household, this too is fine. Spend time discussing your basic faith tenets together and sharing your thoughts together about spirituality.
 This could be on a CD in your vehicle, on a mobile digital device or through your computer at work or at home. This is a fantastic and very easy way to stay linked to your faith at any time of the day or night.

