 You will need a French press (aka press pot), coarse ground coffee, a wooden or plastic spoon, a timer, and cups.
 For a French press, aim for a coarse grind for even flavor extraction and a fuller-bodied cup of coffee. If you are shopping for a coffee grinder, burr grinders are much preferred over blade grinders for their more consistent grind and the fact they do not create heat to burn the beans further., Put the grounds directly into a clean, dry carafe. A good rule of thumb is one tablespoon of grounds for every cup of water. A 4-cup press, then, would get 4 tablespoons of coffee., Pour it into the carafe, moving the stream around to saturate all the coffee, until it's about an inch under the top metal ring.

Leaving room at the top allows the grounds to expand, or bloom, and form crema, that foamy topping you usually see on espresso.
 The key to a great cup of coffee from a French press is timing. Set your timer for 4 minutes, and when you are done with the previous step, start your timer.

At the 1-minute mark, stir the grounds to break down the bloom and distribute the grounds evenly. Top off the carafe with near-boiling water, filling it to the top of the top metal ring. Avoid using a metal spoon, which could lead to accidental breakage. Instead, use a wooden or plastic spoon or stir-stick. Lacquered chopsticks work well for this, too.
 Place the vented lid and press assembly onto the carafe, making sure the vented portion of the top is aligned with the lip of the carafe., At the 4-minute bell, gently but firmly press the plunger down to the bottom. This will filter out the grounds, and stop the brewing process.

Note: should you forget to stir at the 1 minute mark, you may find this step difficult. Do not force the plunger down, simply pull it back up a bit, then repeat, working your way down. Forcing it could result in breakage, which could result in a real mess—and you will not have even had your first cup of coffee for the day!

, Pour what you can into your cup, and pour the rest into a thermal carafe to keep it hot and tasty. Add cream, sugar, and flavorings to taste.