 Sometimes it is best to help your dog by eliminating the temptation to misbehave. With this in mind, if you can, put the cat's litter tray in a room that the dog has no access to. Consider barring the doorway with a child-gate, so that the cat can jump over the gate but the dog's path is blocked.


For large dogs or those adept at jumping, consider installing a cat flap in the door to that room and keeping it shut.
If you have a small dog, fit a microchip activated cat door and only program in the cat's number so that the dog is denied access.
Obviously, make sure the cat is well aware of the tray's new location.
 This makes it physically more difficult for the dog to get to the cat poop. In fact, there are trays that are top-entry only, making them accessible to fit young cats (probably not a good idea for elderly or arthritic cats) but not the dog.


Be aware that some cats dislike using covered litter boxes, in which case consider a different option.
 The idea is to make something unpleasant happen when the dog approaches the tray. This could mean placing a motion-activated canister of compressed air beside the tray so it fires as the dog approaches, or improvising snap-traps on the ground around the tray so they snap as the dog gets close.


This needs to be done with care and perfect timing, or you may accidentally surprise the cat which could put dissuade it from using the tray.
Do not leave these traps in place permanently or you could upset the cat., There are many commercial products available that are designed to be added to food, in order to make the resultant feces taste unpleasant.


This has a couple of drawbacks. The additive goes onto the cat's food and cats are notoriously fussy eaters, and may refuse to eat the adulterated food. In addition, dogs have a relatively poor sense of taste and may not find the altered poop all that unpleasant (after all, how much worse can it be?)
Instead, it could be more effective to make the feces unpleasant when smelled. Dogs have a sensitive sense of smell and sniffing usually precedes the eating. Liberally coat the feces with pepper. When the dog sniffs the poop the pepper will make it sneeze and prove unpleasant.
Do not expect the dog to stop right away. It can takes weeks of constant sneezing to eventually give it up as a bad job.