;
,, Neutral is the middle position in which you can move the shifting lever freely around.
, First gear is usually the leftmost gear on the top.
,, This will get you moving. The basics of putting the car into gear with a manual transmission is this: letting off on the clutch while you depress the accelerator. You need to master this movement in order get the car moving.


This technique will take a while to master. In the beginning, you'll let the clutch off too early, causing the car to stall, or you won't let the clutch off early enough, causing the engine to rev and the car to shoot forward when you let the foot off the clutch.
 Put your right foot on the brake, press your left foot down on the clutch, and start the engine. Try not to get flustered when you stall.


If you stall while on a busy stretch of road, put on your emergency flashers as you start your car up again. This will let other drivers behind you know that they can pass if you are safe, or wait for you get the car up and running again.
 The basics of shifting into a different gear are pretty easy, but they need to followed accurately each time in order to work.
Take your foot off the accelerator. Your foot needs to be off the accelerator before you shift into another gear.






Depress the clutch. This disengages the spinning engine from the spinning wheels, allowing you lock into the teeth of a different gear.






Move your shifting lever into gear while clutch is still depressed. Usually, you move from one gear to the next, or back down.






Release the clutch. You can rest your left foot again once you've shifted gears.
 Once it does, take your foot off the accelerator, depress the clutch, and bring the shift lever into second gear with your foot still on the clutch. Second gear is usually right below first gear.
 Resting your foot on top of the clutch causes unnecessary pressure and could result in premature wear on your clutch.
 If the car starts to shake, begin to press down on the clutch. When you have slowed to under 10 mph (16 km/h), you can shift into neutral and take your foot off the clutch while still holding down on the brake pad.


Alternately, you can shift into neutral, take your foot off the clutch, and press down on the brake pad until your car has come to a complete stop.

Note: if you don't hold down the clutch (or use neutral) as you brake and as your RPM lowers, your car will start to shake and your engine will stall. While riding your clutch while your engine is going is not a good idea (it'll wear out the clutch), you also don't want your engine to stall. Once you're comfortable with the technique, get in the habit of shifting into neutral instead of riding your clutch.

Note: if you just want to brake a little bit, you don't have to depress the clutch. If you're in gear just need to slow down a little, your car isn't in danger of stalling.

