 Many patients make the mistake of not being totally honest with their doctor regarding medical history. Medical issues that cause weight gain or weight loss are often related to mental health, and patients may feel embarrassed bringing them up. In order to reach your goal of gaining or losing weight, however, you must be upfront about everything and remain truthful.If you suffer from an eating disorder, disclose this by saying, “I have been suffering from anorexia for about five years now, and I really want to get better." Other mental health issues can make you gain weight. For example, "I have bipolar depression, and sometimes I have trouble getting out of bed and exercising. I usually gain some weight during a depressive spell."
It can be uncomfortable discussing mental health problems with a doctor and a not a therapist or psychiatrist, but keep in mind your health is crucial. It's important your doctor know your full medical history, including mental health. Your mental and bodily health are connected, so leaving out crucial information about your mental health may make it harder to diagnose the cause.
 Your doctor will want to discuss your eating habits to determine what your caloric intake is and what it needs to be in order to put on weight or lose weight. Make sure you talk over how often you eat, the items you consume, and any other eating habits.


Before the appointment, keep a food diary tracking the foods you eat, how much you eat, how often you eat, and the approximate number of calories you eat per day. You can do this with pen and paper or download an app onto your smartphone. Make note, too, of your moods when you eat. You may find, for instance, that you eat more when you are lonely, bored, watching TV, etc.
Discuss things such as your meals per day, snacks consumed throughout the day, allergies to particular foods, if you generally eat alone or with other people, the types of food you like and dislike, and so on.
Other things that may be important to discuss: who is doing the shopping and cooking; how often do you through drive-thru and why (work, kids, busy, etc.); are there financial barriers or considerations; who else is at home and impacted by any food change recommendations; any cultural factors that have to do with diet (such as fasting).
Do not withhold information. If you have poor eating habits, you may be embarrassed to disclose them to a doctor; however, remember that nothing is more important than your health. It's vital that you overcome embarrassment and answer your doctor's questions honestly.
 Lifestyle is a major factor when it comes to weight loss or gain. You want to be honest with your doctor about lifestyle, even if you feel embarrassed. Do not say you go running regularly if your running schedule is, at best, sporadic. Conversely, if you worry you push yourself too hard at the gym, say so. Admit you sometimes feel physically ill after a workout.


Let your doctor know how much you exercise. If you do not exercise at all, say so. If you work out two hours a day, admit to this as well.
You should be honest about other lifestyle factors your doctor may ask about. If you drink frequently, let your doctor know. If you smoke cigarettes, you should be open about this as well.
If you are gaining weight, you may need to exercise more; however, excess exercise can be unhealthy for very slender people looking to gain weight. Too much exercise can also substantially decrease muscle mass.
 Many factors can affect a person’s weight and their ability to put on or lose pounds. Strains that you face on a daily basis, or trauma you may have experienced, can directly affect how you gain weight. Speak with your doctor about life stressors to learn whether or not they will have an effect on your ability to put on or lose weight. You may not be comfortable opening up emotionally to your doctor. Keep in mind you don't have to share intimate details, but you can give vague assessments of your current stress level. For example, you can say something like, "Things have been really rough at work lately."
If you've made any lifestyle changes due to stress, let your doctor know. For example, "I have been hitting the gym a lot harder lately since getting laid off. Working out is kind of my outlet."

