 Inspiration comes from many places. For example, the natural world is full of shadows, forms and silhouettes that can turn into the basis of shape, line and colors for your design. Also, everyday items such windows, food or buildings can inspire ideas for cabinetry, table legs and other furniture elements. Of course, always be inspired by the needs of your customers. Consider how the furniture will be used when determining materials and structure. Also, think about the design aesthetic of your brand. For example, your design style can be contemporary, traditional, country or Victorian., Contrast is the pairing of opposites, such as light and dark or rough and smooth textures to generate visual interest or depth.It can also be used to highlight an important element of a piece of furniture. For example, if the doors on your cabinet feature a signature design element, craft them from a different wood or change the direction of the wood to draw the eye to it. Contrast can be subtle or more obvious, but it should not be overused. Avoid severe, distracting contrast in your pieces. Rather, opt for artful playfulness., Proportion refers to the size and scale of the components of the piece.In addition to size, it also has to do with creating harmony among the colors, shapes and textures. The way that these elements should relate to each other depends on your cultural experience. The eye becomes accustomed to seeing a desirable proportion among elements in nature, especially on the human body. In fact, you probably don’t even think about proportion until you see something that looks out of proportion.The Golden Rectangle is a symmetrical relationship that has been used in design for thousands of years and by famous artists such as Salvador Dali, Leonardo da Vinci and the designers of the Parthenon. It is a mathematical concept that makes visual designs more appealing. It is derived from the Fibonacci sequence which is found everywhere in nature, from leaves, to seashells and even the human face. The proportion of the Golden Rectangle is 1:1.618., Shape is also known as form. It is determined by the outline of the piece. Three basic types of shape in furniture are geometric, organic and abstract.Geometric shapes include circles, squares, rectangles and triangles. They are make from straight lines and curves and are often symmetrical.
Organic shapes are often asymmetrical and mimic objects found nature, such as leaves or bodies of water.
Abstract shapes are artistic representations of forms which may or may not be recognizable.
 Lines on a furniture define the space and guide the eye around the piece. Depending on the design style, they can be straight or curved, thin or thick, vertical or diagonal. Examine the lines in your pieces to evaluate how they align.Horizontal lines add length and width to a piece.
The combination of vertical and horizontal lines add symmetry and balance.
Curved lines create movement and add whimsy.
 Texture is the quality of the surface of the material. Texture can be visual, such as how a piece absorbs or reflects light. It can also be tactile, such as the feeling of fabric on a chair. Patterns are created by the repetition of elements in a piece. You can add pattern with shape, color and texture., When using color, consider its three qualities: hue, value and intensity. In addition, colors can also be described as warm or cool. Color can be added to furniture with paint, stain and textiles or by using different kinds of wood.Hue is the name of the color, such as red, yellow or blue.
Value is how light or dark the color is. Light colors can sometimes make furniture appear unstable, whereas dark colors add visual weight.
Intensity refers to how bright or dull the color is.
In general, warm colors are red, yellow and orange, and cool colors are blue, green and violet.