 Overfeeding can led to a snail population boom. Try underfeeding your aquarium inhabitants (only feeding enough for the fish to eat at each feeding) to see if that solves snail overpopulation.;
, The most common, fish-safe chemical used to kill snails is copper sulfate. If this is used, you need to carefully follow the directions for use given on the bottle to make sure your fish survive the treatment. Most times this will cause a massive snail die-off which may foul your aquarium. If so you will need to spend time removing dead snails and adjusting the water to make sure it remains healthy for your fish and any live plants.
 Various snail traps are available on-line or through pet stores to trap snails. However, a very simple trap is to place a large piece of lettuce in the aquarium, clip the sturdy stem end to the aquarium’s side, and leave it overnight.In the morning, remove the leaf and you will most likely find a large number of snails on the underside. Doing this a few nights in a row may help rid your aquarium of vast numbers of snails.


Snails can also be picked out of the aquarium as they are seen. This is most effective when there are smaller number of snails. However, since snails are mainly nocturnal it may not make a dent in the problem.
 Scavenger fish are good fish to add to the tank to eat snails. For smaller tanks, try Zebra or Dwarf Chain loaches. For larger tanks, Clown Loaches or Pictus Catfish will do the job.Assassin snails will also eat their snail brethren. They don’t reproduce as readily, so generally don’t become a problem like other snails.
 Clearly there are various methods to rid your aquarium of these problem pests. Since snails can quickly overwhelm your tank with their sheer numbers, this should be a priority task. You may need to try a couple in order to get rid of the snails inhabiting your tank.
 If the situation is totally out of hand or you want a 100% resolution you can do a deep clean of the tank. This means each item in the tank from gravel, to décor, to plants are removed, water is drained and every item cleaned and dried before refilling and restocking the tank.

