 If you lose a dial tone during a storm, do not use any of your phones. A lightning strike while you're holding a phone could be fatal. If your service goes out because of a storm, you'll need to wait for the carrier to repair the lines that went down.
 If none of the phones in your house have a dial tone, the carrier may need to fix your service. If some of the phones have a dial tone, but others don't, the wiring in your house may be faulty and need servicing. This is not covered by most carriers, so you'll have to either do it yourself or hire a technician.
 If one of your handsets was left off the hook for too long, your line may have been locked. Check all of your phones, and if you find one that is off the hook, you may need to wait a few minutes before your line is unlocked again.
 Each time you unplug a phone, wait 30 seconds and check for a dial tone on another phone in the house. If you hear a dial tone, then the last phone or device you disconnected was causing the problem. If you don't hear a dial tone, reconnect the phone or device and move on to the next one., This is a box that was installed by the phone company when service was first installed on the house. The NID may be located outside where the cables come into the house, or may be located inside of the house in a utility area.Outdoor NIDs are typically located near your power meter or at the location that cables from the street come into your house. It's usually a gray box, but may be painted the same as the house.
Indoor NIDs are more often found in apartments and condos, usually in the kitchen. They look like a larger, more complex phone jack.
 You may need a flathead screwdriver to open it.


Indoor NIDs do not need to be opened to access the test jack.
 This jack is usually labeled as "Test Jack," though it may be unlabeled. Most NIDs only have one jack in the customer access area. In outdoor NIDs, you can usually find it in the upper-left corner of the box after opening it. In indoor NIDs, the test jack is usually located along the bottom edge. Remove the cable that is currently plugged into it.
 Connect a phone and cord that you know work to the test jack. If you're not sure if you have a working phone, ask to borrow one from a neighbor.
 After connecting the phone to the test jack, pick up the handset and listen for a dial tone.


If you can hear a dial tone, then something is wrong with your house's wiring.
If you can't hear a dial tone, you'll need to contact your carrier and request a technician visit, since something is wrong with their equipment or wiring.
 Make sure to replace the cable that was connected to the test jack after you're finished testing, or you won't get service anywhere in your house., Carriers typically don't cover repairs to the wiring inside your house. If you're feeling confident, you can try to repair the wiring yourself. This is a large undertaking for many people, but may save you from having to hire a technician to come and rewire your house. You'll need to check the connection from the NID to the wiring that leads to all of your jacks, as well as the jacks themselves.


One malfunctioning jack can cause the others in the house to malfunction as well.
See Install a Residential Telephone Jack for instructions on repairing and replacing the phone jacks in your home.
 If you can't get a dial tone while connected to the test jack, you'll need to get a technician from your carrier to repair the line. This should be covered in your phone plan, though you may have to wait a while until someone shows up.


If you don't have a way to contact your carrier because your phone line is down and you don't have a cell phone, you'll need to borrow a neighbor's phone or use a public phone.

