 It’s important in this digital age to have a website for your band where record producers and fans can learn more about you and hear clips of your music.If possible, use your band's name as the url for your website. For example, if your band's name is Funky Blue Cats, you should make your website www.funkybluecats.com.
It’s a good idea to have your music for sale on your website. You can sell mp3 downloads or CDs to ship to fans.
If your band's name is already being used as a website, consider changing your name so you can get the url with your band's name.
Put your website on all promotional material to drive traffic to your site. The more unique visitors you get to your website, the higher up on search engines your site will be.
 In addition to a website, you should use social media and other websites to promote your band. This will give you an outlet to actively promote your band online and get information about your gigs out there.Your band should use Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Soundcloud, Bandnation, Reverb, Spotify, and any other site where you can get your name and music out.
Film recordings of songs or practice sessions to give people a taste of your music and the vibe of your band. People will be more likely to listen to the music online if they have something to watch, too.
Consider doing a cover song and uploading it onto a well known site like YouTube to get lots of views. This will get your band's name out and then drive people to your other videos of original music.
Keep a newsletter for your band. Post your newsletter on your website and then link to it on all of your social media accounts. The newsletter should talk about what your band is up to and give insight into every step of your career to create a long lasting relationship with the fans.
 A great way to get your band's name out there is to get people using and wearing items with your information on it. You should be using your own promo material as much as possible as well.Have t-shirts made with your band's name, logo, album art, website, or other contact information on it, and give the shirts to friends, family, and fans to wear.
Give away promo material at all of your gigs. Stickers, pens, artwork such as small prints of your album cover, or magnets are great examples of items to hand out.
 Don’t underestimate the old promotional technique of putting up flyers all over town. When you have a gig coming up, create a flyer telling everyone when and where your band will be performing. Put the flyers up all over the town you’ll be performing in.Make sure you get permission to put the flyers up before you do so, otherwise they may be taken down.
Ask stores to let you put flyers up in their windows or on their door.
Put flyers in restroom stall doors. People will be forced to look at your flyer while they’re in there.
Think of your fanbase and put flyers up in places you think they'll visit frequently.
Ask your fans for help with distributing the flyers. Upload the file of the flyer to your website for fans to download and print out.
 College radio or small market local stations are the best bet for trying to break into getting play time. Send a demo and follow up with the station by asking them if they will play your music on the air.
 Successful bands obviously know how to get noticed, and they may have great advice for your group. By associating your band with a more popular one, the exposure may gain you some fans and make industry professionals take notice.


See bands similar to yours play on a regular basis. Especially when your band is just starting out, local bands with big followings can be a major asset. While there, strike up a conversation with your fellow musicians between sets. If you hit it off, mention your band and give them your contact info.
Ask to open for bigger acts. Once you get to know other bands in your local scene, you can start asking to open for them. This tactic is great for when you're having trouble booking your own gigs.Opening for major touring artists usually comes down to local contacts. Before you open for a major band, you'll have to establish a solid local reputation and a respectable fanbase. Once that happens, start hitting up local industry contacts to find out who is putting together a show you're interested in opening for and simply ask to do so. Depending on circumstances, you can even try contacting the band directly. As you become better established, booking agents will likely begin to approach you with opportunities to open.