 A lot of the time, a marriage begins to fall apart because both parties forget to communicate, feel unsafe or embarrassed communicating, or think they're communicating when they're actually not. In order to encourage the right sort of communication, think about:


Setting aside a time of the day for you and your spouse to come together and just talk. No sex, no children, no TV, no work. Just talk. If you want to talk about your issues, talk about that. If you want to talk about your day, talk about that. Setting aside time to talk will grease the wheels and encourage deeper communication.
Let your spouse vent. Sometimes, your spouse just wants to get something off their chest: they don't want an analysis, they don't want direction, they just want a pair of ears and a shoulder to lean on.
 Often, threats are bandied about a failing marriage like horseshoes on the 4th of July. Threats don't mean you're a bad person, they just mean that you've learned a bad habit, one you should unlearn. The problem with threats is that they encourage people to do the right things for the wrong reasons: your spouse shouldn't want to save the marriage because you're threatening to leave them — your spouse should want to save the marriage because they absolutely, deeply love you.
 Arguments in marriage are bound to happen. The couples that survive and build on their love are able to overcome personal hangups, put themselves in their partner's shoes, and learn from their mistakes. If you want to save your marriage, both you and your spouse are going to have to learn how to argue the right way.


Don't dig up the past. It's really tempting to bring up what happened 14 years ago as a piece of evidence about why your spouse is undeserving or wrong. This misses the point: the point isn't to "win" the argument, it's to get your spouse to hear your point and possibly change their behavior. If you constantly dredge up old dirt on your spouse, they'll feel attacked instead of involved in a discussion. That's when the argument starts to go astray.
Don't use ad-hominem attacks. An ad-hominem attack is when you attack a person (their physical, emotional, psychological traits) instead of their ideas. Sometimes, a trait needs to be criticized and dealt with. But too often, it feels like a serious low-blow and causes more mudslinging than than coming together.
 A relationship is all about trust. Trust is gained when expectations are met, and when actions are followed through on. If you say you're going to do something, do it. A failure to follow through on your words causes your spouse to believe that your words aren't what you say they are. This leads to a breakdown in trust.
 Every life is filled with ups and downs, just as every person is filled with strengths and weaknesses. In a failing marriage, we too often use our partner's failures as a chance to secretly gloat and pass over our partner's success like we take them for granted. What more does a husband or wife want than to have their loved one be with them in times of despair and share happiness with them in times of joy?


If the idea of celebrating your spouse's successes and ruing your spouse's failures sounds horribly weird, take a step back and think about what you want to get out of your marriage. Most happily married couples admit feeling joy for their spouse when they're happy and feeling sadness for them when they're not.
 Falling back into love all over again is great, but sometimes that personal independence that we all yearn for gets lost along the way. Often, what we need is an hour or two of alone-time to engage ourselves in something that we absolutely love, whether it's gardening, fixing cars, or reading books. If one person in the marriage feels smothered, they're going to take that displease out on their spouse, and it's unlikely to lead to happiness. During your time of reconciliation, set aside time to do things you both love, to recharge, and most important, to reflect.
 It's tempting to blame everything wrong that's happened on your spouse without admitting that you were somehow also complicit. There's also space for admitting that you both shoulder blame and responsibility. The process of saying that to your spouse can mean a lot, helping you to reform your bond.


For example, it's unfair to say that your spouse never made dinner with the family a priority if you didn't try to work with them to fix that. You can say something like: "You didn't make dinner as much of a priority as I would have liked, but I was guilty of holding that against you and not trying to work with your busy schedule to accommodate you when you were free."


