 New Zealanders are friendly people and will readily talk to you. Take time to talk to them and to inquire about the most interesting places to visit that they know about. They'll tell you of things the guidebook hasn't a clue about.;
, When you are in a small town, you can go to the library. There, you will find internet access. However, your time will be limited, and it's not always free. New Zealand is catching up with free internet access via wi-fi for tourists and it is now available in shopping malls, the street, parks and reserves, restaurants and cafes and some shops. Check your device to see if there are networks you can access, you'll be surprised some times....but maybe disappointed if you are out in the Wop Wops. Improvements in the service the are being discussed, and coverage is getting better every day.
 Many towns have museums, activity centres, kid's entertainment, etc. There are often outdoor activities located indoors too, such as rock climbing. There are great visitor facilities near areas that get rained on a lot too, such as near the Franz Josef and Fox glaciers. New Zealanders, or Kiwis, know how to make the most of everything and are conscious that the rain can blight a tourist's visit, so have provided plenty of great alternatives. The West Coast of the South Island has a terrible reputation for bein rainy but can be glorious. Be prepared to take a chance.
 Courtenay Place and Cuba Street are good places to hang out in. Follow the interesting people; and again, strike up a conversation to find out more great places to visit and perhaps you'll learn about more events to go to.
 When it rains, when it seems like you can't stand yet another RV in front of you, when the sun refuses to grace your outdoor activities, just smile, don a raincoat and get on with enjoying one of the lushest, greenest places in the world with some of the friendliest people about!

, Reserves are outdoor areas where the native plants and wildlife are managed or where gardens and sports fields are. The nature Reserves are the most interesting with such things as flora and fauna, landscapes, caves, waterfalls, sites of historical interest etc to marvel at, all completely free! Usually with free parking and public conveniences too.
 White Bait Fritters, Feijoa and of course kiwi fruit are all NZ produced so great value for money. You may even be able to catch or pick your own.
 Visit both if possible. You don't have to fly, there is a Ferry Service. Remember, glorious sunsets are completely free!

