 If you are doing a presentation on high school for your class, you may want to consult your teacher about which country you should talk about. Ask your teacher if you can practice using the correct language for high school with him or her.
 Use other students as resources. They will be able to give you the most authentic information and tips on how to talk about high school because they lived there.
 When you are talking about high school in Spanish, the grammar can take several different forms. Find out what you want to say, and check to make sure you are using the correct grammar.


If you are talking about a building or institution, high school is a noun and should be preceded by "la" or "el".
If you are referring to a high school student, use the adjective form. In the adjective form, high school is preceded by "de". For example, you say, "un estudiante de escuela secundaria." As you can see, when you translate high school student from English to Spanish, the words "high school" and "student" are switched.
 Words in Spanish have male and female genders. If a word ends in 'o' or 'e', it is most likely masculine and is preceded by "el". If a word ends in a, d, z or ión, it is most likely feminine and is preceded by "la".


For example, if you are saying "the high school (in Ecuador) needs more students", you would say, "se necesitan más estudiantes para el colegio." "Colegio’ is preceded by "el", because the word colegio is masculine.
For example, if you say "I am studying English in high school (in Chile)", you would say, "estoy estudiando inglés en la enseñanza media". The term enseñanza media is feminine, so it is preceded by "la".
 Some countries have multiple different terms for high school; however, below is a short list of the most common terms for high school. :


For Mexico: "la escuela preparatoria", also called “la prepa”
For Spain, El Salvador, Venezuela: "el bachillerato", or in Spain, "el instituto"
For Uruguay or Venezuela: "el liceo" (referring to the school building)
For Chile: "la enseñanza media" or "el colegio"
For Ecuador: "el colegio"
For Cuba: "el instituto preuniversitario"
Most universal form, regardless of the country: "la escuela secundaria"

