 Obtaining a copy of Microsoft Office (or even just Word) without paying for it involves piracy. Understand the punishments for piracy. Unlike some companies, Microsoft is highly vigilant about piracy; though they're unlikely to pursue legal action against you, there's no way to be sure. In addition, because of the sophisticated anti-piracy measures Microsoft installs in its software, you'll probably need to run a crack, which is a small program that hacks the program's security system to trick it into thinking you paid for a license. Cracks sometimes contain spyware or viruses, so be very careful before running them.
 Use a torrent aggregator like http://torrentz.eu to search for “Microsoft Word” or “Microsoft Office.” Review your results, taking time to read user comments and check the overall rating of the torrent so that you can be sure it's legitimate. Once you find a torrent you like, download it and run it in your torrent program of choice. (If you don't have a torrent program, µTorrent is a good choice.) If there are enough seeders (people sharing the program), the download should begin at once.


Some torrents come with a crack included. If you can find such a torrent that has a good rating, download it and save yourself the trouble of finding the crack yourself.
The latest version of Microsoft Office is Office 2013. However, for most people, Office 2010 should work just as well. If you're having trouble getting the latest version, try an older one.
A torrent for an office suite the size of Microsoft Office is likely to take some time to finish, even with plenty of seeders. Leave the program running and come back later to check on it.
 If necessary, search for a software crack of your version of Office online. This is highly dangerous for your computer, as malicious and invasive programs abound in the seedy underbelly of the web where most cracks reside. Be sure your antivirus program is up to date and running in the background.
 The first thing you should do if you downloaded a version with an included crack is read the Read Me file. It should give you detailed instructions on how to use the crack to fool Office into licensing you for use. Most cracks get a bit of initial data from the program to be cracked (which you'll have to acquire manually by running the program) and then using it to generate a passkey. Whatever the case, follow the instructions closely and enter the key into Office once you have it. From this point, you should be able to use Office freely.


Don't send any information to Microsoft if prompted! They'll likely figure out what's going on and lock you out of the program or otherwise get you in trouble.
If your instructions include dubious steps (such as opening or modifying System files, or running other programs aside from Office), don't follow them without getting expert advice from a trusted friend first. Chances are, they're a malicious practical joke that could end up harming your computer badly.
You can throw out the crack program once you're done with it. It doesn't need to stay on your computer for Office to recognize you as a legitimate user.

