 Take good care of your body. This not only makes you more attractive, but helps your crush see that you think you're worth caring about. Shower, keep your hair tidy, and exercise (for good health, not weight loss).;
, A great smell is really attractive. You don't need a lot of perfume or cologne, either. Just shower regularly and use deodorant. A little body spray can come in handy if you really want to smell amazing.
 Stop wearing clothes that are torn, stained, out-of-date or don't fit your body or body shape. This makes people think you lack self-worth, since it shows you don't think you're worth taking care of. Wear clothes that look great on you...and don't grab the ones looking like they came off your dirty bedroom floor!

, Confidence is very sexy! Everyone likes someone who's confident! Of course, you only have to make people think you're confident. Everyone is a little self conscious. Make sure you never talk down about yourself and speak up for yourself when you have an opinion. Let yourself be in control of situations from time to time and talk to the people you want to talk to.
 If you want to be noticeable to your crush, you have to make everyone else notice you too! Get out of the shadows and start by following your passions. Do the things that make you happy and do them without feeling worried about what other people think. People will admire your dedication and you'll be happier to boot!

, Learn a new skill in order to get people to see just how amazing you really are. You can teach yourself to play an instrument or take up another skill, like running track or something else. Just do something you've always wanted to do!

, Of course, getting people to notice you means that you have to actually talk to people too. Get out there and be more social. Go to events with your friends, make some new friends, and get involved in things that are going on.
 The most important thing is to get up off the couch and start living your life loud and proud. If all you do is sit around, you're going to be boring to other people as well as your crush.
 How is your crush supposed to notice you if you're hiding in the shadows all the time? Get out there, talk with them, hang out, and let them get to know you. This is a great step towards really getting to know each other.
 Get to know them for who they really are. Spend time talking to them about the things that really matter to them, such as their dreams for the future and the beliefs about politics or religion. This shows them that you really care about them, not just who you think they are.
 Find something to bond over (for example, if they are in a club, join that club). Don't fake loving it, but learn to appreciate it instead. Don't start stalking them though. That will only freak them out. You just have to be patient and let things develop naturally.
 Support them in the things they like to do. For example, if they play sports, show up at a game. But you should also support them when they're having a tough time. Help them with their homework or be a good listener when they're having a problem.
 When you talk with them, don't get super excited or start acting weird. Just keep calm. They're a normal person just like you. Act natural and they'll find it much easier to interact with you.
 Greet them every now and then, at first warmly, then a bit more flirtatiously. Say hi in the halls or talk to them a bit.
 Smile at your crush and make eye contact, but don't be creepy about it. For example, if you do not know your crush very well, get to know him/her slowly (Asking them for the time, talking about a book they are reading, etc.). If they are a friend, start flirting slightly.
 When conversing with your crush, make sure that you spend at least as much time listening as you do talking.
 Don't send them a bunch of notes or hang around after school and wait for them. Don't get their phone number from other people or do any kind of stalking. This will make them not want to talk with you or spend any time with you. Think about how your actions will really look to them, especially if they don't share your feelings.
 Don't get other people to ask them out for you, don't be a jerk to the person that they're dating, and don't be dramatic about talking or not talking to them. This will only stress you out and make other people (including your crush) not want to deal with you.
 If you want to go out with your crush, just ask them out. Cut out the worry from your life and get it over with. At least you'll know how they feel and you can move on. Besides, they'll appreciate your bravery in asking.
 If you do ask them out, do it in private. This will be less stressful for you and they won't feel pressured into giving you an answer they don't really mean. They may not even have ever thought about you romantically, even if they would like to date you in the end! Give them the opportunity to decide.
 When you ask them out, ask with a specific date in mind. This will keep things from getting awkward. Ask something like, "Would you like to go out to a movie with me this weekend?" or "Do you want to come with me to the arcade on Friday?".
 If they don't return your feelings, don't feel like it's the end of the world. Although your crush might have seemed perfect or perfect for you, keep in mind that there are plenty of people out there. You want someone who returns your feelings - so if your crush doesn't, then they just weren't the right person for you. You will find your special someone!

