 People with body dysmorphic disorder are consumed with negative thoughts about their appearance. They may obsess over flaws that others do not even notice or consider minor. They may be convinced that they are ugly even if others find them attractive, and may frequently compare themselves to others.The negative thoughts can be centered around any aspect of the physical appearance, including but not limited to weight, muscle tone, facial features, skin, and hair.
Some people focus consistently on one flaw, while others may shift their focus from one flaw to another.
While everyone may think about their flaws from time to time, people with body dysmorphic disorder spend at least an hour each day thinking about them.;
, People with body dysmorphic disorder often go to great lengths to conceal their perceived flaws from the rest of the world. Despite these efforts, however, they are usually still not confident in their appearance.Some people attempt to hide their flaws with clothing, makeup, or hair styles.
Some people with body dysmorphic disorder may also avoid looking at themselves in mirrors., Some people with BDD seek out plastic surgery as way of fixing their many perceived flaws. They may eventually become addicted to procedures, as they never achieve the level of perfection they are looking for.People with BDD often have unrealistic expectations of how much plastic surgery will change their lives, and as a result, are almost never satisfied with the results.
Many doctors will not operate on patients who show symptoms of BDD, but some patients may be able to deceive their plastic surgeons.
 In order to be diagnosed with body dysmorphic disorder, an individual must engage in at least one repetitive or compulsive behavior related to their perceived flaw(s). Often, these behaviors involve excessive grooming of some kind.Other examples of compulsive behaviors include constantly looking in the mirror, repeatedly asking for reassurance, or compulsively buying clothes.
 For people with body dysmorphic disorder, their symptoms are extremely distressing to the point that they interfere with everyday living. Many individuals experience secondary anxiety and depression, which causes them to become isolated.For some people with body dysmorphic disorder, the obsessive thoughts about their flaws become so inhibiting that they avoid socializing with others for fear that they will be judged for their appearance.
The symptoms may also interfere with their ability to function properly at school or work.
 People with body dysmorphic disorder want to look perfect, and for many, this perfectionism extends into other parts of their lives. They may never seem satisfied with anything, no matter how much they have accomplished.Everyone is different, but some areas where perfectionism may be noticed are at work, at school, in sports, or in interpersonal relationships.
Perfectionist tendencies may include picking at your skin, comparing your body to other people's bodies, engaging in excessive exercise, or constantly changing your clothes., Many people display some of the symptoms of BDD, but do not entirely fit the criteria for diagnosis. In this case, a diagnosis of other specified obsessive-compulsive and related disorder is often made.This diagnosis is made if an individual meets all of the other criteria for BDD, but does not engage in any repetitive or compulsive behaviors.
This diagnosis is also made if an individual meets all of the criteria for BDD, but the flaw they are concerned with is deemed more obvious than "slight" by a trained clinician.
 Eating disorders and BDD often go hand in hand, but they are not the same thing. Individuals whose obsessive thoughts revolve entirely around weight may have an eating disorder, not BDD.People who have all of the symptoms of an eating disorder, but also have obsessive thoughts about other aspects of their appearance besides weight are likely to be diagnosed with both BDD and an eating disorder.
 There are a variety of other psychiatric conditions besides BDD that may cause a person to avoid social situations, often for fear of embarrassment. If the cause of the anxiety and embarrassment is not entirely based on appearance, another diagnosis may be more appropriate.Examples of other conditions that can cause social isolation include major depressive disorder, social anxiety disorder, and agoraphobia.
 While people with BDD may be concerned with any aspect of their physical appearance, an obsession with body odor is not a symptom of this disorder. Individuals who experience similar symptoms as those with BDD, but whose main concern is with body odor may be diagnosed with olfactory reference syndrome or dysmorphic concern, rather than BDD.People who are obsessed with both appearance and body odor may be diagnosed with BDD and another condition.
 Both OCD and BDD are characterized by obsessive thoughts and repetitive actions, so they can be difficult to distinguish. If the thoughts and behaviors are not centered entirely around appearance, OCD is most likely a better diagnosis., The first step to getting an official diagnosis of body dysmorphic disorder is to see your doctor for a physical. The point of this exam is to rule out any physical conditions that may be contributing to the symptoms. Your doctor may also want to order blood tests during this visit.
 If your doctor does not discover any other conditions during your physical, you will most likely be referred to a mental health professional for a psychiatric evaluation. The psychiatrist or psychologist will make a diagnosis based on your reported symptoms, your history, and your answers to a variety of screening questions., If you or someone you know is diagnosed by BDD, it is important to seek treatment in order to limit the severity of the symptoms and re-engage in society. Treatment options for people with BDD include cognitive behavioral therapy and medications such as serotonin reuptake inhibitors.