 A urinary tract infection (UTI) is very common but can be unpleasant and very uncomfortable. UTIs are an infection of your upper urinary tract (kidney and ureters), lower urinary tract (bladder and urethra), or both.If you develop a UTI you will likely feel a burning sensation when you urinate as well as a need to urinate often.
You may also feel pain in your lower abdomen.;
, There are different symptoms for the various infections. It can be useful to think about your symptoms so you can explain them clearly if you need to go to the doctor. Symptoms of lower UTIs include: needing to urinate more often, cloudy or bloody urine, back pain, very unpleasant smelling urine, and generally feeling unwell.If you have an upper UTI you may experience a high temperature (over 38 degrees C, or 100 Fahrenheit).
You may also be nauseous, and shiver uncontrollably.
Other symptoms include vomiting and diarrhea., 25-40%of mild UTIs will spontaneously resolve, but that still leaves more than half which could be putting themselves at risk for a complication by not seeking medical care. Make an appointment with your doctor straight away if you are experiencing a UTI, and you develop a high temperature, or your symptoms suddenly get worse.If you are pregnant or diabetic you should contact your doctor immediately.
Going to see a doctor will enable you to get a precise diagnosis. What you think is a UTI could be a yeast infection or something else.Your doctor will likely have you take a urine test to determine if you have a UTI and what bacteria might be causing it.These cultures usually take 48 hours to complete.
 UTIs are bacterial infections, and as such, doctor prescribed antibiotics are the most thorough, most recommended treatment to consider. Antibiotics are particularly recommended for women who suffer frequent UTIs. Longer-term courses of antibiotics can help prevent the infection recurring.Antibiotics typically prescribed to treat a UTI are nitrofurantoin (branded as Furadantin, Macrobid, or Macrodantin), and sulfamethoxazole with trimethoprim (branded as Bactrim, or Septra).However, ciprofloxacin (known as Cipro), fosfomycin (known as Monurol) and levofloxacin (known as Levaquin) are also prescribed.
In addition to antibiotics, AZO is an over the counter bladder analgesic that can help.
 Take a one- to seven-day course of antibiotics, with your doctor's prescription and advice. Most women are put on a 3-5 day antibiotic. Men might be put on an antibiotic for 7 to 14 days. While symptoms usually clear up around three days after antibiotic treatment, it can take up to five days for all the bacteria in your urinary tract to die off.It may take even longer for men.


It is vital that you finish all of the antibiotics that your doctor prescribes unless your doctor tells you otherwise.
If you stop taking your antibiotics before the course is over, you’re not allowing the antibiotics to completely kill the bacteria.If your symptoms continue after you have taken all your antibiotics, or you don’t feel any better after a few days, contact your doctor again., There are potentially serious complications from a severe UTI, which could lead to kidney failure or blood poisoning. These are not common, and they usually only affect people with a pre-existing health problem, such as diabetes. If you have a weakened immune system, you are more susceptible to complications and infections.Pregnant women with UTIs are at risk for life-threatening complications and should always be examined by a physician.
Men who have recurrent UTIs are at risk of developing inflammation of the prostate, known as prostatitis.You may require hospital treatment for a severe upper UTI, or if there are complications.
This will still involve antibiotics, but you will be closely monitored and perhaps put on a drip to keep you hydrated.