;
, The base and height are simply the measurements of two perpendicular sides of the square or rectangle; for a square, this two measurements are the same. Simply multiply both numbers together to find the area of the end.
 The radius is the length from the center of the circle to the outside edge. Square this number (i.e. multiply it by itself) and then multiply the result by pi (3.14159…). This gives you the area of the end.

If you’ve been given the diameter (i.e. the length across the entire circle), divide this number in half to find the radius.






If you’ve been given the circumference (i.e. the length of the outside edge of the circle), divide this number by pi and divide that result by 2 to find the radius.
 Parallelograms are slanted squares (like open-ended boxes that have been pushed to one side); they have two pairs of parallel sides but none of the corners are right angles. The base of a parallelogram is simply the length of one of the two long, misaligned sides; the height, however, is the distance between these two sides, not the length of one of the angled sides. If this height isn’t already given to you, the problem will ask you to solve for it by turning on of the angled sides into a right triangle and giving you the length of two of the sides of the triangle. To solve for height this way:


Use the Pythagorean Theorem, which is A^2 + B^2 = C^2. The hypotenuse of the triangle, or C, is simply the side of the triangle opposite the right angle. We’ll call the other side that’s been given B. To solve for the height, which we’ll call A, rearrange the formula to A^2 = C^2 – B^2. Multiply C by itself, then multiply B by itself. Subtract the second result from the first to get A^2; to then solve for A, find the square root of this sum. This is the height of the parallelogram, which you can now multiply by the base to find the total area.
 A pentagon, for example, can be broken down into 5 equal triangles; a hexagon can be broken down into 6; and so on. When you’ve finished drawing the triangles, solve for the area of one triangle using this guide. When you’re done, multiply that area by the total number of equal triangles you’ve drawn.


If the polygon can’t be broken down into perfect triangles, break it down into triangles and squares. Find the area of each shape individually using the shape guides above and then add them together to find the total area of the polygon.
 You’ll come back to it later.

