 Once your friend has made it through the initial stages of grief, she may be ready to focus on something else in order to distract herself from feelings of loss. If your friend is open to it, you can invite your friend over to your house.Make sure you don’t force the issue on her, and ensure that she really wants company.


You can watch TV, play video games, have a home spa, or anything to take their mind off of her family member. Make sure your friend enjoys what you are doing.
 Remember you are trying to make your friend happy, so let her choose.


Offer to take your friend to the movies, a sporting event, a roller/ice skating rink, or anything else they enjoy doing.
If she is not ready to do anything, don’t push the issue. Some people may need more space than others, so adjust your approach accordingly.Perhaps just talk to your friend on the phone if she isn’t ready to go out in public yet.
Try to go to places that aren't very crowded.
 Coping resources are integral to helping a friend through the grief process. You can suggests certain ways of coping that you think might help your friend.


To personalize it, think of activities that your friend previously enjoyed doing (but maybe now feels too upset to engage in) such as certain sports or games. Offer to go along with your friend while she does these things.
Story-telling about the loved one or journaling about the loved one can help individuals cope with the death of a loved one.If you notice that your friend is having difficulty coping you can ask, “Have you ever tried writing about it? I’ve heard that writing down stories of times you spent with your loved one can be helpful.”
Rituals and symbolic activities can also help with the grieving process. This include family traditions, activities shared with the deceased loved one, and religious activities or traditions (prayer, meditation, attending religious services).You can assist your friend in finding information on how to healthfully grieve. One way to gain education is to learn about the five stages of grief.If your friend is a minor, or open to young-minded literature, you can encourage her to read information that is geared toward young people about how to cope with the death of a loved one.
 Loss is not a state of being, but a process. A person may continue to grieve the loss of a person throughout her life. Grief and loss is not solely about letting go of the loved one, but about creating meaningful ways to continue to cherish and remember the loved one.Some ways to keep the relationship alive include: dedicating a project to the person, continuing or finishing a project the person was involved in, passing on the values of the loved one to others, planting a garden in memory of the individual, lighting a candle in memory,and the list goes on.
Another way to keep the relationship alive is to make a scrapbook with pictures of the family being happy with the lost relative.
 In one study, 1/3 of grieving individuals reported a need for professional assistance or health services during the grief process.Additionally, chronic depression may occur in 10-15% of individuals who lose a loved one.Some symptoms of bereavement include: difficulty organizing thoughts, dysphoria (dissatisfaction with life), health problems, and lowered social and occupational functioning.These symptoms can last several months to years.There are therapists or grief counselors that specialize in the treatment of individuals who have experienced a loss.
If your friend is school aged (5-18) and lost her parents or a caregiver, she may need additional help.You can discuss your concern for your friend with a school counselor in order to get her the help she needs.
A Bereavement support group can also be a helpful and relieving option because it can give people the sense that others share their pain.