 There are many types of figs available on the market, but there are a few common ones that are very popular for their hardiness. Look into the figs that grow best in your region, but consider varieties like brown turkey, Brunswick, or Osborne figs. Keep in mind that figs come in varying colors, in shades from purple to green to brown. Each type of fig typically ripens at a different type of the year as well.Visit a local nursery or call your local agricultural extension to get figs that are suitable for your local climate.
Figs grow best in warm, tropical and desert-like areas, so the largest variety of figs will be able to grow in these environments. Only a select few species can grow in places whose temperatures drop below 40 °F (4 °C).;
, In general, figs should be planted in mid spring. A young fig tree will take up to two years to produce its first fruit, but typically the figs ripen in late summer and early fall. Pruning should also occur in the summer, which is atypical to some other popular fruit trees.
 Because fig trees are so cold-sensitive and also require maintenance of the root ball, it is typically easiest to plant them in a pot if you are growing them in a climate any colder than USDA hardiness zone 7. This way, they can be moved to warmer areas and their roots can be easily maintained. However, you can choose to plant your figs outside with the right conditions; find a location on a southern-facing slope with minimal shade and plenty of drainage.
 Although fig trees aren’t particularly picky about soil conditions, they do thrive with a few minor changes. In general, fig trees grow best in soil that is slightly sandy and with a pH near 7 or just below (more alkaline). Add a bit of fertilizer to the soil in a 4-8-12 or 10-20-25 mix or mulch with a layer of compost., Use a small shovel or your hands to dig a hole for your fig tree. Make the hole just large enough for the root ball to fit, and plant the tree at the same level it was growing in the container.
 Remove the plant from the container and carefully put it on its side. Use a pair of gardening shears to trim off the excess roots around the edges, as these reduce fruit production. Then, place the root ball in the hole and spread the roots carefully away from the trunk. Fill in the areas beneath and around the tree with soil, and pat the soil so it is even and firm., To help your newly planted tree to settle, give them a heavy watering for a few days. However, in general figs don’t like a ton of water, so give your tree a moderate amount of water 1-2 times a week after planting.
 If you planted your fig tree outside, it is important that you maintain the soil and plot that the plant is growing in. Pull any weeds that you see, and replenish the soil with fertilizer every 4-5 weeks. Additionally, apply between 4 and 6 inches of mulch around the trunk of the tree, covering the soil evenly.


Keep in mind that trees planted in containers are more dependent on fertilizer, and they need to be fertilized once per month.
Mulching in the summer will preserve moisture. Mulching in the winter will protect the figs from cold and frost.
 Prune your fig tree in the summer of the second year, as it is not necessary to prune them during their first year of growth. Prune the branches down to 4 strong shoots, which will lead in the production of fruit. After the tree matures, prune back every spring before the figs begin to grow.
 Harvest figs from the tree when they are completely ripe, as they will not continue to ripen after picking (like peaches). A ripe fig will be a little bit soft, and curved at the neck. The color of a ripe fig will vary depending on the variety you have, as figs come in many different colors. Remove the fruit from the tree gently to avoid bruising the fig.


Wear gloves when picking your figs, as the sap from the tree (released during harvesting) is a natural skin irritant.