 Tell yourself that there are many different forms of beauty. Do not conform to media messages about what "sexiness" is: those are often impossible standards to meet. Take a look at the normal, average people around you and see the beauty in them. Then be as kind to yourself as you are to those around you., Sexiness is often an evanescent feeling. Don't stress yourself out if there are some days when you feel a bit frumpier than usual. Besides, if you felt sexy every minute of every day, it wouldn't be a very special feeling., Don't try to channel somebody else's form of sexiness. Feel free to be inspired by your favorite actors, actresses, and icons, but don't pretend to be them. It is better to fully inhabit yourself., Don't compare yourself negatively to the people you see on television or in magazines. Only think about how you feel and about your priorities., Many people get caught up in obligations to coworkers, friends, and family members. Don't forget to give yourself quality time to take care of your own needs too. Give yourself evenings off sometimes, when you can turn off the phone, shut down your email, and focus on yourself for a change.If you have children, make sure that you have time and space apart from your children as well. Make sure that there is at least one room in your house that is not covered in toys and crayons so that you can relax and enjoy some adult time., Many people think and talk negatively about their bodies. They complain about their weight, wrinkles, or blemishes. When you find yourself falling into this pattern, disrupt it by forcing yourself to give your body a compliment instead. Eventually, your brain will stop finding criticisms of your body., Change up your routine in order to feel sexy. Go on a little adventure: try rock climbing or a new restaurant. Make sure that your everyday life is filled with adventure and excitement., If you are beginning to feel down because of the sexy men and women you see on television or in magazines, give yourself a break from these messages.Magazines make women and men feel worse about themselves.Shut your magazines, turn off your television, and instead listen to some music or read your favorite novel. Make sure you are not comparing yourself to media personalities.
 All bodies have their imperfections: wrinkles, crooked lines, blemishes, or bulges. These make us human. Don't harp on your perceived imperfections: in fact, it might be your imperfections that make you attractive to others., Don't hold onto the past. Feel good about the way you look right now, even if you are a different weight from when you were younger and even if your hair has grayed. Be sexy in your current body: don't compare yourself negatively to who you were ten years ago., Keep reminders of your accomplishments in visible places around the house. Keep your trophies on a shelf and photos of your happiest moments on the walls. Use these displays to boost your confidence when you are feeling low., Write down a list of all the things you love about yourself and your body. Do you love your confidence? Your smile? Your quick wit? Remember that all of these are key ingredients of your sexiness. Keeping a journal of affirmations like these can help you channel these sexy traits and keep you feeling good about yourself., Some groups of friends bond by complaining about their bodies. However, this kind of negative body-talk can reduce everybody's self-esteem. Instead of giving in to negative body-talk, compliment your friends and let them compliment you in return. Affirm each other's beauty and sexiness, and keep things positive., You will feel sexy if you are surrounded by people who admire and care about you. Stay away from those who criticize you and your body. Find friends and lovers who accept you for who you are: they will help you feel sexy, even on days when you might feel frumpy or out of shape., If you are given a compliment, resist the urge to demur or deflect. Believe the compliments you are given. Every time you deflect a compliment, you are telling your subconscious that you are unworthy of good energies being directed towards you.
 Whenever you look in a mirror, find one thing you love about yourself. Appreciate who you are and how far you have come in life. Do the same thing before bed each night. While these exercises might seem forced at first, eventually they will become second-nature, and your feelings of self-love and sexiness will seem effortless.

