 This form verifies that you are not on the sex offender registry form, which would prohibit you from changing your name. Send this completed form to the address listed on the form itself with a self-addressed, stamped envelope. The form will be completed and returned to you, at which point you can prepare your petition.
 You will need to completely fill out a Utah Name Change Petition and Cover Sheet. Fill out the petition completely and attach your completed Department of Corrections Certification Regarding Sex Offender Registry form after it is returned to you. Sign your petition in the presence of a notary public. You must also attach a Cover Sheet for Civil Actions form.Be sure to make copies of all forms.
 The request for hearing form asks the court to schedule a hearing in your case. The Affidavit for Waiver of Court Filing Fees form allows you to avoid the filing fee if your income is too low. , Once you have completed all the forms up to this point, take them to the district court in the county where you have lived for at least one year. Give the documents to the court clerk and pay the filing fee. If you did not have the petition notarized, you must sign it in front of the clerk upon filing., If the court requires that you send notice to anyone, you must fill out the Notice for Hearing on Petition for Name Change to show you have done so. You will need to send the notice to those you are required to notify along with your petition., You will need to attend your court hearing and bring a prepared Order Changing Name. Dress appropriately to attend your hearing. When your number is called, stand to show you are presence and tell the judge you are representing yourself. You will stand before a podium, and you may be sworn in to testify. If your name change is granted, the judge will sign your prepared Order Changing Name at the end of the hearing. You should return to the court clerk after your order has been signed to get certified copies of the order, which you will use to change your name with any agencies or private institutions, such as your work place, bank, etc.