 With your head close to the walls to look across the surface, look for dimples and / or bumps. Lightly mark the dimples and bumps with a pencil. The dimples should only be the size of of a nail or screw head, and the bumps the same size to slightly larger. Try to find two or more close together across the wall's surface left and right and up and down. If none can be found where needed, continue on to the next steps.;
, Look directly at the molding along the entire length for exposed nail heads or evidence of wood filler placed over the nail heads. If not plainly evident (covered, painted, etc.), again, lightly indicate the locations with a pencil. Try to find two or more nail heads left and right along the molding.
 The more found in a vertical row, the more likely it is that under the bumps and dimples are the nails or screws that were used to secure the wallboard to the studs.
 It will likely be 16 or 24 inches (40.6 or 61.0 cm), with the 16 inch (40.6 cm) measurement being far more common.
 Use the repeating measurement to help project the location of the next stud. The 16 inch (40.6 cm) centered studs will be found at 16", 32", 48" etc. from nearly any stud found. Likewise, the 24 inch (61.0 cm) centered studs will be found 24", 48", 72" etc from nearly any stud found. Places where the distance may be less than the 16" or 24" multiplier can occur at wall corners, doorways and windows.
,, Press the probe in into the wallboard or plaster at an angle pointed away from the box. Since most electrical outlets boxes are installed before the walls are finished, they are supported by studs. The box would likely be supported on the right or left side, by the stud. If the probe passes unobstructed into the void beside the box, the stud is likely on the other side. Probe the other side similarly. If it only passes a short distance before stopping, this is likely the stud location. If it does not, it is possible that the outlet was installed after the walls were finished, and the wallboard or lathe is supporting the outlet instead of a stud. Try the same procedure at another outlet on the same wall.
 Of course, if a location above a switch is needed, the switch box should be probed similarly to the outlet box procedure to determine which side of the box the stud is located.
 Using the measurement multiple determined above, find the stud 16, 32, 48 etc., or in the case of 24 inch (61.0 cm) centers, 24, 48, 72 etc. inches away from the closest stud found - along the baseboard molding. Lightly mark this spot on the baseboard with a pencil. With a specific area to look for evidence of a stud, carefully look again for dimples and / or bumps in the wall, or filler in the baseboard.
 When voids are found, move left or right about 1/4" or less and probe again. Continue to probe until the probe finds the stud.
 The stud should be approximately 1 - 1/2" thick. Ideally, any screw or fastener to be secured to the stud should be located in the center of the stud for maximum holding power.
 Probe this location straight in and if obstructed, probe thru the same point at a 45 degree angle to the left and then right. Push hard when probing at the angle. This is to help ensure that the location is not at the edge of the stud.
 Patch any plaster and replace any wall plates.

