 Place the pine nuts underneath a broiler until golden brown or simply bake in a 400 degree Fahrenheit oven for 5-10 minutes, checking often.









Alternately, toast the pine nuts in a pan over low or medium-low heat on a burner. Stir often.
Pine nuts burn very easily, making them somewhat finicky to work with. When toasting pine nuts, pay attention closely and move them around often. The difference between perfectly toasted pine nuts and burnt pine nuts is often a matter of seconds.;
, Chopping before they are put into the food processor makes a finer ground pesto in the end.
 Add the extra virgin olive oil in the spout gradually as the food is being processed.









If you don't have a food processor, you can also use a blender in a pinch. (Pesto will turn out finer and less grainy when using a food processor.)

, Give the food processor one or two more pulses.
, Pistou is a french (Provence) variation of pesto made in a similar fashion, except without pine nuts. It consists of basil, garlic, olive oil, and sometimes cheese. Pistou is generally used in vegetable soup.
 To the original pesto genovese recipe, add a bit of fresh mint leaves and substitute almonds for pine nuts. The almonds may or may not be toasted.
 Red pesto is like traditional pesto, except it has tomato, much less basil, and substitutes almonds again for pine nuts.
 This pesto incorporates grilled red bell pepper, black pepper, and sometimes eggplant and ricotta cheese to go along with the basil and tomatoes. It has a distinctly spicy taste to it.
 For a very rich, sweeter pesto, combine sun-dried tomatoes along with pine nuts, garlic, and olive oil.
 Although basil is the traditional ingredient in Italian pesto — and almost religiously used in authentic Italian recipes — you can experiment a bit with the green herbs you put into the food processor. As a substitute for basil, try:









Arugula. Makes a very nutty pesto.
Cilantro. Makes a light, fresh, and clean-tasting pesto.
Ramson leaves. This makes for a German variety of pesto.
Parsley. Makes a light, clean pesto.
 Because of the cost of pine nuts, many people have taken to substituting other nuts into the original recipe in lieu of pine nuts. Substitutes often include:









Walnuts.
Cashews.
Chinese pine nuts.
Almonds.

