 If you wish to blend in, you should choose timeless outfits that involve neutral colors (e.g. black, white, and brown). You may want to wear one main color (e.g. blue or pink) along with a few light, dull, or neutral colors., Wear something comfortable and well-fitting, such as a T-shirt and jeans. Don't wear a suit or a dress or anything expensive looking, because that will definitely make people notice you.Avoid wearing baggy, revealing, overly fashionable, or brightly-colored outfits, as it will draw attention to you.
Find a personal style that feels comfortable, suits you, and blends in nicely with the rest of the students.
 If it's going to rain, wear something with a hood. If it's warm out, definitely don't wear a jacket, because you'll really stand out when everyone else is wearing shorts and tanks., Put away that bold statement jewelry. Avoid sporting necklaces with big beads or dangling earrings, and stick to only one or two minimalistic pieces of jewelry with your outfit., Don't dye your hair bright colors or style it in crazy hairdos; this will only make people notice you more! Usually people dye or style their hair when they want to be noticed. Wear your hair in a neat, plain hairdo that's also flattering around your facial features., For example, don't carry your iPod or wear your headphones while you're walking down the hall. You may be drawing more attention to yourself or to your stuff than you think., Don't act as though you're frantically trying to get somewhere, but don't walk too slowly, either. Walk the way you normally would at home or in your neighborhood.Walk with a purpose, as if you're meant to be doing something and you don't look out of place., Raise your hand occasionally (if at all), and try to avoid answering questions unless called upon. Pay attention, though, so if you are called upon you know the answer to the question and avoid looking flustered. Sit in the middle or back of the classroom, and focus your attention on the teacher.


If participation counts towards your grade, then raise your hand enough to get a grade that you are satisfied with.
 Share personal news (e.g. breakups, successes) within your small social circle, rather than announcing them to the world. Do your best to present a serene face to the outside world, and save your inner struggles for a few close friends, family members, or trusted adults who can listen and keep a secret.
 If you don't want to be noticed between classes, like during lunch, then study or do your homework during this time. Students study in school, so it's not like you're doing something out of the ordinary.
 Find friends who share your interests. Don't feel like you need to slip off the radar altogether; school becomes much easier if you have the support of like-minded friends. Find a group that is fun and relaxing to hang out with, and stick together so you don't look like a loner.Don't feel like you need to avoid meeting people altogether! If someone seems nice, go right ahead. It would be rude not to reciprocate.
 Don't hang out with people who are always getting thrown into detention. These kind of people can get you into trouble, even if they don't mean to. Getting in trouble will definitely get you noticed, and not in a good way.
 Don't attend parties that everyone knows about and that are held by the most popular groups in school. Everyone talks about those parties, and you do not want your name linked up to them.


Go to your friends' parties, and people you usually hang around with. Do the same with school-related events. Stick to your own crowd, where you will be surrounded by others like you.
Small groups may be more fun for you than big parties.
 It can drain your energy, and the more effort you put into it, the more people will notice you online. Keep most of your social interaction in person, or on anonymous websites that aren't connected with your school.
 Never gossip or talk trash about people, classes or events. This can deeply hurt others' feelings, and it will bring you to the forefront of their minds in a very bad way. If you don't like something or someone, try a shrug and a noncommittal "It's okay" or "She and I don't really click, so I don't hang out with her much."

