 Shaping is a method of training that gradually builds a behavior until it is the required one. For example, if you were training a chicken to turn in a circle using shaping, you would first give the chicken seed for moving to the left, then for turning slightly to the left, then for turning halfway to the left, than turning completely in a circle. Shaping is what you will be using to train your dog to play soccer.;
, A clicker is a box-shaped plastic training instrument that has a metal part that, when pushed, makes a signature "click" noise. A clicker is used to mark the moment when the dog performs the desired behavior; for example, when the dog sits while being trained to sit - the dog will know the sitting is the behavior for which he is given a treat or other reward. Clicking a behavior is more exact than telling a dog "Good dog!" as a clicker has a distinctive sound and is easy to use at the exact moment the behavior occurs.


You should now charge the clicker. This is also know as loading the clicker. Charging the clicker means to teach the dog that the click sound means he is about to receive a treat. Cut up a hot dog or other highly desirable item, and call your dog. Click the clicker and reward your dog, click and reward, click and reward, etc. You can switch rewards later on in the training session to something more mundane such as kibble, but occasionally use a hot dog or other similar food to keep your dog's enthusiasm with the clicker high.

Clicker training relies on very exact timing - if training a dog to sit, for example, you must click the instant the dog sits, not when he's standing, as otherwise you will be rewarding him for standing. Before you start training this trick, practice your timing. Find a friend and a tennis ball, and ask the friend to slowly bounce the tennis ball. Every time the ball hits the ground, your goal is to click - ask your friend how well you're doing. If you practice this exercise frequently, soon your timing will be perfect!
After clicking your dog, you must give him a treat. Clicker training your dog is somewhat like employing him; you can't expect him to work without "money," i.e. treats.
 The first step to training a dog to play soccer is to reward the dog for looking at the ball.


Before you begin this step, you should decide on your criteria. You will decide criteria for each step in this training process; deciding your criteria is deciding what you will click and what will be ignored. For this step, your criteria should be very low - shifting in the direction of or even looking at the ball is deserving of a click.
Choose a soccer ball that you won't mind getting a little beat up, and take it and your dog into a quiet room without distractions (other dogs, people, music, etc.). Bring small, soft treats you can split into little pieces and your dog can easily swallow. Click and reward your dog whenever he meets your criteria. If your dog refuses to look at the soccer ball, or is too interested in the treats, move the ball or otherwise catch his attention with it.
 To earn a click, your dog must now touch the ball with his paw.


This step is easier if you first train your dog the trick "paws up," or when the dog puts his paws onto an object. Find a stable, box-shaped item, and encourage the dog to put his paws onto the item. Keep the hand holding the treat close enough to him that he doesn't think he should jump up onto the item altogether. You can first reward brushing the item with a single paw, and build up from there until your dog keeps both paws on the item until the click sounds, finishing the command.
You can encourage your dog to touch the ball with his paw by telling him to "paws up" on it; if he knows a trick such as "high five" or "shake," you can also use that trick. Your dog may also be more likely to touch it with his paw if the ball is moving; experiment!
This step can be frustrating for dogs who do not understand what is wanted of them; to keep enthusiasm high, you can ask him for tricks he already knows well and click and reward him.
 In this training session, don't click and reward the dog simply touching the ball, but immediately click and reward if your dog pushes it, even if it only moves slightly.


Your criteria will have to be very exact, or you will confuse both your dog and yourself. "My dog should move the soccer ball" is not an exact enough criteria; on the other hand, "My dog should lift its paw and move the soccer ball forward using its paw" is good enough.

