 Coonhounds refer to a group of dogs that were all bred to hunt and tree raccoons. There are a number of different types of coonhounds, including redbone, black and tan, American English, blue-tick, treeing walker, red-tick, and the plot hound, that range in weight and size. Because they were bred to hunt, coonhounds have a strong prey drive and are eager to please their owners by working.Coonhounds are the breed of choice for many small game hunters, especially in North America. They respond well to training and bred to be excellent hunters. They are hard workers and need daily exercise to satisfy their energy levels.Coonhounds hunt by scent and are expert trackers. They tend to hunt almost entirely relying on scent before they tree or corner the animal.;
, Coonhounds are notorious for following scents and ignoring the calls of the owners when they’re on the trail. Unless your dog is well trained, you should not let them off-leash in unsecured areas, like the open woods.Leash training can be more difficult with coonhounds than with other dogs, this will be an ongoing process.Attach a leash to your dog’s collar and let them become acclimated to being on a leash. Begin walking with your dog and reward them with a small treat when they stay by your side. If they attempt to pull on the leash, stop walking and do not move until the dog returns to you. This way, they learn that the walk will only continue when they behave on the leash., The come command is one of the more difficult commands for coonhounds to learn. As scent hounds, these dogs are bred to smell and are known to wander off and ignore commands whenever they pick up a scent.It is absolutely essential that your coonhound respond to the come command and return to you when they are called. When they do not know this command, you risk losing your dog to whatever scent they pick up, even if it leads them into dangerous areas.


Practice the come command by calling your dog’s name once and then rewarding their good behavior with a small treat when they come. Avoid yelling their name out over and over again when they don’t respond; this teaches them that it’s alright to ignore your call.
 Coonhound training should start when the puppy is about 12 weeks old and have received their shots. Ideally, training should take place either early in the morning or after it has rained. The wet ground helps the coonhound to follow a scent more effectively, and it gets the dog used to walking in water and through puddles.It is recommended that you train your dog just prior to meal times, when they are hungry, rather than after meals., Coon hound puppies are ready to hunt when you are certain that they will follow your obedience commands. Any puppy that struggles to come when called or heel, even 10% of the time, is not ready to hunt. You can start acclimating them to scents while they are still in obedience training, but they should never be allowed to track off leash, track a live animal, or go on a hunt.

