 You will need 5 pages labeled with the name of the book in each of the 5 sections of your notes. The sections are: Characters, Settings, Vocabulary, Plot or story notes, Predictions.;
,, As you read, you will need to watch for the names of people and places; also watch for any dates or other numbers given.



Leave half a page for writing down things about them. You will only have two characters on each page of paper! Every time their name is used or they are talked about in the book, the author is telling you clues about the character. Be a detective.






Catch as many of those clues as you can and list them under the character's name. Age? Physical description? Personality? Fears? Friends?

, The setting is where and when the story is taking place.
(You will only need a few lines for each setting though, so more will fit on each page.)
You don't need to copy the full description from the book, but briefly tell about it - i.e. "A cold dark cave" "Aunt Tillie's house in the city."

, Many of them you can guess at.


If a word is new or unfamiliar to you, write it down in your vocabulary section.
Write down the page number where you first saw the word, and the sentence it was used in (this is very important).
Leave four more spaces for adding a definition later.



Write 1-3 sentences (in your own words) about what has happened in this chapter.
Try to pick out what you think will be the most important things that happened.
 Don't look ahead!


Guess what will happen in the next chapter. It's okay if you don't get it right. One fun thing to do here is think, "If I was writing this story, what would I have happen next?"
See if you can figure out what the author is going to do next.
 Many words will have more than one meaning. You will need to copy down only the meaning for the word as it was used in the story (that's why you wrote down the sentence it appeared in, so you would know which meaning you needed).
,,,


When you have finished the book, you will have everything you need to do an excellent book report! You will have an entire story line, descriptions of all the characters, new words you've learned, and even notes about what you thought would happen and if the author could surprise you or not!

