 If you have a large area to clear, and you need to do it fast, it will be a lot easier if you have a snowblower.


This machine is a good alternative to shoveling when there’s at least 1 ½ inches of snow on the pavement or public space.
Move up and down the length of the pavement. Try to point the snowblower's chute downwind if you can. Work in circles so the chute will throw snow to different sides. Before you use the snowblower, spray its exit chute with furniture polish or silicone. This will stop the snow from sticking. When snow blowing, throw the snow as far into the yard as you can so it doesn't stack up too high on the edges.
After you buy the snowblower, read the owner’s manual. Make sure you are using the correct fuel in it because, if you don’t, you could harm the engine. For example, some engines can’t tolerate gas with too much ethanol in it.Don’t leave the fuel sitting in the tank if you’re not going to use it for more than 30 days. It can damage the fuel system because it will deteriorate inside of it. If you’re concerned about the environment, it’s possible to purchase an electric snowblower instead of using a gas-powered machine.
Follow all the machine’s operating and safety instructions properly. The debris dispersed by snowblowers can break house or car windows, if thrown powerfully enough. Never stick your hand or a tool of any kind into the machine with it running.
 If you’re dealing with a big or tricky public space or pavement area, you might want to call a service that specializes in snow removal. Most Landscape companies in heavy snowfall regions offer snow- and ice-management services.


Don’t wait too long into a storm or the service may already be booked up. You will have to pay a fee depending on the property. Start booking snow removal services in mid-September if you know you will need it.
Ask about any “roll-out minimums,” meaning the minimum level of snowfall for which they will dispatch clearing services. Also inquire as to their procedures during heavy snowfall. For example, do they come multiples times or just once.
Snow removal services have equipment with plows so it will be a lot easier for them to clear a large area. You should be able to find these services online in your area, through word-of-mouth, or in the phone book. Prices will vary depending on where you live, but it can cost as little as $30-45 to clear a driveway size area.
 This means that you install electric wires in the pavement in order to heat it from below. This will melt snow as it falls.


People lay down these wires when they are installing or replacing a driveway, usually. They will have to pay for electricity costs, though.
The way this works is that the electrical wires radiate heat upwards, melting the snow, so you don’t have to shovel it! This is most feasible on your own property's pavement.
Radiant fluid systems are another option and may prove to be a safer, more user-friendly choice in heavy snowfall regions.

