 About 47% of epileptics will eliminate seizures after being prescribed an anti-epileptic drug. After some experimentation to determine which drug works best for the person, that number rises to 70%. In short, medical intervention is generally effective, over time, at eliminating seizures., Antiepileptic drug (AED) is usually prescribed once the type of seizure disorder has been established. Patients who have had just a single seizure are usually monitored but are not treated with AEDs. In children, use of AED is not always automatic either. The decision to start AED drug is complex and is influenced by the frequency and type of seizures. Treatment decision should always be make by a pediatric neurologist. Children are rarely treated for a first-time seizure.
 If medicine does not work, vagus nerve stimulation can reduce the frequency of seizures by as much as 50% after two years of treatment.In this procedure a pulse generator is surgically implanted in the chest so as to send signals to the brain. You will be given a device to temporarily turn off signals when exercising or doing a public performance., Doctors may prescribe the ketogenic diet to children who are not responding to medication. In this diet, you will severely limit the number of carbohydrates you consume. Instead you will derive your energy from consuming large amounts of fat. While the procedure has been shown to be effective, the diet would be hard for an adult to maintain., It is common to feel annoyed or elated for hours prior to a major seizure. With experience you might be able to recognize an “aura” before the onset of a seizure. When you feel the symptoms, sit down so that you do not hurt yourself by falling. In some cases, you can stop the seizure by responding to your symptoms.


If you inexplicably detect a strong odor or taste, this may be a sign of an oncoming seizure. These seizures can sometimes be fought off by sniffing a strong odor, like garlic.
The sudden onset of depression, irritability, or headache can also be the sign of an impending seizure. In this case, contact your doctor immediately and ask if you can take an extra dose of medication to stave off the seizure.
Uncontrollable twitching is a strong indication of an impending seizure. When this happens, squeeze the muscles around the twitching to try to contain it. This will sometimes prevent the seizure., Certain lifestyle changes are important to either eliminating seizures or minimizing their effects. You should refrain from alcohol and other recreational substances. Maintain a regular sleep schedule. Consume Vitamin D and exercise to minimize the risk of bone fracture during seizures. Decrease and manage stress.


In some cases you might also want to wear a protective helmet to prevent head injuries.You can try to limit stress, often a precipitating factor for seizures, by employing yoga or meditation. Minimize factors in your life that cause stress.
Flashing lights can cause seizures. Limit exposure to video games, big screen action flicks, and holiday lights.