 Take control over your own life to the greatest degree possible. Nobody owns you, but you live in a society. No authority over you is legitimate unless you violate the rights of others or voluntarily grant the authority to others in work, play or community governance, just as you should not have authority over others, if they don't consent to it.


Think about your own relationships. Do you have equal relationships with your friends, family members, loved ones, co-workers? If you have power over them and they have not consented to it, find a way to remedy the situation. Talk to them about your anarchist beliefs. Let them be. Explain that you wish to create an egalitarian relationship. This might be a communal, utopian group.
 Many anarchists have issues with the government, hierarchical religion, and large, regimented corporations. Think about your relationship to each one of these entities.


Do you think that the government is too powerful? Do you think that the government intrudes on your life too much? Think about the steps you can take to reduce the government's presence in your own life. You can move to a new country where the government is less intrusive, but there is less law and order. You can go off the grid and evade the law. Or you can protest. See the following section.
Watch for elites (cult-like stars) that could use the lack of structure plus lots of deceptive rhetoric and confused media to install the ideas of controlling elites' ideology. Attempting to convince people that this huge regional/international cult is an egalitarian/equality-based community. But it could turn out to be a government by a dictatorship of the elite settled upon as a way to live in safety, to survive and actually achieve the leaders goals, not by consensus, but what of power to the people?
Many anarchists turn to atheism because they dislike the hierarchical structure of the church. Others choose to remain in their respective religions, but reject this structure in favor of individual or small group meetings for worship.Some anarchists, particularly communists, collectivists, mutualists, and syndicalists, have a real problem working for corporations with several levels of managers. If this is you, consider quitting your job and starting your own sole proprietorship type of business. Some even turn to collective farming., Think about gender equality, sexual equality, racial equality, religious equality, equal opportunity, and pay-equality that all use force of law versus individual choices.


Assist those who are unfairly treated by the "system". Promote choosing and being dedicated to working in related career areas to build knowledge, experience and skills to get promotions. Women are still in less skilled, underpaid work categories in the workplace. Help promote rights to equal wages in a chosen career. Racial minorities are often faced with prejudice. Help promote racial diversity. Challenge these opportunities and what they offer to society.
 Find a community of people who believe some of the same things you do and live in a small, informal network of friends (perhaps a commune). You will need to rely on others. This is unavoidable. You can learn from each other, teach one another, and expand the network.


To the extreme, others who proclaim the complete fracture of governing framework, and use anarchy (such as extreme libertarianism) to take the opportunity to convince people to believe they can use their "liberty" to remove many drug laws. They can avoid family-structure/marriage, parenthood, child-raising/supervision of children and much of traditional government/policing. So, instead a community, much like a cult, would take responsibility for children in a communal "orphanage" as wards/foster children of the "community"/local arm of the state for life.

