 Once home, your child will need to rest so that she can make a speedy recovery. If your child is a toddler, there is a good chance that she will want to get out of bed and play. If you can’t keep her in bed, set up a playpen so that she remains in a confined space and can’t exert herself too much.


Place some of her toys in the playpen with your child.
 If your child is a little older, it will be easier to explain to your child why she needs to stay in bed. Tell her that while she sits in bed, her body will start to fix itself. When she lies down, make sure that her head is propped up with two or three pillows so that it is higher than her legs; this will help to keep her neck from swelling. You will most likely have to keep your child in bed for about a week.If your child’s neck does begin to swell, put a cold compress on it to bring down the swelling.
 Recuperation time can seem boring to some children, especially those that are usually quite active in their play. Combat this boredom by buying activities that your child can do while she lies in bed. Some activities include:


Reading a new book. You can also read to your child.
Playing on a tablet or handheld device.
Drawing or coloring (you will have to put a hard surface down on your child’s lap so that she can draw).
Watching a movie or favorite TV show.
 When your child is at home recovering, try to limit the number of people who come over to say hi. Your child’s immune system will be a little weak because of the trauma she has just experienced. If a lot of different people come over to say hi, your child’s chances of becoming exposed to a bacteria or virus is more likely.


In addition, having visitors can make your child so excited that she talks or moves around, which could reopen wounds in her throat.
 While your child’s teachers most likely already know that your child is missing school because of surgery, it is important to remind them of this fact when your child goes back to school. For the first couple of days back, your child’s teachers may want to keep an eye on her and make sure that she adjusts to being back at school and does not exert herself too much.

