 Before you adopt a dog, you should know what you’re looking for. Do you want a big dog? A small dog? Do you want a dog in prime health, or would you adopt a dog that – for instance – is blind or deaf? Establish your standards and expectations for the dog you want before interacting with a dog before adopting it.Monitor the dog’s behavior when you adopt it. If it is playful and energetic, ask yourself if this type of dog personality fits your lifestyle and/or your family’s lifestyle.
Having a concrete notion of what you want from a dog will help you avoid problems later if and when you actually adopt the dog.
 If you have kids, you should bring them along when interacting with a dog before adoption. If the kids react badly to the dog, or the dog reacts badly to the kids, or both, you may want to adopt another type of pet or forego introducing a pet into your household altogether. If you have a domestic partner, you should bring them along, too, and include them in the decision as to which dog your family will adopt.For instance, if your kid starts crying when it interacts with the dog, or if the dog puts its tail between its legs and starts howling when it meets the child, you should think twice about adopting it.
Kids under 6 years old generally do not mix well with pet dogs.If you have children, you might do best adopting a lab or beagle.
 If you have a dog at home already, you should bring it along when interacting with another dog before adopting it. The introduction of your new dog to the dog at the adoption center is not necessarily an indication of how they will behave over the long term. Most dogs who live in close proximity become friends eventually.If your current dog has behavioral issues (for instance, if it is very aggressive) it might be best to get a different pet like a fish or turtle that your dog will have minimal interaction with. An adopted dog might end up being bullied by your current dog.
It’s best to have your current dog for at least one year before introducing a second into your home.Adopt a dog that complements your current dog’s personality. For instance, if your dog is dominant or assertive, adopt a dog who is more submissive and wimpy. If your dog is anxious or shy, adopt a dog who is confident and playful.
 When you interact with a dog before adopting it, you’ll have many questions. Ask an employee of the shelter or humane society your questions about the dog, specifically, and the adoption process generally. They might not have all the answers, especially if the dog came in recently, but they should be able to help you with a few basic questions. For instance, you might want to know:Is this dog spayed/neutered?
Where did this dog come from? Was it donated or was it a stray?
What is the adoption fee?
Will I be required to attend any dog owning courses following the adoption?
What are the next steps I should take if I want to adopt this dog?

