 Make sure to copy the entire URL from your browser's address bar.;
, There are lots of sites online that will allow you to download the YouTube video as an MP3 file. Some of the most popular include keepvid.com, savefrom.net, and clipconverter.cc.
 It should be labeled "URL" or "Address".
 Depending on the site, you may be prompted to run a Java plugin. After clicking the Download button, you'll be shown a list of different formats that you can download the video as.
 This will begin downloading the audio of the video as an MP3 file.


Some sites only allow you to download an audio MP4 file. If this is the case, you'll need to convert it to MP3. Click here for instructions.
 VLC is a free, open-source media player that can also convert files into different formats. VLC is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux, and can be downloaded from videolan.org.
 This will open the conversion tool.
,,, Make sure to save it in a location that you can easily find. Click the Start button to begin converting the file.
 VLC will essentially play through the entire video, so the conversion process will take about as long as the original video was., Avidemux is a free, open-source editor that can extract the audio track from your video file and convert it to MP3. You can download Avidemux from fixounet.free.fr/avidemux/download.html.


Avidemux is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux. If you aren't sure whether you're running the 32-bit or 64-bit version of Windows, click here.
There are online conversion services available, but you'll have to upload the video file in order to convert it, which can take a lot of time and data. Avidemux can quickly convert videos of any size to MP3 files.
 Click the Open button at the top of the window, or click the "File" menu and select "Open". Browse your computer for the video file you want to convert to MP3.


If you're trying to convert a streaming YouTube video to MP3, download it to your computer first using the DownloadHelper extension for Firefox or a website like keepvid.com. After the video has been downloaded, you can use Avidemux to extract the audio track. Click here for more details on downloading YouTube videos. Again, there are online converters available, but your quality options are usually limited.
 If you only want a portion of the track, use the "A" and "B" selections to choose the segment you want.


Move the slider to the start point you want and click the "A" button.
Move the slider to the end point you want and click the "B" button. This will create a selection using you start and end points.
 You can find this on the left side of the Avidemux interface.
 The lame encoder allows you to convert the audio track into an MP3 file.
 You can adjust a few different settings before you save the audio track.


Bitrate mode - This determines how the audio data is stored. Most users can leave this set to "CBR".
Bitrate - This determines the size and quality of the audio file. Set it to "192" or "224" for high-quality audio.
Quality - This also affects the final audio quality. Choose a higher number for a better-sounding, but larger, file.
, Make sure to include the .mp3 extension at the end of the file name. Avidemux will begin processing the audio and converting it into a file.
 After the conversion is complete, you'll be able to listen to it using anything that can play MP3s. If the file doesn't appear as an MP3 file, right-click on it and select "Rename". Add the .mp3 extension to the end of the file name.