 Pour wax flakes into a tall pot or double boiler over medium heat and allow the wax flakes to completely melt while stirring often. It helps to break up the wax with a whisk or utensil when it starts to condense at the bottom of your pan. This will help speed-up the melting process. Do not allow the wax to reach above 140 °F (60 °C) and always wear thick rubber gloves to protect your hands.;
, Once the wax is melted and ready to use, it will become a translucent liquid.


Allow the wax to rest for 5 minutes. Then add scent into the wax and stir gently with a whisk or stirring utensil. Do not wait longer than 5 minutes before dipping your bear into soy wax and scent mixture. You do not want wax to cool too much and become hard.
The recommended balance is 1oz of dipping scent per 2-lb of wax dipping flakes.
 Prior to dipping the bear in the wax, remove all tags and bows. Then using tongs remove most of the air from your bear by lightly pushing it against the bottom of the pan and then allowing it to soak up the wax.


Make sure that your bear is completely saturated with the wax mixture from top to bottom and all sides. Give yourself a couple minutes to complete this step. This step does require rubber gloves to protect your hands from the hot wax.
 Squeeze the excess wax back into the pot by holding your bear over the pot of wax; squeeze the bear from head and work downward to the feet. Repeat this action until the desired amount of wax is removed from the bear.
 Place your bear on an inexpensive cooling rack with a shallow pan or baking sheet underneath to catch the wax drippings and to prevent excess wax from building up at the bottom of the bear. It helps to place the rack over your pan or sheet to conserve the wax for later use.


Position your bear in an erect sitting position and if needed, place a toothpick under his chin and gently press into his chest to hold his head up while he is drying. Pose his arms and legs in a position of your liking.
Once, the wax dries, the bear will become stiff and his body position will be permanent. You have approximately 15-30 minutes before the wax starts to stiffen. If you are using a larger bear, use a doll stand to hold the bear upright.
 Your bear’s foundation will be completely hardened after allowing it to dry for up to 1 hour depending on the temperature and humidity of your location. The higher the humidity and temperature, the longer it may take for the bear to harden. Ideally, it is best to be in an air conditioned location. The bear should be able to hold its pose before proceeding to the next step.
 Remove any toothpicks or doll stands from the bear and add the finishing touches with a warm hairdryer on low setting. This will remove any wax dandruff and produce a softer feel. The wax should just slightly melt on the bear's hair endings while you perform this process.


This is also a good time to groom your bear by using a toothpick and fluff up the bear’s fur one last time by gently using the hair dryer to soften on a small section at a time, then gently picking out his fur where the wax looks matted or thick. Allow bear to dry completely again before moving.
Place any bows or accessories back on your little bears. Use a wax-proof doily to place your bear on permanently. This will prevent any excess wax from staining surfaces and protect furniture.

