 If you're a small company, a startup, or just new to government you'll want to create a strong relationship with the department you're attempting to serve. This applies to all levels of government and can be done by offering a version of your product free to help officials solve a specific problem. Or, it might be done by serving as an engaged thought leader on a civic issue. Either way, many companies find that relationship building is crucial because often officials are making procurement decisions even before a Request for Proposal is even advertised.

Start your search by networking with government officials, checking city websites online and in the local newspaper. You will find government contracts listed under the heading "Legal Announcements" if looking in the paper.



 

;
,


Partner with a prime vendor as a subcontractor. This helps you gain experience in government contracting and support from a company that's more established. Use SUB-Net at http://web.sba.gov/subnet/ to find subcontracting opportunities.
Use or form a Contractor Team Agreement (CTA). Under the CTA, 2 or more GSA Schedule contractors share responsibilities as equal parties as opposed to the prime contractor/subcontractor arrangement, where the prime contractor has more advantage.
If you are interested in getting on the GSA Schedule for contracting, submit an offer to a corresponding GSA Schedule Solicitation online via eOffer.
 You can do this in 2 different ways:


Register with Central Contractor Registration (CCR) and create a profile or resume for your business. The CCR database is used by federal agencies to find prospective contractors.
For federal contracts over $25,000, consult the Federal Business Opportunities or visit their website at https://www.fbo.gov/. You can view opportunities without logging in. Click on the link "Find Opportunities" in the vendors/citizens section.
 You can find a list of procurement agencies by state online. You can also get instructions on how to register as a contractor and how to place your bid.
 A good place to find bid opportunities from local and state agencies is http://www.govcb.com/. Select from the list of categories in your state. You can also select from the new bid opportunities already listed on their home page.


If you click on "Opportunities" on the menu bar, you can select the option to view federal bid opportunities.



Procurement Technical Assistance Centers (PTACs) can help small manufacturing businesses who are looking to bid on contracting opportunities in all levels of government.
Go to http://www.aptac-us.org/ and find local centers in your state. PTACs provide training in areas such as business certifications, networking, proposal preparation, and bid opportunities selection.

