 Occasionally people may have trouble breathing or the sensation that their throat is closing when they get hives. If this occurs to you, it is a medical emergency and you should call an ambulance immediately.If this occurs, the emergency responders will likely give you an epinephrine injection. This is a form of adrenaline and it should reduce the swelling quickly., These medications are available as both over-the-counter and prescription medications. They are the first line of treatment for hives and are effective at reducing itching and swelling.Commonly used antihistamines include Cetirizine, Fexofenadine, and Loratadine. Diphenhydramine (Benadryl) is a commonly used over-the-counter antihistamine.Antihistamines may cause you to feel sleepy so don't drive while taking them until you know how the affect you. Do not drink alcohol while taking them. Read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions and your doctor’s recommendations.
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant. Antihistamines may not be safe for pregnant women.
 These medications are usually prescribed when antihistamines don’t help. They reduce the hives by lowering your immune responses. A commonly prescribed treatment is a three to five day regimen of prednisolone.Tell your doctor if you have any of the following conditions before taking corticosteroids to make sure they are right for you: high blood pressure, glaucoma, cataracts, or diabetes. Tell your doctor if you think you could be pregnant or you are breastfeeding.
Side effects may include weight gain, mood alterations, and insomnia.
 If you have hives that are resistant to treatment, your doctor will probably refer you to a skin specialist. You may also be given the option of trying additional medications.Tell the doctor if you are taking any other medications or are pregnant or breastfeeding.Menthol cream. This can be applied topically to reduce itching.
H2 antihistamines. These are different from the over-the-counter antihistamines. They narrow your blood vessels, reducing swelling and redness. Side effects can include headaches, diarrhea, and dizziness.
Leukotriene receptor antagonists. These medications may be prescribed instead of corticosteroids because they often have fewer side effects. When side effects do occur they may include headaches and nausea.
Cyclosporine. This medication suppresses the immune system. Side effects include high blood pressure, headaches, kidney problems, high cholesterol, tremors, and an increased vulnerability to infections. This medication can usually only be taken for a few months.
 Some rashes respond to treatments of narrowband ultraviolet B phototherapy. This requires you to stand in a small room for a few minutes while you are exposed to light.This treatment may not be effective right away. You would do two to five sessions per week and it may take 20 sessions before you see an effect.
This treatment can lead to sunburns and may increase your risk of getting skin cancer.

