 It's important to note the recipient's interests, preferences, and expressed wishes when putting together the items for the stocking. Consider what you think the person might like. Once you've settled on their preferences, pick a theme for a set of gifts.


Are you filling the stocking of a six year old boy or a sixty year old woman? Clearly the age directs the choice of gift and yes, it is perfectly fine to give stockings to adults too! It is a good idea though to note whether or not adult recipients think that this is an appropriate gesture at Christmas time. Many adults may prefer that only the children receive stockings, so keep this in mind.;
, Well chosen gifts need not be costly to be meaningful, helpful, or fun. For children, pick items that are fun, interesting, and likely to keep them amused for hours. For adults, select items that are both small and useful, such as kitchen accessories and office gadgets.


When filling the stocking, think of the shape. Small, expensive items are best placed at the toe because they're the last to be found and deserve to be the most exciting. Long slimmer items can be slipped down the length of the stocking leg, and in between many filler items can be stuffed in randomly.
Decide whether or not you wish to wrap the stocking items. It isn't essential but it does prolong the fun!

, The classics are great additions to any stocking: crayons, modeling clay or play dough, a Slinky, miniature Lego kits, travel games, decks of cards, mini jigsaw puzzles, wind-up toys, tops, squirt guns, balloons, beach balls, high bounce balls, small stuffed animals, toy cars, and even fancy shoelaces.
 A wide variety of foods fit in stockings, and they are consumable, enjoyable, and easy to give.


Try a favorite candy, jam, or ice cream sauce.
Fancy coffee, tea, or hot cocoa samplers would make a great addition for those who drink them.
Gum, cookies, fruit leathers, and other small snacks fit nicely.
An orange makes a good, traditional addition. You can also substitute it with a chocolate orange. Oranges fit well in the toe of a stocking. Don't bother to wrap it; just make sure it is in good condition.
Decorate the top of the stocking by hooking a candy cane or two over the rim.
 These can make excellent stocking stuffers because they're small and they're always useful and desirable.


Try a new hairbrush or toothbrush (perhaps the one with the purple sparkles or a favorite cartoon character), a bar of fancy soap, or a loofah. For an adult, expensive electric toothbrushes might make a useful choice.
Check out the travel and trial sizes. Would someone you know enjoy trying a new hand lotion or shampoo? A travel set can be an excellent gift for someone you know who is about to travel just after Christmas.
Give a small handheld ball-type massager. These come in many shapes and sizes and you might like to include more than one.
Add fashion jewelry, nail polish, or hair clips.
 Handy little things make excellent stocking fillers for adults and teens. Some ideas include:


Pocket or desktop calendars.
Pocket knives or multi-tools.
Pens, pencils, erasers, pocket staplers, highlighters, color pens, notepads, especially for the students on your list.
Wristwatches or small alarm clocks.

Flashlights, small hand tools, kitchen utensils.
A travel-sized sewing kit. Again, this is perfect for someone who is about to travel after Christmas.
 For instance, if anyone on your list is an aspiring artist, you could give a set of good artist's pencils or try a pocket sized pencil drawing kit.
 For example, try US$2 bills, if you can find them. Most banks have 2's, just ask. Give wheat pennies, dollar coins, or other interesting coins.


In the U.S., many post office vending machines give change in dollar coins. Money doesn't need to be wrapped, but make sure it doesn't get lost.
 Gift vouchers can be slipped in easily and can cover clothing, restaurants, groceries, music download cards, and even gift cards for new experiences for the more adventurous recipient.


While gift cards and gift certificates fit in a stocking, remember that they may be relatively costly compared to the space they take up. One possibility if you want to include gift cards is to attach them to a small, related gift. For example, a hardware store gift card could piggyback on a wrapped tape measure or other small hand tool.
 These items can be decorative, enjoyable, or whimsical.


Small candles
Pretty stones or minerals
Potpourri or incense
Ornaments and miniatures
Music CDs.
 For children, good ones are:
Chocolate - miniature individually wrapped chocolate, hot chocolate mix, chocolate scented pen or stickers, one large thick bar of chocolate, a calculator that looks like a chocolate bar, chocolate scented soap, etc.
Sweets - minute individually wrapped sweets.
Princess - tiny pink ribbons, individually wrapped pink strawberry bonbons, minute stories about fairies and princesses, a plastic tiara, costume jewelry, clear lip gloss, etc.
Football - Football key rings, tiny soft footballs, chocolates wrapped in football pattern paper.
For adults:
Stationery - minute erasers, pencils, pens, a tiny hole puncher, a mini roll of sellotape, a tiny stapler and pencil shaped chocolates.
Sanitary items - tester sachets of shampoo and conditioner, tiny bottles of shower gel, shampoo and conditioner, combs and brushes.
 Many people make up stockings for pets. These are fun for the recipient and for the family because family members have to encourage or help the pet to remove the items from the stocking. Be sure to leave something enticing dangling from the top of the stocking! Things to stuff a pet's stocking with include:


Dog or cat treats

A new collar
New cat or dog toys (homemade or purchased)
New food bowls
Catnip for cats
Laser light for chasing
Tug-o-war rope for dogs.
Read How to fill a dog's stocking for ideas that are specific to dogs.

