 The park has a multitude of smells, sights, and sounds that your dog doesn't encounter every day in his domestic life. The plants and animals, as well as the other dogs and their humans, make the park a place of endless wonder and excitement for a doggy.


If the weather and facilities allow, your pet may want to go for a swim. However, beware of waterborne illness and only allow your pet to swim in and drink clean waters., Crowding can lead to aggression and stress for dogs who are poorly socialized.


Most dogs and their humans go to the park in the evening or on weekends. Try to avoid these most busy times.
 The kind of park experience your doggy has depends on his or her reproductive status, size, and general attitude.If your dog is small, don’t let him or her play with or near larger dogs; typically, there is a separate area for smaller dogs.
Try not to bring dogs younger than 12 weeks old to the dog park. Not only could they get trampled, but their immune systems may not have fully developed yet.If your dog isn’t spayed or neutered, do not let him or her play with doggies of the opposite sex.
If your dog is not well-socialized, avoid letting them play with many other dogs. Give them a chance to understand how to interact one-on-one before leaving them to a large crowd. Dogs who are very territorial might try to pick a fight with the wrong dog and get hurt.
 Some dog parks can be quite expansive, and are usually leash-free, meaning the dogs can roam wherever they want to within the bounds of the park. Stay nearby and don't let them wander too far afield.


Don’t spend all your time looking at your phone, reading a book, or chatting with a friend.While humans as well as dogs can find valuable social time at the dog park, keep your canine friend first and foremost in your mind.
Pay attention to your dog’s movements and moods, and encourage them when they see or discover something neat (“Yes, that’s a very fast squirrel over there!”) Treat your doggy as you would your baby and shower them with attention.
 Like people, not all dogs can get along. If you see trouble brewing, recall your dog immediately. Step in front of your dog if you need to remind them you’re there.


In the event of a conflict, recall your dog immediately.
Don’t confuse play with conflict. Just because your dog and another are barking at each other doesn’t mean they are fighting. Signs of play include:Barking or growling
Playful nips, not full bites
Side-to-side, rather than forward movement
Rear quarters up with front legs outstretched


Signs of real trouble include:

Staring at one another
Snarling (lifting the lips and revealing teeth)Arched neck
Stiff legs



, Don’t leave empty dog treat boxes or bags on the grass or tables. And under no circumstances should you leave your dog poo behind.Bring some vinyl gloves, a plastic bag, paper towels, and sanitary wipes with you just in case Fido has to do some business.

