 You can easily create instant curves with underwear that doubles as shape-wear.


Push-up and padded bras enhance the bust and give it a fuller appearance.
Look for shape-wear for the lower body that has padding in the hips or rear to create curves in those areas.;
, The right shirt or blouse can add fullness to the bust and hip areas while minimizing your waistline so that you appear more curvy.


Peplum tops are fitted at the waist, but flare out at the hip. These tops are an easy way to achieve curvier hips.Boatneck and off-the-shoulder tops draw the eyes out and help create the illusion of an hourglass figure.Tops with cowl necks or draping in front can add fullness to the bust area.Corset style tops create an hourglass shape by accentuating the bust and hips while minimizing the waist., Tailored jackets are cut to be more narrow at the waist. They help define the waist and create an hourglass shape.For the best results, wear the jacket over a more fitted top that isn't too bulky and button the jacket in the middle to nip in the waist.
 Pants, skirts, and shorts that come up higher tend to sit at the smallest part of the waist and make this area look smaller. In contrast, a smaller waistline makes the bust and hips appear fuller, creating an hourglass figure., Pants and jeans that flare out at the bottom create fullness and help minimize a too-slim appearance.Detailing on the back pockets, like sequins or embroidery, can also create a fuller looking backside., Fuller skirts and dresses that flare out from the waist can help create the impression of curvier hips. Details like pleating are another way to add fullness to the hips., Wrap dresses tend to make the waist look smaller, which makes the chest and hip areas appear larger.This is another great way of creating a curvier appearance.
 Illusion dresses are usually a light or bright color in the front with darker colors on the sides. This color scheme is sometimes also referred to as color blocking.The dark panels of color on the side will draw the eye in toward the middle and help create the look of an hourglass.
 Wearing a belt at the natural waist is a great way to create a curvier appearance. The belt will highlight your small waist and make your chest and hip areas appear fuller by comparison.Skinny belts work best to minimize the waistline and create an hourglass shape.
Experiment with wearing a belt over everything from a dress to a slim fitting sweater or tunic top.

