;
,, You may have difficulty performing the jump while moving so begin with doing the jump standing still. When you feel more comfortable, get a moving start. You can stroke forward and then attempt the jump, or you can do it from a more advanced way: backward crossovers.
,


Imagine that you are trying to get on a bike. This is one method of getting comfortable with the feeling of a waltz jump).
 Keep in mind that you are not jumping yet, you are just getting the feel of the jump.


As you start the take-off, you should be leaving the ice on your left toe-pick so it is the last part of your boot that leaves the ice. Never rise off the ground on a flat blade. Never think of rotation; if you are in the right starting position you will automatically make the half rotation necessary.
 Don't get frustrated if it takes you some time, just keep practicing until you can go pretty high off the ground.
 You're going to jump off the ground, lifting up your right leg, followed closely with your left leg. When you land, be sure to keep your right foot straight. After landing, you should be skating on your right leg with your left leg extended behind you, gliding backwards.
 do three or four of these, and do a forward inside three turn as soon as you turn, jump with your right leg and land.
 The landing should start on your right toe-pick and should start rolling down to a flat blade on your right foot back outside edge. Never land on a flat blade as this will cause ankle, knee, and hip problems. You should be skating on your right leg with your left leg extended behind you, gliding backwards.
 It will be the first to land, and you obviously do not want to sprain it.


You may not feel comfortable doing the jump starting on your left foot and landing on your right. This turns you in an anti-clockwise direction. If you generally turn in a clockwise direction try reversing these instructions and starting on your right foot and then landing on your left. Which ever you choose stick with it and if you try spinning on the ice make sure you're turning in the same direction. It doesn't matter which way you turn but you need to jump and spin the in the same direction.

