 Eating yogurt may help treat yeast infections and reduce the symptoms. Yogurt contains probiotics, which can kill harmful bacteria but encourage the growth of good bacteria. Eat can a cup or two of yogurt daily.Do not insert yogurt into your vagina. While this was once a recommended home remedy, this has not been shown to have any effect on treating a yeast infection.
 Tea tree oil is antimicrobial and antifungal. This means it can be helpful in treating yeast infections. You can make a tea tree oil solution and apply it to the vagina; however, some people can be sensitive to tea tree oil, so stop using if it causes further irritation.Place a few drops of tea tree oil in two to three cups of warm water. Soak a cotton towel or washcloth in the mixture. Apply to the vulval or vaginal area for 30 minutes.Repeat twice a day.
 Garlic has antibacterial and antiseptic properties. This can help if you have a bacterial infection. You can either take garlic supplements or add fresh garlic to your food.Do not insert garlic into your vagina. This is another popular home remedy that has no proven benefit.
You can also take a garlic supplement of 300 mg.
 Apple cider vinegar has been shown in studies to kill yeast, such as Candida. Apple cider vinegar also helps keep your vagina at a healthy acidic level. Just remember never to put undiluted apple cider vinegar on your vagina.Add two cups of apple cider vinegar to a few inches of warm bath water. Sit in the bath for 20 to 30 minutes every day. Afterwards, pat dry with a clean towel.
 Oregano oil is a common alternative treatment used in folk medicine. It has been shown to have antibacterial and antifungal properties, which could help if you have burning due to a bacterial or fungal infection.Mix three to five drops of oregano oil with one tablespoon of olive oil or castor oil. Use your fingers to apply to your vagina and vulva.
You can also take an oregano oil supplement. You can take 500 mg twice a day., Fenugreek is a folk remedy used with many conditions. Fenugreek seeds are believed to be soothing and help relieve irritation, swelling, and pain.Soak three tablespoons of fenugreek seeds in one liter of warm water overnight. Soak a cotton towel in the liquid and apply to the vulva and vaginal area for 30 minutes. Repeat twice a day.

