 You can have an online group, or one that meets in person.


Remember that there are already several online resources for single parents. You can join established groups including Parents Without Partners and Single Parents Network online. A group that meets in person would likely be more meaningful for single parents.;
, A single parent support group might offer to provide resources, information and support to parents who are raising children without a partner.



Talk to the single parents you know, and ask if they would be willing to help you get a support group started. Talk to other parents at school, on the soccer team and at the daycare where you take your kids.
Work with your initial group of founders to divide up responsibilities. Put one person in charge of meeting logistics, and another in charge of publicity.
 Many support groups meet at churches, libraries, community centers and hospitals.


Look for a place that will not charge you for the space. A conference room or a basement will often accommodate any size group.
 Most support groups meet once or twice a month. Since most single parents work, an evening or weekend meeting might be best.


Set your first meeting for a time and day that works well for you and your first members. There will always be scheduling conflicts for some members of the group, especially as it grows.



Publicize your support group by hanging flyers, posting ads in community newspapers and free online sites such as Craigslist.
Use word of mouth. Single parents often know other single parents. Talk up the group any time you get the opportunity.



Set an agenda, but keep the meeting flexible. Allow everyone to introduce themselves and talk a little bit about their experiences as a single parent.
Discuss the mission of the group and ask members what they are hoping to get from the support group.
 As the single parent support group grows, invite speakers that might have great information to share and dive deeply into the issues that face most single parents.
 Make sure your local Parent Teacher Association (PTA) shares information on your group, as well as local schools and community organizations.
 This will allow your support group to share information with people who might be interested in joining. You can also post information and resources that are beneficial to single parents.

