 If the person has become unresponsive, you should first assess the situation. See if the person shows any signs of breathing at all—chest rising or hearing breathing when you place your ear close to the person’s nose and mouth.
 If another person is nearby, have that person call 911 while you begin taking first aid steps. If no one else is around to assist you, then make the call to 911 yourself before beginning CPR.Follow the 911 operator’s instructions quickly, so you can return to CPR while awaiting help.
 Lay the person out on her back on a hard, flat surface. Tilt her head back and open the mouth. If you can see the object, remove it, but only if the object is easily removed. If the object is lodged, you don’t want to risk pushing it farther into the person’s throat., If the person is unconscious or shows no signs of breathing, skip to the next step. This step should only be taken if the person is still conscious; otherwise you should begin CPR immediately. If the choking person shows signs of reduced breathing, then you want to attempt to clear the airway. Two methods are available based on how well you can move the person around:Back blows are the easiest option for a person who you cannot easily move. Roll the person onto his side or back and use the heel of your hand to thrust against the person’s back between the shoulder blades. Repeat fives times, watching for the object to dislodge.
If you can lift the person, try abdominal thrusts (the Heimlich maneuver) by placing your fist just above the person’s navel and quickly thrusting in and upward with both hands. Also repeat five times while watching for the object to dislodge.
Check for breathing. If the person stops breathing completely at any point or becomes unconscious, then proceed to CPR.
 If the person is unconscious, then you need to begin emergency CPR to maintain circulation and provide oxygen. Performing chest compressions on an adult is different than performing on an infant or a child. To perform chest compressions on an adult:Roll the person onto his back on a flat, hard surface (most likely the floor) and kneel down beside the person’s shoulders, so you don’t have to reposition between chest compressions and rescue breathing.
Place the heel of your hand on the person’s chest between his nipples. Place your other hand directly over your bottom hand to provide more leverage.
Position your upper body over your hands and use your body weight and your arms to compress the person’s chest. You want to compress two inches (five centimeters). Press quickly—a rate that allows you to perform 100 compressions per minute. However, ensure that the person’s chest rises completely between compressions.
Count the compressions aloud to a total of thirty.
 The compressions may have dislodged the object. After thirty compressions, check the airway again. Tip the person’s head back by lifting the chin while pressing down on the forehead with your other hand.Open her mouth to see if you can now remove the object—again, only if easily removable. Spend several seconds (no more than ten) feeling for breath and watching the person’s chest to see if she is breathing without assistance., After thirty chest compressions, you want to provide two rescue breaths (remember the 30:2 ratio). You can use mouth-to-mouth or mouth-to-nose breathing, but ensure that you pinch the person’s nostrils shut for mouth-to-mouth breathing.To perform rescue breathing on an adult:Cover the area (mouth or nose) with your mouth completely to form a seal.
Deliver a breath that lasts approximately one second into the person’s airway. If air does not go in, re-position the head before you try one more breath.
Provide a second breath before returning to chest compressions.
 Unless the person begins showing signs of life and breathing on his own, then you should repeat CPR cycles (thirty compressions and two breaths) until paramedics arrive and take over.If you become tired, see if there is another person trained in CPR who can take over or assist with two person CPR.

