 This is to ensure that you will be able to clearly check the tires and to see if there is anything sagging on the car.;
, The car should be clean so the paint condition is visible. Look at the sides of the car from end-on for waviness; that indicates paint work. Run your finger along the edges of the joints between panels; roughness indicates residue left from masking tape.
 It should not show any sign of rust, or water entry due to cracks or holes. Wear inside of the trunk indicates usage of the car.
 The tires should be worn evenly and they should match. Look at the surface of the tire for feathering (bad alignment). Bad alignment can be caused by worn steering/suspension components, the pothole down the street or frame damage.
 Check the saddle (connects the front fenders and holds the top of the radiator). It may be welded or bolted in. Inspect the bolt heads at the top of the fenders inside the hood; scratch marks indicates that the fenders have been replaced or realigned (after a crash).
 Look for any black spots on the exhaust system because this can indicate leaking. This is also a good time to inspect for frame or unibody damage.


Check the exhaust with your finger. Greasy grime means important problem. Turn the car on. White vapor (not in a cold climate) is a bad sign too.
 These can all be signs that the car was either poorly taken care of or damaged. Each fender, just inside where the hood joins, should have a decal with the VIN (Vehicle Identification Number) of the car. If the decal is not there, it does not necessarily indicate the fender was replaced; the location of the VIN is manufacture-dependent.
 They should not have cracks. The radiator hoses should not be soft.
 On the engine block, look for any dark brown oil stains, this will indicate that there is a leak in a gasket, and could possibly lead to an expensive repair in the future. Check the brake fluid, and reservoir to make sure its is not leaking. The belts should look new (i.e. not have cracks or signs of drying). Old belts can snap, and if you do not know how to replace them, it will cost between $100 – $500 depending on which belt goes bad.
 A foam residue on the inside indicates a leaking head gasket. Forget that car.
 An old car may be dark but it should not look or smell burnt. It should also be full (check with the engine running).
 This is the most important belt in the engine, and is also the most costly to replace. If the car is equipped with a steel timing chain, you don't have to worry about this. Normal lifespan of a timing belt is from 60 – 100+ thousand miles; this depends on the manufacturer.
 Check the seats and upholstery of the car for any tears, rips, stains, or other type of damage.
 If air conditioning is a must, buy a car with R134 coolant. Most cars fitted with R134 are 1993 or newer and have a sticker on the AC Condenser.
 This is important because the mileage indicates the car’s age. On the average, a normal driver will drive between 10,000 to 15,000 miles (16,000 to 24,000 km) a year; however, this depends on many factors. Remember, cars age by time and mileage. Buying a 10 year old car with very low miles is not necessarily a good thing.
 Bring with you an inexpensive computer to check for errors. At any auto store they have inexpensive devices with prices around $150. However, most cheaper generic code readers are fairly limited in what they can access.


For a car that has an on board computer, pay attention to the warnings right when you start the car or when you turn the key or the start button.
 This includes: any sensors for parking, back parking camera, radio, CD, music installation, etc.
 This is perhaps one of the best ways to know the condition of the car. Hence, a buyer should make all effort to do a test drive first before coming to any decisions.
 Try this going around 30 mph (48 km/h) in an area without traffic. You should not feel any vibration from the brake pedal, or hear any squealing or strange noises. Brakes that pulsate indicate the need for having the rotors resurfaced or replaced and new pads installed. It should not swerve; this can be caused by a bad brake caliper or worn steering components.
 Slight trepidation during a small speed interval may mean wear at the direction mechanical parts which may cost between 400 to 1500 to repair. These may include joints / arms etc. This may go together with uneven wear at the front tire(s).
 Do this at low speed. This means again, wear at the front direction level: joints need to be changed.
 Ideally, the current owner would have kept a record of the times when the car needed servicing and should be willing to show you this information. Some cars do not have maintenance records because they maintained them at home. This should be fine as long as they can prove they maintained the car properly. There are instances where used cars are sold because of past accidents or negative experiences.
 It is a good idea to bring along a trusted friend with a good background of automotive know-how to check things that you are not sure of. If you do not have a trusted friend in the auto industry you can pay a mechanic to complete an inspection on it for around 75 – 100 bucks. Make sure this mechanic has good reviews so you will not get scammed into thinking the car is a lemon.
 A used car is a negotiable item. Do not feel the need to pay the price they are asking. The dealer bought this car at a low price, and is turning around and selling it for much more than they purchased it with the notion that they might have to lower that sticker price. Depending on the quality of the vehicle, feel free to offer a price. Be sure that it is a reasonable offer. If the dealer is asking $15,000, do not offer $10,000. It is merely an insult by doing this. If the car is over $10,000, try to negotiate at least $1,500 off of the car. You can pre-qualify yourself at your bank or at a Credit Union. That will determine what you can spend for a car. Try to buy a car that is less than they tell you. Most people try to buy more car than they can really afford. Remember, no matter how good that car is today, it is going to require maintenance in the future.


Use parts of the car that are unflattering to your advantage. If a car is not the color you are looking for, tell the dealer "I really like the car, but I don't like that it is green, that is the only thing holding me back from buying it." The dealer will see that you want it, and find some way to get you into that car.
 As you make your inspection of the car be sure to record all items which are damaged or will require replacement. If needed also remind the buyer that you will be taking the vehicle to your own personal mechanic so they do not think the list is for theirs. After you have collected a list of what you believe the car will require you can telephone auto parts stores to check the price and availability of replacement parts. Once you know how much the car will cost to repair if you buy it you can make an informed decision on what you would like to pay as well as increase the likelihood that the seller may reduce their asking price.


Be careful while doing this because some sellers may think it's rude by doing this. He may decide not to sell to you.

