 While this is an important first step for any eyeshadow look, it’s especially important for your candy cane look. If your careful stripes end up smudging or creasing, you will have an unrecognizable candy cane! Apply a primer to your entire lid using your fingertip. This will create a perfect base for your shadows to adhere to, and it will help prevent your shadows from slipping and sliding.
 You can purchase pencil eyeliners in red and white at a beauty supply store, and they will be perfect for creating your shadow base. Starting at the outer corner of your eye, create a red stripe extending diagonally from corner to crease. Then, go in with the white pencil and add a second stripe directly on top of the first. Again, it should go diagonally from your lash line to your eyelid crease. Continue doing this until you’ve created stripes along your entire eyelid.








For a general idea of how thick your stripes should be, try to fit about three red stripes and three white stripes.
This base will be covered in eyeshadow, so don’t worry if it looks slightly patchy or imperfect. It won’t be left as-is!

, Use a small shadow brush to carefully pat red eyeshadow over the red eyeliner, and white eyeshadow over the white eyeliner. The eyeliner serves three purposes: it serves as a rough draft for the shadows, it helps the shadows adhere to the lid, and it ensures the shadows will be pigmented and opaque enough. Use a patting motion to apply the shadow, focusing on pressing the powder into the lid rather than creating strokes.








You can purchase red and white eyeshadow at any beauty supply store.
 This will add a bit of dimension to your eyelid and smooth out the top of the stripes. With your darker shadow, you'll be outlining the shape of the stripes you just created, making the lid look more polished and cohesive. Use a fluffy brush to blend this shadow along the top of the candy cane stripes, following your crease.
 After you’ve applied the red color, use a smaller shadow brush to apply black shadow solely to your crease. This will give your entire eye more intense definition. Blend the deep red and black shadows together with a fluffy brush, creating a blended, dark border to the candy cane stripes on the lid.
 This step is optional. If your shadow contains glitter or if you’re content with your candy cane being matte, you certainly don’t need to do this. However if you want to add a bit of glitz to your look, you can pat on a bit of glitter.








You can purchase loose cosmetic glitters in white and red at a beauty supply store, mix a bit with water or a setting spray, and then pat those onto your stripes with a shadow brush.
If you don’t want to purchase red or white glitter, you can use a more versatile gold or silver sparkle over the entire lid.
 After your shadow is finished, you will complete the look with big, bold lashes. First, curl your lashes with an eyelash curler. Press and hold the curler at the base of your lashes for about five seconds, and release. Then, apply your favorite mascara. Start at the base of your lashes, and wiggle the wand as you move it from base to tip.









For extra volume, apply two or three coats of the mascara.
If you want more drama than your natural lashes can provide, you can also apply fake lashes to finish this look.

