 This can be particularly important for older or re-homed birds who have previously been mistreated or improperly trained. Doing quiet activities around your bird, such as reading or watching TV, will allow him to get comfortable with your presence without having to interact with you.It may take your bird several weeks before he is comfortable with you. If that is the case, be patient with him and move at his pace.
Quietly talking to him can also help your bird feel more at ease with you.
 The area where you train your bird should be quiet and free of distractions.In the training area, make sure to close all windows and doors and turn off any fans.Your bird’s cage could be one of your bird’s distractions.Ideally, the cage should be out of sight. However, a bird who is insecure or easily frightened may benefit from having his cage where he can see it., As with other pets, long training sessions can lead to exhaustion or even boredom in birds. Training sessions with your bird should last for 10 minutes, two to three times a day.Your bird may also become aggressive during his training sessions. He may show his aggression by vocalizing, flapping his wings, or biting you.End the training session if he is displaying aggressive behavior.
You should always end the training session on a good note, such as giving your bird verbal praise or a treat., Depending on which command you are teaching him, you may need props during the training session. Allowing your bird to become comfortable with the props first should make the training sessions go more smoothly. Placing the props in his cage for a few days will help your bird acclimate to them.Playing with the props yourself may pique your bird’s interest in them., Positive reinforcement is very helpful when training a bird. Treats are a great way to reinforce your bird’s positive behavior. To keep from being bitten, hold your fingers to the side of the treat when you give it to him.Your bird may mistake your fingers as a nut and bite them on accident.Examples of healthy snacks for birds are strawberries, mangoes, and peppers.Spray millet is another great treat for birds.
Whichever treat you use, reserve it only for training purposes., Using the same command each time you are teaching your bird a new trick will help him learn the trick more easily.If there are multiple members of your household, it is important for each person to use the same command for the same trick.
 Your bird may take a long time to learn certain tricks. If this is the case, be patient with him as he learns. Be mindful, though, that your bird may take a long time to learn a trick because he does not want to learn it at all.If your bird is getting frustrated or starts acting aggressively, it may be time to consider teaching him another trick.
 Punishment is not effective for birds. In fact, the punishment may seem like attention to your bird, and he will continue to demonstrate the bad behavior.Positive reinforcement, such as verbal praise or treats, is much more effective at training your bird than punishment.
 Biting and screaming are two undesirable behaviors that your bird may demonstrate. If your bird bites you, gently blow a puff of air in his face and firmly say ‘no.’ Do not give your bird a timeout if he bites you—he may learn that biting you is a way to get you to leave him alone.If your bird starts to scream, stand close by and talk to him in quiet and soothing voice until he calms down.Do not give your bird treats if he bites you or screams., Bitter apple spray is an effective way of deterring your bird from inappropriate biting or chewing. Spray it wherever you notice these undesirable behaviors.He will eventually learn the places where he should not bite or chew.


Bitter apple spray is available at your local pet store.

