 Before using a flat iron, your hair should be completely dry, as applying intense heat to wet or even damp hair could cause damage.


Day old hair will hold curls better than freshly washed hair, especially if your hair is very fine. If your hair feels a little greasy, apply some dry shampoo to the roots before you begin.
Always apply a heat protection spray to your hair before using a flat iron, otherwise hair will become dry and frazzled. Ask your stylist to recommend a good one for your hair.
 For shorter hair, a thin flat iron will work best, as you will be able to wrap the hair around it more times than you would a wider one, thus producing more curl.









If you only have a wide flat iron, it will still work, but your hair will be wavy rather than curly.
Also set your flat iron to the lowest heat setting necessary for curl. Fine hair will curl with a temperature of around 320ʡF (160ʡC), whereas thicker hair may need a temperature around the 420 mark.
 It will be easiest to curl your hair when it is separated into sections. Grab all of the hair above your ears and clip it securely on top of your head.
 Grab a small strand of hair from the bottom section. It should be about 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) in width. Clamp the flat iron at the root of the hair, then give it a half turn, so that the hair forms a U-shape in the iron.









Keeping the flat iron in the same position, pull it slowly through the hair. The slower you do it, the tighter the curls will be. Pulling the flat ion quickly through the hair will give you loose waves.
Move onto the next strand of hair. For uniform curls, keep turning the flat iron in the same direction each time. For messier curls, alternate between turning the flat iron upwards and downwards.
 Once you have completed the bottom section of hair, you can let down the top section and curl using the same method.









When you're curling the front bits, make sure to turn the flat iron away from your face, so the curls don't keep falling in front of your eyes.
Rather than curling bangs, simply grab the end of the hair, clamp the flat iron about halfway down and simply flick the hair away from your face.
 Once you have completed each curl, define its shape and position with your fingers, before it has completely cooled down. Then spritz it with some hairspray. By the time the curl is completely cool, it should be set and in place.









If the curls are a little too ringlet-y for your liking, leave them to relax while you curl the rest of your hair and give your hair an overall spray once your done.
A light-medium hold hairspray is best if you want loose, relaxed waves. Strong hold hairspray can leave your hair feeling crunchy and rigid.