 Find the services that they provide along with the costs that are associated with joining. Only after you figure out the finer details of their plans can you truly compete with the competition, because you will be able to find your competitive advantage.


Sign up for other gyms' mailing lists, catalogs, promotions and more. Not every gym offers these promotions, but they may also have social media pages that let gym members know the important changes and specials they are offering.;
, This could be anything from pilates classes, to a lack of an introductory fee to free personal training sessions. Try something that other gyms aren't trying and promote it.
 For example, if your gym has a pool or a sauna, you may want to cater to an older crowd to appreciate the low-impact experience of water-based activities. These customers may not be reached through email, and direct marketing postcards may yield better results.


Target new arrivals to the neighborhood. Offer 7-day passes to people who register nearby. Lists may be available from your local post office or other marketing agencies to help you keep abreast of people who are moving in.
 New year promotions are important, since most gyms see a spike in gym attendance and sign up after people have new year's resolutions. However, you can also take advantage of holidays, good weather and couples memberships.
 Many sites offer coupons or trial memberships; however, if you can entice loyalty in your members, their renewals will save more money than finding new business.
 Ask your seasoned staff members to write blogs or articles that will work along with other promotions. Your sales staff should be supported by a marketing department that takes advantage of print, social media, online articles, weight loss support and more.


Some people suggest that the gym name must be in the news or in the general public's perception in at least 7 ways in order to be attractive to the gym consumer.
 Create an attractive table that outlines fees versus the benefits of joining each gym. Many of your potential customers are busy and would appreciate the comparison work being done for them.
, In today's market, more people are willing to barter than ever before. Take this into account when you send your sales people out to talk with prospective clients.


Consider lower fees, non-binding contracts, easy billing, shorter contracts, perks, personal training sessions and more as ways to entice people to join.

