 Moving to a place, nothing like your home might give you a culture shock and make the move more difficult, but this will start to be overcome after a few months of immersion. People do things differently in different countries—which is why we call them "foreign" countries—and we are alien to their ways. Yet, this is the biggest and amazing opportunity you will have and to seek to understand a different culture. Once you let yourself into the thinking of people from another country, you will never go back; it is much harder to see the world as "us and them" once you know this experience.


If you are not familiar with the customs of the local people, do some research beforehand and get to know the ways as much as possible. It is better that you have a surface understanding than none at all—at least this gives you the opportunity to be understanding and to get more involved in cultural events and customs when you're in the new country. It will also help to ensure that you do not make mistakes that might cause affront.
 That favorite coffee drink you loved at home and that favorite place you used to visit can become glaringly obvious to you when they are missing from your life. It is important to acknowledge the sense of loss you feel but to remain open to finding favorite new experiences instead. The undiscovered may even herald favorite things you will learn to love more than what you were used to in your original home country.


If you move from a country with a lot of choice in consumables to one with a lot less choice, you may find life challenging. No longer do you have the aisle of breakfast cereals (it is now down to a small rack) or the amazing choice in cars (you have either the blue or the gray one now). Initially, this can be extremely frustrating. You have two choices—one, accept it and realize that a lack of choice frees up thinking time and spares planetary resources, or two, travel back to your home country and buy up (or have understanding family and friends send you care packages). While for many people the lack of choice does not really fade with time (you will find yourself reminiscing frequently about the days when you could get X item in X different styles) but you do get used to fewer choices!

, Initially, the first few months will feel like an amazing vacation and you will spend a lot of it discovering things and feeling excited. However, eventually you will realize that you are actually having a life there and it is not half as exciting as you thought. For some, this realization can hit sooner rather than later, as bureaucracy, household maintenance issues and minor crises interrupt the flow of settling in.


Early on, ask about decent tradespeople. Eventually, something is going to break. In addition, you are going to need someone reliable who turns up when they say, they will and who charges fairly. If you have not already lined up such people through asking others who do know, you are fair game for being taken advantage of, and overcharged. This can be a nightmare experience, and since you have the freedom to plan rather than wait for the ax to fall, plan.
Stay calm when dealing with bureaucratic procedures. Most countries have forms, most have queues, and most have the most insanely ridiculous reasons for filling out things and waiting. Yours is not to question why but to learn via locals and online sites how to manage these issues as best as possible. There is always a way, be sure to learn about the right way. If you do not ask, you will never know.
 Another form of culture shock is learning what you cannot do, even though you could do in your old country. You are not in a position to question it—reach an acceptance that this is how things are. Whether the society you have gone to is more or less permissive than what you are used to, be sure to do the right thing to fit in. If you wanted to create a ruckus or take a stand, then moving overseas is not the right way about it; stay home for that!

, Moving countries is right up there at the top of the stress scale. Some days it will be fun. Other days it will be the worst experience ever. Other days, it'll feel just like home, because it has become home.


Your rollercoaster of emotions deserves to be taken care of. If you suffer from anxiety, unabated fears, depression, etc., seek help with a mental health therapist. Do not suffer in silence—it will only be compounded by the foreignness of everything and everyone around you and you can end up feeling completely isolated and terrified.






Be sure to build a network of close friends, to talk openly with family and friends about feelings and to listen carefully to the concerns of your children (if relevant).






Mental health therapy can be obtained online if you would rather deal with someone from your old country. The beauty of the internet is that you can remain close if need be.






Use social networking sites such as Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and email to keep in touch with friends and family you've left behind. Use Skype to have face-to-face talks: it's almost like being there! This can be reassuring and beneficial way to keep your feelings in check and to get support from people who know you well.






Invite your closest friends over to stay occasionally for a mini-break.
 Another issue related to culture shock is moving somewhere that is not as safe as where you came from. Ask locals for advice about where to stay away from and what issues are around the area.


Wear appropriate clothing for the place you are living in and try to blend in. Sometimes lack of safety happens because of criminals considering someone to be a tourist or to be inappropriately dressed.
Call in to the local police station to ask about safety issues. You might also ask about crime levels in areas you are researching for buying or renting a home in too.

