 The child may be experiencing severe feelings of panic, frustration, confusion, or general distress.It is not their fault,and they cannot stop it. Responding kindly to them establishes trust, so they know that you will help them when they're hurting.
 Most autistic children can identify when they feel upset, and have a feeling of what they need. Explain to the child that it is important that they come to you when they are upset, so you can help them feel better. Social stories and modeling can help them learn what to do. Try teaching them one of the following phrases:


"Break, please."
"I need to go to my corner."
"I need quiet time, please."
"May I go to my room?"
Nonverbal children can communicate the same ideas through typing, picture cards, AAC, or gestures. Ask their therapist for help.
 Do what they asked you to do. This proves to them that advocating for themselves is a good strategy and that it works better than bottling up stress until it reaches a meltdown point.


A nonverbal child can learn to speak up via alternative and augmentative communication (AAC). AAC can improve communication skills, which reduces meltdowns.
 If stress seems to be building up,ask about the need you want them to communicate. For example, "Do you need a break?" Listen or watch for their response.


If they nod, you can model for them: "Yes, I need a break, please!" Do this while you lead them away. They will associate the phrase with the action, and start saying the phrase when they need to leave.
If they say no, but still seem upset five minutes later, you can intervene: "You look really overwhelmed. Let's take a break." Then lead them to a calm place.
Don't hold their needs hostage. Never force them to wait until they can speak the phrase.
 The child may be feeling extreme distress, and it's important that you treat them kindly. If they have positive memories of break times, they will be more likely to start asking for them when they need it.


Use a quiet, gentle tone of voice (especially if you suspect sensory overload).
If they have a calming down corner, fill it with things they like: blankets, books, toys, etc.
Never pin them down against their will; this is traumatizing to the child.
 Sometimes, five minutes will be enough for them to calm down. Other times, they may need an hour of quiet activities only. Play it by ear, and never force a child to leave before they're ready—this will likely trigger the meltdown they've been holding back.
 This can help them stop a meltdown before it occurs. Try making a list of triggers and strategies together. Consider both what they could do, and what you could do in order to reduce stress.This can include...


Sensory toolsA list of people they can ask for help
A comfort item
A "secret sign" to signal to caregivers that the child needs a break

,(Ask the child why they did that, if possible.) An aggressive outburst might have been caused by a physical sense of danger: somebody blocking their way when they needed to leave, another child bullying them, or an adult reacting abusively.Understand the situation before attempting to impose consequences.Ask other people what exactly happened. If somebody behaved physically towards the child (e.g. attempting to pin them down against their will),then the child's reaction was actually a panicked attempt at self-defense, and you must address the other person's behavior.
Sometimes caregivers, particularly in the ABA school, use euphemisms for damaging behavior: "keeping him in his chair" might mean "pinning him down while he cried for help."If violence results as an escalation, talk to both parties, not just the autistic child. For example, if a boy takes a girl's toy and she hits him, it is important to address both his and her behavior.
 Screaming, crying, flopping, and stimming are all natural during meltdowns. However, being mean or needlessly aggressive is never acceptable. Here are some ways to deal with it:


"It is not okay for you to hit your sister. We are not a violent family. If you're mad at her, you need to use your words or take a break.""I understand that you were upset, but it wasn't nice of you to call the waiter names. It wasn't his fault that you were unhappy. How do you think he felt when you called him ugly?"

, Simply telling a child that something is wrong won't help them—they need to know how to deal with their feelings. Work together with them to come up with alternate solutions.


"If you need to punch things when you're upset, do you think it would work for you to punch some pillows or cushions instead? It's okay to punch the couch when you're angry."
"I know that it's not fun for you to scream and cry in the restaurant. Next time you start to feel upset, you can tug on my sleeve and let me know that you need a break, and I'll take you outside so you can feel better."
"Kicking the back of Mommy's chair makes her very uncomfortable. What if you rocked in the rocking chair instead?"

, Complimenting them will reinforce the good results.


"I saw you asking your therapist for a break today. That was very mature of you to recognize that you needed to pause."
"Good job punching the pillows! That's much better than punching your brother."
"Thank you for telling me that you needed to leave."

, Listen patiently to hear the full story. What caused the meltdown? What could they do in future situations like this? What could you do to help them? This will help you work out specific strategies together, and help the child know that they can come to you in the future.

