 Best friends want to spend time with you. They sets aside blocks in their schedules to spend with you. Best friends plans fun activities and adventures to experience with you. Additionally, you frequently ask them to spend time with you too!;
, Best friends are intentional about spending time with you. Your best friends attend all of your major life events, such as weddings and funerals. They are present at all of the little events too--from small birthday parties to your home sporting events. Often, you hang out “just because”--no special occasion is needed to bring you together.
 Best friends spend time together because they genuinely enjoy one another’s company. Best friends aren’t seasonal friends--they are there for you year round, not just when school is in session or football is in season. Your best friends don’t spend time with you only when it is convenient for them or they want to use your swimming pool.
 Best friends are active listeners. When you speak, your best friends should give you their full attention--your BFF’s phone should remain in a pocket, purses, or on a table.
 Best friends want to hear about each other’s struggles and triumphs, fears and dreams. Friends that constantly turn the conversation back to themselves are not your best friend. Friends that never ask you about your life or how you are feeling are not interested in getting to know you.If you or your friend has had a rough day, one person may dominate more of the conversation.
 Best friends respond to your text messages. They return your calls. They pick up the phone--even if you ring them at the early hours. Friends that fails to respond, or gets around to it when they feel like it, are not a reliable communicators. Don't think they are unreliable if they don't answer you at the early hours, they probably need a rest. , When you share a secret with your best friends, they shouldn't tell the next person they bump into! Your relationship with your best friends are built on mutual trust and respect. They don’t spread rumors about you, they squash them!

, Best friends stand up for each other no matter the circumstances. Best friends stick up for you when you can’t defend yourself. They don’t join in on the bullying, add to the teasing, or spread a rumor about you!

, Everyone makes mistakes--even best friends. Best friends don’t hold grudges or give each other the silent treatment. Instead, they allow each other to explain why they are upset. They take part in a dialogue--not a screaming match. They apologize for their misgivings and learn from their mistakes. At the end of a fight, best friends forgive each other., When you experience success, your best friends should be the first people to congratulate you. Best friends are not competitive with one another, but supportive of each other. Jealous friends are not your best friends.
 Best friends give each other an extra boost of confidence before an exam or a job interview. They build each other up with positivity, instead of tearing each other down with negative criticism. Best friends don’t belittle each other., Best friends hold each other to higher standards. Your best friends should steer you towards positive influences and decisions because they care for your safety, health, and happiness. Friends that place you in an awkward, embarrassing situation, do not have your best interest in mind., Take some time to think about your answers to these questions. Spend a few hours journaling or go for a long walk.
 Once you have processed the information, make an effort to talk to your best friends. Let them know how much you appreciate them! Write them a card, take them out to dinner, or make them a pan of your famous brownies!

, Now that you have figured out who your best friends are, focus on further developing your relationships with them. Continue to spend time with them, make an effort to be present at all of their major milestones and minor events. Keep the lines of communication open and never take your best friends for granted!

