 You may already have a full-scale business plan, and that would be fine to give to business-savvy friends and family. Typically, though, they'll get more understanding and benefit from a shorter, plain-language outline.


While your full-scale business plan may include many tables and calculations, people not accustomed to looking at such a document typically can get a better understanding of your projections if you include infographics, charts, and graphs.
The basic business plan you present to friends and family shouldn't be more than two or three pages. However, let them know you have more detail available if they're interested.
Keep in mind you'll get a better response the more organized you appear. The business plan you show to your friends and family should project the image that you are in control and have thought through your start-up thoroughly.
 Unless you're lucky enough to have a friend or family member who's willing to simply give you money to fund your start-up with no strings attached, you'll need to decide whether you want contributors to have an ownership stake in the company or whether you want to treat the money as a loan.Structuring a loan from a friend or family member can provide you with the benefit of a much lower interest rate than would be charged from a traditional lender – or perhaps even no interest at all.
However, avoid asking to borrow money at no interest. If your friend or family member offers that, by all means take it – but structure your initial offer so that they'll get something out of it.
Depending on how your business is organized, you may be able or willing to provide them with an interest in the business in exchange for their contribution.
For example, if you originally planned your business as a sole proprietorship, you may want to organize it instead as a corporation or LLC and bring on friends or family members who are willing to invest as partners.
Before you decide to go this route, make sure the people to whom you're presenting that offer are people you feel comfortable doing business with in the long-term.
 When you talk to friends and family about helping with your business start-up costs, avoid presenting it to them as though you're asking them for a gift or favor. Instead, present it as an opportunity to invest in your future.For example, if you've decided to structure the money as a loan that you would pay back, you may want to provide them with a draft loan agreement that includes the loan's term, interest rate, and payment details.
Provide them with your basic business plan and let them know that they're free to review other details.
Think about the information you would need to provide a traditional lending company. Although a friend or family member may not require such extensive background information to make a decision, primarily because they already know you and your life well, make it clear that they can have access to similar information and documents if they want to review them.
Arrange to meet at a neutral location to discuss your proposal, and try to keep the discussion business-only. You want to give off the impression that you are treating this purely as a business investment, rather than as a personal favor.
 Particularly with friends and family, avoid pressuring them or trying to guilt-trip them into helping you. Once you've made your pitch, allow them to look over your information about your business, think about it, and make their decision on their own.If time is of the essence, give them a deadline up front. For example, you might say "I want to give you time to think about all that we've discussed, but I will need to know your decision by the end of the month so I have time to pursue other options if you're unwilling or unable to help me."
While you're waiting to get an answer, avoid bringing it up yourself or questioning them about whether they've made a decision.
If they ask you questions or request more information, make sure you give them what they want as quickly as possible.
 When you're making a deal with friends of family and money is exchanged, it's tempting to keep it casual because you know and trust each other well. However, keeping it as a strictly business transaction can save potential stress and problems in the relationship.Even though you may think a handshake is all you need, understand that a written agreement protects both of you. It also ensures that if the agreement is violated, it will be enforceable in a court of law.
Your friend or family member typically will appreciate this assurance, since judges evaluating an agreement between friends or family members where there is no written contract often err on the side of deciding that the money was a gift and does not have to be paid back.
You can find forms or templates for basic loan contracts or business partnership documents online and use those to guide you in writing and formatting your document to fit your needs.
You may want to have a business attorney draft or look over your draft of the contract. You also should encourage your friend or family member to consult an attorney as well.

