 Concealers and blush usually last from 1-2 years, whereas eyeshadows, eyeliners, and mascaras grow bacteria so the safest bet would be to throw out those products every three months.Save on products that you aren't going to use very often.
 Go beyond the packaging, and start reading the fine print.The first step is to test the quality of the pigment. Cheaper cosmetics can show up dull and come off more easily. Take a bit of the product, and swipe it onto your skin. Rub it in so that the makeup sticks to your skin. The color should appear true to the packaging. Foundations, concealers, eyeliners should never feel heavy or greasy. It should absorb and blend in well with your skin but should not smudge too easily. Lipsticks and glosses should not be greasy, sticky, or dry. To keep up with competition, drugstore brands will use the same ingredients as brand name companies. Compare the ingredients, and analyze before buying.Dry skin is not the best surface to test on because the makeup will not properly adhere. Hydrate your skin by moisturizing after washing daily. , Quality brushes will be soft to the touch. The brush fibers will stay in tact and continually feel soft through continued use.Using the proper tools can make or break how well a cosmetic performs. Choosing the right tool for the right job is how you are going to make the most of low cost cosmetics. Invest in good primers for your eyelids and skin that illuminate and have holding power for long-lasting stay.Using a brush to apply your foundation, blush, lipstick and shadow will reduce the amount of product you use, and give you longer lasting results.Quite often, you get what you pay for when it comes to brushes. Build your collection slowly. Quality triumphs over quantity in the realm of tools.
 Wet the bristles (avoid getting the handle wet). Lather with a gentle soap or shampoo in your palm. Rinse again, squeeze the water out, then allow the bristles to air-dry on the edge of a table. Place a dry paper towel underneath the brush. A clean brush makes for quality makeup application and a well-blended, finished look. 