 Get your hair trimmed regularly. Every two months is good. Look through magazines and if you like a celebrity's haircut, bring it in to your hair cutter. It may not look exactly like the picture but it will still look good. Shampoo and condition your hair daily. Make sure your shampoo is for your hair type, oily, dry or normal. If your hair is greasy, use a clarifying shampoo once a week. For styling, straighten it one day and curl it the next. The more hairstyles you do the prettier you will look. People will also think it's really cool that you try different hairstyles. Finish your hair off with a little hairspray.;
, Clothes are very fun to mix and match and do all sorts of things. First you need to go to the mall or a department store. Before you look at expensive stores go to a store like Charlotte Russe, Forever 21, Old Navy and any other store that has great sales. Always look what's on sale! Buy clothes that you can wear for the season. If it's summer don't buy clearance fuzzy boots unless you want them for the next winter. Buy tank tops, skirts, jeans, sunglasses and t-shirts. Charlotte Russe also has very cheap jewelry. After you have everything try it on. You don't want to buy things that don't fit! Make sure they aren't too big or too tight. After you've spent money in the cheaper stores go to more expensive stores and buy just a few things and make sure you like your expensive pieces before you buy it.
 Buy flip-flops and flats for summer. Boots for winter and so on. Shoes that you should always have are tennis shoes such as pumas, converse etc. Always have a some nice black heels on hand.
 Take showers regularly. Use soap or a shower gel to wash yourself. Use a loofah to exfoliate. Shave your legs and armpits often also. After you shower, slather on lotion (it doesn't have to be expensive) and a face moisturizer. Put deodorant a nice quality on. If you want to, add a touch of flirty perfume. Wear a citrus scent in the morning and a floral scent in the evening.
 A little concealer under dark circles( if you even have them) and on pimples is necessary. A little eye shadow, mascara, and lip gloss looks really pretty and can really compliment your best facial features.. Just don't overdo it.
 Everyone hates acne! Wash your face in the morning and before you go to bed with a gentle face wash. Then apply acne medication with salicylic acid. If your acne is a really bad see a dermatologist and they will tell you what to do.
 Everyone will think that you are nice and it will make you look loads better. Also, brush your teeth and floss and use mouthwash for a healthier, more beautiful smile.
 Study for tests and quizzes and also do your homework. If you do all your work and study hard, you won't be stressed out as much. Stress causes breakouts.
 Do fun things, such as making cookies, seeing your friends, shopping, and/or playing a sport you like, as this will make you less stressed and help you to loosen up and have fun!

, Drink 8 glasses of water a day, exercise, and eat healthy foods. When exercising, always be hydrated so that you don't pass out or feel faint. Read a health magazine for more ideas on exercising and cooking healthy meals.

