 Take a shower every day, and wash your hair every day, every other day, or every week depending on your hair type. You do NOT want your hair to look greasy- no guy will want that. Make sure your eyebrows are always in shape, and that you always use deodorant. No guy would be interested in a girl that just lets herself go.;
, This means wearing makeup if you're old enough, if you need it. Now, most guys would not want a girl with clown makeup caked on her face. What you should use is concealer, face powder, mascara, light blush, light lip gloss, maybe simple eyeshadow and if you're good, eyeliner. You do NOT want your makeup to be center of attention, and this is a common mistake for girls to make- they think that experimenting with different colored eye shadows and weird glittery stuff is attractive for every day- maybe for special events, but not every day. The thing about guys is, they find it weird if your face looks different some days. So lets say you wear eyeliner, dark eyeshadow, bronzer, and red lipstick one day, and then wear just some light mascara and blush the next. Guys don't like that. Stick with the same basic look every day and try to just wear enough makeup to keep yourself looking fresh. If you can do that without it, do it. But don't always wear the EXACT same style or you won't be visually interesting.
 If you walk up and talk with a guy, do you think he would prefer you kind of putting your head down with your hands in your pockets and mumbling your words, or smiling, keeping good posture and looking like you like yourself? The thing is, subconsciously, guys think that if you don't like yourself, why should they like you?

, Don't go up to every guy and all out flirting with them, but kind of be friendly and sweet to every guy and do little things like touch their arms and laugh at their jokes. They love this. And it leaves them wanting more of you- make sure you don't go too far with each guy though, or else they'll think your weird or trying too hard.
 If a guy doesn't seem interested, then just smile and say, "Well see you around then?" And go talk to someone else. Hold conversations with guys about anything- the stupid teacher, music, whatever. Try to steer clear of religion or politics, because it can either be boring to him or you could offend him.
 Be kind, respect others so that they respect you, and always have polite manners.
 This sounds stupid, but it works. If a guy looks down, just say "Hey, cheer up! Does someone need a hug?" And smile. If he's a jerk and rejects you, make a joke out of it instead of getting offended or looking flustered. Just say, "Well then, be that way! But when you do need a hug, don't come crying to me." And kind of laugh and smile, to let him know you don't let small things get to you. He's probably not worth your time anyway, but still.
 This makes you look like every standard girl in the school if you have a reputation of talking about people. You have to seem laid back enough to chill with the guys.
 Be calm and cool enough to hang out with the boys, but you can't turn into a tomboy that's only interested in football and video games. You have to dress and act feminine while still being cool and collected.
 Don't dress sloppy or too dressy everyday. Maybe a cute tank top with a cardigan, jeans and cute shoes is my every day look. You can also go with a cute tee, jeans, boots, and a fashion scarf. The point is, you have to look casual while still being girly. You don't have to have lots of money to do this.
 This sounds like the cheesiest thing in the world, right? But it's true. You can't go on as someone you're not forever. Just be who you are while still keeping a level of maturity.

