 Just because you are in middle school, that doesn’t mean you don’t already have specialized skills to offer. With some creative thinking, you might discover you already have a skill you can profit from.


Write down a list of your skills, hobbies, or interests. Maybe you are an aspiring photographer, enjoy fixing broken electronics, or like to code in your spare time. Even activities that you consider to be hobbies, such as using Photoshop to edit your photos, could be a service people are willing to pay you for.
If you are feeling stuck, go and ask a parent or someone else who knows you well. They might surprise you by pointing out a skill you didn’t even notice you had.
 A lot of skills you might take for granted, such as the ability to navigate the Internet and other programs such as Word and Photoshop, are actually very difficult for older people to pick up on. You could offer to help older people learn how to use their computers more effectively or how to use certain programs for an hourly fee.
 Did you know that there are professional organizers, who work to clean or organize homes, office spaces, and more? If you are a neat and detail-oriented person, de-cluttering other people’s living spaces could be a perfect side job.
 If photography is a hobby of yours, you could offer to be an official photographer for a birthday party, wedding, or other kind of celebration. Many people hire photographers for special events and pay well for it too.


If you know any professional photographers, ask them to take you along on their next photo shoot so you can watch and learn.
 If you know how to make logos or fliers, these are great skills you could offer to help out a local business. Don’t be afraid to walk into a store and ask to talk to the manager. Be sure to emphasize what specific skills you could offer to help their business grow.
 Maybe you have a specific interest but know that you don’t have the necessary experience to find work in that area quite yet. A paid internship could be a great opportunity because, not only will you earn money, but you will also be getting paid to learn about your passion and gain valuable work experience.


Ask at your school, local businesses, or online to find internships. For example, if you’re interested in botany, you could try visiting different florists, botanical gardens, and the like to see if they would be willing to take on an intern.
 Did you grow up speaking two or more languages? If so, you’ve already got an incredible skill others have to spend years learning. You might be surprised to learn how many people need help translating bills and other documents or even in everyday conversations.
 Again, word of mouth can work wonders along with hanging up fliers and advertising online.
 Once you have found someone interested in your service, negotiate a fair rate. Ask around or check online to find out what the average going rates are.


If you are just starting out, you may want to charge less in the beginning. Getting exposure and experience are more important at the beginning stage. Once you have a satisfied customer base, you can start charging more for your services.
 Once you start getting clients, ask them for testimonials or if they would be willing to serve as references.


As a middle schooler, you may run into people who doubt your abilities because you are young. Having references will be extremely useful as they prove that you are serious about your work.
The more experience you have, the bigger your network of clients will get and eventually you may even start getting people coming to ask you for your services.

