 Before you decide to help, you need to determine if the cat is a stray or not. Try to find out if the cat belongs to one of your neighbors. Ask around the neighborhood to see if anyone is missing a cat. Cats escape from homes sometimes and may roam far from their yards.Call your local veterinarian and animal shelter to ask if someone has lost a cat similar to the one you think might be a stray.
Snap a photo with your phone camera and post on-line on missing pet forums on social media. You could even make up fliers with the photo and post in local stores.
Care for the stray while you wait for a response.;
, Stray cats can be wild and unpredictable in their behavior. Approach the stray cat keeping in mind that it may spread disease to both you and any cats you already own. Your first responsibility is to protect yourself.Cat bites often become infected and sometimes with serious consequences.
Wear long sleeves, gloves and pants when you are around an unfamiliar cat. In addition to infections, cat bites can spread rabies. Keep in mind that a cat’s sharp teeth can still penetrate gloves and clothing.
 It's uncommon for even stray cats to carry rabies, but it is a possibility. If you live in an area with wild animals that are known rabies carriers, such as raccoons, bats, skunks, and foxes, you should exercise extra caution.Look for aggression, restlessness, and lethargy. It could be difficult to tell the difference between the stray cat's "normal" behavior and unusual behavior.
Listen for increased vocalization. When cats are suffering from rabies, they may meow or howl more frequently.
Look for signs of disorientation, paralysis, or seizures.
You should not attempt to handle or capture a cat who is acting strangely. Instead, report the animal to local animal control officers as soon as you can.
There is no test to diagnose rabies in live cats. Thus, it is important to exercise caution when interacting with the cat.
If you are bitten, clean the wound well with soap and water and see your doctor immediately., To protect your own cats from any diseases or parasites the stray may be carrying, you should keep strays away from your cats until the strays have been examined by a veterinarian. Stray cats can transmit diseases such as feline leukemia, distemper, rabies, and parasites such as fleas.If the cat acts lethargic, has a runny nose and eyes, breathes heavily or acts strange don’t approach the cat. These are all signs of disease. If you encounter an unhealthy looking cat, call animal control to have the cat caught by professionals., Gaining a cat’s trust can sometimes be difficult. Setting food out for a stray cat is a good way to start gaining its trust. Try placing wet food and a bowl of fresh water in a protected spot that is not accessible to dogs or other animals like raccoons. Stand or crouch several feet away from the food to let the cat to get him used to your presence.If the cat is timid keep leaving the food out for three or more days until it becomes comfortable with you standing or crouching near the feeding spot.
During this time look for signs of disease and pay attention to the cat’s behavior. Does it growl or hiss at you? Does it watch you when you are around? Does it approach you?
If the cat seems comfortable in your presence, try offering it a little wet food on the tip of a spoon. If it eats off of it, then that means that the cat may be ready to make friends with you.
Offer it more food on the spoon and slowly reach your hand towards it. See if the cat will let you touch it under the chin. Once the cat allows you to stroke its chin, try stroking other parts of its head.
Do not attempt to pet or hold a cat that looks aggressive or sick.

