 If the child has hit you several times, try to identify what might be causing this behavior. Do they always hit at a particular time or during a particular event? Has something recently changed in the family that might be making the child upset?


If the child is hitting you to get attention, try ignoring the action. This might teach them that hitting you will not get the attention that they want.
If you suspect that your child is learning this behavior from other children, you should try to remove them from that peer group. Find a different daycare or play group so that they are not influenced by this bad behavior.Some children may hit because they are frustrated that they cannot communicate properly. Try to teach your child certain phrases or actions to allow them to demonstrate what they want.Try asking yourself some questions to see if you can identify a trigger. For example, you can as yourself questions like “Why are they acting this way?” “Is there one particular person he/she is displaying this type of aggressive behavior to?” “If it is just one particular person, is it because of frustration, anger, or over excitement?” and “Are there any particular patterns or routines you've noticed before, during, or after these occurrences?”

, When your child calms down after a tantrum, acknowledge their good behavior. Make it a habit to compliment your child when they have acted correctly.For example, if your child has a problem and tells you about it, you can say, “Good job using your words.”
If your child apologizes to you for hitting you, you can say, “Thank you for saying you’re sorry. I understand how you feel, and I love you very much.”

, Children learn by example. If they see you hitting or screaming at other people, they will learn that these actions are acceptable behavior in public. Act towards other people the way you want your child to act towards you.Use a calm, even voice when disagreeing with people. This will show your child how to act during a disagreement.
If you did something wrong, apologize. Say, “I’m sorry for that. I know what I did was wrong.”

, Hitting or spanking your child will only teach them that physical violence is an appropriate way to act. It will not discourage them from hitting, and it may even influence them to become more physical as they grow older., Certain circumstances may cause your child to act aggressively, so you may need to avoid these situations. For example, if your child only acts aggressively at play groups, then it might be best to avoid taking your child to play groups. Or, if you child becomes aggressive when they watch certain tv shows or play certain video games, then it might be best to prevent your child from engaging in those activities.


Try to engage your child in low-key activities to help calm them. For example, you could sit and listen to some calming music with your child or encourage them to color.
 It may take time for your child to develop the ability to control their emotions, so it is important to acknowledge their efforts. For example, if you notice your child making an effort to control their anger, then praise them for their efforts.


Try saying something like, “I am proud of you for…”
Keep in mind that young children have a hard time controlling their emotions, so it is important to acknowledge their efforts and encourage them.
 If the child keeps hitting or starts escalating their behavior—through biting, kicking, or throwing things you may want to consult your pediatrician. They may be able to recommend a child behavioral specialist who can identify the underlying problem and help you fix it. Some things to watch out for include:


Following ongoing patterns of defiant, disobedient, or hostile behavior towards any authority figures.
Frequently or easily losing their temper.
Being deliberate with their actions or engaging in activities that annoy others.
Constantly expressing annoyance, or being chronically sensitive.
Having ongoing anger and resentment that they cannot control alone or with the help of a parent.
Constantly acting spiteful and vindictive, and is always argumentative.

