 Reinforce his masculine image by spotlighting it in conversation with your friends and family. Boast about his accomplishments. Praise his knowledge, skills, and contributions. Refer others to his expertise so that he feels valued.Be careful to stop short of overkill so that you don't embarrass him or make it seem too much like a campaign. Raise the topic when appropriate, rather than forcing it. Mention his achievements offhandedly, as if they were a given.
 Don’t call attention to his weaknesses in the presence of others. Even if he displays a good sense of humor about his shortcomings when the two of you are alone, appreciate that he may be more sensitive when you are in public. Preserve his sense of self-respect. Resist the urge to correct him needlessly.If he makes a mistake that is inconsequential, leave it unmentioned. For example, let it go if he gets a minor plot point wrong when describing a movie.
If it is consequential but doesn’t need to be addressed immediately, wait until you are alone to bring it up. Don't embarrass him by calling him out for, say, being twenty minutes late in meeting you and your party at a restaurant. If his frequent tardiness is an issue, bring it up later, when he will be more receptive.
If it does need to be addressed this minute, do so gently. Let's say he gives someone the wrong street directions. Ask him, “Wouldn’t that take them to Maple Street instead of Elm Street?” instead of saying, “That would take them to Maple Street, dummy.”

, Highlight his masculinity by bringing your girliness to the fore. Add feminine touches to your daily appearance. Make his manly features more stark in contrast. At the same time, boost his pride in having such a striking lady in his life.Make a point of going all-out for date nights and special occasions. Style your hair. Apply makeup. Wear jewelry, dresses, and chic shoes.
Use small touches on a day-to-day basis. Opt for pink sneakers instead of black. Wear pj’s dotted with hearts instead of regular old sweatpants. Treat yourself to some nice underwear and save the more basic stuff for laundry day.
If you gravitate toward more gender-neutral colors (like black) or apparel (such as jeans), pick clothing that has a distinctly feminine cut to compensate.
 Subtly alter your routine so that your gender roles are more pronounced during sex. Appeal to his desire to lead and dominate on occasion. Resist the urge to switch positions or move on to new acts just because you feel the whim. Instead, grant him the occasional romp where he gets to direct the course of action.Stoke his ego even more by allowing yourself to lose your self-control, too. Gasp, grunt, groan, and/or curse like a sailor, whichever comes naturally.
Encourage him with body language and exclamations when he is doing something right. Build his self-confidence and make it more likely that you'll be just as satisfied on nights when he's in control.
Surprise him by wearing some distinctly feminine lingerie. Ask him to dress up in turn with his best suit.
Suggest roleplaying scenarios with stark gender roles, like plumber/housewife or jock/cheerleader.

