 If the person making you uncomfortable about your breasts is someone such as a boyfriend, husband, or friend, you should absolutely discuss the issue with them. Explain to them that you know they probably don’t mean anything by it, but that their comments and actions make you feel uncomfortable and disrespected, and that you would really appreciate it if they would stop.


Be firm and confident during this discussion. You need him to understand that you are really serious about what you are saying., You need to make them understand exactly why it bothers you, and why it is inappropriate. Explain to him each reason why it bothers you, and that in this day and age, you don’t feel that you should be objectified by the boys in your life.


Don’t expect him to read your mind. If you never say anything, he simply may not realize that what he is saying is bothering you.
You can also point out that no woman deserves to be treated like an object. Many males have seen other women in their life harassed by fathers, grandfathers, brothers, or friends, so it is important to try to put an end to the cycle., If he tries to bring up your breasts in conversation, try to quickly change the topic of conversation to something non-sexual. For example, you could talk about a new restaurant you have tried, or how great the weather has been lately.


Over time, it may also help him understand that you will not tolerate or encourage these remarks in any way.
Understand, though, that it is important to address the behavior. People should not be allowed to get away with treating women (or boys for that matter) like objects.
 If, after one or more direct discussion(s) about the matter, the man in your life continues to make remarks that disrespect you, it’s time to think of removing him from your life. In the future, you might want to consider including boys in your life who respect you enough to honor your wishes, and who respect you enough to not make inappropriate remarks about your body.


This may mean breaking up with him if he is your boyfriend, or ceasing contact if it is just a friend. If it is your husband or partner, and you don’t want to give up on the relationship, consider suggesting couple’s counselling. Having someone to help guide you and your husband through the reasons why you don’t want your body to be objectified may make it more clear for him.

