 A Minecraft editor will allow you to create massive, complex structures using advanced editing tools, instead of constructing your castle one block at a time in the game. The most popular and robust editor is MCEdit. You can download the latest version for free from mcedit-unified.net.

Run the installer after downloading it to extract the MCEdit files. By default, a new folder will be created in your Downloads folder.
MCEdit does not require Minecraft to be installed in order to use it, but you can load any of your Minecraft maps into the editor.
 You'll find an "mcedit.exe" file in the folder you created when installing it. Run this to start the program.

Make sure Minecraft isn't running at the same time, at least not with the same world you plan on creating your castle in.
 You'll be prompted to either create a new world or load your saved game. If you have a map that you want to build a castle on, browse for it in your Minecraft save folder, which opens by default. Make sure you aren't currently playing the map in Minecraft, or you can permanently corrupt it.

It may take a while for your map to load for the first time.
 WASD will let you fly around the map. Unlike in Minecraft, you can fly through anything. You'll be able to see all of the subterranean caves and mineshafts if you fly beneath the surface.

Hold the right mouse button and move the mouse to look around.
 There's a whole lot you can do with a program like MCEdit, so you'll want to start with just the basics and practice creating blocks with the brush. You'll see the various tools displayed along the bottom of the screen. Click the Brush button (it looks like a gray circle in MCEdit).

The brush tool options will appear in a new window, allowing you to select the size and shape of the brush, as well as the type of block you want to create with it. For example, to quickly make a huge castle wall, enter H 10, L 30, W 2. You'll see the cursor change into a very large wall section. You can switch directions by swapping the L and W values.
Move your mouse around the world and click the left mouse button when you've found the spot you want to create the blocks. Larger brushes may take a few moments to appear in the world.
By practicing with the brush tool, you'll quickly become adept at creating complex using any material available in the game. You can use the tool to create very small and very large brushes, allowing for a lot of control over your creation.
 You can use the selection tool in MCEdit to highlight a portion of your castle and then copy and paste it over and over again. This is great for creating lots of similar rooms, or extending a piece of an elaborate wall.

With the selection tool activated, click and drag to create a cube in the game space. This cube represents the currently selected blocks. Creating the box can be a little finicky in 3D space, but you just need to start it in the general area and you can easily resize it manually.
To resize the selection, click and drag on one of the walls to move it in or out from the center of the selection. Do this to all of the walls until you have exactly what you want selected. Use the movement keys and the mouse to see all angles of your selection.
Click the "Copy" button to copy the currently-selected blocks. Click the "Paste" button and your cursor will turn into a copy of your selection. You can then place this copy just like you would a brush. You can rotate, roll, mirror, and flip the piece by clicking the appropriate button in the tool menu.
 When you're satisfied with your castle, you can save your changes to the world. MCEdit will overwrite the original save file with your new creation, and you'll see your new castle when you start up your game in Minecraft.