 One day in the future, when you have achieved your goals, you will be able to do things that you can’t do right now. What are these things? Perhaps you will be able to bench press 200 pounds or run an 8-minute mile. Write these goals down.


Write them down in more than one place. Write them in a journal that you can carry with you; write them on a board that you hang on your wall; even type them up and place them on your social media profiles so that your friends can help you stay on track.
Think about being able to do these things when you don’t want to work out or eat a healthy meal by pulling out your notebook or looking at the words on your wall.
 You can download apps onto your phone or tablet to keep track of the foods you eat and how much you exercise. Try downloading one of these apps to your phone or tablet and use it to keep yourself on track and stay motivated. However, be sure to talk with your parent or a doctor about whether this is a good option for you. Some people find counting calories helpful while others find it extremely stressful and upsetting.


Some helpful free apps to check out include MyFitnessPal, Pear Personal Coach, and LoseIt!You can also create a paper chart to keep on your desk or hang up on the wall if you don’t have regular access to a phone, tablet or computer.
 Setting up a fitness schedule for each week will help you not only to remember to exercise and eat right, but will prevent you from quitting or procrastinating. When you work activities into a schedule, they become a habit. Sticking to a routine will help you get fit even if you don’t want to sometimes.


Try to plan on one or two more workouts than you actually need so that if something comes up, it will be okay to skip a day or two.
You should also plan for healthier eating habits, such as making one day a week “salad day,” another day “salmon day,” and so on. Be sure to share these diet goals with friends and family as well so that they can help to keep you accountable.

