 If you want to ask a girl out, then she should know who you are and have some kind of a relationship or friendship with you. You don't have to be best buddies, but she has to know you before you ask her out so she isn't totally thrown off guard. Talk to her after class, say hi on the playground, or even talk to her for a few minutes after school. Let her know a little bit about yourself, like if you have a sister or what sports you like, or what you like to do after school.


If you really don't know her at all, just go up to her and say "Hi," or "What's up?" She'll like that you're comfortable with talking to her as long as you don't come on too strong.;
, The girl should have an idea that you like her before you ask her out. She doesn't have to know for sure that you think she's really awesome, but she should have a sense that you think she's a cool girl before you ask her out so she's ready for your question. Just smile at her, compliment something she's wearing, or just pay a little bit of extra attention to her. For example, if she's standing with a group of her friends, make a point of saying hi to her first. Her friends will giggle at you, but that's part of the fun.


If you do know each other, then use her name the next time you talk to her. Say, "Hi, Mandi, what's up?" and she'll feel more special.
You shouldn't pay too much attention to her. Make her wonder whether or not you're thinking of her and she'll like you even more.
Flirt with her a little bit. Just be playful and tease her a little, making sure that you don't hurt her feelings.
 Though you don't have to know 100% whether she wants to go out with you or not, it will help to have an idea of whether she likes you before you take the plunge so you have more confidence and don't scare her. It would help to know if she has a crush on someone else or if she's going out with someone else, and to have an idea of what she thinks of you.


If you pass by her, does she blush, look away, or say hi to you? Or does she ignore you completely?
If you want to know what she thinks, you can try to ask your friends. Just don't ask her friends or they'll report right back to her and she'll know you like her.
If you want to know if she likes you, see how her friends act when you pass by her. Do they giggle, nudge her, or even tease you? If so, then there's a good chance she likes you.
 You shouldn't just ask the girl out on the spur of the moment, or you won't be prepared and won't know what to say. Though your choices of where to ask can be pretty limited in the 5th grade, your best bets are probably after school, in your neighborhood, or somewhere where you can get her alone without creeping her out. You don't want to isolate her too much since she's probably not used to being alone with guys, but try to do it so her friends aren't spying on you.


You can ask her to meet up after school, or just find her after school and talk to her. Just make sure she's not distracted and in a good mood.
 If you want to ask her out, then you can't just ask her out and then look confused when she does say yes. You have to think of something to do! Maybe you want to go to the carnival together. Maybe you want to go out for a slice of pizza or you know she likes to play video games and you can invite her over. Maybe you want to walk around the mall together or just see a new movie that's playing. The more specific your plan, the more likely she will be to say yes.


Saying something like, "I see that (name of movie here) is playing. Do you want to go check it out with me?" will make you sound much more confident than just saying, "Will you go out with me?"

, Again, this part just means that her friends aren't breathing down your neck. See if you can get her to talk to you right after school, at a birthday party, or some place where you can steal a few minutes alone with her, like a school dance. Try not to ask her before school or she might still be tired and it could be awkward if she says no and then you have to be near her the whole day.


Try asking her at recess. That's a popular time for guys to ask girls out. Again the tricky part will be trying to separate her from her friends.
 If you want the girl to say yes, she has to think you know what you're talking about. Don't get too nervous, stutter, fidget, kick your feet, or look at the floor. Look her in the eyes and smile. Make her think that you're totally comfortable talking to her so that she feels more comfortable, too. Walk right up to her, wave, and say, "Hi."


You can practice this move in front of the mirror to feel more confident.
Remember that the worst thing that can happen is that she can say no. That won't be the end of the world, will it?

, You should say just a few things before you jump in and ask her out. Saying, "Hi, will you go out with me?" probably won't go over well. You should just say something like, "How are you?" "How was your day?" or "Are you doing anything fun after school?" And maybe tell her a thing or two about what you've been up to before you make your move. This will make her feel more comfortable and will hint at what is coming.


You can think of one thing to tell her or one thing to ask her in advance so you feel more comfortable when the time comes.
 Compliment her or just tell her that you really like her and say, "Do you want to go out with me?" It's as simple as that. You can practice this in front of the mirror to get more comfortable, too. You shouldn't be hanging out with her for more than a few minutes without asking her or she'll start to get confused. Just take a deep breath, look her in the eyes, and spit it out. You'll feel much better once you finally ask her.


Read her body language. Is she moving closer to you, smiling, and acting a little nervous? If so, then she's more likely to say yes.
 There are two things that will happen: either she says yes or she says no. If she says yes, then that's great! Let her know how happy you are without acting too over-excited and maybe give her a little hug if you know each other pretty well. Then, you can suggest the place where you'd like to go and start planning your next moves.


If she says no, keep your head up and thank her for talking to you and being nice anyway. Don't resort to name calling or be mean or she won't have any respect for you. Be a good sport about it and start thinking about your next crush.
 This is another cute way to ask her out. If you know where she sits, leave a simple note in her desk that says that you like her asking her if she'll go out with you. Just make sure that she will actually find it right away, and that she'll be alone when she does. If she discovers it with a group of her friends, they will tease you both. Keep it short. Just say, I like you. Will you go out with me? and you'll get the point across.
 Give her a cute pair of earrings, a bouquet of flowers, or a nice notebook that she can write in. The gift can have a message in it asking her out or you can give her the gift while you ask her out. Make sure it is really small, so she doesn't feel awkward if she says no to you.
 Though this isn't something you should do when you get a bit older and more experienced, if you're only ten years old or so, it's okay to have one of your friends talk to her to see if she likes you first. This will take some of the pressure off and will make you feel less bad if it doesn't work out.
 Though you're officially too young to be on Facebook, if you're both active on other social media or if you just have email accounts, this could be another cute way to ask her out. Just make sure she checks her account regularly so you know whether or not she got your question.
 If it's around the holidays, Valentine's Day, her birthday, or just because, then you can give her a cute card complimenting her that asks her if she wants to go out with you. She'll feel special because you made the extra effort of getting her a card and will see that you put some thought into asking her out. This will also make you look more mature.
 If you're really brave and creative, then you can think of an infinite amount of ways to ask her out. Throw her a paper airplane that asks her if she wants to go out with you. Serenade her at recess; in this case you can show her a there's a more sensitive side to you by writing her a song.Give her a cookie that asks her out in the frosting. Make her a bookmark that asks her out and sneak it into the book she is reading. Being more creative will mean that you have to put yourself out there a little more, but if you have nothing to lose, this will be a great way to catch her eye.

