 The first thing you want to do is choose a topic. Sometimes your professor will explicitly assign a topic and other times you will be given a list of possible topics. If you are in an upper-level class, the assignment might be more broad, and you will need to come up with your own subject for the essay. Whatever the case, start thinking about your topic right away. Remember that a good sociology paper starts with an important sociological question. Your first step in writing a good essay is to figure out which question you are going to answer.;
, If your professor did not assign a specific topic, make sure to get approval before you start researching the subject you have chosen. Visit your professor during her office hours to discuss the essay and ask questions. For example, do you know how long the paper should be? Do you know how many sources you need to cite? Make sure you are clear on guidelines before starting your essay.If you are unable to attend office hours, you can ask your professor questions via e-mail. Write this e-mail as if it is business. Be professional, courteous, and clear.
 To write a sociology essay, you will need to collect evidence. All sociological arguments must be supported by facts and documentation. You will likely need to visit the library and do some online research, too. Ask your professor for suggestions if you do not know where to find sources. One type of sociological data is quantitative. These statistics are based on sources such as surveys and censuses. These are generally numbers. An example of quantitative data could be: 9,326 people lived in Urbantown in 1972.
The other type of data you need is qualitative. This research is less concrete, and is based on sources such as interviews and the researcher's own impressions. An example of qualitative data is: "The number of people living in Urbantown in 1972 likely was much lower because the major industry in town had closed and there were also severe racial tensions".
 In a sociology course, you will be asked to read a lot of information. It's helpful to have a system to make sure that you can read the material quickly, while retaining the important points. As you read the sources for your paper, make sure you are reading for specific information. Look for examples that relate to your thesis, and make note of them.Highlight important information. Not only will this make it easier to find that specific information later, but the act of highlighting itself will help embed the information into your brain.
Don't be afraid to skim over parts of books or articles that either do not relate to your paper topic or are not helpful.
 You want your notes to be detailed, but not so lengthy that they are not easy to skim. Just note the most important piece of information, with a reminder of where you found that information. You can go back and expand later, but when you are taking notes, it is important to be efficient.


Remember that sociology is largely about concepts. For example, you might need to explain the relationship between class and power in contemporary society. Therefore, your notes will be different from your chemistry notes, since you are memorizing ideas, not formulas or methods. In your notes, make sure that you have been thorough enough that you will understand the concept when you review your notes.
 When you have completed your research, make sure you have it organized in a way that will help you to write efficiently. As you sit down to write, make sure that you have all of your books, printouts, and notes nearby. This is also a great time to make sure you have anything else you need--computer, pencils, and the assignment guidelines.
 Make sure that you have plenty of room to work. You might need to spread out your materials in order to be able to view multiple documents at once. You'll also want to make sure that you have a chair with good back support, and that the room is a comfortable temperature for you.Experiment with the noise level in your writing space. Some people work well with music playing, while others work best in total silence. Figure out the right atmosphere for you.

