 Learning to regulate emotions is an essential skill for leading a healthy life with positive relationships. Kids who impulsively act on their emotions can wind up in trouble. However, emotional regulation starts with you. Set a good example by effectively managing your own emotions. Then, teach them the skills to do the same.Help them see that all emotions are useful and normal, even negative ones.
Challenge them to name the emotions they feel. Let’s say they are overlooked to join a team at the gym. This may cause feelings of embarrassment or rejection. A best friend moves away. They may feel sad.
Tell them to write down how each emotions feels in their body so they can better recognize them next time around.
 In addition to helping your child label emotions, you also need to be willing to provide an outlet. Listening can be an invaluable tool that demonstrates to your children that “your emotions are important.” Try to connect when your child is overwrought with emotion. This may mean asking them if they want to talk or simply spending quality time with them.You might say, “I can see that you are having a difficult time. Do you want to talk?” If not, you might say, “How about we go and feed the ducks together? I know that’s one of your favorite activities.” During an activity, your child might feel more comfortable opening up.
Resist the urge to judge or fix. Simply be present with your child when they are experiencing big emotions.
 Journaling can be a terrific way to release emotions. It gives kids an outlet and helps them see patterns in their thoughts and feelings. It can be a very effective way for them to learn problem-solving skills, too.Encourage your child to use writing to express their feelings. They can merely free write whatever comes to mind. Or, they can create a short story or poem. They can also doodle in their journal to attach visual images to their thoughts and feelings.
Take your kid shopping for a journal that matches their individual style. Get them nice pens or color pencils to make the process more fun.
 Self-care is a powerful tool for mental health and well-being. Sadly, many adults and kids overlook this needed practice. Encourage your child to build a self-care practice early in life to manage emotions, de-stress, and improve their mood.


Make it a fun project by finding artsy materials to decorate and design a box to fit their personality. Then, fill it with meaningful objects that help them relax, such as fun books, favorite CDs or DVDs, coloring books, inspiring quotes and a cozy blanket., If your child's emotional eating is having a severe mental or physical impact on their life, you may need to consult a therapist. A therapist can help determine if your child has an underlying issue, social or academic struggles at school, or problems handling stress during major life events. They can provide professional advice and teach your child healthy coping mechanisms that do not involve food.

