 Cleaners and turquoise generally don't mix. Turquoise is very susceptible to damage and discoloration. Even mild dishwashing detergent can damage the stone. Stick to using a damp rag., Remove any unwanted dirt or grime. Use gentle motions to avoid damage. If your turquoise is very dirty, this may take some time. However, do not dip turquoise in water to speed up the process. This can harm the gem. , Gently dab any excess water from the turquoise. Letting water sit on the turquoise can harm the gem, so it's vital to get it dry after cleaning.Never air dry turquoise or use heat to speed up the process.
 Silver rarely needs washing when it's attached to turquoise and, as cleaners can harm turquoise, it's generally best to stick to a light polishing. Use a commercial polish designed specifically for silver.You can find a silver polish online or at some department stores.
 Read your polish's instructions for precise directions. Usually, you use a cloth or rag to gently buff the polish onto the silver. Keep buffing until the silver shines and any tarnish, dirt, or debris are removed., Work extremely slowly when cleaning silver jewelry. Silver polish, even in small amounts, can harm turquoise. Take extreme care not to get any polish on the turquoise.In the event that trace amounts of polish end up on your turquoise, remove them right away. You can dab them out with a paper towel or rag.
 As turquoise is so sensitive, you do not want to risk exposing it to cleaners. Things like dish soap, laundry detergent, and other cleaners can easily damage turquoise. Remove turquoise jewelry when cleaning and keep it in a safe place where it will not be exposed to any cleaners., If you're wearing things like rings and bracelets made of turquoise, it's best to avoid or minimize your use of hand lotion. Hand lotion, like most household products, can potentially damage turquoise.Sunscreen may also be harmful. If you've applied sunscreen to your chest, do not wear a turquoise necklace afterwards.
 In addition to drying turquoise after cleaning it, strive to keep it dry in general. Do not leave it sitting out in damp places, such as beside the kitchen sink, As turquoise jewelry is very sensitive, cleaning it too often may damage the stone. To keep it in good shape, only clean the turquoise when it appears dirty.