 Intestinal blockages from poor diet can cause your horse to colic. Make sure your horse is getting plenty of fiber by giving them at least 60% of their daily nutrition in hay, and keeping pasture grazing to a minimum.Hay and grass should be the basis of your horse's diet, with grain in the least amounts.
Do not give your horse non-soaked sugar beet.;
, Too much alfalfa or too much grain, and your horse will colic. Introduce new diets gradually, over the course of 2 weeks. If you put your horse on pasture that's 50% alfalfa, it's going to get colicky. If your horse is gradually introduced to a field, and still colic, that's a sign that his/her diet is still too rich, and that that horse will never become adjusted to that diet.
 If you notice your horse is beginning to get fat, begin increasing their physical activity and adjusting their diet to lose weight.
 Similar to being overweight, a horse that is too thin is in poor physical condition and will be more susceptible to physical ailments. Build muscle mass by increasing exercise over time, and improve their overall diet in order to put on healthy weight.
 Moldy hay, insects, and bits of plastic or twine put your horse at risk, if caught in their hay or other feed. Don't let their food sit around for too long, and if you do always check for the aforementioned items. Scoop paddocks of old hay after a few days or a heavy rain to reduce the risk of mold and insect growth.
 Just like humans, regular supplements that add vitamins and nutrients to the horse's diet are beneficial in minimizing health risks. Look for supplements which increase levels of healthy bacteria (like probiotics).


Look at supplement websites, such a SmartPak.  They guarantee that your horse won't colic, and if your horse does colic while on the supplement, they will pay for your horse to have colic surgery!
Probiotics are inexpensive and support a healthy digestive tract.  You can find them online or at your local feed store.
Ulcer supplements can help prevent ulcers in your horse which can cause colic.
Adding some vegetable oil or coconut oil to your horses feed has been said to help prevent blockages in your horses gut.
If your horse won't take powder supplements, most come in pelleted forms.
 Put a notice up on the horse's stall door telling guests not to feed your horse, if it is kept at a place where visitors can come and may feed them treats. Being fed too frequently and with unhealthy foods can make a horse more likely to colic.
 It is important for the horse to eat in the natural head-down position, but without consuming other harmful things in the process. Feed pans can be used to allow your horse to eat as naturally as possible, while minimizing the likelihood of the consumption of sand, manure, and shavings.