 By hiring a background check service you will pay to access records that the service has gathered – they are doing the work of aggregating and sifting addresses, criminal records, and personal information for you. Using one of these pay services may be to your benefit if you are short on time.


Background check services can vary in what they provide. For example, some do simple criminal background searches while others go in depth, search Social Security records, and verify previous employment, education, and other details.
Criminal searches can also vary in detail. Some services conduct a general US criminal check, but others, for more money, will report on a person’s criminal past in each separate place of residence.
Expect to pay for premium services. The service PreEmploy, for example, charges $249 for a bundle of 10 basic searches. They also offer advanced packages of 10 searches for $489.95 and $986., What sort of service and level of search you choose will depend on your needs. Consider why you are doing a background search and what details you most want to uncover. Then, find a service and package that caters to you.


For example, an employer might want more detail to carefully vet possible hires. If you are checking up on job applicants, you might opt for a premium service that includes full employment, criminal background, and Social Security checks.
Landlords may fall into this category, as well. You’ll want to know as much as possible about future tenants.
If you are searching for personal purposes, you might not need or want to spend on extras. In this case, a basic package is probably best.
Some services are also targeted to types of business, for very small businesses and larger corporations or even for nannies and elder care workers.
 Once you have chosen a company, you must be sure to give the service full and accurate information. This is important, as they may find a handful of “John Browns” living in the area or with similar histories. You will want to avoid confusion if at all possible.


Besides names, try to give a birthdate, previous addresses, previous names, and details of employment and education, if you have them.

