 Pour 20 grams (0.71 oz) or 1/4 of fresh henna powder into a plastic bowl.
, The paste will be thick, similar to toothpaste or mashed potatoes., Also add cajeput, tea tree and ravensara. Mix the ingredients thoroughly. The paste solution will become smooth and silky., Press the plastic wrap against the surface of the paste expelling any air pockets.,, Add more if needed. The henna paste should be smooth and creamy, similar to yogurt. The mehendi is now ready to be filled in a cone or bottle., Cut your chosen material (see Things You'll Need below) into a rectangular shape.

Mylar wrap and cellophane wrap make beautiful cones. If you are using Mylar tissue, keep your hands well moisturized, as you cannot roll tissue Mylar if the humidity is low and your hands are dry, as too much static electricity makes the tissue unmanageable.
,,,, Do not fill it up to the very top., Now the mehndi or henna cone is ready., A cone is one of the best tools for the professional henna artist. Cones allow you to make fine lines. You can hold a cone by nestling it between your thumb, palm and first finger.

Try not to hold the cone or squeeze from the tip end, as this will weaken your control and the paste may spill out from the sides.
Slowly squeeze the cone with the palm of your hand and fingers to create an even line of paste.
For extra control, rest the weight of your hand on your little finger.
 You're now ready to start applying it. Use the cone to apply the design as chosen., Mix 1 teaspoon sugar with 3 teaspoons lemon juice to prepare the mixture. About twenty to thirty minutes after the paste is applied, the henna will lose its shine and the mud will dry and begin to crack.

Apply the lemon and sugar mixture gently with a clean cotton patch to that part where henna has been applied; so that the henna does not get dry and fall off. This lemon sugar mixture will create protective “glue” between your skin and the henna. Be careful not to over saturate the paste as designs can run and bleed together. Apply the mixture 2 to 3 times.
 Wrapping need lots of absorbent tissue to wipe up the perspiration.

Start wrapping tissues around your hand like a mummy.
Wrap plastic over the tissues.
Tape the wrap down with packing tape.
 Before you are ready to remove the paste and wraps, hold the area over steam for 10 minutes. A pot of boiling water or tea kettle works well or heat 2 to 3 cloves on an iron pan and put your hands over its fumes. The extra heat and steam help to deepen the stain color., After the paste has been on your skin for 6 – 12 hours it is ready to be removed. Peel off wrappings and scrape off the paste. Using a paper towel and vegetable oil (corn, olive, and canola) or lemon juice, gently rub off the dried henna paste if it is sticking to the skin. Do not use water to remove the paste, it can ruin the tattoo., Once you have unwrapped and removed the dry henna paste you will see an orange-yellow tattoo stain left on your skin. The tattoo will deepen into a richer reddish-brown tone over the next 48 hours.

The final color is reddish brown and can last anywhere from one to three weeks depending on the quality and type of henna paste applied, as well as where it was applied on the body (thicker skin stains darker and longer than thin skin). Moisturizing with natural oils, such as olive, sesame seed, or coconut, will also help extend the lifetime of the tattoo, as skin exfoliation is what causes the henna tattoo to fade.
It is best to avoid water for the first 24 hours.
 Corn, canola, or olive oil all work well. Avoid using any petroleum products such as baby oil or Vaseline as they will contribute to the demise of your stain.

Avoid excess rubbing of the area.
Avoid shaving over your henna/mehendi stain. Shaving removes layers of skin.
 The color becomes darker within 2 hours. But that color will only last for 2 days. It is the last possible remedy. Wash your hands with liquid soap to keep the mehendi design for a longer period. Avoid too much rinsing of the hands.