 Discard the neck piece, keeping the tube.
 Use warm soapy water to clean out leftover cream, lotion or other contents. Allow to dry thoroughly before proceeding.
 Check if it is a good size for a coin purse (have a coin handy to help you test this). If the tube is not the right size, find a larger tube to use.
 Draw a line down the edge of the folded tube to the fold line.
 Follow the images for guidance.

Clip the container together to assist with cutting. Then cut out the edges as shown.





Remove the clip and bend back the top portion after cutting to make a fold line, as shown.





Then pinch the tube together at the fold line, as shown. This will form a triangular base and the cut ends will stand upright.





Still holding the pinched piece in place, cut across one side of the tube at the fold line, ending in the middle. You are only going to cut off one side.






Discard the cut-away portion.






You will be left with the basic purse shape.
 Then fold it over the base of the purse to check the length. It is likely too long, so you'll need to snip off excess:


Cut off the excess in a nice shape, such as curved, as you'd expect to see on a purse.






Tidy up the base as well by snipping off any unwanted excess.
 Mark it lightly. Then use a hole puncher to punch a neat hole at that spot.


How it looks when done:







, This is a bill clip for those times when you add folded notes. See the image for details.

Squeeze the tube together.





Cut a small V shape as shown.





Push out just a little to check it sits correctly.
 The bead will need to be large enough to keep the purse flap closed over it, so measure the bead against the hole you've punched in the flap.
 Use price tag thread to thread the bead in place where the clasp hole will fold down onto:

Pierce a small hole and push the thread through at the clasp end.





Gently burn the end that you've pushed through to form a small knot. Use a lighter for this and do it quickly. This knot will prevent the thread from coming back through the hole you've pierced for the thread's entry.






Thread the bead onto the purse flap. This is done simply by threading the bead on and knotting it in place with a gentle, quick lighter burn on the thread. Cut off any excess thread.
 Then thread on the bead. Burn the invisible thread into a small knot.
 The final look is quite spectacular.
