 When you first get braces, you should avoid irritating your mouth by eating softer foods. Create a first week diet of mashed potatoes, applesauce, milkshakes, soft pasta, and soup. You can also eat soft cheeses, eggs, soft fruits like bananas, and fruit smoothies.Over time, you should be able to eat many of the foods you enjoyed previously. Be careful with hard or sticky foods, as they can damage your braces and can be difficult to get out of your braces once they get stuck.
 Biting down on crunchy or hard foods can actually break a bracket in your mouth or damage the wires on your braces. Sticky food can be hard to remove from between your teeth and your braces, even after many brushings and flossings, leading to possible infections, dental issues, and even stains which will be hard to remove after the braces are removed.Avoid hard and crunchy foods like hard candies, ice, nuts, chips, beef jerky, peanut brittle, and popcorn.
Avoid chewy foods like gum, bagels, granola, and hard rolls or pieces of bread.
You should also remove corn from the cob before eating it and remove meat from the bone.
Over time, you can introduce crunchy or hard foods into your diet, preferably hard fruits or vegetables like apples, carrots and cucumber. Cut any hard fruits or vegetables into bite sized pieces before you eat them to prevent damaging your braces.
 Though it may be tempting to maintain a diet of soft treats, like ice cream, pudding, jello, and hot chocolate, avoid over indulging on sweets. Too much sugar can lead to the development of dental issues like cavities, which can be more difficult to treat due to your braces.Cut down on known cavity causers in your diet and try to only eat treats or sweets occasionally. Always brush your teeth well after eating foods high in sugar and artificial flavors or colors so these products do not remain on your teeth for a long period of time.
 If you tend to chew your fingernails or nibble on a pen out of habit, try to cut back on these activities. Unnecessary chewing on objects can damage your braces and you may get things stuck in your braces that are very difficult to get out.These habits can also have a negative impact on your entire treatment and they may lead to pain, especially in your front teeth.

