 Agar agar is a traditional substitute for gelatin in many recipes and basically it substitutes at a ratio of an equal amount of agar agar for gelatin when substituting like for like (that is powdered for powdered, etc).One tablespoon of powdered agar agar can be used in place of one tablespoon of powdered gelatin.The granulated form of agar agar is twice as strong as the flaked form, while the powdered form is three times as strong.Follow the instructions for activating agar agar with great care. It does not set at the same temperatures as gelatin, hence people tend to assume it doesn't work. However, it does, provided it is handled correctly. For example, agar agar requires a rapid boil and not a mere simmer in order to activate when added to a recipe requiring heating.And, agar agar gels at room temperature when gelatin requires chilling.Soak agar agar first for 10 minutes in the liquid it is to be cooked in. This makes it easier to dissolve.2 tablespoons of powder, 1 tablespoon of flakes to 600ml (1 pint) of liquid will produce a firm jelly.;
, This won't set as hard as agar agar but it can still be used for liquid setting. One ounce of dried carrageenan will set one cup of liquid.It is also a great gelling agent for a light, delicately balanced jelly or blancmange.To use dried carrageen, rinse it carefully and soak it in water to make it swell. Add it to the liquid to be set. Boil the liquid for 10 minutes, then strain out the carrageenan., Kuzu is used as a thickener in Japan. To use, add around 1 1/2 tablespoons of kuzu to each cup of liquid used for make a sauce or gravy. If you want to gel a liquid, add 2 tablespoons per cup., From the guar bean, guar gum can be used as an acceptable substitute for gelatin but requires different handling. Prepare ingredients as the recipe dictates. For the gelatin substitution, divide the amount of gelatin required by the recipe by 6 to arrive at the amount of guar gum to be used. For example, one tablespoon of gelatin divided by 6 results in 1/2 a teaspoon of guar gum. This will need to be played around with though, as the 1:6 ratio is a guide, not exact. Then, add the guar gum to the dry ingredients first while mixing the liquid ingredients in another bowl. Introduce both sets of ingredients slowly, stirring all the while to prevent the guar gum from turning lumpy. The key to guar gum addition is – be gradual and keep testing it.
 Xanthan gum is produced from the fermentation of a carbohydrate. If substituting xanthan gum for gelatin, use half the amount of xanthan gum that the recipe suggests for the gelatin. For example, if a recipe requires 2 teaspoons of gelatin, only use one teaspoon of xanthan gum., Arrowroot is a starch from the roots of a tropical herb, Maranta arundinacea. It is good for thickening an acidic liquid.It is also good for thickening jellies/gelled substances; indeed, the Victorians used to make an arrowroot jelly. However, don't use arrowroot with dairy products as these tend to turn it slimy.


Arrowroot does not handle high temperatures well. If it needs to be added to something hot, stir arrowroot in some cold liquid first, add to the hot mixture and leave on heat for no more than 30 seconds., Much of this will be trial and error when making substitutes for recipes that call for gelatin.

