 Choose fabric that is fashionable and durable (steer clear of flimsier materials like silk). Purchase a few yards/1–2 meters (3.3–6.6 ft) or so of fabric.


Purchase a strong pair of sewing scissors. Because you will be cutting fabric with these scissors you will need a pair that will easily cut through the fabric you chose.





;
, The duct tape will serve as your “needle and thread”, plus it will act as the bag's liner. As such, while the typical industrial grey duct tape will suffice, consider purchasing a complementary color or design.
 Draw up a simple tote pattern, making it large enough for your needs. The simplest design is a large rectangle.


To check that the size is adequate for your needs, fold the fabric evenly in half. This will create the bottom and sides of your bag and you'll be able to assess that the fabric size is sufficient. Cut the rectangle shape out when you're satisfied.
 Make each square approximately 1” (2.5cm) high and 1.5” (3.8cm) wide. For a larger bag, increase the measurements. These will be folded over for a neat base finish later on.
 Turn the fabric over (if it has two sides) and then line the entire inner side of the piece of fabric with duct tape.


Start at the top of the fabric. Cut strips of duct tape that will be placed along the top. Be sure to overlap each strip of tape for full coverage.






Continue this process until the entire inside portion of the bag is covered with duct tape. Trim away any excess tape.
 Measure and design the handle to be placed at each end of the bag while it lies on a flat surface. You can use the design shown here, or vary it as desired. Draw the cutting pattern on each side of the bag.

Begin the bag handle approximately 1.5” (3.8cm) from the end. Mark the center of the tape on each end so you have an evenly distributed handle (and one that will match up once the bag has been created).






Draw a 2” (5cm) line on each side of the 1.5” (3.8cm) mark and 1” (2.5cm) down each side. You should essentially be drawing a box shape. Do this on each end of the duct tape bag.






Draw a horizontal line running across the middle of the box but don’t touch each end. Instead, create a triangle shape at the end of each side––inside the box you will see a long line through the middle with a triangle shape at each end. Do this for each bag handle (on each side of the duct tape fabric).
 You will be cutting along the line and triangle marking you made inside each box for the handle. You may need to start your cuts using a small knife or box cutter in the event you have trouble getting your scissors through the fabric.


Once these portions have been cut on each end, fold back the flaps you’ve created and secure with a piece of duct tape.
 This step isn’t completely necessary but provides a more finished look to your tote.

Turn the bag over so that the finished side (not the duct tape side) is facing up.






Lay a piece of duct tape over the top 1/2” (1.3cm) edge of the bag, fold over and tape down inside the bag.






Trim away any excess tape for a finished look.
 This is where you could sew it, but a sturdy stapler will do the trick instead.

Fold bag in half, duct tape side facing outward. This way, the staples will be hidden if you staple it from the inside.






Staple the sides of the bag, about ½” (1.3cm) away from the edges. Clip the corners on the top and continue on the other side.
 You will still have those ½” inch (1.3cm) pieces sticking out, so a more professional finish will be to tape down those edges.

Get a better angle on taping down the edges by slipping a large block, book or item inside bag.






Measure the edges and then pull the same amount of duct tape from your roll.






Lay the duct tape down on top of the edges, beginning on one end and smoothing down as you move down the side of the bag.



Fold the seam along the bottom of the bag and seal with duct tape. Trim and fold edges. Repeat on the other side.
 You can also get an idea of any additional trimming or duct tape sealants that might finish the look.
