 The paste mix is an integral part of making any papier mâché project. There are several different mixes you can make, although the main ingredients you can use are water, flour, and sometimes glue. A good ratio is 1:6 for flour and water, respectively. You may add one or two tablespoons of glue or paste to make your mix a little stronger, but it isn't necessary.
 Newspaper or paper towels work best for papier mâché. They absorb the paste mix best, and they're more pliable than copy paper or construction paper – though the latter are viable options as well. Tear the paper into strips about one inch wide and six inches long. They don't need to be precise. Bear in mind that the wider, shorter pieces are easier to work with for optimum coverage.
 Dip a paper strip in the paste mix, and squeegee off any extra paste by running the paper between two fingers. Lay the strip over your base. It is a good idea to lay the strips in a random pattern; if you lay them all vertically or all horizontally it is more likely that your volcano will have unsightly raised edges or even cracks when it is dry. Continue laying strips of paper over the base until it is completely covered.









Keep some old rags or cloths on hand to wipe hands. The papier mâché can stick to hands and make it difficult to do other things. If you're helping kids make a volcano, they might wipe the gluey mixture on themselves, each other, or their surroundings., If the base layer, or any following layers, are not thoroughly dry before you add another layer, the entire volcano will take longer to dry when it is complete. The more layers of paper, paste, and then paint you add, the more moisture will be caught inside. This may cause your entire volcano to crack, collapse, or grow mold – and the paint may not dry properly, either, which can lead to a cracked exterior.
 Once the base layer is dry, continue adding pasted strips around your volcano core until it is built up to the thickness that you want. If you don't want a particular thickness, it's a good idea to wrap at least three layers of paper around your base. To soften the mouth of your volcano, you can secure one end of a strip to the inside of the toilet paper tube, then secure the other end to the outside of the volcano.
 The final layer of papier mâché does not need to be laid smoothly over the base. As a matter of fact, it's better if it isn't! The previous layers of paper should be relatively smooth, giving the volcano a solid structure. With your final layer, you are mainly shaping the appearance. Lay your pasted strip of paper over the volcano and pinch the strip in the middle. This will create a ridge in the paper, which makes your end result look more like a stone mountain!








, Once the papier mâché is dry, paint the form to look like a volcano! Use acrylic paints to make the volcano look realistic; other paints work as well, but acrylic works best with papier mâché. Greys and browns stippled with black can give the appearance of stone for an active volcano, while greens can give the appearance of a grass-covered dormant volcano. If you're confident in your painting skills, spill red and yellow paint from the mouth down the sides to show the magma from an erupting volcano!







