 This may be the most important step you can take before doing cardio workouts if you suffer from asthma. Doctors can help you figure out which activities are best for your particular condition. They will also help you understand what to do if you have an asthma attack while you are exercising.


If you’re planning to change your exercise routine, talk to your doctor. They might want to adjust your asthma medication accordingly.;
, In particular, look for high pollution days. If poor air quality tends to set off your asthma, stay indoors on those days. If you must exercise outdoors, reduce the amount of time you work out on days with high pollution. You might also want to wear a mask on those days.
 For many asthma sufferers, the outdoors is full of triggers such as pollen and air pollution. If you can find activities you enjoy indoors, these are usually the safest option. That doesn’t mean you can never exercise outside, just that you may have to be extra careful. , Particularly if cold air tends to trigger your attacks, you need to protect your lungs. It might be best to do your cardio workouts indoors in the winter, but if you can’t, then cover up. , Particularly if you have a virus such as a cold, this isn’t the best time to exercise. Vigorous exercise when you’re sick can lower your immunity too.


If you feel like you must get up and about, consider a short walk instead of intense exercise. You could also do something very low-key like a simple yoga routine. It’s also a good idea to get a flu shot if you suffer from asthma. , People with asthma are often particularly reluctant to do cardio exercise because of the fear of an attack. If this is the case, find ways to motivate yourself to undertake cardio exercise. Make yourself a calendar or sticker chart. Every day that you get in a bit of cardio (even if it’s only a little), add a check or sticker.
Reward yourself. As soon as you meet a cardio goal, give yourself a treat. Maybe a new pair of tennis shoes or some fancy yoga pants to inspire you to work out more!
Find a buddy. Having a friend to join you in a workout is often very motivating and more fun than exercising alone.
 If you’re on a sports team, be sure your coach and the other players know what to do if you have an attack. If you’re working with a trainer, be sure they know which exercises you can and cannot do. If you work out with a buddy, make sure they can also recognize the symptoms of an attack and help you if you get into trouble.If you have a medical ID bracelet, be sure to wear it when you’re doing cardio exercises. For competitive sports, alert referees and other officials who might be concerned about “jewelry” on the playing field ahead of time.
 Cold, dry air going into your lungs causes airway constriction. For this reason, cold weather sports such as skiing, ice skating, and ice hockey are often a problem, so talk to your doctor if you’re interested in these sports.Many people with asthma enjoy water-based sports such as


lap swimming
water polo
synchronized swimming
water aerobics

, Activities that require you to run for long periods of time often aren’t the best idea for people with asthma. There are a variety of sports and activities that allow you to take a break frequently.Consider


volleyball
gymnastics
baseball and softball
football
wrestling
yoga
golfing
racquet sports
walking
short distance running

, Activities like these are often a challenge for people with asthma, but that doesn't mean they're impossible. By following your doctor’s instructions, taking your medicine as directed, warming up and cooling down properly, people with asthma CAN be successful at endurance sports such as


soccer
cross-country running
basketball
lacrosse
field hockey

, Many people with asthma use an inhaler (often albuterol) before they work out. If your doctor has prescribed a medicine like this for you, be careful to use it as directed. If they haven’t prescribed something like this, check with them to see if you need one. Typically, you should use your pre-exercise medicine about 10 minutes before exerting yourself. Some require 15-20 minutes to kick in, so read the instructions carefully., This is particularly important with exercise-induced asthma. You may need to show up to practice a few minutes early to fit this in if you’re on a sports team. Researchers recommend 30 second sprints as an interval warm-up.


Sprint as fast as you can for 30 seconds.
Rest anywhere from 45 seconds to 5 minutes. Be sure you’re breathing normally before continuing.
Repeat, doing a total of 8-10 sprints in all.
Start exercising about 15-20 minutes after the interval warm-up. , Work on breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth as you exercise. Try to keep your breaths as even as possible. You may want to practice steady, even breathing on a treadmill or brisk walk if you are anticipating trying a new sport. That will help you get used to breathing right before you jump into a baseball or volleyball game.
 If you experience wheezing, chest tightness, coughing, or shortness of breath, take a break. If any of these symptoms become uncontrollable, follow the asthma plan you have developed with your doctor.
 If you find yourself experiencing symptoms such as wheezing, gasping, chest tightness, trouble speaking, chest or stomach ache, stop exercising and use the inhaler immediately. If you find that your symptoms get worse, follow whatever asthma attack routine your doctor has advised., A good cool down routine will help regulate your heart rate. Simply slow the pace of whatever exercise you’re doing for the last 5-10 minutes of your workout. Don’t shift gears and do a completely new kind of exercise; just make whatever you were already doing a bit simpler.If you were running, slow down to a jog for the last 5-10 minutes.
If you were jogging, slow down to a walk for the last 5-10 minutes.
Include some deep, regular breaths as part of your cool down.
 The best way to build cardio stamina is to keep working at it over time. Try to get at least 20 minutes of cardio exercise 3 times a week. Don’t overdo it, but do keep working at it. Building cardiovascular strength takes time, and asthma can slow down this process. Do what you can until you become uncomfortable, and then try to do a little more the next day.

