 Every individual explains medical symptoms differently. Because of this, it’s important to describe your symptoms and other related information as specifically, detailed, and descriptively as you can. This can not only help your doctor better diagnose and prevent misdiagnosis, but may also get you proper and prompt treatment.Describe your symptoms using easily understood adjectives. For example, if you are in pain, use words such as dull, intense, throbbing, or piercing. Say, “I have throbbing pain in my big toe.”If there is a language barrier between you and the doctor, try bringing someone you trust who can accurately relay your symptoms to the doctor.;
, Your doctor is trained to deal with all kinds of medical issues. Always be honest when discussing your symptoms and medical history without feeling any shame or embarrassment. Not being honest or withholding information from your doctor can increase the risk of a misdiagnosis.For instance, you may be tempted to lie to your doctor about having unprotected sex because you are embarrassed or are afraid they will judge you, but withholding this very important information means your doctor may not test you for STDs, which could be the source of your problem.
Keep in mind that anything you say to your doctor is confidential by law,and that they should not judge or shame you. They may have some advice about how to be safer in the future, but your doctor is concerned with your health, first and foremost.
 Let your doctor know the specific symptoms you have from a prepared list. As you describe the symptoms, show the doctor the exact spot on your body where you are experiencing them, if you are able. This can help your doctor better diagnose any conditions. It can also help ensure proper treatment.Use the most specific and descriptive words as possible. For example, if you have wrist pain, show your doctor exactly where it is while you say, “I have dull pain in my left wrist.”

, Let your doctor know when your symptoms started. You should also tell the doctor when and how often symptoms happen. This may minimize the risk of a misdiagnosis and help you get prompt and proper treatment.Include when you first noticed symptoms. Let the doctor know if they have ever happened before, if they go away, and how they occur. For example, “I started noticing the blurred vision about a week ago, but this happened to me last winter, too. It’s not painful and gets worse over the course of the day. I find that taking a shower makes it better.”
Let the doctor know if symptoms affect your ability to function. Say, “As the day progresses, my vision is so blurred that I can’t see well enough to drive. I’ve been taking public transportation instead.”
Mention any parallel symptoms or other conditions you have.
 Tell your doctor what makes any symptoms better or worse. This can also prevent a potential misdiagnosis.Note anything that makes you feel better or worse in specific words. For example, if you have toe pain, let the doctor know any movement that makes it sharper. You can describe this by saying "My toe feels fine when I’m standing, but as soon as I walk or run, I feel a sharp pain."
Describe triggers for your symptoms that you have noticed. This might include foods, drinks, activities, or medications.
 Describe the severity of your symptoms by putting them on a scale of one to ten. This can help your doctor more accurately diagnose you and get you prompt and appropriate treatment.Avoid minimizing or exaggerating your symptoms. Place then on scale ranging from one to ten. One means your symptoms have little effect on you and ten correlates to the worst possible impact on you.
 You may not be the only person experiencing your symptoms. If anyone else you know has them, make sure to let your doctor know. This can not only minimize the risk of a misdiagnosis, but also alert your doctor to a potential public health issue.This is especially important for any respiratory- or gastrointestinal-related symptoms.
 You may find a doctor doesn’t seem to grasp what you’re trying to say. If this happens, repeat your symptoms until both of you are on the same page. This can ensure that your doctor makes the right diagnosis and develops the proper treatment plan.