 Cats are often skittish when it comes to human touch. If you want to get your cat used to bathing, hold her and rub her down a little. Make sure she's comfortable with your touch before trying to bathe her. This process with vary in length depending on your cat. Very skittish cats may take longer to train.Touch your cat's ears, mouth, and nose. You should also touch her feet gently. Pet sensitive areas, like her belly and legs.
While you do this, whisper sweet, soothing words to your cat. If she resists, gently pull her back towards you and reassure her. When she behaves, give her treats and praise as a reward.;
, When your cat stops resisting your touch, introduce water. Get a wash cloth slightly damp and run it over your cat's body.Repeat the same process you used when touching your cat, but incorporate the washcloth. Rub the wash cloth over her ears, mouth, nose, and sensitive areas like her belly.
If your cat resists or tries to pull away, speak to her gently until she settles down. Praise her when she behaves.
 You should not just submerge your cat in a bath without getting her wet first. Water can be shocking to a cat, so get her used to water first by pouring water over her back. You should not bathe your cat until she cooperates with water being poured on her. Cats will take different amounts of time to adjust to bathing to water. A skittish cat may take a few weeks, while a calm cat may only take a few days.As with the other parts of the process, reassure your cat the entire time. Speak to her softly and gently pull her back towards you if she resists. Make sure to gently move your cat's head upward by pushing on her chin. You do not want water to get into her eyes.
Dry your cat afterwards by wrapping her in a warm towel. Cuddle and praise her during the drying process.
 You want your cat to think of water and touch as peaceful experiences. Therefore, be reassuring throughout the process. Talk to your cat the entire time in a soft voice to make her feel safe. When she behaves, give her treats as a reward.Cats generally do not take well to scolding, so do not scold your cat if she misbehaves. This is only likely to aggravate her, making the entire process of bathing more difficult. Even if you get frustrated, resist the urge to scold your cat.
 Cats are usually well-equipped to clean themselves. They spend a lot of time grooming, so there is usually not much of a need for regular bathing.In the event your cat does not adjust to your touch and water, you may want to refrain from bathing your cat. You can try brushing your cat instead, which can remove dirt, grease, and dead hair.
 Timing is key when it comes to bathing a cat. You do not want to put your cat in a bath when she is agitated. Wait for a moment when your cat seems to be in a good mood.Think of times when your cat seems calm. She may be docile and pleasant after her dinner, for example. She may generally settle down after a few minutes of play.
Choose a time when you know she will calm to bathe her. If she is relaxing on your lap purring, it may be a good time to give her a bath.
In some cases, you may not be able to wait for the ideal time. If your cat got into something toxic, or was sprayed by a skunk, call a vet. Your vet may advise you to wash your cat immediately or to bring your cat in for washing and grooming. If you attempt to bathe a cat that's distressed, he or she may bite or claw, which can cause injury. It's best to consult a vet for advice for you and your cat's safety.
 You should always brush your cat before bathing her. This will remove loose fur, dirt, and grease. You should also clip any mats out of her fur prior to the bathing process.Even when not preparing a cat for a bath, you should groom her regularly. Grooming your cat a couple of times a week promotes blood circulation and keeps her coat smooth and clean.
If your cat resists being brushed, talk to her softly and offer treats and praise throughout the process.
 You can bathe your cat in the sink, the bathtub, or a small container big enough for your cat. Ideally, you should have a spray nozzle to use for bathing.Only fill the sink, tub, or container with 3 to 5 inches of water.
Make sure it's lukewarm water. Water that's too hot or cold could make your cat uncomfortable. Test the water with your fingers before placing your cat in the tub.
 Your cat may be nervous, especially if this is her first bath, so go slowly. Talk to your cat the entire time in a gentle voice as you place her in the water.Use the spray nozzle, if you have one, to get your cat thoroughly wet. Do not spray directly into her face, and make sure not to get any water in her eyes, nose, or ears.
If you do not have a spray nozzle, you can use a pitcher or cup to get your cat wet.
 Once your cat is wet, you can add shampoo. Make sure to use a shampoo specifically made for cats. Dog shampoo or human shampoo is not appropriate for a cat's bath.Work from the head to the tail when as you lather your cat. Massage the shampoo into her coat. Be gentle and make sure to praise your cat for behaving.
Always avoid the face. The eyes, nose, and mouth should not come into contact with shampoo. You can rub your cat's face down with plain water after the bath.
 It's vital to get any shampoo residue out of your cat's fur. You do not want your cat to lick up leftover shampoo. It can also irritate your cat's skin.Use your spray nozzle or cup to pour clean lukewarm water over your cat. Again, make sure to avoid the eyes, nose, and mouth.
Keep rinsing your cat until you do not notice any suds or bubbles coming off your cat's fur. Make sure you rinse all areas, including areas like the stomach, legs, and paws.
 Wrap your cat in a warm towel to dry her. Make sure to dry your cat in a warm area that's away from any drafts.You can also use a blow dryer if your cat is not afraid of the noise. If you do so, make sure to use the lowest heat setting.
If your cat has longer fur, you may have to brush her again after her bath to remove any tangles.
 Your cat may scratch during the bathing process. Clipping her nails can protect you from harm. Clip your cat's nails in a quiet room, and wait for a time when she is calm.Take your cat's paw between your fingers. Massage it for about three seconds and gently squeeze the paw so her claws come out. If your cat pulls away, do not pull back. Simply follow the motion of her paw, while keeping your fingers around the paw.
Clip the tips of your cat's nails. Make sure you do not clip into an area known as the quick, as this will cause bleeding. The quick is marked by a reddish or pinkish portion of the nails. Only clip the clear part of your cat's nails.
 Water in your cat's ears could potentially cause an infection. Prior to bathing her, place two cotton balls in either ear. After her bath, remove the cotton balls and discard them.Cats may resist this, so go slowly and reassure your cat the whole time. You may want to practice putting cotton balls in your cat's ear prior to the bath.
 Your cat may have crust or debris around her eyes and nose. Do not wash this out with shampoo. Instead, get a cloth damp and gently rub away any dirt or debris from your cat's face.If your cat gets scared, talk to her gently throughout the process to keep her calm. Always praise your cat for behaving.
 It's possible your cat is very aggressive about bath time. While cats do not necessarily need regular baths, you may need to take your cat to a groomer under certain circumstances. If your cat has mats, fleas, or is covered in dirt and grime, take him or her to the groomers if you can't bathe your cat yourself.