 If you rent your home, it is essential that you speak to your landlord before bringing home a pet. Even if your lease allows animals in your building, it's a good idea to check to make sure that your landlord is ok with the type of pet you are considering. A brief note or phone call can answer your questions.Try saying, "Hi, Jim. I am considering getting a cat. Are there any policies or additional fees that I need to be aware of?"
If you own your own home, you might need to take a look at your home owner's insurance policy. Some coverage does not extend to particular breeds of animals.
For example, dog breeds such as Rottweilers and Pit Bulls can cause problems with your coverage. Speak to an agent if you have questions.
 Choose an animal whose energy level suits your own. If you are an active person, pick a pet who will also enjoy being active. For example, a collie or Jack Russell terrier would probably be a good fit.Are you talkative? Think about whether or not you want a pet who will "converse" with you. Parrots and Siamese cats are considered very "talkative" animals.
If your household is bustling with activity and filled with people, choose an animal who will thrive in that environment. Many dogs and birds love to be around people.
Maybe your home is quiet and you like it that way. Consider an older cat or a rabbit to be a calm companion.
 When it comes to picking a pet, size matters. If you live in a small apartment, take that into account. It might seem like a bird wouldn't take up much room, but it's important to realize that even small birds need large cages. Make sure you have plenty of space to house your new pet.A good rule of thumb is the larger the animal, the more space they will need. For example, a larger breed of dog will take up more room in your home.
Larger dogs will also need more space to run and stretch their legs. Unless you have a large backyard, a small dog will probably be more suitable.
Ferrets also require a lot of space. You will need a large cage and also plenty of room to allow them to roam about your home during their playtime.
If you are thinking about getting fish, consider how large of a tank you have room for. Multiple fish require a large tank, which can take up several feet of counter space.
If you are considering getting a snake, be aware that reptiles also need room to spread out sometimes. At a minimum, a snake cage will take up about half a square foot of floor space.
 It's not just your animal who needs space. Pets often come with a lot of supplies. When you are thinking about the right pet, figure out where you will store all of the animal supplies.If you are getting a cat, make sure you have a good place for the litter box. Cats like privacy, so it should not be placed in a main room.
Litter boxes can have strong odors. Think about whether you have an out of the way room or large closet where you can tuck the box away.
Think about a feeding area for your pet. Is there room in your kitchen for water and food bowls?
If you are going to get a rabbit, do you have room for the hutch? Do you have a safe space where your rabbit can hop around?

, If you are considering getting a dog, take a good look at your neighborhood. An ideal space for dogs will have parks, preferably dog parks. Your dog will appreciate having a space to run and play if you don't have your own yard.Even if your pet will mainly be staying indoors, your neighborhood is still important. There are several things to consider.
For example, is there a vet nearby? It's important that you can easily access health care for your pet.
Will you be able to easily find supplies? For example, if you are bringing home an exotic bird, is there a nearby store that sells the proper food?
Look into pet-sitting options. It's always good to know who will watch your pets if you go on vacation.

