 Remove the pocket liners if present. Remove the screws or staples that attach the pocket straps to the table. If you don't have a staple remover, pry the staples out with a flathead screwdriver. Leave the pockets in place for now.


This is usually easier from under the table. Wear goggles to protect against falling staples.;
, There are usually three or four bolts under each rail.Remove them with a socket wrench.


Old pool tables may have special bolts with two holes. To remove these, order a forked tool from a pool table supply store., Pull apart any rail sections that detach easily and set them aside. If two rails are attached at a corner, flip them over onto the table with another person's help, then pull apart the two sections. Set aside the pockets as well.


Set the rails down carefully when flipping them, and take care to avoid bashing the side pockets., The felt is usually either glued down or stapled to the wood backing of the slate. If it is stapled, remove each staple carefully to avoid tears. If glued, pull the edge of the felt backward very gently (never up or forward), working your way around the table.Once you've removed the felt, fold it carefully. To avoid wrinkles and creases, do not press the fold lines.If the felt is wearing out, consider tearing it off and installing new felt during reassembly.
 These screws are usually at the corners of the table, but could be along the sides and center beam as well.If you find beeswax or putty over the screws, carefully scrape it off with a screwdriver to reveal the screw head without scratching the slate.
 Most tables have a playing surface made from three slate slabs, and each one can weigh 250 lbs (110 kg).Get a couple friends to help out and move them as carefully as possible. A scratch or chip in one slate could ruin the table, requiring an expensive replacement for all three slates.One-piece slates can weigh up to 800 lbs (360 kg).Enlist several strong people to help you move these.
 Flip the table over and unbolt the legs. Take apart the final lightweight pieces, and you're ready to go.
 The most difficult part to transport is the slate tabletop, which is both heavy and fragile. Recruit several strong people to load the slate onto a furniture dolly, on its side. Fasten the slate in place tightly with a furniture strap. If transporting by truck, fasten the strap around the slate and onto the truck slats.If at all possible, load it into the truck using a liftgate.If you put the pool table in storage, choose a climate controlled storage unit, or a room with minimal variation in temperature and humidity. Lay the slate onto plastic sheeting, and tape more plastic sheeting over it. Store the carefully folded felt in a sealed plastic bag, and all other components in moving blankets or other protective materials.