 One of the most common ways to eat raw yucca flowers is in a salad. Their sweet, asparagus- or artichoke-like flavor pairs well with a variety of greens, and their attractive white color can brighten up a salad. Start with a base of your favorite greens, such as loose leaf or wild lettuce, and add some garden herbs. Mint, parsley, dill, and fennel are all good options. Finally, mix in some yucca flowers for color and flavor.You can leave the yucca flowers in tact as a garnish for the top of the salad, or toss the petals with the rest of the greens and herbs.
A light salad dressing, such as a simple vinaigrette, works best with this type of salad.
Mixing in other edible wild flowers, such as violets or dandelion petals, can add more color to your salad.
Other garden herbs you may want to consider for the salad include cilantro, basil, chamomile, and chives.
 Edible flowers make attractive garnishes for beverages, and the yucca flower’s attractive shape and white color make it an ideal candidate for dressing up your favorite drink. You can use them as a garnish in cocktails, such as a Bloody Mary, or use them to make a simple glass of iced tea appear more festive. If you’re having a party, consider floating some yucca flowers in a bowl of punch.If you don’t want to use the yucca as a garnish but still want to give your beverages a more decorative look, you can also freeze the petals inside ice cubes, and use them to keep your drinks cold.
 If you want to make the cake for a birthday party, shower, or any special occasion stand out a little more, consider decorating it with fresh yucca flowers. All you have to do is frost the cake with your favorite icing, and press the blooms into the frosting in whatever arrangement you like. For added interest, you can alternate the yucca with other edible flowers in different, such as pansies or violets.The yucca flowers will look best on a cake with frosting that is a different color, so there’s some contrast between the white blooms and the icing. If you’re using a vanilla or cream frosting, consider adding food coloring to tint it.
While you can obviously place the flowers on the top of the cake, don’t overlook the sides. You can create a striking look by pressing them all along the edges.
You can also use the yucca flowers to decorate cupcakes. In most cases, a single bloom will be enough to decorate each cupcake.

