 The easiest and most reversible way to give your guitar a little flair without damaging the instrument itself, or spending a lot of money is to get a new pick guard with interesting colors, or to get a plain pick guard and decorate it with markers or paint.


On electric guitars, most pick guards can be removed with a small Phillips-head screwdriver, after removing the strings. Replacing it is as easy as placing it and replacing the screws. Pick guards are available at any guitar shop or music store.
Acrylic paint and permanent markers are the simplest and best ways of decorating pick guards, and the bodies of guitars. There's more info about painting your guitar in the next section.;
, Jerry Garcia used to stick a rose in between the strings on the headstock of his guitar, and a variety of little decorations hanging from the headstock or the tailpiece of your guitar can look pretty cool.


Try getting a few scarves or attractive looking scraps of fabric and wrapping them under the strings at the headstock, and knotting them tightly.
Wrap some strings between the tailpiece and the strap of your guitar to keep it held in place.
 Another super-easy and effective way of decorating your guitar is to use a variety of stickers placed around the body of both electric and acoustic guitars. While some people think these negatively affect the tone woods and the resonance of the guitar, the difference is difficult to notice, and not significant on cheaper guitars anyway. All of the following make great guitar decorations:


Band stickers
Bumper stickers
Logos
Stickers along the fretboard

, Leather strap with a psychedelic mandala? Lightening bolt? Bandolier of bullets? A cool strap can do just as much for your general stage presence and vibe as a cool decorated guitar. Shop around online for cool options, or consider making your own.


Adjust strap to an appropriate rock and roll height. That means low, if you're in a punk band, and nipple-high if you're in an indie band.
Apply buttons of your favorite bands to the strap. This is also a good opportunity to rep independent record shops, bookstores, tattoo parlors, and head-shops in your town.
 Most electric guitars come with plastic toggle switch caps that you can remove and replace with any number of oddities, or leave blank for a more punk, or industrial look. Most knobs should have a solid metal inner knob that you can use by itself, or trick out with whatever you want to use.


Pop the volume knob off your guitar and replace with a die that you've drilled a hole in, then glue it to the metal rod. Other cool options might include clay balls, lego men, or prescription pill bottles.
 "This machine kills fascists" was famously written on Woody Guthrie's guitar, and Willie Nelsons guitar Trigger is autographed by hundreds of famous people in marker. A few words can be a nice touch on a guitar, whatever message you want it to include.


Use permanent marker, and make sure it dries completely before you touch it. It's very easy to smudge and make the smudge what's permanent.

