 It should be someone you get along well with, someone who likes to write, and someone who has a similar writing style to yours. Pick somebody that is open to new ideas and isn't bossy. You need a person you can trust and who you'll want to share your ideas with. Find someone you can discuss ideas with easily and who values your opinion. This is crucial if you want to start a co-authoring project together.
Of course, some writing projects (like academic ventures or school projects) often don’t enable you to choose your writing partner. If you are not allowed to choose your partner, try to make the process as enjoyable as possible by being amicable and willing to compromise.;
, One of the most important parts of writing with someone is being able to speak openly about what you like, what you don’t like, what you think should be changed, and what you think should be kept in the writing. You need to choose someone who won’t get their feelings hurt every time you make a recommendation about something they wrote.In the same respect, you need to pick someone that you can take criticism from. You both need to be able to tell each other honestly what you think about the writing, regardless of who wrote it.
 There’s a lot to be said for working with someone who is similar to you. In many ways, this kind of partnership works well. However, you also want to find someone who excels at things you aren’t so good at so that you can cover more ground with your skillsets combined.If you have a hard time getting things done on time, try to find a writing partner who is really good at pushing forward to meet deadlines.
If you are really good at line-by-line editing, you might want to work with someone who is better at thinking about the bigger picture.
 Once you both agree to write something together, decide what the genre will be. There are literally endless possibilities. Pick something that you both are interested in, and a genre that could make the most successful book.Some possible genre options include romance, science fiction, crime/drama, fantasy, memoir, or self-help.
If you are writing in an academic (or otherwise professional) capacity, choosing a genre may not apply to you. You will, however, need to agree upon the topic to be discussed and a game plan for tackling the project. Your argument will need to be cohesive, so it is important that you agree on the outcome and the process from the start.
 Think about what kind of people you want to write about. What are their physical characteristics? What are some of their personality traits? Provide each main character with a back story that accounts for the kind of person you want them to be.Spend some time fleshing out the details so that your main characters are well developed. You don’t want flat characters that leave your readers unsatisfied or unconvinced.
 Think about the story you want to tell. What kinds of things do you want your characters to experience? What are the main events in the story? What obstacles will your characters need to overcome?Think about what you want the eventual outcome of the story to be and consider what events might occur on the journey to get to that point.
 These are characters that aren't as important, but every good story needs them. They help the story along in more minor ways, but still play an essential role in moving the plot forward.Think about how your main characters will react in certain plot situations. This may help you come up with some essential secondary characters for your story.
For example, if one of your main characters has to go on a journey, some secondary characters could be people your main character meets along the way – the bellhop at a hotel, a fellow passenger on an airplane, etc.

