 If you have never lifted weights, used resistance bands or used weight machines, hire a personal trainer or physical therapist to teach you the proper form and procedure.If you are very weak, start with resistance bands. This gentle form of strength-training allows you to use a rubber strap to train weak muscles before lifting actual weights.Do this 2 to 3 times per week for the first 3 to 4 weeks. If you have a joint or back problem, you may want to graduate to stronger bands and stick to this form of strength training.
You can increase your testosterone levels by up to 20 percent by lifting weights 3 times per week for 11 weeks.
Strength training in the evenings can increase testosterone levels in the evening. These effects tend to be brief and smaller the better shape you are in.They can still help.
 For men, you will want to choose weights that tire your muscles after only 5 repetitions. Do 3 sets. You should feel muscle fatigue after a weight training workout. Allow your muscles 24 to 48 hours to rest.


Women or people with joint problems may choose to do endurance training. For example, they may choose a slightly lower weight and complete 3 sets of 10 to 15.
Work half sets in between full sets. This means you should complete half the range of motion, from the bottom up or top down, to work the fast twitch muscle fibers as well as the slow twitch fibers.
Lift weights slowly. Breathe slowly and never drop the weight. Control the weight until it is in its original position.
 Begin doing cardio exercise for at least 30 minutes 5 times per week.


Interval training requires you to warm up, sprint or workout intensely for a short period (such as 90 seconds), and then work out at a more moderate "resting" pace for a slightly longer interval (approximately 2 to 4 minutes). Repeat these sets for approximately 30 minutes, including warm up and cool down. The different intervals can vary based on the specific cardio activity. If you are new to interval training, consider having a personal trainer suggest a regimen for your experience level.
Cardiovascular machines, like stair machines, bikes, ellipticals, and treadmills can be programmed to do interval training if you do not want to jog or swim while providing your own interval timing.
 While general activity is good, you will need to work your heart more intensely to reach weight loss and testosterone improvement goals. This is true for both strength training and cardio.


Do not overtrain. If you are already fit, too much cardio exercise is likely to lower testosterone levels.Your goal is to keep your metabolism high while giving the body plenty of time to rest and recover.
Drink plenty of water before, during, and after exercise. Dehydrated people produce less testosterone after a workout.
Don’t forget the other benefits from exercise, including better cardiovascular health, weight loss, increased strength, and endurance., Intermittent fasting combined with moderate to high-intensity exercise has been shown to increase testosterone levels.During the fasting period, include moderate to high-intensity exercise of your choice. The idea here is that since you are fasting, your body will turn to stored fat for its fuel.