 This type of dryer sits on a stand and can be used for hands-free drying. You can hook up attachments to the base and these will allow you to target the airflow to certain areas of your dog. They also use adjustable heat, which you can change via a knob on the dryer base. This is a good choice if you want to move quickly through the drying process while being cautious of your dog’s face and other sensitive areas., This is a dryer that uses sheer force to remove water from your dog’s coat. Placing the nozzle close to your dog’s skin will allow the air to push the water off and away. These dryers sound like a lot to handle but they do not use a heating element, which takes some of the challenge away. This is a good choice if you want the quickest option without the risk of burning.You can dry your dog in only a few minutes with this model as compared to hour plus with a human-hair dryer. However, be prepared to get wet as the water removed tends to go everywhere.
This is an ideal dryer to use if you plan to cut your dog’s hair afterwards. The force of the air removes kinks from a coat, leaving it straight and ready to cut. Excess shedding hair is also blown away.
 This type of dryer pushes a low airflow stream into an animal’s cage. It has variable heat and speed settings, although the highest airflow setting is still quite a bit less than a force dyer. This is a good idea if your dog is a bit skittish or nervous during the grooming process. It is also a less stressful way to dry off dogs with a medical condition.As the airflow is rather minimal this approach works best with dogs that have short or medium length coats. Make sure to check on the drying process every few minutes to make sure that your dog is comfortable.
Very old and very young dogs also respond well to this drying approach. You can also try a mixed method by using a force dryer for your dog’s body and then finishing the process (drying off the facial area) with a cage dryer., The CFM rating tells you the number of cubic feet of air that the dryer will push out per minute. The CFM can be found on the outside of the dryer box or in the online listing materials. You’ll want a high CFW especially if you plan on grooming a dog with a thicker or longer coat., There are many dryer options available for both professional and home users. Go online to grooming websites and read reviews and examine rankings. Look for those models that test high in both usability and durability. In many cases you can find a solid dryer for less than $100. You can always use a ‘human’ hair dryer on your dog. However, be aware that the process will take longer and you run a higher risk of exposing your dog to heat and causing burns. Just be very careful if you decide to go that route and keep the nozzle of the dryer at least a few inches from the dog’s skin.
 Drying a dog can sometimes be a bit chaotic, especially early on. Getting a warranty can protect you in the event that you accidently drop the main dryer or if your dog chews on the dryer hose. Balance out risk versus reward when making your decision.