 You’ll want to pick one that fits in your pocket, purse, or backpack; whichever place you would like to carry it. Choose one in your favorite color or with a fun design so that it is aesthetically pleasing. Ensure it has enough pages and is organized in the way you prefer; some have a page per day, some have two pages per week, etc., You should do this ahead of time for an entire semester or year. Block out a space for each subject or course so when the time comes to write in it, you’ll know exactly where to put each assignment., You’ll likely have other things to do than homework, so make a section to record other engagements such as sporting events, concerts or recitals, dances or other school functions, work or chores, etc. You could schedule in free time as well.
 Write in birthdays, holidays, and other special events ahead of time. That way, when you look at a week or month you’ll know if there are any occasions that could change your schedule or take up extra time. You can also add information such as first and last days of school, holiday breaks, etc.
 You may want to write down assignments on the day they were assigned or on the day they are due. This will depend on your personal style and preference.


If you write things down on the day they were assigned, this will enable you to look at each day to see what you should be working on (e.g., If reading chapter 5 was assigned on Monday, you would write it down under Monday’s space and do the assignment that day).
If you write things down on the day they are due, you will need to look ahead to see what you should be working on (e.g., If reading chapter 5 needs to be completed Wednesday, you would write it down under Wednesday’s space but look ahead on Monday or Tuesday in order to complete the assignment by Wednesday).
 Write new information in your planner every day; any assignments, events, meetings, and get togethers you plan should be recorded daily. You should also check your planner each morning and night to ensure you aren’t forgetting to do anything. You can put a sticky note on your mirror or another place you look daily, or set a daily reminder in your phone, to help you remember to check your planner if you think you might forget., Your teacher may mention that a group project will be due on the last day of class; though that may seem like a long way off, write it down immediately. This goes for homework, tests, other assignments, and events as well. Write down the corresponding textbook pages and any other information the teacher tells you to include.
 If you have a major project or test coming up you can schedule time to work on it in your planner. For example, you could research on Monday, create an outline on Wednesday, and write a rough draft Friday. This will keep you from rushing to complete a big assignment the night before it is due., You may want to do this by subject (blue for algebra, green for chemistry, red for English, etc.) or by type of assignment (blue for tests, green for homework, red for projects, etc.). Choose whichever method you think will be most helpful for you.You can do this with colored pencils, pens, highlighters, or even colorful sticky-note flags.
 On the first day of each week you should scan your planner to see what is due or what events you have. This will give you a good idea of what you will need to do through the week as well as help your manage your time efficiently.
 This will give you an idea of what you need to do that day and help your prioritize assignments. It also ensures that you won’t forget anything and will avoid panicking the next day when you realize you didn’t do everything that was assigned., You never know when you may want to look back and check on something. If you don’t want to keep them in your planner, tear them out and store them in a box or a desk drawer.