 A regular stretching routine can improve your flexibility and increase your range of motion over time. Warm up before you start your stretching routine, and only stretch as far as you can without pain or discomfort.Practice breathing deeply as you stretch. Don't continue stretching if you find yourself holding your breath, gasping, or otherwise unable to breathe through the stretch.
Control your movements going into and coming out of the stretch. Return to the start position slowly rather than simply dropping out of the stretch.
 All yoga poses can be modified for people with limited mobility. A regular yoga practice may increase your range of motion as well as improving your balance and making you more flexible.Typically your best bet is to join a class locally so you'll have the benefit of a professional instructor to assist you and make sure you're doing the poses correctly.
Don't try yoga at home if you have no experience with the practice, especially if you have a chronic condition such as arthritis or are recovering from a recent injury.
 If you have limited mobility, pilates may significantly improve your flexibility and range of motion. Look for a "gentle pilates" class, particularly one specifically designed for people with limited mobility.Many gentle pilates classes are mat-based. Talk with the instructor if you have difficulty getting down onto the floor and then back up again.
Make sure you discuss your specific physical limitations with your instructor so they'll know when you need additional assistance.
 The slow movements of tai chi are low-impact and suitable for people with limited mobility. The practice has other benefits, including increased calmness and mental outlook.You typically can find a tai chi class locally by checking senior or community centers, health clubs, or even hospitals in your area. Many tai chi classes are specifically designed for people with limited mobility, such as those with arthritis.
Talk to the instructor before you take the class and explain your limitations. Find out how much experience they have working with people who have the same limitations or health conditions as you.

