 To unlock Dry Bones, you'll need to beat Leaf Cup in 100cc mode..;
, If you're fairly experienced at Mario Kart games, try the popular Mach Bike. This is a great vehicle, but its low acceleration can punish you if you get hit or run into a wall. If you're having trouble with the Mach Bike, pick a bike with better acceleration, or just choose the bike you have the most experience with.Characters have a smaller effect than vehicles, so pick the one you play most in your chosen size category., Your goal is to get 1st place overall for the four tracks of Leaf Cup. You can still win if you get 2nd or 3rd on a race, but if you drop too far in the standings, quit to the main menu and try again.


If you haven't unlocked Leaf Cup yet, play Banana and Shell Cups. Once you have at least 3rd place in both of those cups, Leaf Cup will unlock., This track does not have many shortcuts, so you'll have to win this with technique. Drift as close to the inside of the bends as possible, starting with the very first curve. Item boxes at the outside of the curve will cost you a couple seconds to get.Skip them for tighter turns if you're already in first or second., The best opportunity to cut a corner in this track is at the start of a lap. If you have two mushrooms, you can offroad behind the pyramid and skip a large curve., The curves at the end of each lap are a good opportunity to use a mushroom. Boost straight ahead across the dirt to skip a curve., Stick to the left edge of the first two turns and drift to get a lead. Return closer to the center of the track after that so you can avoid the thwomps stomping on the next few turns., Near the top left corner of the map, watch for a passageway going to the left, right behind a thwomp. This leads to a shortcut full of ramps.

You'll get a big speed boost here if you do a trick on each ramp.
 If you have a mushroom, stop in front of the last ramp and turn left. You'll see the wall of another track across the lava. Use a mushroom as you drive off the left corner of the ramp, and you can clear the lava and land on the track.It's even possible to make this jump without a mushroom, but this is difficult.
 Near the top right corner of the map, the track spirals around a tall hill leading to a jump over the river. If you have a mushroom, you can skip the trip up the mountain. Stop when you see the top of the ramp ahead of you. Angle your bike to the right and mushroom boost your way up over the rails.You'll land facing the wrong direction. Turn around to face the ramp.
 The narrow bridge is an excellent place to drop fake item boxes and similar booby traps.Save these items for this spot unless you're behind and trying to collect something more useful., The end of the track has a switchback turn leading up out of the cave. Use a mushroom to skip this turn and drive directly up the side of the track instead., Mario Circuit is a straightforward course, but there a couple offroad opportunities. Boosting across the grass behind the Chain Chomp will save you a few seconds, but this is a little farther than one mushroom can get you. Drive onto the grass a short distance before boosting to maximize the time saved., Past the middle of the track, when you see the tunnel entrance in the distance, you can drive offroad to the right and over a ramp. This will only get you to the tunnel if you use a mushroom as well., You can do tricks off any of the bumps in the road near the end of the track. Do another trick off the top of the bridge just past those bumps., Once you've finished Mario Circuit, if you are first in the overall placement for Leaf Cup, you'll get a message saying that Dry Bones has been unlocked.

