 After your doctor has diagnosed your child with Prader-Willi Syndrome, they will help you come up with a care plan that is specific to your child and their specific PWS symptoms. This plan will change as your child grows up and their needs and symptoms change.You will also find a point person who will be your contact. This person will help you with the various needs your child will have related to their condition. Generally, this starts out as a medical professional and then becomes a social worker as the child gets older.
Part of your care plan will be coming up with a diet and exercise plan specifically made for your child.;
, One treatment for children with Prader-Willi Syndrome is human growth hormone treatment. This helps your child’s growth and physical development. It also helps with increasing metabolic function. HGH can also help with muscle tone and ability, stamina, and help decrease obesity and weight gain.No studies have been done to determine the long-term effects of HGH, so doctors don't know how HGH will affect adults with PWS.Your child will need to see an endocrinologist to decide if HGH is the proper treatment for them.
 PWS may lead to problems with different body parts, such as the eyes, spine, or teeth. Children may also suffer from sleeping problems. Working with your care team can help you determine what associated conditions need to be treated.For example, your child may need to see a pediatric ophthalmologist to treat eye problems. Orthopedists can treat spine curvature. Physical therapy may be needed if the child is experiencing severe muscle weakness.
The pediatrician or a sleep specialist can help treat sleep disorders.
 Some children with PWS can undergo sex hormone replacement therapy to help with the reduced development of sexual organs and delayed puberty due to low levels of sex hormones. Sex hormone therapy generally starts around the age of puberty and is overseen by an endocrinologist.Females get estrogen and progesterone through an oral contraceptive. This also helps in the prevention of osteoporosis.
Males get testosterone, but not all endocrinologists support this therapy. Though it can help with sexual development, it may make behavior problems worse., Your child may need to undergo surgery to correct their underdeveloped sex organs. If your child is male and has underdeveloped testicles or penis, your doctor will probably recommend that he undergo surgery. This surgery can correct undescended testicles, which can cause testicular cancer if left untreated.Females can have surgery to correct an underdeveloped clitoris.Untreated underdeveloped sex organs may also cause severe self-esteem or body issues.

