 To get in Hugel, take the Izlude airship (cost 1200z). Exit at Yuno then go downstairs to the terminal. Talk to the Airport Staff to take the airship to Hugel.

To begin this quest, you must be a level 40 or above Archer.
You can also ask a Priest or Acolyte to warp you to Hugel.
 Hugel is inside a house located at the northeastern corner of the town. Sherin will give you an interview consisting of 10 questions. In order to pass the test, you need have at least 90 points. The questions are quite easy and only required common sense:

You are an Archer, and you don't know where you should go to hunt. What do you do? (Quietly ask a person passing by, or Wander around alone and search for a place.)
So you've decided on a place to hunt. You're going to hunt the monsters known as Hodes in the Sograt Desert. But you're in Payon! How do you get to the desert? (Use the Kafra service, or Walk with a friend.)
There is no Priest to ask for a warp, and no friend is around to walk with you. You must use the Kafra service, but you have no Zeny! How would you go about to make the Zeny that you need? ( Sell items I do not need, or Hunt a nearby field.)
So you finally arrive at the Sograt Desert. But you realize that Hodes are a bit too strong for you to hunt alone. What is your solution to this situation? (Go back to town.)
Let's say you were having too much trouble hunting Hodes and returned to town. Now you are out of HP and a Priest happens to be around. How would you ask for a Heal? (Would it be possible to get a Heal, please?)
This time, you found a rare item while you were going through your inventory. You go out to sell the item, and there are many people with stores and chatrooms open. What is the best way to sell your item? (Open a chat room and wait, or Look to see if anyone already wants it.)
While you are waiting, someone is begging for items and Zeny. What should you do? (Give some of my items and Zeny.)
By now, you decide to go to the Maze by yourself. But on your way, you run into someone that is lost. What should you do? (Tell them which way to go, or Guide them to their destination.)
After meeting this lost person, you decide to get back to hunting. Just then, you find that someone is attacking a boss! What should you do? (Watch, then attack when asked for help.)
You are now very exhausted after your day of hunting. It's time to go back to town. But what's this!? You find an expensive item lying on the floor! What should you do with it? (Try to find the owner, or Just walk by.)

, Demon Hunter is in the same room as Sherin. He will ask you to gather some items for him. There are at least 7 item sets, but you only need to finish one.

Item Set 1 - 3 Bill of Birds (from PecoPeco in Sograt Desert), 5 Skel-Bone (from Skeleton monsters in Payon Cave), and 3 Green Herb (from Green Plant or Poporing in Payon Field).
Item Set 2 - 3 Venom Canine (from Boa or Anaconda in Sograt Desert), 3 Animal Skin (from Baby Desert Wolf in Sograt Desert), and 5 Red Herb (from Sohee and Eggyra in Payon Cave).
Item Set 3 - 3 Dokebi Horn (from Dokebi in Payon Cave and Field), 3 Piece of Eggshell (from Eggyra in Payon Cave), and 10 Fluff (from Fabre in Prontera or Payon Field).
Item Set 4 - 9 Yellow Herb (from Yellow Plant Sograt Desert), 9 Worm Peeling (from Andre in Ant Hell), and 9 Shell (from Andre and Ant Egg in Ant Hell).
Item Set 5 - 3 Tooth of Bat (from Familiar in Payon Cave), 1 Sticky Mucus (from Zombie or Poporing in Payon Cave),and 1 Bear's Footskin (from Bigfoot in Payon Field).
Item Set 6 - 1 Yoyo Tail (from Yoyo in Prontera Field), 2 Porcupine Quill (from Caramel in Prontera Field). and 1 Acron (from Coco in Prontera Field).
Item Set 7 - 3 White Herb (from White Plant in Payon Cave), 5 Trunk (from Willow in Payon Field), and 5 Claw of Desert Wolf (from Desert World in Sograt Desert or Payon Field).
After you have gathered the Items, give them to the Demon Hunter.
 The Guild Master is in Payon Central Palace, and the Archer Guide is at the Payon Village. The two NPC can be found, but only one will give the test.

If you go to the wrong NPC, the other will refer you to the NPC at the other location.
In this test, you will be warped into a room full of monsters. You will need to kill 4 of those monsters with the name Job Change Monster, so be careful while taking this test.
You have to kill the 4 monsters within 3 minutes.
Once you have successfully killed the 4 monsters, a switch will appear at the center of the room. Click the switch to have the exit appear in the room. You have to get in the exit within 30 seconds to pass the test.
If you get knocked out, caught in a trap, or run out of time, you will fail the test and have to start over again.
 After passing the quest, talk to the Guild Master again. She will give you a Necklace of Wisdom as proof of your success. Take the proof and show it to Hunter Sherin in Hugel, only then will she change you into a Hunter.

If you're at job level 50 when taking this quest, you will be rewarded with a Hunter Bow; otherwise, you will get a Crossbow.
If you don't have the Necklace of Wisdom with you for any reason, you will have to start the quest all over again.

