 Before feeding your dog whole foods, get more information about your dog's nutritional needs. Consult your veterinarian for advice on what your dog should be consuming on a day-to-day basis, and in what portions. In addition, ask for advice on how to monitor your dog's health after changing its diet (e.g. keeping an eye out for gastrointestinal upsets or skin irritations). Ask your vet if your dog should be given vitamins or supplements with their whole food diet; do not purchase such products without a specific recommendation.;
, Before embarking on a whole food diet for your pet, make sure that you can afford to feed your dog quality ingredients. Make a week-long sample menu for your dog (including treats and snacks) and calculate the approximate costs. Compare this amount to what you are currently spending on commercial dog food and treats, and ensure that you will have the extra money (if it works out to more) to keep up with a whole food diet.


Feeding your dog whole foods doesn’t not have to mean a complete overhaul of its diet - if a whole food diet seems too costly for you or your family to afford, consider adding small amounts of whole food to your dog’s diet to supplement its regular dog food.
 While feeding your dog whole foods can be very beneficial for its health, there are a number of foods that could be toxic to your pet if consumed. Inform yourself by speaking to your veterinarian or researching these foods on reliable websites like petMD. Write a clear list and post it on the fridge or wall for other members of your family to keep in mind. Some notable foods to keep away from your dog are:Chocolate (especially dark chocolate), which can cause vomiting, diarrhea and seizures.
Onions and garlic, which can cause the destruction of red blood cells and lead to anemia when consumed in large quantities, or over a long period of time
Alcohol, which can be life-threatening even in small amounts.
Yeast dough (notably the store bought kind that is used in making bread, rolls, and pizza), which can create alcohol in a dog's stomach and be potentially deadly.
Grapes and raisins, which can cause kidney failure.
Artificial sweeteners like xylitol, which can be incredibly toxic.

