 Remove all clocks from your work area!;
, Focus on your breathing and allow your mind to "drift". Hold on to no thoughts and allow any troubling or worrisome thoughts to pass though your mind - but do not give them any energy.
, Instead of dreading the tasks that lie ahead recall pleasant memories of loved ones in the room that you are cleaning. This will make your job so much more enjoyable while you are tidying up the messes made by others who live with you.
 bathroom, kitchen, etc. Really look at the items you find and try to recall where it came from. If it was a gift say thanks in your mind to the person who gave it!

,


Keep feet flat on the floor reaching as high as you can without going on your toes. Your may gently move onto your toes if you cannot reach an area after you have stretched to your capacity while standing flat footed. Pretend that you are a small child stretching for the first time without straining. Move as if it is the first time you have moved, focusing on feeling fully alive. You should begin to awaken muscles that may have been strained in the past and are stiff. Continue to breathe in a relaxed manner and allow the air gently in through your nose and exhale slowly out your mouth.


Sweep or vacuum the center of the room. You will be repeating this later so just get the majority of dirt for now.






Move furniture to the center of the room. Do not move heavy furniture with haste! Stick your rear out as far as you can and use some butt power! So many people fail to fully use the largest muscle in the human body--the gluteus maximus! Do not forget to keep breathing! When dragging a large or heavy item lead with your rear. Do not keep you back hunched and have your shoulders back as far as possible.






Begin wiping wood trim with a damp rag in any corner. See how far you can bend without straining as you wipe dust from woodwork. Continue around the room until you have dusted all of the trim.






Sweep and damp mop or vacuum the areas normally covered by furniture. Pretend that it is the first time you have done these tasks and focus on the way you are moving. Reach only as far as you can with the broom, mop, or vacuum using your arms. Keep your torso standing straight and move your feet if you need to reach farther than your arms will allow. When bending to sweep dust into the dustpan, allow your butt as high into the air as it is able to go. Focus on feeling a stretch in your hamstrings. Allow your knees to bend slightly if this is more comfortable.






Move furniture back into place using the butt method with breathing relaxed. Now you can thoroughly sweep and damp mop or vacuum the center of the room using the methods previously described.
, This will make the cleaning more enjoyable and entertaining.
, Cleaning regularly prevents the build-up of cleaning that becomes even more complicated and burdensome to tackle.
 Refer to the list whenever at a point of confusion over what to do next. This keeps the energy flowing and the cleaning in action.
 Have a special dinner with music and candles for the entire family, or go and lie down and read or do some other enjoyable activity for a set period of time.
 Practice singing your favorite song while cleaning, even if you do not know how to sing. It could brighten your spirits and make cleaning less burdensome.
 Even if you have a run-down home, investing into some creative ideas might bring out a beauty in your home that makes you enjoy being under its roof. Color and decoration can add to the experience of being at home, making it like an escape.
 You can transform your home and emotional sense of well-being by making your living environment comfortable and clean.
 Throw out, or better yet, donate to charity, old clothing items and goods that you no longer use or need. Compartmentalize items in your home into storage boxes and keep them out of sight.
 These make cleaning even more of an enjoyable experience.
 When you have all of your cleaning supplies together in one place, cleaning becomes a much more efficient task to undertake.
 You can buy new dish rags or simply cut up old material into squares and store them under the sink for dish washing purposes.

