 Games are a good way to get the guests involved and break the ice. A mix of active and written games is good. You can create your own written games such as "Unscramble the Baby Words","Match the Baby to the Celebrity Mother", or see how many words you can make out of the mother and father's names. Remember to supply pens or pencils to your guests for written games. Prizes can be inexpensive items such as candles, scented lotions, boxes of candy, cute stationary, gift cards or lottery tickets.









Some more active games are "Baby Hot Potato" where you pass a baby doll around a circle while you play a lullaby. Whoever is holding the baby when the music stops is out. Keep going until one person is left.
Baby bingo is fun and can be found at most party stores or you can get creative and make your own cards with a computer. This is played like regular bingo except the numbers are replaced with baby related words.
For "Diaper a Doll while Blind-folded" all you need is a doll, a diaper and safety pins and a dark blind-fold.
"Baby Bottle Drink-off" is a hilarious game." Put about an ounce of punch, water or some other drink in baby bottles and have party participants race to drink their bottle. First person to finish wins.
Another really fun game that will be memorable is "Baby Sculptures". Assign each participant a baby related item such as bottle, pacifier, baby's first tooth, or another small item and have them make it out of Playdoh. The person who guesses the most correct sculptures wins.
 Have a few party favors to send home with the shower attendees. Chocolate kisses or pastel candies wrapped in colored tulle and tied with ribbon along with a personalized tag make classic and low cost favors. Design and print your own tags using your computer.









A really fun and original favor that doubles as a game are scratch off tickets that are printed with the mother-to-be's name and shower date. Each person gets a ticket to scratch off with one ticket as a winner. Guests who don't win still have a personalized keepsake from the shower.

