 In order to make a furry mouse toy, you will need to use good quality wool felt. This will give the mouse a nice furry feel. You'll also need a handful of other items. These items can be purchased at most craft stores.You'll need:

Wool felt fabric
Fabric scraps (optional)
Fabric chalk
Fabric scissors
A large needle and embroidery thread
Hot glue gun and glue (or super glue)
Stuffing
Twine (optional)
Catnip (optional);
, Begin by cutting your felt fabric in the shape of a square. Your mouse can be any size you want, but a good average is for the fabric to be 2" X 2" (5.08 cm X 5.08 cm). Now fold your square in half.
Set a book (or another heavy object) on your folded square to help it keep its shape.
 Starting at the fold, carefully draw a semi-circle that comes to a point at one end. This should look similar to a letter "D," if the bottom of the letter were stretched to a point., Using a pair of sharp fabric scissors, carefully cut along the curved line. Do not cut at the fold! If you open your fabric square, you should have a sort of lopsided heart., Using either a different color of wool felt, or any kind of scrap fabric you have lying around, cut out two tiny circles (to be used as eyes) and two medium-sized circles (to be used as ears)., Of course, your mouse will also need a tail. You have two options for this: (a) you can braid a piece of twine or (b) you can cut out a slender piece of scrap fabric. Select which type of tail you want, and create it., Plug in your hot glue gun and allow it to heat up. Meanwhile, unfold your mouse and line up the locations for your ears and eyes. Place a tiny dab of glue where you want each of your eyes, and press the fabric down onto the glue. Then place a medium-sized dab of glue where you would like each of the ears. When you affix the ear fabric to the glue, pinch it a little at one end (the end closer to the head of the mouse). This will help give them the impression of mouse ears.If you do not have access to a hot glue gun, regular super glue can work.
 Now flip the body of your mouse over. You are going to glue the tail to the seam of your fold. Place a line a hot glue about 1/4" (0.63 cm) long right along the fold in your mouse body, and press your tail into the glue.Once again, you can use super glue if you do not have a hot glue gun.
 Using your needle and embroidery thread, start at the tail and begin to sew the back of the mouse closed. Stop when you are about 3/4 of the way along the semi-circle., Break off small pieces of stuffing (about the size of a silver dollar) and carefully press them down (one by one) into the mouse using your fingers. Continue this until the mouse is full., If your cat enjoys catnip, you may want to add some to this toy. Sprinkle 1-3 teaspoons (5-15 ml) of catnip into the stuffing. You can purchase catnip at any pet store., Take your needle and embroidery thread and continue sewing the mouse the rest of the way closed. Make sure that all glue is completely dry, and give your handmade gift to your feline friend.