 Lightly coat a baking dish with nonstick cooking spray.


You only need to lightly coat the baking dish. As the fat from the bacon renders, it will naturally seep to the bottom of the pan, preventing the contents of the dish from sticking even without the use of much cooking spray or additional grease.;
, Lay three of the bacon pieces out across the bottom of the baking dish, spacing them apart evenly. Sprinkle the onions over the bacon, and top the layer of onions with your remaining three pieces of bacon.


Add the butter on top, spooning it out in small dabs.
 Pour this mixture over the onions and bacon, drenching the dish as evenly as possible.


It is recommended that you combine the ingredients before adding them to the baking dish so that the entire mixture can be distributed as evenly as possible throughout the contents of the dish.
 Cover the dish with aluminum foil and place it in your preheated oven. Bake until the onions and bacon become very fragrant.
 As the onions bake, spread the flour out in a shallow dish and dredge all sides of each piece of liver in the flour.


You could add the flour to a large resealable plastic bag instead of using a shallow dish. Place the slices of liver in the bag one at a time, zip closed, and shake thoroughly to coat all sides.
No matter what method you use, you should gently shake the liver over the bag or dish to remove any excess flour.
 Temporarily remove the foil covering and arrange the coated liver slices over the bacon in the baking dish, spacing the pieces apart as evenly as possible.


When done, cover the dish with the foil again.
 Keep the dish covered for the first 30 minutes. For the final 10 minutes, remove the foil and continue baking uncovered.As the liver cooks, you should baste it two or three times. Use a baster or basting brush to coat the liver in some of the pan juices gathering in the baking dish. This spreads out the flavor and prevents the liver from drying out.
 Remove the dish from the oven and transfer the liver, onions, and bacon to individual serving dishes.

