 Sometimes, an appraiser might make an easy mistake, such as saying your home had two bedrooms when it really has three.This type of error can impact the entire appraisal, so give the appraisal a quick scan for these kinds of mistakes.

Other common errors include making a mistake on the number of bathrooms or calculating the wrong square footage.;
, An appraiser uses homes that are similar to yours in order to come up with a market value. These homes are called “comps.” Sit down with your real estate agent and analyze the comps used. Pay attention to the following:lot size
square footage
age
amenities
condition of the comps
where on the block each comp is located
when the comp was sold
whether the comps are in the same school district

, The appraiser might not have been the best person to appraise your house. You should ask the bank about the appraiser, in particular the following:Did the appraiser walk through your home? Ideally, they should go through the property to check it instead of driving by.
Does the appraiser live in the area? A local appraiser is more attuned to nuances in the local housing market.
 Your appraiser should have used comps for properties sold in the past 90 days. However, they might have overlooked properties, such as a home in your neighborhood that sold shortly after the appraisal was completed. This is a great comp to show the bank.The appraiser can only find comps if they are listed in MLS, the Multiple Listing Service. Some homes are sold without being listed, so it’s great if you can find one of them.
 The appraiser might have used comps in an entirely different neighborhood, or they might have used a rundown home as a comp when your home is in good repair. Find reasons why the comps used aren’t appropriate and then find better ones.The appraiser might have used a foreclosed home in the area as a comp. If there are very few foreclosures, then you should find a different property or ask for a market adjustment.As you do your own research, use the MLS data and avoid other data on the web, such as Zillow Zestimates., You might have built an addition to your home, thinking it would increase the value. However, the appraiser can’t include it in the appraisal unless you had a proper permit before building. Sometimes, permits are not stored properly, so go to city hall and try to find the permit if it is missing., Even if the appraiser walked through your home, they might have missed all of the upgrades that you’ve made.For this reason, sit down and write out a list of recent home improvements, such as the following:updated bathroom or kitchen
new décor
new roof
new furnace or air conditioning
finished basement

, Most lenders have a process in place, so all you need to do is ask.You may need to complete a form or write a letter. The bank needs to make a request for reconsideration, so contact them first., You might need to write a letter to the bank, and you can find sample reconsideration letters online.In your letter, critique the comps and explain how they differ from your home. Also point out newer comps and any upgrades that were overlooked.

Ask the appraiser to reconsider the appraisal, but never suggest a number.
Remember to maintain a diplomatic tone throughout your letter. Avoid expressing anger or sarcasm, even if the appraiser made a simple mistake (such as undercounting the number of bedrooms).
 Make sure your realtor is armed with your research: missing permits, upgrades, and new and better comps. The appraiser should be willing to meet with your realtor to go over the appraisal., The appraiser might refuse to change the initial appraisal, but don’t fear—you still have options. Draft a demand letter with your real estate agent. In the letter, ask the bank to pay for a second appraisal and explain your reasons why., If the bank won’t pay, you can pay yourself for an appraisal. Discuss this option with your real estate agent. You can also ask the seller/buyer if they want to split the cost, since you will both benefit from a higher appraisal.You can find appraisers at the National Association of Real Estate Appraisers website., You can start over with a different bank, which will have its own appraisal done. Generally, appraisals tend to be within 5-10% of each other, so you shouldn’t expect a drastic change. However, the change might be enough for your purposes.