 At the foundation of socialization is the ability to be able to work and play with others. One of the most valuable things you can do is teach your young children how to share and take turns. These character traits are at the core of being likeable to other children, and making new friendships as a kid. What’s more, cooperation is also a good quality to have for excelling in school.


Cooperation involves listening while others are talking, giving everyone a chance to participate in a game or activity, respecting others when it’s their turn, working with others towards a common goal, and solving problems.
You can help your young child learn how to cooperate by playing simple games with multiple players. Admonish them by saying “Remember, everyone gets a turn” when they are not cooperative. Praise them with a simple “Nice job taking turns!” when they demonstrate this competency.;
, Just as your child should be able to work well with others, it’s also important for them to refrain from engaging in behaviors that are harmful to others or unsuitable for their age.


Help your child become appropriately socialized by firmly reminding them of the correct way to speak or act in a given situation. You should do this immediately after they demonstrate the unacceptable behavior so that they understand why they are being corrected.
You might say, “No, Jared. There is no pushing in line!” to remind your son to keep his hands to himself.Be sure to give your child more praise than criticism. Too much criticism may damage your child's self-esteem over time., Early on, it can be overwhelming for both you and your younger child to advance into group socialization too quickly. Start small. Arrange a short visit with a neighbor’s kid or a friend from school. At this point, ensure that both parents are present. Monitor how your child is behaving with the other child in terms of sharing, working together, and avoiding unacceptable behaviors. Stay close so that you can end the visit if the children become bored or upset.


As your child becomes comfortable playing with the other child, you might start dropping him or her off or allowing the other child to visit without the parent being present. As your child gets acclimated with one-on-one visits, it’s appropriate to slowly graduate to small group play-dates where several children are present at once., Many parents are wary of leaving their kids with relative strangers during the day. But, if you are an introvert who very rarely seeks out social engagement, it can be beneficial for your child to attend daycare. Your child learns socialization through daycare because they have to get used to being separate from you and managing their emotions.


Other socialization benefits of daycare include learning to work in groups, learning to share, and learning how to solve problems. In addition to helping your children meet and play with other children, daycare can also reduce your stress, too. These advantages occur in a high-quality program. Quality daycare is defined by the amount of time providers spend interacting with the children in addition to the level of support, warmth, and cognitive stimulation received in the programs., You may not like the idea, but helping your child develop adequate social skills requires that you are more aware of your own social habits. Your child is watching you, and, sometimes, they pick up undesirable social skills from shy or introverted parents. To help your child pick up good habits, be more mindful of your own.


Speak clearly and confidently when you address others rather than whispering or mumbling through your words.
Make occasional eye contact when you are interacting with others.
Greet others appropriately, depending on your relationship, whether by a firm handshake and a smile or a friendly hug.