 Don't talk to him, look at him, or smile at him. If he sends you a casual text, such as "hey babe," do not reply. He may start to miss you, and if he knows what he did wrong, he may start to feel sorry that he ever did so. On the other hand, if the guy asks you what is wrong or what he did, use this opportunity to tell him. He may not realize that he did something wrong, and he may genuinely feel sorry when he finds out.;
, Sometimes, it is not possible to avoid the guy, especially if you work together, are taking classes together, or are living together. What you can do, however, is make him miss the person you used to be, as well as the warmth, love, and cheerfulness you reserved for him. When he talks to you, stay neutral and give him polite but short answers. Don’t respond the way you used to; instead, act like you would with an acquaintance. This may make him sorry that you two aren’t talking the way you used to.
 If you used to be friends with the guy, consider spending time with other spends instead. If you share the same group of friends and often hang out together (such as at the lunch table at school), then talk only to your other friends. Keep in mind, however, that this might also alert your other friends that something is wrong, and they may or may not support you.
 If you have broke up with the guy, consider going out on dates with other people. This does not mean that you have to enter another relationship, especially if you are not ready for one. If the guy sees you enjoying yourself with other men, he might start to feel jealous. If he knows what he did wrong, he might start to regret it.


Do not date other people if you are still in a relationship or if you are not ready to date other people.
If you are not ready to date other people, try flirting with other guys instead, especially where your ex can see.
 If he gave you some flowers the week before the offense, consider giving them away or tossing them out. If you have a picture he gave you that you usually keep in your locker, get rid of that picture—especially if there is a chance that he might see it. This might send the guy the message that he hurt you, and he might start to feel guilty for what he did.


Getting rid of the things your guy gave you might also help you feel better, especially if this is after a breakup.