 LinkedIn is a professional platform where you can create a free profile to outline your professional achievements and goals. Oprah has over 100, 000 followers and regularly updates her work. After creating a profile, search for her name using the search bar and then you may message her by pressing the down arrow next to the Follow button. A drop down menu will appear. Click Send Oprah an Inmail and send your message.LinkedIn is mainly used for professional purposes. Make sure you fill out your profile so that whoever sees it will know who you are. It also works on connections so the more people you connect with, the better chance you have of seeing if someone in your network knows Oprah.
Oprah's username on LinkedIn is simply Oprah Winfrey.;
, Instagram is a platform mainly used for posting and commenting on pictures. Oprah has over 4.6 million followers and has posted over 500 pictures. Create a free profile, search for her name using the search bar and you can both Like and comment on any of her pictures. You may also simply go directly to https://www.instagram.com/oprah/If you comment enough and your comments are smart, meaningful, or moving in someway, you may get a response back.
 Twitter is a platform that allows people to give quick blurbs about anything. Oprah has over 30 million followers and has sent over 10, 000 tweets. Create a free profile, search for Oprah using the search bar, and click Follow. You may like her Tweet by pressing the heart icon, comment, on her tweet, or tweet directly at her by including her name @Oprah in your tweet. Oprah's username is @OprahHashtags are very popular in both social media and Twitter. If something you hashtag becomes viral, you may be able to get the attention of Oprah, especially if it is something meaningful or promotes positive social change.
 Oprah has over 11 million followers on her Facebook page. Create a free profile and search for Oprah using the Search tool. Her username is Oprah Winfrey. Like her page and you may Like or comment on any of her posts. There is a Comment icon underneath each post that you can simply press to share your thoughts. If you comment enough and your ideas are meaningful, someone may comment back.Unlike other platforms, Facebook doesn’t put a limit on the length of your comment or restrict video or links associated to a comment. Take advantage by writing a thoughtful comments with appropriate links, images, or videos. The more your comments stand out, the more you have a chance of getting her attention and making contact with her.
 Oprah is known for her philanthropy and over all positive influence in society. Any negative or disrespectful comments will most likely get ignored or get you into trouble. Be sure to have something meaningful to say before trying to contact her through social media especially since all her followers will most likely see your public comments.

