


You’ll need Candelilla wax to make your lip balm solid. Candelilla wax is a plant-based wax, from the stems of the Candelilla shrub, that is an alternative to beeswax in cosmetic recipes.You can order it online.
In addition to Candelilla, you’ll need a solid butter (shea, mango, or cocoa) and a type of liquid oil (olive, sunflower, avocado, sweet almond, apricot kernel).
For scent, you’ll need peppermint essential oil, which you can find online or at most natural foods stores. Feel free to substitute another essential oil or leave out the essential oil for an unscented balm.
For your balm, you’ll need containers. For this recipe, you can uses lip balm tubes, which you can order inexpensively online, or tins, based on your preference.The base recipe makes about 8 tubes worth of lip balm.;
, Heat up about an inch of water on your stove in the bottom pan of a double boiler. Place 3 tablespoons of your liquid oil, 1/2 a tablespoon of Candelilla wax, and 1 tablespoon of your solid butter in the top part of the double boiler.


Melt your ingredients on low heat, and stir occasionally.
For a shinier lip balm, add in ½ tablespoon of castor oil as a part of your 3 tablespoons of liquid oil.
Make sure the mixture is completely liquified, and then take this pan off the heat. Let it cool for just a few minutes.
 Essential oils should always be added in after the main heating process, as heat can speed up the oxidation process in essential oils and cause them to go rancid more quickly.Add in more or less essential oil to your taste. This will depend on how strongly scented you want your balm to be.
 If you plan to use lip balm tubes, it can be helpful to get a lip balm filling tray that will hold your tubes upright as you pour your balm into them.If you are using tins, simply fill them almost to the top.
Use a funnel to make your lip balm easier to pour.
 You want to leave your balm in place as it cools and hardens, so that it doesn’t harden in a lopsided shape.


To speed up the cooling process, you can put your lip balm in the refrigerator, once it has cooled somewhat.
Label your lip balm, and write the date on it.

