 If you've just been through a break-up that you didn't initiate, it can feel like your world is spinning out of control. Don't panic. Stay calm and remind yourself that you are strong and you handle whatever life throws at you.


Don't make any rash decisions. You are in a vulnerable state of mind right now, try not to do anything you might regret.
If you have your mind set on getting your ex back, that's fine. But allow yourself some personal time to work through your own issues first.
 After a break-up, it's probably safe to say that you have some demons you need to work out. The best thing you can do is talk to somebody you trust - a friend, a family member, a therapist. With them, you can unleash all the rage, hurt and pent-up tears you have inside. You'll feel much better after.


By talking about the break-up with someone on the outside of the situation, you are free to express every feeling and thought without the risk of doing irrevocable damage to your relationship with your ex.
Talking about the break-up will help you to work through your feelings and give you some perspective on the situation. You might start to see matters from a different point of view and understand where your ex was coming from. This understanding and empathy can help you to get back on the right track later.
 Use this break-up (even if it's only temporary) as a chance to liberate yourself. In a relationship, people tend to over-rely on their partner and forget how to function on their own. Now is your chance to recover your long-forgotten, independent self. You won't regret it.


Go places on your own, meet new people, try new things. Doing things by yourself will allow you to gain confidence and help you to feel whole again.
Reconnect with your friends. Many people are guilty of neglecting their friends while in a relationship. Now that you're free to do as you please, take the initiative and organize a girls' night in or out. You'll soon be laughing so hard you'll wonder why you didn't do it more often.
 You've been through a rough time recently, so take a moment to focus on you and your needs. Do things that make you happy and make you feel good.


Take long baths, get plenty of rest, eat healthily and do some exercise. You'll look and feel better for it.
You need to feel good about yourself before you think about re-entering a relationship.
 Have you been complaining about your job for the last year? Quit and find something better! Been talking about taking up a new hobby or starting a new exercise regime for forever? Now is the time! Embrace this opportunity to improve yourself and become the best you that you can be.


Many people claim that a hot new body is the best way to recapture your ex's attention. But don't just do it for him, do it for yourself. Exercise and healthy eating will release the good mood hormones and will give you more energy and motivation to get through your day.
Getting a new job or taking up a long talked-about hobby will give you a new outlet to focus your attentions on and leave you less time to mope about the break-up. Hopefully your ex will also be impressed by your new go-get-em attitude.
 Just because you have your heart set on getting back with your ex doesn't mean you can't have a little fun in the meantime. Get yourself all dolled up and go out and flirt to your heart's content. If nothing else, you will be reminded that you are an attractive and interesting person and that you have plenty of other options if your relationship doesn't work out as planned.


Letting your ex see you with another guy can arouse feelings of jealousy and desire in your ex. This might make him realize that he wants you back and help you in your quest.
Be careful with this tactic, however - if your ex feels that you're perfectly happy with someone else, he might move on too.

