 You can use eyeliner, accentuated lashes, and eye shadow to emphasize your eyes, which will make your upturned nose less noticeable on your face.Making your eyes look bigger will make your nose look smaller in comparison.


Consider using eyeliner to make a “cat eye” look, which is a dramatic way to draw attention to your eyes.
Several coats of mascara can lengthen and emphasize your eyelashes; in addition, an eyelash curler can enhance the effects of your mascara. If you really want to go for a dramatic look, apply false eyelashes, which can add length and volume to your normal eyelashes.
A dramatic “smoky eye,” created by a combination of dark eyeshadows (think blues, browns, greys) can also make your eyes the focal point of your face. Try to work with eyeshadow that will draw out the natural color of your eyes to make them stand out., If you feel like your lips are a strong feature on your face, accentuating them with color or shine will draw attention away from your upturned nose and make your lips the focal point of your face.


Select a lipstick color that enhances your lips. Choose a bright red, a dark color (such as maroon), or a bright pink. This is certain to make your lips your focal feature!
Wear lip gloss. If you don’t want to make a dramatic statement with lip color, try wearing a shiny coat of gloss on your lips. This will also draw attention away from your upturned nose and is more suitable for situations where wearing a bright lip color would not be appropriate, such as in many workplaces.
 A haircut is a great way to change the appearance of your nose. People with upturned noses can often pull off a short and/or shaggy hair.


Talk to your hair stylist and explain your desire to hide your upturned nose as much as possible. As they are hair professionals, he or she may have a recommendation for a hair style that will flatter your hair type and texture as well as reduce the appearance of your upturned nose.
Consider getting layers or messy bangs. If your hair looks like it’s meant to be covering parts of your face, your upturned nose will be less noticeable; plus, these hairstyles are very fashionable today!

, Contouring involves strategically placing dark or light color foundation or powder on your skin in order to make particular features recede and others become more prominent. Do a Google search for “facial contouring,” or watch “contouring with makeup” videos on YouTube to see the best tips and tricks for accentuating the natural features of your face.


You will need to buy a foundation 2-3 shades darker than your skin tone (either powder or cream) for creating contour, as well as a foundation 2-3 shades lighter than your skin tone (either powder or cream) for highlighting.
If you want to minimize your upturned nose, draw a line with contour powder/cream down each side of your nose. Next, draw a down-facing arrow with contour cream/powder once you get to the tip of your nose, creating the illusion of a slimmer nose tip. Finally, draw a slender line with highlighter powder/cream down the center of your nose.Don’t forget to blend your contouring well before leaving the house! Looking at your contouring in different types of light can help minimize the appearance of makeup on your face.

