 The easiest way to reduce your CPU usage is to close programs that you aren’t using.Close resource heavy software programs such as 3D games, the Adobe Creative Suite, the Microsoft Office Suite, web browsers with flash video or games, 3D modeling tools, and audio editing tools.
Keep in mind the downside to this method is it won’t help you to discover what software programs are using the most resources.;
, If your computer has been on for several days, it may begin to run more slowly over time.
 If your computer is running slowly even with no applications running, you may want to run anti-virus software to determine whether your system has a virus.Keep in mind anti-virus software can also use a large amount of a system’s resources.
In a search engine, search for your specific operating system and anti-virus software to get a list of anti-virus software compatible with your computer.
 Over time, your computer can create errors on your hard drive. Both Windows and Mac operating systems have system tools for checking your hard drive for errors.Click this link for Windows 8 instructions on how to run a hard drive diagnostic: http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-8/improve-performance-optimizing-hard-drive

Click this link for Mac instructions on how to use the Disk Utility tool: http://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201639


, There is a significant difference between 32-bit and 64-bit CPUs, and if you try to run a software program intended for a 64-bit CPU on a 32-bit computer, the program won’t work well, if it all.Many contemporary software programs have 32-bit and 64-bit versions. If a software program is running slowly, try the 32-bit version of the software program.
Sometimes downloading the most up-to-date version of a software program will cause it to run better.
 If you’ve tried all of these options, but your computer is still running slowly, try these operating system specific methods.


If you’re using a Windows computer, click here.
If you’re using Mac, click here.


