 A shot glass is a small, heavy drinking glass with thick sidesthat usually holds about 1.5 ounces of liquid.For the orgasm layered shooter, a clear shot glass works best. This will allow you to see the layers you create with the alcohol.;
, You will need Baileys Irish cream, Kahlua, and Amaretto liqueur. You should be able to find all of these at any liquor store. All of the ingredients in the orgasm layered shooter are sweet, so expect a yummy, dessert-like shot!

Baileys is a drink made from Irish dairy cream and Irish whiskey, along with a blend of chocolate. You can use the Baileys Original Irish Cream, or you can experiment with some of their other flavors, like vanilla, hazelnut, or caramel.Kahlua is created from coffee and sugarcane rum.Amaretto liqueur is an almond-flavored, Italian liqueur., This isn't absolutely necessary, but many prefer the orgasm layered shooter to be served cold. Pop your bottles into the freezer, and they'll get cold pretty quickly.

To make the shooter extra chilled, put the shot glass in the freezer as well. This will give the glass a cool, frosted appearance.
Because the Baileys contains dairy, serving it chilled can make the orgasm shot seem almost like a mini-milkshake.
 The key to creating a layered shot is to start with the alcohol with the highest specific gravity, or the heaviest, and to layer in decreasing order. Kahlua has the highest specific gravity, so it needs to be poured first.

You can learn more about creating these layered drinks here!

The orgasm layered shooter consists of 1/3 Kahlua, so make sure you are careful to only fill the glass about 1/3 full with it.
 It's easiest to do this by transferring the amaretto into a second shot glass first, rather than pouring it directly into the glass from the bottle. If you pour it directly from the bottle, it can pour more quickly and forcefully than you intended, ruining the look of the shot. The trick is to pour the amaretto slowly and gently into the glass, so you disturb the bottom layer of Kahlua as little as possible.


Place the second glass containing the amaretto against the rim of the original glass.
Holding the original shot glass at an angle, pour the amaretto slowly against the side of the glass.Again, only pour until the glass is 2/3 full, leaving room for the top layer of Baileys.
 Create this layer the same way you did with the Kahlua. Transfer the Bailey's into another shot glass, and pour it slowly and carefully into the original glass. Pour it against the side of the glass, holding it at an angle.
 if you did it perfectly, you should be able to see three distinct layers of alcohol. If it doesn't look as great as you'd like, take the shot and start all over. Just remember to drink responsibly!


Remember that the shot will taste the same, regardless of its aesthetic appeal. If you are entertaining guests, they won't notice your mistake if you don't point it out.
Since drinking alcohol has a dehydrating effect, sip on some water in between orgasm shooters. Your body will thank you the following morning., To make a screaming orgasm shooter, try adding a layer of vodka to the top of the regular orgasm shooter. You can make it extra sweet by adding a little bit of whipped cream to the top of the shot, or even add sugar around the rim of the glass. Don't be afraid to play bartender and experiment a little bit with different flavors and brands!