 A modern assault rifle can shoot up to 300 meters and has selective firing mechanisms.Common assault rifles include the AK-47, M4A1 carbine, and M16.Also think about extra features that you might want with the assault rifle:sights
electronics
collapsible stocks
suppressors
lasers
drum magazines;
, If you don’t know what rifle you want, then try speaking to someone who is familiar with the different assault rifles on the market. You can stop by the nearest firing range to ask someone who works there if they have any advice for you.
 State law supplements federal law. Although federal law mandates background checks, it currently requires that checks only be performed if you purchase from a licensed dealer. Federal law does not mandate that background checks be performed when a sale is made between private parties.An individual state, however, can require that even private sellers perform background checks. You can find relevant state laws by visiting your local law library, which should be housed in your local courthouse.
Alternately, you can search the web. Type “assault rifle” or “assault weapon” and then your state into your favorite web browser. Look for state-specific laws on background checks, registration, and other requirements.
 The federal background check can typically be completed in a couple of minutes. Nevertheless, the FBI has up to three days to perform the check. If three days pass without hearing from the FBI, then the seller can proceed with the rifle sale.Federal law limits who may buy a gun that has shipped in interstate or international commerce. The following are some of the groups of people federal law prohibits from purchasing a firearm:anyone convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment of more than a year
a fugitive from justice
an illegal alien
someone under a restraining order for harassing or threatening an intimate partner or the child of an intimate partner
a person convicted of domestic violence



, If you know the exact type of rifle that you want, then you should comparison shop. There is no reason to purchase the first rifle that you find. Instead, you can compare prices from different retailers and take the best offer that you can find.


You can join gun groups on the web, including Facebook. By joining, you can stay up to date on the prices and availability of different assault rifles.Start early. If you need the rifle by a certain date, then you should give yourself a couple of months to search. You might need to visit multiple gun shows or contact several private dealers.
 Some assault rifles are for sale online. You can search for websites. One website is www.gunbroker.com. You can bid on assault rifles that meet your criteria.


You also might be able to make a private purchase through a gun group. Many members put guns up for sale. You can reach out and close a private sale without having to go through a background check.By contrast, some online sellers will require that you make the purchase through a Federal Firearms License (FFL) dealer. With an FFL dealer, you will have to undergo a background check. Some sellers prefer to use an FFL so that they can have a record of the sale and confirm that they are not selling to a felon., If you buy at a gun show from a private dealer, you can avoid a background check. Gun shows are held at various times of the year. To find a gun show near you, you can search the web. There are several websites which update a list of gun shows on a weekly basis.If you plan on traveling a distance, then call ahead of time to make sure that the gun show is still being held.
Some gun shows charge a small admission fee, usually around $5. Children are sometimes admitted for free., You will need to fill out a background check form if you purchase from a gun shop. Any gun shop that sells you an assault rifle legally will be an FFL., You may need to register your new rifle with the appropriate law enforcement agency. Instead of a comprehensive federal scheme, each state determines its own registration requirements.You should check with local law enforcement to find out what your state’s registration requirements are.


Several states prohibit all registries. Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, and Vermont all prohibit registries as of 2015.If you live in one of those states, then you will not have to register your new rifle.
If you do not want to ask law enforcement, for fear that they will now be suspicious that you have a gun, you can consult an attorney. An attorney will research the law and provide you with confidential advice about your registration obligations under the law.
 You should have all of your guns under lock and key. Also be sure to put a trigger lock or other safety device on the gun. You should then store any rifles in a locked container.You should think about safe storage even if you do not have children. Visitors, intruders, and other people could stumble upon a gun in your home and assume that it is not loaded. Also, if you ever get drunk or high, or if you hallucinate, then you could access an unlocked gun when you aren’t thinking clearly. By keeping the gun locked in a storage container, you ensure that you only handle the gun when you are thinking clearly.
You can get a safety device approved by the Department of Justice. You can find approved safety devices at https://oag.ca.gov/firearms/fsdcertlist.
 By storing the ammunition in a different location, you make it harder for any children to accidentally shoot the gun or for an intruder to gain access to a loaded gun.You should store ammunition in a locked container as well. This increases the safety.
 If you have children, then you will want to educate them about guns. No matter how careful you are, you might accidentally leave a gun out at some point. Your children should know what to do:Avoid touching the gun. Make sure your children understand not to pick up the gun or play with it. Instead, they should leave the area where the gun is immediately.
Tell an adult. Once they leave the gun area, they should go directly to an adult and tell him or her that the gun is out.

