 While still dependent on their parents, teenagers are in the nascent stages of finding who they are and moving off on their own into the world. Your grandchild is no different. Don’t forget that teenagers weren’t meant to cling to their grandparents like plastic wrap. Your grandteen would never be successful in the real world nor feel safe enough to move out.
 This is something adults do all the time. Go to an adult, sit-down restaurant with just the two of you and have a nice meal and a chat. You can also share a meal at home or even cook together. The key is to do it alone, without parents or other third parties. Just the two of you together sharing a simple experience can lead to profound changes in your relationship., This is something we do with children in order to get things done or to get a message across: repeat and repeat. We get so used to it that when grandchildren get older we continue to remind them of everything. For a young adult, this is nagging. You shouldn’t do it to an adult so you shouldn’t do it to your grandteen.


By not nagging you are giving your grandteen trust and respect as you would any adult.
Accept your grandchild’s appearance. Different generations experience different fashions and expressions of self and it is your job to accept these changes as part of your grandchild’s personality.Never mock or ridicule your grandchild as it is a negative interaction that will only widen the gulf between the two of you.
Compliment your grandchild in front of his/her boyfriend/girlfriend. Never tease or make fun of grandteens in these situations.
 Don’t make your grandchild feel guilty if he/she doesn’t want to do anything with you. It’s okay and it is part of growing up and separating. Making your grandchild feel guilty will only lower their self-esteem and cause an overflow of guilt that wasn't deserved.


It is understandable to feel upset or even mad that your grandchild does not want anything to do with you, but it is important to handle it in an appropriate manner and not to judge your grandchild.
Your job is to love and support your grandteen for who your grandchild are.If your grandchild has a date and does not want you involved then let the two kids go and have their fun. You have to respect your grandchild's space just as much as your grandteen has to respect your space.
 As children get older, their own perspectives on life become more pronounced and their reasons better thought out. Respect your grandchildren's opinions and even if you may not agree with your grandteens’ beliefs, you have to pay these beliefs respect.
 Growing up means making mistakes and that means your grandteen will make some. Sometimes your grandchild will make a lot of mistakes. Keep loving and supporting your grandteen because after all, your grandchild isn’t perfect and that’s what makes him/her the perfect grandchild.

