 If you already know who or what you want to raise money for, that's great. But maybe you are looking for a good place to donate the money you are going to raise. Your first step is to think about things and people that are important to you. The more personal a cause is, the more motivated you will be to raise money.Maybe you have a friend or relative who has battled cancer. There are a lot of great organizations that take donations to help find a cure.
Think local. Maybe the local school or your neighborhood library is suffering from budget cuts. Those are both great outlets for your financial support.;
, Once you decide which type of cause you want to support, look for some information. For example, if you want to help fight domestic violence, there are a lot of organizations you could raise money for. But there are several factors that you need to look into.Whether it is a local or international organization, your cause should clearly state its objectives. The organization should also be non-profit and willing to disclose their financial information.
Make sure the organization is supported by academic research. You want to make sure that the money you raise is going to the right places. Be certain the organization you choose is wisely using the funds you give.
 Once you choose a cause, it is time to figure out how you can raise money at home. You will need to choose a product or a service that you can offer. Take some time to think about your resources and your strengths. Figure out how much time you can spend, and how much effort you are willing to expend.Host a party. If you have the space, you could host a fundraising event at your home. This is a great idea, particularly if you are raising funds for a political campaign. You can have a cocktail party and introduce people to the candidate. This type of event is common, and people will understand that they can give a check, if they are persuaded by the candidate's comments.
Have a yard sale. This is a great option if you are short on resources, but have plenty of energy. Ask your neighbors and friends to donate items to sell. The money you raise can all be given to the charity of your choice.
Sell baked goods. A bake sale is another great way that you can make money with a small amount of resources. This is another way your friends and family can contribute, too.
Do something physical. For example, walk or run. Collect pledges for each mile that you complete.
 Once you have your activity, it's time to physically prepare. Make a list of everything you're going to need. For example, if you're having a raffle, be sure to have tickets to distribute. If you are having a bake sale, make sure you have plenty of containers for all of the cookies and pies.Try to spend as little money as possible on supplies. You can explain your plan to local businesses and ask if they are willing to donate. The better organized you are, the more willing business owners will be.
 The more volunteers you can recruit, the more money you will be able to raise. You can obviously ask your friends to donate money, but you should also ask them to help you out by donating their time. Not only is it for a good cause, but this is a good way for you to bond with others.Be specific with your requests. If you have a friend that is great at graphic design, ask her to help you with the flyers.
Get your kids involved. Learning to give back is an important lesson to learn. Ask your kids to help, and explain to them why what you are doing is important.

