 Knee marches help with weak legs. If you have weak leg muscles, you are at a greater risk for a fall. Knee marches also help work the ankles and hips, which helps improve balance as you walk. Working the ankles, knees, thigh muscles, and hips can help with lower body mobility, including bending and rotating.Walk in a straight line. Lift your leg until your knee is at hip level. This leaves you momentarily standing on one leg. Step forward. When your back leg comes forward, bring it to hip level and hold it there for a few moments.
Continue with 10 to 15 repetitions with each leg. Try this a few times a day.
If your balance is weak, do this along a counter, while holding on to furniture, or with the help of a friend.
If you cannot bring your knees up to your hips, lift them as far up as you can. Work on your flexibility and mobility to raise your leg higher.
If you become winded, rest for a few minutes and continue.
 Toe stands help make your calves and ankles stronger. This can help strengthen your lower body and help improve balance.Hold on to a chair and make sure your knees are slightly bent. Move up onto your tiptoes as high as you can. Then slowly return your feet flat to the floor.
Repeat this 10 to 20 times.
 Hamstring curls help strengthen your core, as standing on one leg forces you to stabilize your body on a narrow base. The core is a key part of balance, stability, and lower body strength.Hamstrings also support the knee joint. While doing this exercise, focus mentally on the muscles in the back of the thigh to target the right place.


Hold the back of a chair with your knees slightly bent and your feet shoulder width apart. Move one leg behind you. Once your leg is as far as it can go, bend your knee to draw your heel towards your butt. Lower your leg back to start.
Do this 10 to 20 times on both legs. Do fewer repetitions (six to eight) if you have osteoporosis or osteoarthritis.
 This may not seem like a balance exercise, but try standing from a seated position. Then sit back down in the chair. To make it a balance exercise, refrain from using your hands.Do this exercise slowly if you need to, until you build strength and coordination to sit and stand from a chair without hands.
As you improve, try to slow the descent towards the chair. This will help strengthen the legs and gluteal muscles.
 Side leg lifts help to strengthen your legs, buttocks, and hips. This helps with balance, coordination, and overall lower body strength.Hold on to a chair or the wall. Lift one leg up and to the side with the toes facing forward. Slowly return your leg to the floor.
Do this 10 or 20 times with each leg.
You can add ankle weights to make it harder as your progress.
 Leg extensions help strengthen your legs, specifically your thighs, and can help the mobility of your knees. These things can help reduce your risk of falls.Sit in a chair with your feet flat on the floor. Extend one of your legs straight out in front of you. Lift the leg as high and as straight as you can without locking your knee. Make sure your foot is flexed so your toes are pointing up. Hold, then lower back to the floor.
Repeat this 10 to 20 times with each leg.
You can add ankle weights as you increase your strength.
 Fall prevention means strengthening your leg muscles, but you also need to balance that with upper body exercises. A strong upper body can help you do daily tasks like carry groceries, push yourself up from a chair, or lift your grandchildren.Wrists and arms are often injured during a fall when people put their arms out to try and catch themselves, so it's important you make sure the bones in your upper body are strong.

Try wrist curls. Holding a weight in your hand, rest your forearm on the arm of a chair, allowing your hand to hang over the edge. With your palm facing upward, slowly bend your wrist up and down, lifting the weight. Do this 10 to 15 times with each hand.Do arm curls by standing with your feet hip-width apart, arms down at your sides. Hold a weight in each hand, with your palms facing forward. Exhale as you bend your elbows, lifting the weights toward your chest, keeping your elbows at your sides. Hold for one second, then inhale as you lower your arms back to your sides. Repeat 10 to 15 times. Perform a chair dip by sitting in a sturdy chair with arm rests, your feet flat on the floor. Keeping your back and shoulders straight, lean forward and grip the arms of the chair. Exhale and use your arms to push yourself off the chair. Don't stand up completely — use your arms to hold yourself up in the chair, knees bent, back straight. Hold for one second, then inhale and use your arms to lower yourself back into the chair. Repeat 10 to 15 times., From a seated position in a comfy armchair, sit part way forward in the chair with a small cushion placed behind your lower back. Lean into the chair back, pushing your head back (as long as it is not too uncomfortable). Try not to push down through the bottom of the feet.

This can also be done up against a wall. Try straightening out your back by leaning up against a wall, pushing your shoulders back and holding.

