 Cash is the most widely accepted form of payment for a money order. You can go to any money order provider and purchase a money order with cash. You simply pay for the amount of the money order plus a fee.Companies that issue money orders want the most secure form of payment possible because once they issue the money order, their money is as good as gone.
You can also pay with a debit card linked to your bank account.
You cannot pay for a money order with a personal check. Checks can take a few days to process. If you don’t have sufficient funds, the money order issuer loses the money.;
, The only place you can purchase a money order with a traveler’s check is at the United States Post Office (USPS). You will have to pay for the amount of the money order plus a fee based on the money order amount. When you pay, sign the traveler’s check in front of the postal service worker who is preparing the money order for you.USPS is willing to accept traveler’s checks because they recognize them as a form of cash., Some money order issuers allow you to use a credit card, but not all. You can use a credit card to purchase a money order at Western Union and 7-Eleven. It is expensive to buy a money order with a credit card. Your card issuer will likely view it like a cash advance. This means they will charge you the higher interest rates and fees associated with cash advances. Also, you don’t earn any points or rewards on cash advances, so you won’t earn them for purchasing a money order either., You can pay with one of these cards at Western Union, Walmart, the post office and 7-Eleven. However, doing so is often linked with suspicious activity. For example, some people purchase these pre-paid cards and then immediately liquidate them in order to take advantage of any available rewards the cards offer. Then they deposit the money orders into their bank accounts and use the money to pay their bills. But depositing lots of money orders into your bank account looks like money laundering, and your bank can close your account for doing so., Some companies now allow you to purchase and send a money order online. For example, you can purchase a money order online with Payko and pay with your PayPal account, which is linked to a credit card or bank account. However, you can only purchase a single, $200 money order per day. This method is not as fast as other online bank transfers. Instead of an instantaneous transfer of funds from one account to another, a physical money order is printed out and mailed to the recipient. This can take several days.Sending money over the phone is possible, but this is not the same thing as a money order. You can contact a remittance service like Western Union and request an electronic transfer of funds over the phone. You can pay with a credit or debit card. However, a physical money order is not printed out in this case. Rather, the funds are transferred from your bank account to the recipient’s account electronically.