 Without dreaming it up, it can't become a reality. Conceptualizing what a local food system would be like is key to bringing it into existence. Leave nothing out of the plan: Think big, think small, think of the impossible and think of the easy steps that will lead to reaching the goal.;
, Organic, non-organic, grass fed, corn fed, raised in a greenhouse, grown in raised beds, processed, not processed - if it contributes to the amount of local food produced, then it should be counted as a legitimate "food asset" for the local food system.
 The Mittleider Gardening Technique can be found online at http://www.FoodForEveryone.org. It is a non-profit, educational foundation that shows people how to raise 500% more produce in raised beds that are 30' X 5'. The soil is enriched with minerals and ready to go the first season of planting. Tomatoes raised this way average out to $0.05 per pound. It is a proven garden technique used around the world.
 The key to establishing a workable food system is to provide access for others to learn about how to become more involved in raising their own food. Awareness is the key. No sustainable living concept has ever succeeded without educational materials and resources provided for free to the general public.
 I always hear from others that if they only had enough money to start a greenhouse or a small acre farm, that they would go ahead and do it. But if we all wait around for money before doing the background work necessary to build a local food system, then we will not be prepared to put the system together if and when the financial backing arrives. Yes, it takes hard work to develop a local food supply, but it can be done in small steps before any money has to be invested in seeds, greenhouses, equipment, grow beds, livestock and supplies.
 This is America. People can choose what they want to eat. They can also educate themselves about the nutritional value of food and the various farming methods. The information is available for free on the internet. Keep the message simple: Local food is fun, it tastes good and it supports the local economy. Focus on the benefits of increasing the local food supply., There are local food systems in America that use the internet to help people order local food. What's the point? If it's local, then it should be face-to-face, personal and a community effort. We don't need an online ordering process to find a cucumber from the next town over. It's better to know the grower and buy directly from them.
 Supermarket chains are run by local people who make decisions for their stores every day. Some of these companies are willing to work with local growers to sell their produce at their stores. Some of these companies are even partnering with local growers.
 Where does the food come from? Are there some foods that local supermarkets would be better off purchasing from local suppliers? Is it possible to raise those foods all year long and supplement what the supermarkets offer? Can you identify ten foods that your local supermarkets would rather purchase from local producers?

, It is called the Willamette Farm & Food Coalition. Located in Lane County, Oregon, this local system started over thirty years ago and continues to impress locals and visitors. Here is their local grown food guide, accessible online at: http://www.lanefood.org/locally-grown.php

