 Unless you have storage bottles with nozzles that can fit into the squirt guns’ reservoirs, funnels will be necessary to help fill the guns. Direct children to take their time while filling their squirt guns, and not to overflow the funnel., If the hole to the squirt gun’s reservoir is especially small, there may be trouble filling it. In these cases, put the paint and liquid mixture into a plastic container that is slightly larger than the gun. This will allow users to submerge the gun, and allow water to replace the air in the reservoir.Food storage containers such as Tupperware work especially well.
Note that this filling method is more likely to lead to paint all over everyone’s hands, etc.
 For art projects, prop a canvas panel on an easel or suspend a piece of watercolor paper from a similar apparatus. Be sure to do so ahead of time, so there's something to shoot at as soon as the kids get their hands on the arsenal., For instance, the squirt guns will have a different effect upon the canvas when the shooter is standing closer or further from their work. In general, shots taken near the canvas will be easier to aim, and paint will disperse less before it hits the canvas. Meanwhile, shots from further away will provide a sprayed effect., Before painting, block off a section of the canvas in whatever shape or pattern you want. When the tape is removed, the shapes will be preserved within the splashes of color., Consider using clothing dye in squirt guns to make custom t-shirts or other items with older kids. Since the dye will be permanent, make sure everyone understands that they shouldn’t spray one another, or anything other than the intended target.Clothing dye is available in powder and liquid forms at many grocery stores and other large retail stores.
Follow the directions on the dye’s packaging.
 Once everyone is finished painting, carefully take down the canvases and store them horizontally to allow them to dry. Allowing the works to dry vertically is also an option, but be aware that the paint will likely continue to run downwards and may saturate the bottom of the canvas.