 In fact, some new parents decide to leave the umbilical cord and placenta attached to their baby’s navel until it falls off naturally.


Keeping the umbilical cord on until it falls off naturally can be cumbersome, though. Most parents have the cord cut shortly after birth; they don’t feel comfortable with the idea of carrying the placenta with their baby until the umbilical cord separates.
If you plan to bank your baby’s cord blood, the cord will need to be cut. Since the umbilical contains no nerves (like hair, for instance), neither the mother nor the baby will feel the cut.;
, This is a common practice, as immediate clamping allows the baby, especially if they are high risk or premature, to be evaluated right after they are born.
 Recently, there has been a shift to delayed clamping, where the umbilical cord is not clamped until at least 1 to 3 minutes after birth.Many physicians feel that delayed clamping is a more natural process, and provides better circulatory support during the baby’s transition out of the womb.
At birth, a significant amount of the baby’s blood is still in the placenta and umbilical cord. Delayed clamping allows the baby’s circulatory system to recover of much more blood, often as much as ⅓ of the baby’s total blood volume.Similar to the procedure in immediate clamping, the newborn should be held slightly below the level of the mother to enable some of that blood to return to the baby.
 In full term infants, babies with delayed clamping had less anemia and iron deficiency during the first 3 to 6 months. However, in some cases, phototherapy for neonatal jaundice was required.Premature infants whose clamping is delayed have a 50% lower chance of an intraventricular hemorrhage, or bleeding into the fluid cavities in their brain.
Keep in mind that skin-to-skin contact between mother and baby should not be postponed with delayed clamping.
 Be clear about your expectations for clamping your baby’s umbilical cord with your doctor before giving birth.
 Cutting the cord is a simple procedure that requires:


An antibacterial solution.
Sterile surgical gloves, if available.
A clean cotton pad or (preferably) sterile gauze.
A sterile clamp or strip of woven umbilical tape.
A sterile sharp knife or pair of scissors.
 Then, gently pull it over your newborn’s head. Take care not to stretch the cord tight.


With your baby’s first breaths in the first few seconds after delivery, your baby’s circulation shifts away dramatically from the placenta. In fact, flow of your baby’s blood through the placenta usually completely stops within the first 5 to 10 minutes of life.
You can determine when blood flow through the umbilical cord has stopped when you can no longer detected the umbilical cord’s pulse (similar to what the pulse in your wrist or neck feels like).
 You can find plastic clamps in bulk online, such as EZ clamp and Umbilicutter, but you may have a hard time purchasing just one clamp.While these clamps are very secure, they are bulky and catch easily on clothing.
If you are using sterile woven umbilical tape, make sure it is at least ⅛ inches wide. You can find this product online in single use lengths.
 These can be slipped over the umbilical cord to tie it off.


Keep in mind that some brands require additional equipment to place the band on the umbilical cord.
One type that requires no additional equipment is the AGA umbilical cord ring.
 In a pinch, you can use other woven materials like silk, a shoelace or cotton string, but make sure you always boil the material in water first before using it.


Avoid using thin, strong materials such as dental floss, which could rupture the cord if it is tied too tightly.
 But take care not to rupture the cord by using excessive force.
 The second tie should be placed further away from the baby, about 2 inches from the first tie.


Keep in mind that although a pulse in the umbilical cord may stop shortly after delivery, significant bleeding may still occur if the cord is not clamped or tied.
 You can use betadine or chlorhexidine.


This step should be done especially if delivery occurs in a public or unhygienic setting.
 The umbilical cord is much tougher than it looks, and will feel like rubber or gristle.


If the blade or pair of scissors you are using are not sterile, clean them thoroughly with soap and clean water, and then immerse them in alcohol (70% ethanol or isopropyl alcohol) for 2 to 3 minutes.
 The cord may be slippery so this will ensure you have a firm grip on the cord.
 Make sure you hold the cord firmly to ensure the cut is clean.
 Sponge baths can be done for the first few days.


The newborn baby’s risk of hypothermia is more of a concern, especially in the first few days of life, than any issues with the cord stump.
 Always dry your hands well before touching the stump as you want to keep the cord stump dry, and exposed to air as much as possible.
 While you need to ensure it is not in contact with any dirty or unclean surfaces or substances, you also don’t want to cover it tightly with a dressing.
 Keep in mind the use of topical antibacterial solutions to reduce the risk of serious infections on the cord stump is still not universally accepted by medical professionals. But umbilical infections can be serious, and many practitioners continue to recommend the use of an antiseptic to keep them clean.


Effective and easily available antibacterial solutions include triple dye and chlorhexidine. Iodine tincture and povidone-iodine are less effective.
Alcohol (ethanol and isopropyl alcohol) should be avoided. The antibacterial effect of alcohol is brief and can be harmful to the baby. It can also delay the usual 7-14 days of cord drying and separation by a day or two.
 Only apply it to the cord stump. Try not to leave any of the antiseptic on the skin around the stump.
 You can do this at the time of delivery.


Long term cord blood frozen storage can be a source of stem cells that may be used for future treatment of your child or another child.
Currently, the diseases that may benefit from cord blood are limited and rare. However, as medical science advances, other future uses for cord blood are very likely.
 It is not true that delayed clamping of the UC removes the option of cord blood banking.Even after the transfer of blood from placenta to baby, additional blood can be acquired from the placenta for storage, if desired.

