 The most important part of an outdoor shower, of course, is the shower itself. While almost everyone wants an enclosure and/or floor to shower on. those looking for a simple rinse-off can simply install their outdoor shower head, run water to it, and call it a day. There are two ways to run water to your shower:


Using a garden hose and an outdoor water source, such as a lake or garden hose spigot.
Attaching your shower to the side of the house and tapping into the internal plumbing. Because this method is extremely difficult without experience and serious tools, this article will focus on the prior method.;
, You need to know how all of your pieces -- showerhead, floor, and walls -- fit together before you get building. You do not, for example, want to build the shower head and then realize that you cannot fit a floor around it. Go online and check out some examples, or draft up your own. You can even buy kits of pre-cut wood and flooring that are made for outdoor showers online if you want a simpler project., Again, there are a lot of different ways that you could build your outdoor shower, but this common list of supplies will be needed for the vast majority of projects and designs. You should have:


A garden hose that can reach your shower from the water source.
Three pieces of 1/2" thick galvanized piping.

Two pieces 36" long.
One piece 8" long


Appropriate garden hose to pipe adapter joints.
2 1/2" elbow joints
A ball valve or gate faucet and adapter to fit into your piping.
A rain-shower head.
C-shaped hangers or plumbing ties hold your pipe upright.
Plumbing tape., Again, there are a few ways to pull this off. The most common way is to screw the hose into an outdoor spigot, allowing you to turn the water on and off with ease. You will then attach your hose to the end of the piping.


If you want to use a lake or pond to power your shower, you'll need an inline utility pump and a car or marine battery to pull water from the lake to your shower. A 12V self-priming pump is your best bet., Use the joints to screw the piping together into one length, placing your ball valve/gate faucet in the center -- this will be your on/off switch. If you've never done plumbing before, don't worry too much about this project -- it is about as simple as it can get. Some tips include:


Place two elbow joints at the ends, each facing different directions. One is for your shower head, the other for the garden hose.
Be sure to seal each joint with nylon plumber's tape to prevent leakage, wrapping each joint 4-6 times.Don't attach the hose or shower head just yet -- wait until you've finished the plumbing and attached the rods., If you're building a free-standing shower that isn't attached to your house, you'll need a way to hold the shower up. The most common way to do this is with a post. Use pressure-treated wood, purchasing a post that is roughly 8 feet tall. It can be either square or rounded -- just make sure your get the appropriate brackets for your post. If in any doubt, talk to a specialist at your home improvement store about your specific project. Once you have your post:


Dig a post hole at least 1-1/2 feet deep and three times as wide as your post.
Firmly implant the post in the ground.
Mix a 5lb bag of fast-setting concrete and pour it into the hole to set the post.
Wait 24-hours for the concrete to set., The most common way to do this is with c-shaped pipe hangers, and you should only need two of them. Adhere one near the top and one near the bottom to securely fasten the piping to your shower post. You could also use 4-6 pipe straps to hold the piping on.


Make sure that your elbow joints point the right way before continuing -- you need the top one to face into the shower and the bottom one needs to turn enough that you can fit the garden hose onto it.
 For a more attractive design, you can drill a 1/2 hole into the bottom of the post, even with the bottom elbow joint. You can then feed the 8" galvanized pipe through the post, allowing you to attach the garden hose behind the shower post instead of to the side.


You'll likely need an adapter to fit the hose to your piping. This is called a "hose coupler.", Once the entire array is hooked up, it's time to attach the shower head. Attach the shower arm to the top of the pipe, angle it to your desired location, then screw in the shower head. Turn on the water at the faucet and give the entire thing a test.
 There are tons of great DIY shower ideas on the internet, and you should do some exploring to see if you can get away with a less conventional set-up for your outdoor shower. Some ideas include:


Attaching the shower head to a wooden fence, tree, or other already created post.
Attaching the head to an overhang or wall with a simple bracket or wooden board.
Attach the head to something decorative, like an old surfboard, for a unique look.