 Baking soda, or sodium bicarbonate, is a natural acid neutralizer. It has anti-inflammatory properties that can calm down your swelling and itchy skin associated with lyme disease rash. You can either take a baking soda bath, or you can make a mixture that can be applied directly to your skin.Baking soda bath: Fill a bath with warm water. Add one cup of baking soda and stir the water until the baking soda has dissolved. Sit in the tub for a good 20 to 30 minutes to really vanquish that itch.
Baking soda paste: Mix one cup of baking soda with one half cup of water. Stir until thoroughly mixed. Take some of the paste and rub it onto the itchy areas of your skin. Leave it there for 30 minutes and then wash the mixture off with water.
 Oats, like baking soda, also have anti-inflammatory properties that can soothe your itchy skin. Oats also help to keep your skin hydrated, which can make your skin itch less, even when experiencing lyme rash. You can use regular oatmeal purchased at the grocery store, or you can buy oatmeal that has been ground up and pre-packaged specifically for use in a tub. To make your own oatmeal bath:


Take one cup of oatmeal and grind it in a blender or coffee grinder. You should end up with a fine powder.
Fill your bathtub with warm water. Pour a quarter cup of the oatmeal powder into the tub. Stir the water to make sure the powder is evenly distributed throughout. Soak in the tub for 15 to 20 minutes.
 Lemon juice has anti-itch properties that can soothe the area around your tick bite. It is also an antiseptic, which means that it will clear the area of bacteria, as well as an anti-inflammatory substance.To apply the lemon juice:


Cut a lemon in half and squeeze one of the halves on to the itchy area. Gently massage the juice into your skin for a few minutes and then rinse it off with warm water. Repeat as needed.
 Basil contains an active ingredient called Eugenol. Eugenol is a strong anesthetic agent, which means that it can cool and soothe your itchy skin. You can boil a cup of water and then add several fresh basil leaves to the pot. Keep it at a boil for a minute and then allow the water to cool. Rub the water on your itchy skin., Mint contains menthol and rosmarinic acid, both of which are anti-inflammatory and anesthetic agents, making it a great herb for treating itchy skin caused by lyme disease. Like what you do to basil, you should boil the mint in water, allow it to cool, and then rub the mint water on your skin.


Alternatively, you can add mint extract, rather than fresh mint leaves, to the boiling water for the same effect.
 Thyme contains thymol, which is another natural anesthetic and anti-inflammatory agent. Like with basil and mint, you can boil fresh sprigs of time in water to get a mixture that will relieve itchiness when rubbed on your skin.


Bring a cup of water to a boil, add a sprig or two of thyme, and let the sprigs boil in the water for several moments. Let the water cool down and then apply it directly to your skin.
 Garlic can help to reduce the effects of the lyme disease infection and rash because it has antimicrobial agents like allicin. When you eat more garlic, your immune system gets boosted, which helps to fight the infection that is making your skin itchy.You can take garlic supplements, or you can eat two or three cloves of raw garlic a day.
 Turmeric and ginger are both known for their antibacterial, antiseptic, and anti-inflammatory properties—all of which can relieve your itchy symptoms associated with lyme disease rash.To make a warm drink that you can consume to help you get rid of the itchiness caused by lyme rash:


Bring a cup of milk to a boil. Add a teaspoon of ginger and a teaspoon of turmeric to the milk. You can also add a little black pepper to help the milk absorb the ginger and turmeric. Once the mixture has boiled, filter out the ingredients. You can add honey to the milk to make it sweet.

