 The recipient’s address goes on the side of the envelope without a flap. Write the postal code in the boxes at the top.The mailing address should be written beneath the postal code boxes, top-to-bottom, right-to-left. After the address, write the recipient’s name.Organize address information from largest to smallest. An out-of-country letter might be addressed: JAPAN, Tochigi-ken, Utsunomiya-shi, Minemachi, 2-chome, 1.The order of information is more important than its location on certain lines. Kanji (Japanese pictograms) can shorten some addresses to a single line, while others might take several.
The postal codes used in Japanese addresses generally contain 7 digits (as in: 123 - 4567). Since few Japanese streets have names, a street name is rarely included.;
, Whether it’s a handwritten message to a pen pal or Christmas pictures to your host family, you don’t want your envelope being sent to the wrong place. Perform an online search for the address to make sure you’ve written everything correctly.

Be sure to write “Japan” very prominently with the recipient’s address information. To make it especially hard to miss, write it in caps!If you’re concerned you might have made a mistake, you might be able to cut and paste the address written out in Japanese from an online map search.
 Turn your envelope over flap side up. Your postal code numbers go in the boxes at the bottom of the envelope. Write your address above the rightmost box in the same top-to-bottom, right-to-left pattern as before. Follow the address with your name.When sending a letter to Japan from a foreign country, make sure you clearly write your home country in English. This will increase the chances of the letter being returned should it be undeliverable.
The format of your return address does not have to follow the Japanese style of large-to-small if you live outside of Japan., But first, take a good look at the addresses. Does everything look right? For those of you writing from outside of Japan: is your home country clearly written? If so, turn it over to the side with the recipient’s address (the flapless side) and put a stamp in the upper left corner.You should only need postage from your home country to send an envelope to Japan, though this may differ from country to country. Ask at your local post office.Postage is weight-rated inside Japan. Expect a two-sheet letter in a normal envelope to cost about 90 yen or 110 yen airmail.