 Before you start making the stew, chop the bacon into fine, ½ inch pieces. Peel the shallots and chop them finely. Cut the green stem off the leek and dispose of it, then slice the white section into thin rounds.Peel and chop the carrots into rounds about a half an inch thick, and chop the celery into half-inch pieces as well.
Chop the parsley coarsely.
Wash and chop the mixed mushrooms into inch-long pieces lengthwise if possible. Try to use a mix of mushrooms that may include shiitake, button, chanterelle, cremini or porcini mushrooms.
Keep the potatoes whole if they are small, otherwise cut them into small chunks.
 Place a Dutch oven or a large stock pot on the stove over medium-high heat. Then add the clarified butter and melt it, tilting the pot so that it coats the entire bottom.If you can’t find clarified butter or beef tallow in your grocery store, make it by melting unsalted butter in a pot over medium heat for 30-40 minutes until the liquid turns clear. Then strain using a fine strainer and cool the butter.Clarifying butter cooks out the water and solids, which gives it a higher smoke point and makes it ideal for frying.
 Place the bacon in the pot and cook it until it crisps, about five to ten minutes. In this time the bacon should be rendered, meaning that it expels its fat. Remove the bacon after it turns crispy., Add the pound of beef stew meat to the pot and cook it for about two minutes on one side. Then flip to the other side and remove the meat when it has browned all over, about four minutes., Add the chopped shallots and leek to the pot and fry them until they are fragrant, about two minutes. Then add the carrots, celery and mushrooms into the pot. Remove the leaves from the bunch of thyme and add them along with the two bay leaves. Fry the vegetables for two minutes., After frying the vegetables, pour in the 2 cups of dry red wine and the 3 quarts of beef stock. Then add the browned beef and the fingerling potatoes., Keep heating the pot until the stew comes to a boil. Then turn down the heat and simmer the stew until the potatoes and meat are tender, anywhere from an hour and a half to two hours., After the meat and potatoes have cooked, take the stew off the heat. Sprinkle in the crispy bacon and the chopped parsley. Taste to see if it needs any more salt or pepper, then serve and enjoy while hot!