 Choose a subject to talk about, particularly a subject that you know well or have a strong opinion about. You may want your first video to be an introduction to your channel and give people a taste of what you have to offer them.


For example: Tell your viewers about future topics, dates on which your next videos will come out, and the bottom line is make them want more of you.
 Future dates and ideas means having a plan in place at least several months ahead. Draw one up and follow it fairly closely, with a bit of flexibility to meet viewers' requests, etc. Keep buffer space for the times when you're going to be too busy, too budget-crunched or even unwell or dealing with personal issues to be making a video.


If you know you will not have time in the future to make or upload a video consider making it now and scheduling it in YouTube for a future date.
Quality over quantity is often the best aim.
 If you cannot think of something to talk about or do, watch other videos and gather ideas. After watching some videos you may be inspired to make a video response or even a spoof of their original video.


Don't copy other people's ideas. Parody is usually okay, as it is a common form of artistic expression that is not considered copying. But pretending another person's video script is also yours, for example, is copying.
Some great ideas that have worked in the past are; prank videos, product reviews, how to videos, reaction videos, game play videos, makeup & shopping haul videos, video memes, unboxing videos.
If you want to make a video that does not require much editing and can be done in real time, for example a video of you playing the latest computer game, then consider live streaming it. That way you will be able to interact with viewers which will help build an audience base, and YouTube favors live streams and will rank it higher in search results during the stream.
 Make video responses to well known or popular videos. These are topics that are currently being searched for a lot on YouTube and in Google search, making a video relevant to these topics have a good chance of being found.


You can find the latest topics by going to Google News or the trending topics section of Twitter.
 Kittens, puppies, babies, laughing babies, children doing hilarious things, smiling, hugging, etc. are the sorts of things human beings are suckers for. Somehow, there is always room for more! Find the sorts of things your viewers like by way of cuteness, and keep delivering.


Cute videos have a high sharing potential on social media, everyone loves seeing cute videos in their news feed. Make sure you share these kinds of videos on social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram for a chance of your videos going viral.
 Once you've cottoned onto an idea that works for you, don't embellish it or deviate from it too much. People like a certain style and brand when they start subscribing and will expect more of the same style as you add more. Of course, this doesn't mean you can't grow and change for the better; it just means don't leap from punk one week to preppy the next. (Unless, of course, that really is your channel's idea!)

, Natural light is the best lighting you can use when filming for YouTube. Successful YouTubers use studio type lights or white lights, which also give you good lighting. But natural lighting is the best. Make sure you have the lights facing you and not behind you. Be aware of where shadows are and make sure they are not covering the main focus point of your videos.

Backgrounds are also good to have. You don't want a dark and dingy background or a background that blends in with you outfit, you can buy or make backgrounds. To purchase a cheap background, go on eBay or other selling sites to find a great background. Alternatively you can film you videos outside at places like the beach, your local park, or even your backyard.
Consider purchasing a green screen, this way you will be able to make your own backgrounds for your videos.

