 Not everyone will need to measure their gait speed. Generally, this test is reserved for those that are suspected to have difficulty walking or have difficulty balancing.For most people, a gait speed test won't be overly beneficial. This is especially true if you have no health conditions or any difficulty walking.
For example, a 15 year old that plays sports, has no current health issues and no obvious difficulty walking, will most likely not benefit from a gait test. However, an 80 year old that's recovering from a hip fracture will most definitely need a gait test.
Do not try to measure your gait speed or measure someone else's gait speed that requires physical assistance.Also, do not test someone's gait speed if they have significant shortness of breath.;
, Although many hospitals and physical therapist test gait speed as part of normal protocol, it's easy enough to perform a gait test at home. Gait tests are easy to perform and require little to no equipment. This makes it a perfect test to repeat over time if you need to continuously measure your gait.The first thing you'll need is a stop watch. Since gait speed is based on time, you'll need to time yourself with either a regular watch or stop clock.
It's best if you can have someone else with you to watch the stop clock or watch. This is especially true if you have difficulty walking. It might be hard to walk, while looking down at a clock.
You'll also need a measuring tape. You'll need to measure out the appropriate distance of which you'll be walking.
 Remember, testing gait speed is generally reserved for those that have difficulty walking. You need to find an area to walk that's safe for this test.The most important part of the gait test, is finding a walking path that's flat and free of debris. A side walk, pavement or turf is a great place.
Try to avoid grass paths, hiking paths, or a path that either goes uphill or downhill. This will affect the ability of the person to walk and also affect their results.
 Although the main method of testing gait speed is the same, there are a variety of distances that you choose to test. Choose the distance that best works for you or the patient.Gait tests vary in their distance. It can be as short as 4 meters or as long as 10 or 20 meters.
If you are just recovering from an injury or have a significant difficulty walking, a shorter gait test is best.
If you have been working on improving your gait speed, you may be able to try a 10 or 20 meter test.
You may be able to progress to a longer gait test if your physician or physical therapist finds it appropriate and safe.
 After you've determined the best place to conduct your gait test, set up the course. This will require you to measure out specific distances and put out markers.


Measure out your desired gait test distance. For example, measure out a 10 meter walking area.
In addition, measure out a 5 foot starting area and a 5 foot finishing area.The purpose of the starting and finishing area is to allow the person to build up speed to either their comfortable or maximal gait speed.
In this example, you'd need to set up cones or some sort of marker at the beginning and end of the 10 meter walking area. This is the area where you start and end the timer.

