 The ITIN is generally issued to certain nonresident aliens who require a taxpayer identification number but do not qualify for a SSN. ITINs are issued regardless of immigration status, as both resident and nonresident aliens can have tax return and payment responsibilities.


Nonresident alien spouses must have a tax ID number in order to be claimed as a part of a US citizen spouse’s tax return (married filing jointly, personal deductions, and other tax items).
Any non-US citizen who has a US tax liability for any reason or can be claimed as a dependent on a US tax return, but who is not eligible for a SSN, is eligible for an ITIN.
 The application for an ITIN, Form W-7,is available for download from the official IRS website at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw7.pdf. You can also hire tax-assistance businesses like H&R Blockto help you through the application in person.


If you qualify for a US Social Security number, you should apply for that instead of an ITIN. An ITIN is not valid for employment. Also, filing taxes with a spouse with an ITIN instead of a SSN will make an otherwise eligible tax return no longer eligible for the Earned Income Credit.
 In the first section, select the reason you are applying for an ITIN. Consult the instructions at http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/iw7.pdf for a description of each reason. If there is a space and request for additional information beside your reason, fill in the requested information. If you choose reasons b, c, d, e, f, or g, you must submit the Form W-7 with your tax return unless you meet one of the exceptions listed in the instruction descriptions. If your reason for applying concerns a treaty between the US and a foreign country, you will need to provide treaty information in the last line in the section.
 Write your current, full, legal name in line 1a. If your name was different at birth, write your full legal name at birth in line 1b.


Write your full mailing address in lines 2, including the country if outside the US. Only use a PO Box if the US Post Office will not deliver mail to your street address. Do not use a private mail box provider’s address.
If you have a different foreign address than the address provided in line 2, enter it in line 3. If you are applying because of a treaty, the address in line 3 must be in that treaty country.
Write your date of birth and the country in which you were born in line 4. You may, but are not required to, enter the city and state or province of your birth, as well.

Your date of birth should be entered in the following format: MM/DD/YYYY format (2-digit month, 2-digit day, 4-digit year). For example, January 1, 1970, would be written as 01/01/1970.


Check whether you are male or female in line 5.
 Enter all countries of which you claim citizenship in line 6a. If you have a foreign tax ID number, enter it in line 6b. Otherwise, leave this line blank.


If you have a US visa, enter the number and expiration date in line 6c. If you do not have a US visa, leave this line blank.
 Check which documents you will be attaching to your application and enter the requested information about it in line 6d. See the form instructions on page 2 for more information on attachments.
 If you have previously been issued an IRS Service Number or an EIN, check “Yes” in line 6e. If not or if you do not know, check “No/Do not know”.


If you checked “Yes” in line 6e, enter that number and the name under which the number was issued in line 6f. If you did not check “Yes”, leave line 6F blank.
 If you checked reason “f” in the initial portion of this application, you must enter the name of the college or university you are attending, as well as the city and state in which the school is located and the length of time you anticipate being there in line 6g.


If you are in the US for work-related purposes, you must enter the name of the company as well as the city and state in which it is located and the length of time you anticipate working there in line 6g.
 The applicant or someone authorized to act in the applicant’s behalf must sign he form in the “Sign Here” section. Provide the date of the signature in MM/DD/YYYY format and a daytime telephone number with area code.


If the person making the application is not the applicant, but is instead the applicant’s delegate, write that person’s name in the space for “Name of delegate” and check the relationship this person has with the applicant.
If the applicant is under age 18 and the delegate is the applicant’s parent, no additional documentation must be submitted. If the applicant is over age 18 and/or the delegate is a power of attorney or court-appointed guardian, the court appointment or Form 2848 (Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative) must also be attached.
If the applicant signs by mark (such as X) rather than signature, two witnesses must also sign and be identified as witnesses.
Leave the section “Acceptance Agent’s Use ONLY” blank.
 The instructions provided on page 3 of the application form packet provide a matrix of acceptable identification documents. Original documents must be provided but will be returned to you.


You can only submit copies of documents if those copies are certified by the issuing agency or legalized/authenticated by officers at a US Embassy or consulate overseas.
If your documents originate from a foreign source, you may also need certified copies to be further apostilled by the equivalent of that country’s Secretary of State.

An apostille is an international treaty document that verifies the person certifying the document was authorized to do so. Not all countries are parties to this treaty, however. Contact the American Citizens Services office of the closest US Embassy or Consulate to for assistance.


Acceptable documents include: a passport (the only stand-alone document accepted) or two of the following: USCIS photo identification, Visa issued by the US Department of State, driver’s license, military identification card, national identification card, US state identification card, foreign voter’s registration card, civil birth certificate, medical records (for dependents under 6), and school records (for dependents under age 14 or 18 if still a student).
 You can submit your application by mail, in person at a Taxpayer Assistance Center, or through an acceptance agent.


An acceptance agent is a person or business who has been approved by and contracted with the IRS to review documents and accept applications and their attachments on behalf of the IRS, forwarding those documents to the appropriate IRS office. An acceptance agent will only review, accept, copy, and return your documents to you. They have no input as to the merits of your application., Be sure to include the application and all supporting documents, including your tax return. Send US Postal service mail to: Internal Revenue Service, ITIN Operation, PO Box 149342, Austin, TX 78714-9342.


If using a private delivery service (such as FedEX or UPS), mail your application and all documents to: Internal Revenue Service, ITIN Operation, Mail Stop 6090-AUSC, 3551 S. Interregional, Hwy 35, Austin, TX 78741-0000.
 If you prefer to submit your application in person, you may do so at any IRS Taxpayer Assistance Center in the US or IRS office abroad. You can locate these offices at http://www.irs.gov/uac/TAC-Locations-Where-In-Person-Document-Verification-is-Provided.


These offices will only verify your documents, returning them to you immediately, and forward the application with copies of verified documents to the ITIN Operation office in Austin.
Apply through an acceptance agent. You can locate an approved Certified Acceptance Agent at http://www.irs.gov/Individuals/Acceptance-Agent-Program. An acceptance agent will also verify your documents, return them to you immediately, and forward the application with these copies of verified documents to the ITIN Operation office in Austin.
 You should receive a letter with your ITIN in the mail within 6 weeks of applying. If you apply during peak tax season (January through April 15), you may have to wait up to 10 weeks.


If your application is denied, follow the instructions on the letter you receive telling you the reasons for the denial.

