 Be proud of who you are, the music you like, and the choices you make. Get into after-school activities you love, wear clothes you love, and hang out with friends you love. Remember that you aren’t the problem, they are.If you have this kind of positive mindset, being bullied can actually be an opportunity to learn more about yourself. Don’t let annoying or mean popular kids control what you think about yourself.
 Remember that there will always be someone prettier, more handsome, stronger, taller, smarter, and so on. It’s easy to get caught up in the rat race of trying to be the best at something, but learning to accept who you are and be happy with yourself is one of the most important parts of growing up. Don’t try to be like anyone else: just be yourself and be proud of who you are!Ask yourself if you find these people annoying because you are feeling resentful, insecure, or jealous. Identifying these feelings means you can begin to deal with them.
Work on not comparing yourself to others and appreciating your unique qualities and talents.
 Jealousy and insecurity are possible reasons you may find the populars annoying, or it may have to do with how they treat you or other people. Dig deep and think about what is at the root of your annoyance and if there's a solution that will allow you to move on.

Ask yourself if your boundaries are being violated. Your boundaries define what you will and will not accept in your interactions with someone. You may feel annoyed with the populars because they are crossing over the line. Maybe they are teasing you about your older sibling and asking you personal questions. Make your boundaries clear by saying something like, "I really don't want to talk about it. If you keep asking me questions I'm going to leave."
You may not be aware of your boundaries until they have been crossed, or the annoying people may have no idea their teasing is taking things too far. Be clear about what you are not willing to tolerate from others, and remember it's okay to reset your boundaries if you need to.
 Sometimes popular cliques really wear you down and make you not like yourself, which can be a really dangerous situation. If you find you’re having trouble building your self-esteem up on your own, or with friends and family, it might be best to talk to a professional. You don’t have to tell anyone at school or be ashamed about getting help: it’s your business alone and none of theirs.Make an appointment with your school’s guidance counselor.
If you want to keep your business private and keep it completely outside of school, ask your parents for help setting up an appointment with a therapist or counselor elsewhere.

