 Service animals, and their handlers, are protected under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Under this law, only dogs and miniature horses are considered service animals. The animals are allowed anywhere that the public is allowed, and no proof must be carried to verify the animal’s training or the handler’s disability. The animal cannot be removed or denied access to a public place unless they are disruptive or threaten the safety of other persons., In a place of business, you should remember that service animals are allowed to be anywhere that the general public is allowed to be. This does not include sanitary locations, such as a restaurant kitchen, because the public is not allowed in the kitchen. You are required, however, to allow the service animal into a restaurant., II is easy to assume that you can request verification of the medical need for a service animal, or that the animal has been trained. However, the truth is that you cannot ask for this under federal law, and no one is ever obligated to provide it to you.In fact, the ADA specifically says that service animals don't need any specific certification or training, nor do they have to wear an identifying vest or harness when in public. A person can train their own service animal, as long as the person has a disability and the animal is trained to do a specific task or set of tasks to help that person with their disability., The ADA requires that public transportation systems allow service animals to travel with their handlers. This includes airlines. The animal will often lay at the handler’s feet, or remain in the handler’s lap. For larger animals, there is sometimes an option of riding in a cargo hold.You cannot charge extra fees or a higher rate as a result of the service animal.
You can require the handler to pay for damages caused by the animal, as long as your policies require other pet owners to pay for damages caused by their pet.
 Whether you are a patron or an employee of a hotel, you should know that regardless of the hotel’s stance on pets, they may not reject a service animal and/or its handler. As a hotel, you also may not charge any additional fees or higher rates as a result of the service animal. Even if you normally allow pets for an additional charge, you still may not charge for service animals.