 Mix one part sea salt to 3 parts hot water. Depending on how much sea salt facial spray you’d like to make, determine how much salt and hot water you need. Use hot water to ensure that the sea salt dissolves thoroughly.


For example, mix 10 teaspoons of sea salt in 30 teaspoons (roughly 2/3 cup) of hot water.
 Once the sea salt has dissolved in the hot water, add one part natural ingredient that boosts the healing properties of the sea salt spray. Choose just one of these to add. For example:


Add aloe vera gel, which may help heal your skin.
Add green tea that you’ve steeped for at least 3-5 minutes. Green tea has antioxidant benefits.
Add honey, which is known for its antibacterial actions and healing properties.
If you have 10 teaspoons of sea salt, then make sure to add 10 teaspoons of the aloe vera gel (or green tea or honey).
 Use a clean spray bottle that has not had any chemicals in it. It’s best to start with a new spray bottle that you use only for the sea salt facial spray.
 The mixture will preserve best if it is kept cool.
 Use a gentle cleanser to wash your face. Use your fingertips to massage your skin. Rinse your face with cool water. Pat dry with a clean towel.
 Salt water will make your eyes sting, so make sure to either close or cover your eyes. Then spray your face and neck liberally with the sea salt facial spray.
 Give the spray a chance to soak into your skin. Don’t leave the spray on any longer than 10 minutes. Sea salt draws out moisture and can dry your skin too much.
 Completely rinse your face and neck with cool to lukewarm water. Pat dry with a towel. Don’t rub your face, since this will irritate your skin more.
 Non-comedogenic means that the moisturizer will not clog your pores.
 If you need to wash your face during the day (such as after exercising), use a mild soap. Work it into your facial skin using gentle circular motions. Rinse off completely with cool or lukewarm water and re-apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.


Only use the sea salt facial spray once per day. Otherwise, you may dry out your skin too much, even with a moisturizer.

