 If you're having your wedding far away from where most of your attendees live, have your wedding ceremony and reception held at a hotel and ask for discounts when family and friends are staying at the same hotel. Reserve a block of rooms for your guests several months before the wedding for the best rates.


Speak with the appropriate manager when asking for discounts and reserving rooms.
Don't be afraid to haggle! Some haggling is acceptable! You just don't need to be rude about it.;
, Venues, catering, and florists tend to be cheaper in small towns than in large metropolitan areas. Find an out-of-the-way hamlet nearby that is drivable for attendees but not going to cost as much as your actual city.
 Consider getting married during an off season, such as Lent, September through November, or April. You will be able to negotiate rental prices with reception halls due to decreased demand and business. For instance, if you marry during Lent, you may be able to negotiate a bigger reception hall for the same price as a smaller one.


Also, off season weddings allow for more flexibility because on the off chance you have a 95% return rate on your wedding invites, you will be able to scramble for a bigger room, cake, or food order more easily and often at less cost than during the summer months.
 Fridays are also popular wedding days but may cost a lot less than a Saturday event. For even greater savings, choose a weekday evening for your wedding. Schedule the wedding to allow guests time to arrive at the ceremony after the work day has ended.


Many guests enjoy weekday weddings as this frees up their weekends for other activities.
Choose a date between November and April (between May and October if you live in the southern hemisphere) to avoid higher peak season rates in many areas.
 Consider having your wedding during the day, such as a weekend brunch or a luncheon on Saturday or Sunday. The cost for the venue will be much lower and the daytime lighting is better for color photography.
 This can save several hundred dollars which your minister may charge. See information on Becoming Ordained to set up your choice of an officiant.
 Cut out the travel (and limo fees) between the chapel and reception hall by having the wedding on the same location as your reception! Also, you may be able to negotiate a cheaper price for using more than one service provided at a particular location. This also makes it easier for out of town guests, since they won't have to drive to two locations. They will appreciate it greatly!


Many churches have halls that are equipped to handle wedding receptions at reasonable fees - especially if you are a member.
 Musicians will charge more if asked to perform beyond the time stated in their contract. You will also incur additional limo charges if your event runs longer than planned. Give yourself a certain amount of extra time, to allow for things to go wrong, and then stick to that schedule.


You might find it useful to assign someone the task of keeping track of the schedule and making sure everything stays on time.
 If you don't know any musicians yourself, call local college music departments rather then browsing the yellow pages. Students will be cheaper than professionals.


Better yet, if you have a close friend that does music stuff well, ask them if they'll offer you a reduced fee as a wedding gift. You should only ask people that you would actually invite to a wedding though.
 When planning your ceremony and reception at a hotel or other venue, ask to speak to a manager who is in charge of these services. A manager should be in a position to offer the best rates for the hotel’s services.


Ask the manager to throw in extras. Use hotel house linens instead of renting others. Hotels and catering halls have their own props and centerpieces that they are happy to loan. Always ask for at least 10% off stated rates.
 Another way to reduce the costs associated with weddings is to not mention that the item or service is for a wedding. For example, if you are renting a venue for the wedding, indicate the room will be used for a "family gathering."


This approach can also be helpful for wedding cakes. A regular cake is generally priced much lower than an identical cake which has been identified as a wedding cake.
If you plan to have a simple flower scheme (like gerbera daisies and green poms) you can avoid a large markup and the need for an appointment by not mentioning the wedding.
 Check at the chapel or venue to see if there's another wedding the same day. Sometimes you can split the cost of decorating with the other couple - if you're both willing to choose neutral colors and whoever goes first makes sure no well-intentioned relatives "clear things up".
 Instead of flowers and ribbons to decorate the church, try large potted ferns up at the altar with simple candles. They're inexpensive and very elegant. Keep the ferns back from open flames, though! Safety first!

, Doubling up on favors and decorations or decorations and food can save you a ton of money and some set up and cleanup time, making your special day that much less stressful! There are lots of options for doing this. Consider:


Instead of one big wedding cake, put a small cake on each table. The cake is the dessert and the centerpiece! Surround it with fake flowers or candles to complete the look.
If you are doing favors, put the pile of favors neatly stacked in the middle of the table.
Try decorating with a photo of the couple or a photo of a city the couple visited together, and use that as the centerpiece, surrounded by inexpensive votive candles. Or, get multiple mini-frames and photos instead and give those away as favors!

, Ask a friend with pretty penmanship to address your invitations instead of hiring a calligrapher. This can save a ton of money and look just as nice! Again, just make sure that they'll do an okay job and that you'll pay them either a small fee or take the arrangements as a wedding gift. You don't want them to feel taken advantage of!


You can have a friend do your wedding programs too! Some of the most attractive wedding programs are printed from a home computer and then creatively assembled with colored cardboard, tissue paper, ribbon, etc.
 When you are considering the cost of postage check with the Post Office to find out if there is going to be a rate increase. This can blow your budget. In the U.S., buy Forever stamps at the current rate. They will be honored by the post office as a first class stamp no matter how much the postal rate increases. That's why they're called Forever stamps.
 Use an online service for RSVP and simply include the web address on your invitations, saving the need for RSVP cards and extra postage. Consider including a phone number for those who may not have Internet access.
 Buy your centerpiece flowers at a wholesale warehouse. Wholesale warehouses often sell products in bulk and cheaper than normal stores. You can often get 30-40 small centerpieces for less than $100 if you are willing to ask friends and family to help.
 Have bouquets made of dried flowers or nice "silk" flowers instead of costly, fresh flowers. Cloth or ribbon flowers are also a lovely and durable option. Having the arrangements made days or weeks in advance can save time, money and stress.
 If you do decide to go with fresh flowers, choose flowers that are in season. Possibly grow them yourself or buy the flowers in bulk at a Farmer's Market and arrange them yourself. Or, some trade schools that train florists will arrange wedding bouquets for the cost of the flowers.
 If you simplify your flowers and arrangements, perhaps a close friend can assemble fresh or silk flowers, which will save you hundreds of dollars. Just make sure that they'll do an okay job and that you'll pay them either a small fee or take the arrangements as a wedding gift. You don't want them to feel taken advantage of!

, This might halve your flower budget. Consider having fewer flowers and less expensive flowers. Buy loose flowers and have the venue personnel or a talented friend place the flowers artfully in tall glass vases. (The arranging may be done for free, but check first!)

, Wedding cup cakes are getting more popular and they are not hard to make it yourself! Even better, you can get all the girlfriends and family members to help out. You can find great recipes over at the famous Cupcake Project website, which was designed to create unique recipes for wedding cupcakes.
 Your baker can frost a few "pretend" tiers so your cake looks grand but saves you money. You can also purchase a sheet or round cake at a warehouse club or grocery store and have it done in the same color frosting as your wedding cake. You'll be able to feed more for less.


Also, figure about 20% fewer servings of cake than there are people. Many don't eat cake, so a lot of cake gets thrown away. At a cost of $2.00-$7.00 (average cake costs) per serving, it's heart-breaking to see forty pieces get thrown in the garbage.
 This will save you enough that you could get a fancier recipe or fancier cake decorations if you really want and still spend less. This is because creating a structure to hold up multiply layers is challenging and time consuming for your baker.
 Having candy for guests to eat instead of cake may save you money and provide a unique and memorable experience. Also, if you're going to have a candy "bar" or station, don't give away favors. The candy can also be a favor! There's no need to provide your guests with both.
 Look for a dress at a thrift or consignment store or eBay and then have it altered. If you get a talents seamstress (or even better, if you know one!) this can help you get a designer look at a super bargain price! Altering is cheaper than you'd think, and you might even be able to negotiate for a discount if your bridal party also needs tailoring.
 Consider a non-traditional dress that you could wear again after the wedding too. This will make the cost easier to justify. The days of strictly white dresses are gone and colored dresses are coming in to fashion. You can easily get a longer dress altered to cocktail length and then use that for Christmas parties and other formal gathers for years to come.
 If all the groomsmen will be in tuxes and they don't already own one, use a tuxedo or menswear shop that gives you the groom's tux for free when you order others at the same time. This can save lots of money. Rentals can also save, if you don't plan on ever using the tux again.
 The bridal stores charge outrageous prices for veils. Finding a cheap alternative can end up saving you a ton of cash! You can even try making your own veil or getting a crafty friend to do it for you!

, Your bridesmaids are responsible for the cost of their own attire. Try to be understanding about today's economy by choosing dresses from a less expensive source, including dress catalog companies.


First order one dress in an appropriate size for one of your girls and have her try it on. This way you can see up close the fabric quality, color, and style of the dress without buying several and then finding out you hate them. Even though returns are allowed, it's time consuming and you don't have time to waste.
 You can choose different dresses for each girl but give them all one commonality such as color, a scarf, a belt or a shawl. By having the girls all in the same accessory, you weave a common thread that makes things look well put together. This can save money and time on ordering dresses, fittings, etc.
 Make a list of the most important things you want for your wedding and have your fiancé do the same. Are you most committed to having gorgeous flowers, inviting 400 people, hosting the wedding at a particular location, or serving filet mignon and lobster? Knowing your priorities before the planning starts will help you decide what to spend money on, and what you don't mind doing cheaply or doing without.
 This is difficult but sometimes necessary if the cost per guest is going to break your budget. Cross off names on the list of guests who might feel obligated to come to the wedding if they are invited, but would not have their feelings hurt if they are not asked to attend. Think of inviting only relatives with whom you have a close relationship instead of everyone related to you. Invite only the people who are important to you and your parents, rather than everyone you know.
 You have to buy nice gifts for every member of your bridal party, and that adds up. Plus, traditionally, the entire bridal party plus their dates are invited to the rehearsal dinner. Seven bridesmaids and seven groomsmen, all their dates, ring bearer and flower girls, and their families, plus both sets of parents and all the readers in the ceremony, plus officiant could add up to 40+ people to feed!

, Professionally posed and properly lit photographs are one of the few beautiful keepsakes you'll have from your special day, but getting them doesn't have to break the bank. Choose an experienced photographer who will include all of the images on a CD for one low price. Then you can make as many inexpensive copies as you need rather than pay a huge reprint fee to the photographer.


Put together a list of the group shots you want, make a detailed timeline for the day, and give a copy to everyone on the shot list. Be sure to "pad" your schedule by 15 minutes so those who run late don't get left out.
Also, consider a private pre-wedding encounter for the bride and groom followed by all of the posed photography. Completing everything before your wedding means you can spend the entire remainder of your day enjoying yourself and the company of your guests. (Guests don't really like to be kept waiting between the wedding and the reception.)

, If you are doing a round of toasts, guests can toast with whatever they are currently drinking instead of you having to purchase champagne for everyone. Instead of a limo, consider a regular vehicle. If you are happy with just serving beer and wine, skip the full bar and save a bundle on liquor. Consider a lovely formal dress that isn't a traditional gown from a bridal shop.
 After looking at the final plan of your wedding, but before paying any deposits, decide where you can simplify the whole process. Consider whether you really need choral singers and a string quartet at the ceremony and a wedding singer and a DJ at the reception. Releasing doves or butterflies or having a candle-lighting ceremony are all wonderful, but may end up costing a lot of money. Simplicity saves money and if done well, your wedding may seem more serene and awe-inspiring.
 Remember that the wedding is one day at the start of a life-long commitment. Look beyond the wedding day to the goals you will have as newlyweds. If you want to purchase a house in the next few years, keeping that as a priority throughout the wedding planning process will help you to be prudent about how much you spend on that one day.

