 Approximately one hour before bed, dim the lights slightly in the person's home or apartment. Bright lights create stimulation in the brain, and as a result, can make it more difficult to fall asleep. By dimming them, a person more likely to fall asleep later on at night.


If the lights in the house or apartment cannot be dimmed, one alternative is to turn off all overhead lighting and leave a few smaller lamps on to create a dimmed effect.;
, Set the room to a comfortable temperature if the home or apartment has a thermostat. If the room is too cold, the person will not be comfortable enough to sleep because he or she will feel chilly. If it's too warm, he or she will be sweaty and uncomfortable. Usually, a temperature around 72ºF (21ºC) is ideal. Also, try to keep the room as quiet as possible by closing windows.


In a home or apartment without a thermostat, try providing a fan to keep the person cool or extra blankets to keep them warm.
 Rather than getting into bed and immediately turning off the lights to go to sleep, encourage the person to pick up a relaxing hobby once they get in bed. This will help bring the day to a close. By relaxing before bed with a repetitive activity, the person will be less stimulated, and thus be more likely to fall sleep. Try reading for 30 minutes before bed, for instance.
Be sure they do not reach for their tablet of phone. Once in bed, the bright lights from their tablet or phone will stimulate their brain and make it difficult to fall asleep after they are turned off.
 After their new nighttime activity, such as reading, suggest that the person further relax through exercise. One exercise frequently recommended includes progressive muscle relaxation, which involves going through each muscle group in the body and flexing and relaxing it. Another suggested exercise is deep breathing, which will also help prepare the person for bed.


You may also suggest mental exercise which will distract the mind, for instance, thinking of fruits and vegetables that begin with the same letter. 