 Bathrobes can cost anywhere from a few dollars at a thrift store or garage sale on up into the hundreds.;
, zappos.com or CottonAge.com is a good places to start.
 It should fit loosely, but the sleeves and hem should be an appropriate length for you. Bathrobes generally fall somewhere between the knees and the ankles, but some may be shorter. It's probably best not to have a bathrobe so long that it trails on the ground.


If choosing a bathrobe for a child who's still growing, choose it a little large so that it will last a couple of years. Don't choose it so large that the child will be stepping on the hem. You can plan to roll up the sleeves for a little while at first.



Some bathrobes tie around the waist with a belt. This can leave the neck and chest exposed and cold.






Some bathrobes button or zip.






Notice whether you can wrap the bathrobe around to get in or whether you must step in. Either is ok, but make sure it's what you want.
 If you'll be wearing the bathrobe over pajamas, do you want a smooth lining that slips well?

, Are there buttons or zippers to catch long hair? Is there anything scratchy or sharp? Is the fabric something that will stay soft for a long time, or is it likely to pill?

, Probably not many people will ever see you in your bathrobe, so it's okay to go for a color or style that's fun.
 You probably won't be going out much in your bathrobe, but if your home is very cold, you might want a hood.
 Do you like to do the crossword puzzle or have a place to put a tissue? Do you want to have a way to keep your hands warm?

, If you like to use your bathrobe as a towel, choose an absorbent cotton terry robe. If you just use it for lounging around the house, you can have a bathrobe made of anything.
 Bathrobes don't need washing very often, but they should be easy to wash when you need to.
 How cold does it get in your home in winter? Do you just want something to cover up your pajamas in summer months? Choose fabrics accordingly.
 Wrap it around, tie, button, or zip it, and be comfortable.

