 For appearances in court, and important meetings and consultations, you will generally be expected to wear a suit. This could be a trouser-suit, or you could wear a smart skirt with a blazer. If you opt for a skirt, be sure that you understand if there are any particular expectations in your office. In some instances, skirts should fall within two or three inches of the knee.


Bare legs might be a problem, so pay attention to those around you and just wear some tights if necessary.A dark suit with a light shirt is a fool-proof option for a professional look.
 Instead of wearing a suit, you could choose a smart dress. It’s important to maintain a conservative and professional look, but a sheath dress combined with a blazer is perfectly acceptable in most cases. If you are wearing a sleeveless dress, be sure to have a blazer or at least a cardigan handy to cover your arms and avoid exposed straps.As with skirts, there will often be an expectation that dresses are around knee-length and are not overly tight.
Stick with dark colours to start with while you get a handle on the culture and expectations of your office.
 For women, just adding a blazer will immediately make you look more professional. You can wear a blazer over a skirt, dress, or with trousers. Having a dark blazer hung up in your office is a good way to be sure that you can smarten up quickly if you have an unexpected meeting or a client comes in for a consultation.Black, charcoal, dark grey, and navy are all good options for an all-purpose dark blazer.
 Smart and somewhat conservative clothes will help you look professional and reliable, but you can add a luxury item to help you look successful. Consider one expensive designer bag, scarf, or something else, from a recognisable luxury brand. Research suggests that when people see somebody wearing a luxury brand they tend to think of them as successful and well-suited to a job.Maintain balance and don't gratuitously cover yourself in designer logos.
Try to tie one luxury item in with the rest of your outfit, so it looks natural and not deliberate.
 You might think wearing big heels will help you look confident and powerful, but if you can’t move freely or you are putting yourself in pain, then the benefits are lost. Opt for shoes that are smart and professional, but also practical. Kitten heels, wedges, and flats are all perfectly good choices for a lawyer.


If you want to wear high heels for a meeting or consultation, but not throughout the day, just keep a smart pair of flats under the desk that you can subtly change into., A lawyer spends a lot of time meeting clients and prospective clients, so it’s important that you make a good first impression. For this reason it’s advisable to lean more towards conservative dress if you are in any doubt. This is especially true if you are at the beginning of our career and are still trying develop your reputation.


You want people to remember you for your talent and competence, not for your clothes.
Doing something simple like slipping on a cardigan if you are wearing a sleeveless dress before meeting a client can make a difference.
Once you gain more experience, confidence and greater understanding of the culture of your workplace you can begin to branch out a little., How you present yourself professionally extends beyond your clothes, so you should try to be consistent and use make-up sparingly. You will have to use your judgement and learn from your colleagues as you go, but as with clothes, try to avoid anything that will distract from your professionalism.


For example, if you opt for red lipstick, make sure the rest of your make-up is subtle.Find the right balance and talk to colleagues that you trust if you are in any doubt.
 Your hairstyle is another factor that can influence how people respond to you. Just as you aim for clothes that give you a professional, smart and somewhat conservative appearance, your hair should do the same. Although you will have to judge what suits you, one basic rule is to keep your hair shoulder-length or a little shorter.


Excessively long hair may prompt clients to think of you as inexperienced and potentially unreliable.
A shoulder-length cut kept tidy with hair spray might be your best option.