 To begin the registration process online, you will need a computer with access to the Internet. Go to the official Connecticut Secretary of State’s website at www.ct.gov/sots. From there, under the heading “Elections and Voting,” select “More.” Then choose “Register to Vote Online.”, When you begin the registration process, the computer will redirect you to a screen to select a language. You may proceed in either English or in Spanish. Make your choice and then click on “Continue” at the bottom of the screen.If you mistakenly click on the wrong language button and proceed to the next screen, you can simply return to the selection screen by clicking on your browser’s “Back” or “Regresar” button at the bottom of the next screen.
 In order to use the online registration system, you must have a valid Connecticut driver’s license, learner’s permit, or non-driver photo ID issued by the Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles. On this screen, you will be asked to select whether you do or do not have one of these valid DMV-issued forms of identification. Make your choice by selecting the button at the bottom of the screen., On the next screen, you will be reminded of the requirements to register to vote in Connecticut. After reviewing the requirements, you will see the deadlines for voter registration for the next upcoming primary or general election. Finally, after reviewing all this information, you may proceed with your registration by clicking on the button, “Begin Voter Registration” at the bottom of the screen., On the next screen, place check marks next to each box to verify that you meet the minimum voter requirements. Checking these boxes constitutes official testimony, under oath, on your part. If any of the statements is untrue, but you check the box and proceed anyway, you risk being prosecuted for perjury. The penalty could be anything up to five years imprisonment or a fine of $5,000. The requirements for voting are as follows:You must be a citizen of the United States
You must be at least 18 years old on the next Election Day
You must be a resident of Connecticut
You must not have been convicted of a “disenfranchising” felony. If you have been, you must have had your voting privileges reinstated by some official process.
 You can use this same registration screen to complete a new voter registration or to change an existing voter registration. If you have newly moved into Connecticut, or if you have moved from one city or town within Connecticut, then you should indicate that you are making a “New Voter Registration.” However, if you have moved within the same town, making a name change, or changing a party affiliation, then you should select “Change Voter Registration.”If you indicate that you are making a change, the screen will bring up special cells for you to complete based on your choice. For example, if you indicate that you are making a Name Change, you will be asked for your original name and for the new name on your registration.
 You will be asked to provide town of residence, full name, birth date, and your DMV ID number. This is the number on your driver’s license, learner’s permit, or ID card. If you have reached this screen, but do not have a Connecticut DMV ID, you will need to exit the system and register by some other method.After completing the personal information, copy the code that is printed in the shaded box at the bottom of the screen. This is a security feature to prevent people from programming computers to interfere with the registration process. If you have difficulty reading the code, you can select to refresh the screen with a new code or click on the speaker icon to have the code read aloud. Then type what you hear into the box below.
 On the subsequent screen, you will be asked for more identifying information. Enter your telephone number, select your gender, and indicate whether you wish to enroll in a specific political party., On the final screen, you will enter your full name. This will act as your electronic signature, verifying that all the information you have entered during the registration process is true. Be careful to type your full name, accurately. Your electronic signature will be linked, via your DMV ID card, to the signature that you already have on file with the Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles.After you complete the registration process, you will receive confirmation from the Connecticut Secretary of State within three weeks of submitting your online application.As you near the primary or election day, you may not receive this confirmation.
You must complete the registration by the fifth day prior to a primary, or the seventh day prior to a general election, in order to be able to vote.