 Most people hate long slabs of description. Look at the examples below and see which one you like best. 1- Timmy had dark brown hair, blue eyes and was 4 feet (1.2 m) 2 inches (5.1 cm). Today, he was thinking of running away because he had a math test. 2- Suddenly, it came. Timmy woke up and remembered that he had a math test. Well, there was no doubt about it, but he had to run away. He knotted his sheets together and jumped out the window. As he ran down the street, wind ruffled his dark brown hair and dried out his blue eyes.;
, Instead of saying that Timmy had blue eyes, say that he had sapphire blue eyes, his eyes were like sapphires or that Timmy's eyes were sapphires on his face. The same goes for hair, skin tone etc.
 However, nobody likes hearing about how Timmy's eyes look like kool-aid, his hair looks like dark chocolate etc.
 It is a good way to describe your characters and to add to the story a bit.
 Pick up any book and you'll find either good or bad character descriptions. Try to work out what makes them good, interesting, dull or just plain bad. Once you have got the hang of this in your own mind, it'll not only be easier to spot in other writing but also easier to work out for your own writing. Here's a few examples:


As I walked down the unfamiliar road, I saw a pair of dazzling, vivid green eyes piercing my insides. I stared back at the unknown girl's beautiful features. She had wavy, blonde hair and had a healthy-looking tan.
Joe woke up suddenly, his milk-white face covered with sweat. He had been dreaming a bad dream, and suddenly his bright blue eyes flew open. He spiked his pitch-black hair, wondering what had just happened.
Millie shyly blinked her lovely gray eyes at her strict-looking headteacher. Being new to the boarding school wouldn't be nice with that teacher, she thought, tucking a stray strand of her ruby-red, long hair. She raised a pale-skinned hand at her mother for a last goodbye.
Rosetta woke with a smile in her eyes, which slowly reached her mouth. Her pretty, oval face was a sight for sore eyes; her eyes a pure brown, like the mahogany behind her. She had recalled yet another memory! She slowly slid her smooth legs out from under the duvet, and placed her feet on the warm carpet of her room. She stood up slowly, unfolding her petite frame as she stretched out first her arms, then her neck, her lean abdomen, pushing her slim waist forward as she stood on tip-toes and yawned, highlighting her high cheekbones.

