 First, preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius). Then read the cooking directions for your particular brand of elbow pasta. Pour the recommended amount of water into a large pot to cook 12 ounces (340 g) and turn the burner’s heat to high. Once the water comes to a boil, add the pasta. Cook for about a minute less than the directions advise for al dente. Then transfer the pasta to a strainer in the sink and drain the water., First, melt one stick of unsalted butter in your microwave or a small pot on the stovetop. While that melts, empty 2.5 sleeves of Ritz crackers into a large mixing bowl. Use your hands to crumble them into small chunks. Then add ¾ cup (84.75 g) of shredded sharp cheddar cheese and then the melted butter. Stir until they are evenly mixed., First, divide 24 paper muffin liners between two standard-size muffin tins (with each one holding 12 liners). Then coat the inside of the liners with non-stick cooking spray so they peel easily from your finished cupcakes. Split the mixture for the bottom crust between the liners as evenly as possible. Use the bottom of a small glass or similar hard, circular object to flatten the mixture into a compact bottom for your cupcakes., In a second large mixing bowl, combine the cooked pasta with 3.25 cups (367.25 g) of shredded sharp cheddar cheese, plus 5.2 ounces (147.5 g) of Boursin garlic-herb cheese and 2 tablespoons of cold unsalted butter. Then, in a third mixing bowl, whisk together 2 large eggs, ¾ cup (177.5 ml) of whole milk, and ¼ cup of sour cream (57.5 g). Once mixed, pour the liquid ingredients into the pasta bowl, add ¼ teaspoon of salt and ⅛ teaspoon of red pepper flakes, and gently stir to combine., First, ladle equal portions of the mac and cheese into each muffin liner. Once they’re all filled, place the tin in the oven. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the tops begin to turn a light golden brown. Take the tin out of the oven, give it a minute or two to cool off enough for you to safely remove the liners from the tin without burning yourself, and serve.