 If you have chronic dry skin or tend to get dry patches in cold weather, petroleum jelly can be an effective moisturizer for your face. It creates a barrier over your skin that helps lock in the natural oils and moisture. Massage it over dry areas of the face or apply a light coat to your entire face.Even after you rub petroleum jelly in, your skin may be slightly shiny and tacky. As a result, it’s usually best to use it as a night cream.
Despite its heavy consistency, petroleum jelly doesn’t clog your pores so it shouldn’t cause any breakouts. If you have acne-prone skin, though, it’s best to ask your dermatologist before using it as a moisturizer.
Petroleum jelly isn’t just for moisturizing your face. Use it on any dehydrated patches of skin, such as cracked heels, ragged cuticles, or dry elbows.;
, If shimmery highlighters are too heavy for you, substitute a little petroleum jelly. Its shiny finish catches the light without chunky glitter so you get a more natural highlighting effect. Use your finger to lightly dab and blend a small amount of the jelly along the tops of your cheekbones.If you apply a heavy layer of the jelly, it can make your skin look greasy instead of highlighted. Start with a very small amount of the petroleum jelly to avoid applying too much.
You can also highlight your brow bone with the petroleum jelly.
If you prefer, you can use a makeup sponge to lightly press the petroleum onto the high points of your face.
 Because petroleum jelly provides an effective barrier over your skin, it can help keep your skin from getting colored by hair dye or developing streaks from self-tanner. Apply a light layer on areas where you don’t want the dye or self-tanner to soak into the skin before you begin your hair coloring or self-tanning process.When you’re dyeing your hair, smooth the petroleum jelly around your hairline on your forehead, around your ears, and at the nape of your neck.
When you’re self-tanning, rub a thin layer over your wrists, ankles, elbows, and knees to keep the tanner from collecting in dry patches and developing streaks.

