 Like certain drugs, sugar causes a euphoric effect triggered by the massive release of dopamine, the chemical that controls pleasure in your brain. When your liver converts fructose to fat, you heighten your risk of increasing dangerous LDL cholesterol (bad cholesterol) levels. Remember that sugar comes under the guise of many names. Some of most common names include:Agave
Various syrups: brown rice, carob, corn, high-fructose corn, maple, malt, and starch.
Dextran, glycerol, disaccharides, or monosaccharides
Evaporated cane juice
Fructose, glucose, lactose, sucrose, or maltose;
, Sugar is used similarly to caffeine as a way to keep you awake during the day. However, sugar only offers short-term satisfaction and almost always results in a sugar crash later.


Try eating a small snack instead of turning to sugar or caffeine. Your body converts healthy calories into energy. A combination of protein and healthy carbohydrates will give you the boost you need without making you sleepy or causing you to crash later on.Caffeine will keep you alert and awake, but will not provide you with enough energy. However, make sure you are choosing caffeine sources that are not packed full of sugar. Opt for coffee or tea without any added sweeteners, lessen your needs for artificially sweetened drinks.
 There are several emotional reasons that you may be turning to sugar. Many people eat impulsively as a response to stress, depression, nervousness, or even as a reward for achieving something.


Sugar releases endorphins that can help relieve stress or anxiety, but only for a short period of time. Opt for a more sustainable way to manage your stress.
Try exercising, picking up a hobby, listening to music, or doing any other positive activity when you feel the urge to eat sugar to ease stress.
 Let's face it, sugar is delicious. Many of us eat a lot of sugar just because it tastes so good. The good news is, there are several natural alternatives to sugary foods that can satisfy your craving without compromising your health. Read on to discover several alternatives to traditional sweets.

