 Sometimes your family members can also be your best friends. They often know you better than anyone else and know all the wonderful things about you that you might overlook because of your low self-esteem. They can help boost your confidence and support you. They can also help you be more social.Participate in activities your family members are having. You’ll have someone there that you know and that likes you. They can also help introduce you to new people.
Ask your family members to attend social events with you. For example, you could ask your favorite cousin to attend a concert with you.
Let them know that you might need their help feeling comfortable in social situations. You might say, “Sometimes I get nervous when I'm socializing. Could you remind me that everything’s okay?”

, Being social doesn’t mean that you have to be friends with everyone or even be the most popular person around. It’s fine, and even a good idea, to develop a couple of true friendships. Think quality over quantity. Quality friends will like you for who are, encourage you, support you, help improve your self-confidence, and help you socialize more.Value the friendships you already have. Spend time with your friends so that you can maintain and strengthen your relationship.
Ask a friend you trust for help socializing and feeling better about yourself. You might say, “Do you think you can help me stop putting myself down so I’ll feel more confident about going out?”

, When you have low self-esteem, you might feel as though you know how all of your social interactions will end – with you embarrassing yourself or doing something wrong. If you practice introducing yourself, starting conversations, and other interactions, you’ll see that socializing can be a positive experience with Ask someone close to you to role play various social situations with you. For instance, you could ask your best friend, “Would you help me practice talking to people at parties?”
Or, you might ask your sibling to work with you on introducing yourself to new people.
You can also try listening to talk shows, radio shows, or other formats that involve lots of small talk to help give you some ideas of conversation topics and what to expect from those interactions.

