 The gasket is the rubber ring that runs along the opening of your washer's drum. This is what creates a seal to prevent water from leaking out of your washing machine. Open the washing machine door as wide as you can and peel back the rubber that runs around the opening.


The gasket will remain fixed to the washing machine, but you can pull it open to clean it and make sure nothing is stuck.;
, Once you've pulled back the gasket, check for any objects between the rubber. Sharp items can damage the gasket and the washing machine if you run the machine. Always check the pockets of you clothes and remove items before washing them.Common foreign objects include:Hair pins
Nails
Coins
Paper clips

, If you notice hair in the gasket, this means that particles from your clothes are building up on the clothes. If you have pets or people with long hair in your household, you should check the gasket for hair at least once or twice a week. If the gasket looks dusty, you may need to occasionally keep the door on your washer closed. For example, if your dog will be crated in the laundry room overnight, keep the door closed.


Dust builds up on the gasket when dust or lint from your dryer or laundry room floats around and lands on the gasket. Cut back on dust particles in the air by regularly changing your lint trap.
 If you see black spots, your washing machine is growing mildew. This means that the gasket isn't getting dry enough between uses or your soap is leaving behind too much residue. This moisture causes the mold to grow. To remove mildew, spray down the gasket with hot soapy water or a mildew cleaner. Wipe the cleaner away using a clean cloth or rag.You may need several cloths if the gasket is slimy with mildew. Keep spraying and wiping until your cloth comes away clean.
 To kill the mildew, add 1 cup of bleach into your empty machine and run a hot cycle. You should also pour 1/2 cup of bleach into the detergent or fabric softener compartment to ensure that your entire machine gets clean. After the cycle is done, run a few more cycles through without adding any bleach. This will remove the bleach smell from the machine before you wash clothes in your machine again.If you notice black mold on mildew spots after running your machine, you may need to put on gloves, a mask and scrub the spots using a bleach solution. Dip a toothbrush in a solution of no more than 10% bleach and scrub the mildew., Baking soda will help to remove any odors from mildew or dirty cloths. Close the door. Load two cups (473ml) of white vinegar into the detergent tray. The vinegar and baking soda will create a reaction that cleans the drum of your washing machine.Always check the instruction manual that came with your machine for specific cleaning recommendations.
 Set your washing machine to do a cleaning cycle (if you have that option). If not, set it to do a regular wash. Choose a high-temperature wash so that the baking soda and vinegar will have a chance to react. Let the machine run through a full wash and rinse cycle.If your HE washer has a cleaning cycle, the owner's manual will have specific instructions about when to add the vinegar and baking soda.
 If your machine is very smelly and you suspect mildew is growing inside the drum, run a cycle with bleach. Load two cups (473ml) of bleach loaded into the bleach dispenser. Run a wash and rinse cycle. To completely rinse out your machine, run another rinse cycle without anything in the drum.


Never run a cycle with baking soda, vinegar, and bleach. These can create a dangerous reaction that could damage your machine.
 Pop off the detergent dispenser panel and soak it in warm water. Remove the panel and spray it with all-purpose cleaner. Wipe it clean and pop it back into place.


If your machine has a fabric softener dispenser, you should clean and wipe its panel as well.
 Spray a clean cloth or rag with multi-purpose cleaner. Wipe along all exterior surfaces of your washing machine. You'll wipe up any lint, dust and hair that can build up on the outside.


Keeping the outside of your machine can prevent dust and dirt from getting into your machine.
 Purchase a detergent that's specifically designed for use in an HE machine. You should also use only the recommended amount of HE detergent (and fabric softener). If you use more detergent than is necessary, the detergent will build up on your clothes and on your machine.Detergent buildup can create odor and cause mildew to grow.
 Don't let your clean wet clothes stay in the washing machine for hours before switching them to the dryer. Mildew and odors develop more quickly in HE washers than top load models.If you can't switch the load of wet laundry, at least try to crack the door open so that the moisture isn't completely trapped in the washing machine.
 Ideally, you should take an old towel and completely wipe around the gasket after every load of laundry you wash. The goal is to remove all moisture from the gasket so mildew can't grow. Keep the door slightly open when you're done washing a load so that moisture evaporates from the machine.You should also dry the inside of the door, especially if you tend to keep the door closed.
 While you should be in the habit of regularly cleaning the detergent dispenser panel or tray, get in the habit of at least removing it after each wash cycle. Take the dispenser tray out and let it air dry. This will also get air moving into the machine itself which can prevent mold growth.


If you're in the habit of removing the dispenser tray after each wash, you can quickly check it over for black mildew or stains that need to be cleaned.

