 Establish family rituals and traditions that honor the spirit of Christmas and involve all family members. It might be attending church as a whole family, it might be giving a meal preparation task to each member of the family, however young or old, or it might be writing heartfelt letters to one another describing how their acts of kindness have helped you through the year. Whatever your ritual (or set of rituals), place more emphasis on caring and sharing than trying to outdo one another with gift giving.
 Don't go into debt for the sake of one holiday. You don't have to give expensive purchased gifts; instead, you can make a gift. Many people feel a homemade gift is better because it shows thought and consideration for the recipient. Give within your means, people will understand and you set an excellent example that liberates others from the consumer treadmill.


Gift ideas include: bookmarks, framed family photos you have taken over the year, holiday cookies or breads, or "cookie kits" (the flour, sugar, baking powder, chocolate chips and other spices are layered in a plain Mason jar, and instructions attached to a piece of raffia or a ribbon letting them know what to add, whether it's water, oil, egg, or whatever). See How to make your own Christmas gifts for more ideas.
 There are some beautiful carols that you can sing together––maybe someone in your family or circle of friends can play the piano or guitar; if so, encourage them to play, and have a sing-along. Consider carols like "O Come All Ye Faithful," "Joy to the World," and "The First Noel." You can find the lyrics online if you don't know them.


Other songs with scenery like "Winter Wonderland", "It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year""It's Beginning to Look Lot Like Christmas" " Sleigh Ride", " No Place like Home for the Holidays". Also consider the Antarctica movie theme song . These can be great non commercial additions to any playlist.
"Ring Christmas Bells" "Give Love on Christmas Day" "Jingle Bells"," O Christmas Tree""Where Are U Christmas" "This Christmas" "Baby It's Cold" "Let it Snow" "Alone on Christmas" "Somewhere in My Memories""Holly Jolly Christmas" "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" "We Wish You a Merry Christmas" don't have a strong commercial message in them even thou they are often played in Christmas commercials or accompany promotions during the holiday season. Even thou some songs may mention "Santa" once or twice. He's not the main focus of the song. Also the Nutcracker Ballet Suite and "Feliz Navidad" have nothing to do with commercialism. "12 Days of Christmas" is not a going shopping song but the "gifts" are really religious symbols.
Also you can play philanthropic songs that also are about goodwill toward others and that inspire a good feeling "Stuff That Dreams are Made Of" "Heal the World" "Earth Song" "Seeds of Love" "I Hope You Dance" for example "We are the World" makes a great holiday song as well!

, Try to stop the "buy this for Christmas" ads from invading your home life. The consumer economy has its place but it shouldn't really be in your living room during a sacred season. Teach kids to mute the ads and do it yourself. Or, record your favorite shows and fast forward your way through them. Everyone will feel more peaceful, and there is less incitement to go shop till you drop.


Avoid blindly obeying the encouragement of retailers to make Christmas all about consumerism, as that is far from the true meaning, regardless of whether you're religious or not.
 You don't have to decorate your home or Christmas tree with presents, stockings, or the traditional figures of Christmas like elves and Santa or even Licensed Characters. Do we see these enough on TV or DVDs? Simply your home and yard doesn't have to become another advertisement for the next new decoration trend or look like a Christmas mall display. This doesn't mean not to decorate with the latest technology but don't make it so obvious. Look around and consider using other decorations that represent real life items of the season or artistic ornaments. If you must use Santa or commercial icons try not to make it the focal point of the decor. Santa although a well loved Christmas icon for many people, may be viewed as a commercial tool of retailers by others. It can also like commercialism take away from the true meaning of the season and cause stress and discomfort for some people. Make note how Red and Green, Sparkling Flashy decor or Candy Cane stripes can be viewed the same way.


Also try to keep the light displays tasteful and not have your house looking like the Vegas Strip. Thousands of lights,an over flashy or overly bright display can for some people symbolize the "more is more" commercial message.If you have an outrageous outdoor display try to limit the time it's on or how long it's up to avoid neighbor disputes and high energy bills. Humble Decor may make the local Grinch or Scrooge smile and give you a compliment. It can also help avoid neighborhood light competitions that can get out of hand easily.
Your color scheme doesn't have to be the traditional red, white, and green thing. Any color theme can work for any holiday. Freddy Krueger's sweater is well red and green stripes!

, Another disturbing trend that retailers and some people are doing is called pre-Christmas decorating. Some know how to do this slowly and gracefully by taking it few items of Christmas Decor at a time per weeks. This sounds fun and great at first but it will cause much more stress and headaches than an outrageous light display because people full forced into "have to be the Christmas spirit" rather it's Thanksgiving, Halloween, 4th of July. You won't be spreading joy but instead spreading discomfort or stress for you, the community, and your family. Considerate decorating can also cure the Scrooge or Grinch syndrome.


Also make note how some seasonal decor and new marketing schemes are becoming too much like Christmas. Some toy stores are starting to turn the Easter Bunny into Santa Claus! What idiot came up with Christmas in July? Do we really need an entire Halloween tree complete with a "black evergreen"? Lights and other small decor is not so obvious. Tinsel Jack-o-Lantern and Tinsel Snowman is not a big deal.
 A pristine snowflake, the flaming red poinsettia, the festive shiny leaves of holly or the beautiful evergreen tree. Reindeer are an actual real creatures. The nutcracker actually is tool used to crack nuts instead of guarding presents. Toy soldiers, trains, villages, bears, doggies, the sweet sound of jingle bells, or the sweet taste of candy canes don't always have to be associated with Santa or commercial logos. Every snowman doesn't have to be named Frosty.

