 If this is the first time your dog has had a digestive problem or if you have a young puppy, call your veterinarian for advice. Small dogs and puppies have small body reserves, so even mild diarrhea can lead to rapid dehydration.Young puppies are particularly susceptible to parvo.Dogs can seem like picky eaters the first time they are in a new home or environment. Talk with your veterinarian about what to expect during the first few days you own a dog.;
, If your dog has a chronic illness or condition, ask your vet if you should expect stomach upsets as a symptom of your dog’s illness.You can create a treatment plan in advance to help manage the stomach problems when they occur.
 If your dog is taking medicine, ask your vet or read the label to know the potential side effects. Some medication may induce nausea, diarrhea, or other stomach problems.


If you think a medication is causing your dog’s sickness, talk to your vet and request a different medicine.
Your dog may vomit out or excrete necessary medications even if this is a garden-variety stomach ache. Talk to your veterinarian about how to make up missed doses of medication.
 There are certain foods that are toxic to dogs and that you should never feed your dog. Some of these foods can cause stomach upsets, while some can lead to serious medical problems, emergency treatment and occasionally quick death. Seek veterinarian attention immediately if your dog may have eaten any of these:Raisins and grapes
Spoiled meats or foods, moldy foods
Cooked bones—the cooking makes them brittle and unsafe for consumption
Gum or food made with xylitol
Alcoholic beverages
Avocados
Macadamia nuts and walnuts
Onions, garlic
Tea, coffee or anything containing caffeine
Chocolate in any form
Dough made with yeast
Cherry, apricot, peach pits and apple and mustard seeds.
 If there has been any trauma, especially a blow or injury to the head, chest or abdomen, call your veterinarian for advice. Your dog may be concussed, in shock, or experiencing internal damage., It is not uncommon for dogs with stomach problems to experience diarrhea and vomiting, much like humans do. If your dog’s vomit, diarrhea, or urine looks unusual, contact your veterinarian.Especially if you notice any blood, blood-like, or black-tarry substance in the vomit or diarrhea. A black, tarry substance in poop might be digested blood.
Especially if your dog is retching uncontrollably or has unproductive vomiting. This could be a symptom of bloat (generally an issue with deep chested large breed dogs) and is a medical emergency.
 If you do not know what is causing your dog stomach problems and your dog seems truly ill, your best treatment involves seeking a professional. If your dog has dull eyes, lack of energy, lack of appetite, blood in vomit or stool, or a painful belly, your dog may have a severe infection. All severe ones require professional help.All infections require adequate fluid intake to treat. Usually this means drinking enough water.Severe cases of infection require intravenous treatment, nutrition, and medications. Non-infectious disease treatment might also involve blood tests and x-rays. Certain disease conditions within the body—such as liver, pancreas, intestinal, stomach disease—will show as diarrhea, vomiting and/or loss of appetite.
Only bacterial infections will respond to treatment with antibiotics. Your veterinarian will make a decision as to whether bacterial infection is likely and thus whether to use antibiotics.
Roundworms (and other intestinal worms) will be treated by specific medications.
There are no specific medications that treat viruses in dogs. However it may be necessary to give your dog supportive care, such as intravenous fluids or drugs to prevent nausea, while the dog's immune system fights the virus.
 Dogs can have an intolerance or sensitivity to food; a true food allergy is rare and typically shows up as a skin issue. If you are unsure about a food sensitivity, eliminate all the common foods that cause sensitivity in your dog’s diet. Replace with a novel, or never eaten food, for a few weeks. Gradually reintroduce various foods to see if the stomach problem reoccurs. Common food sensitivities include:Grains such as corn or wheat
Commonly fed meats such as chicken and beef
Eggs
For example: try replacing these with boiled potato or duck
If the stomach problem still prevails despite diet changes, contact your veterinarian.
 What kind of water is your dog drinking? Sometimes, there are chemicals in your water that are safe for humans, but not dogs. Try switching up what water your dog drinks: try bottled water, filtered water, or water from a different faucet. If the stomach problem prevails, try switching other aspects of the diet, or contact a veterinarian.
 Your dog must be well hydrated in order to avoid dehydration, which can lead to serious complications. However, make sure your dog is not overindulging in water, or drinking too fast.Sometimes, drinking too rapidly can cause nausea and vomiting
Contact your veterinarian if your dog is unwilling to drink water

, You must rest the stomach to give your dog’s digestive system time to reset. When your dog seems calm and comfortable enough to eat again, move on to the next step., You will be making a bland mush for your dog to eat while experiencing stomach problems. Find out how much your dog weighs in pounds (lbs). Divide this by 10. Multiply by 1.25. This is the number of cups of food you should make.Amount of food you need to make for 1 day (in cups) = 1.25 * For example, if your dog weighs 30 pounds, you will need 3.75 cups a day.
 The general ratio for a good recovery dog food is ⅔ white rice and ⅓ white meat. This white meat can be chicken, rabbit, or white fish.


The rice should be cooked and soft
Add beef broth if desired, or if you have a picky eater
Avoid red meats, eggs, and cottage cheese. These foods are not bland enough.
 Feed your dog in 5 servings spaced throughout the day. Feed your dog only this and water.This bland diet and water should help your dog’s digestive system get back on track.
 This ensures your dog’s digestive system is healthy and clear of infection, and that your dog can handle more complicated food. If symptoms reappear, keep serving this diet until symptoms disappear again, and then for 2 more days still. If the reappearance of symptoms seems concerning, contact your vet.
 The other half of your dog’s food should be from its regular dog food., After a few days of rest and a bland diet, your dog should be back to his normal self. If your dog is not better, the symptoms reappear, or the symptoms seem to get worse (lack of energy, refusing to eat, blood in vomit or stool, painful belly), contact your veterinarian.