 Performing a factory reset will delete all of your data, so you'll want to make sure all of your important files are securely backed up in at least one other location. Click here for some tips on quickly backing up your important files.
 A factory reset will reinstall Windows, wiping out all of your data and settings. Everything will be set to their defaults. This is best suited for recycling or giving the computer away, or for when you want to completely reset the computer to fix performance issues or virus infections.
 If you're using a laptop or tablet, you should plug it in to a power source when performing a factory reset. The process takes a while and running out of the power in the middle can cause serious problems.
 If you're using a mouse, move your cursor to the upper-right corner of the screen.


If you need to perform a factory reset because your computer will not boot into Windows, see the Troubleshooting section at the end of these steps.
,,, Depending on how your computer was initially setup, you may be prompted for the installation disc before the reset can proceed. If you don't have an installation disc, click here for instructions on how to create one.
 If you have multiple drives installed on your computer, you will be asked if you want to delete just the one containing Windows, or all of the drives.
 If you're resetting the computer for your own personal use, select the "Just remove my files" option. If you're cleaning it to give, sell, donate, or recycle select "Fully clean the drive". This will help prevent someone from recovering pieces of your data using special software. The full-clean option will take quite a bit longer, but is much more secure.
 This will usually take around 45 minutes to an hour for the quick option and several hours for the full-clean option. Your computer will likely reboot several times during the reset.
 If you need to reset Windows but it won't start, you'll need to open the Advanced Startup menu.


Reboot your computer and rapidly hit the F11 key.
Select "Troubleshoot" from the "Choose an option" menu.
Select "Reset your PC" and then follow the steps above.
 This usually occurs because something is wrong with the recovery partition on your hard drive. You'll need to boot from a Windows 8 installation or recovery disc and then reinstall Windows from there. This is largely the same process, though it requires a little more input from you.



Click here for detailed instructions on using a Windows 8 DVD or USB recovery drive to reinstall Windows 8.

