 Generally, you'll probably snooze emails from your inbox, but if you want to, you can find an email in your "done" folder or under any of your labels and snooze from there, too.;
, There are a few ways to do this:



From your inbox in the app: You can swipe left to snooze it right from your inbox or email folder. As you swipe, you'll see an orange background appear, with a clock on it.

From your inbox on desktop: If you're using the desktop version of Inbox, you can just hover over the email snippet to find the Snooze clock. You can select it straight from there, rather than opening the email up.

From the email itself: If you want to open up the email first, go for it. Then click the clock at the top of the email. You'll find it near the right-hand side, between the pin and the "done" checkmark.
 You can select a preset option or customize your own:



Later today, Tomorrow, and Next week are preset options; next to each one, you'll see the exact time and day when Inbox will return the email or reminder to your inbox and notify you. You can also select the Someday option; this will keep the email or reminder in your Snoozed list, towards the bottom, until you manually move it or change the time setting.

Pick a date & time lets you select an exact time. Hit the option and then fill in the date and time you want. Make sure you click Save when you're done.

Pick place lets you select an actual location for the snoozed email or reminder to resurface. You can enter an address (the app will make suggestions as you type, for quicker selection), and Google will push the message back into your inbox when you're there. This comes in very handy if you want a reminder to buy milk next time you're at the store! If you're entering a new location/address, make sure you click Save when you're done.

If you want to save an address to use it again later, hit the Name this place toggle and enter a name.



Last will select the last snooze option that you used, in case you want to use it again.
 When the snooze time is up, or you've reached the chosen location, the email or reminder will pop back into your inbox, with a notification, just like a new message. Just in time!

, If you need to make any changes to your settings or want to unsnooze an email early, hit the main Google Inbox menu in the top left corner (☰). From the left-hand menu, select Snoozed. This will show all your currently snoozed email, organized by time and location of when they're due to "resurface".


To adjust a set snooze time/place, repeat the process above. Either swipe left on the email/reminder or click the clock and you can set a new snooze setting.
If you want to turn off snoozing for an email/reminder altogether, rather than adjust it, just hit the "done" checkmark on the email, or swipe it right, to move it to your Done folder. Or you can hit the pin icon to pin it back to your inbox immediately.

