 Before you proceed with a payday loan, make sure you are eligible and able to repay. Rules concerning eligibility may vary by lender, but are likely to involve income, age and other factors. Be sure you understand these before you apply for a payday loan. Information that a payday lender may require of you includes:

Proof that you are over 18 and a United States citizen.
Your contact information, including a telephone number.
Your social security number (only some companies will require this).
Proof that you are employed and that you receive a bi-weekly or monthly payment of more than a certain amount (the amount will vary depending on the company). You can use payment stubs to prove your employment.
Proof that your bank account has been open for a certain period of time (some companies may only require you to have had the account for a month, while others may ask for 90 days).
Give a valid email address, where people can contact you even if you’re far away and not available over the phone.
 When you go into the office, you will be asked to fill out the application form. Make sure to read the entire application before beginning to fill it out. Have the lender clarify anything that you are confused about, and ask her to point out the different fees that you may be charged.

Assess all the fees involved closely. Keep an eye out for these in the fine print of the agreement, and avoid getting into a loan that is more expensive than it first appeared.
The Truth in Lending Act requires that these sort of companies need to be transparent about the fees they will charge you, so ask the lender outright what fees may apply to your loan.Once you have confirmed that you agree with the information contained in the application, fill it out.
 Payday loans are made with that amount in mind. Lenders will consider your basic recurring expenses and then probably limit the loan to a percentage of your monthly or weekly income. For example, if your paycheck is generally $1000 every two weeks, the lender may cap the amount you can borrow at $500.

This may not sound like a lot, but bear in mind that if you borrow $500 you have to pay it back in two weeks alongside the loan fees.
This might result in you being short of money for the following two weeks, which may prompt you to consider taking out another loan.Work with the lender to establish an appropriate amount for the loan, but always be wary of someone offering to lend you money you may not be able to pay back on time.
 Once you have determined the amount you are going to borrow, the lender will charge you a fee. This fee is the interest rate that will be based on the amount you are borrowing. The lender will have you write out a check.

For example, you may be charged $25 for every $100 that you borrow. If this is the case, then you have a 652% APR (annual percentage rate).
By presenting the cost of the loan as a one-off charge, the rate of interest on the loan can be somewhat obscured.
While a payday lender may charge hundreds or even thousands or per cent of interest, bear in mind that a credit card typically charges around 12% APR, and a bank loan around 7% APR., You will most likely be given until your next payday to pay off your loan. When that day arrives, the lender will cash your check. If you have enough money in your account, then your transaction with the lender will be over. If you do not have enough money in your account, the lender will charge you a fee that will increase the longer you do not pay off your loan.If the cost of paying off the loan leaves you short for the following weeks, resist the temptation to rollover the loan, or get another payday loan.
Think of alternatives and avoid getting trapped in escalating payday loan debt.

