 Shower daily, use deodorant and wear clean clothes. These simple things have the power to leave you feeling good and looking your best.;
, Have good oral hygiene-brush and floss your teeth, and use mouthwash if you need to. Teeth that are well cared for will last you a lifetime.
 Your hair is one of the first things people notice about you. Keep it looking clean, neat, and shiny. Wash it every other day, or every 3 days if it's not particularly oily. Use shampoo and conditioner that work for your hair type. Brush it every day, even if you don't style it.


Try out new hairstyles. Find the one that suits you best at each stage of your life.
 Use a shower puff to exfoliate your body every other day in the shower. Rinse your body in cool water. Moisturize your skin after washing it, every day. Wash and moisturize your face twice a day. Use a toner if you need it, and exfoliate every other day.


Deeply moisturize your feet regularly.
 Choose the clothes that feel comfortable and that you know accentuate your best features.
 This is beautiful to behold. It also frees you up to spend more time addressing your intellectual and spiritual growth.
 This helps you to keep fit, restores energy and releases those precious endorphins that lift your mood and improve your spirit.
 Begin giving yourself more quality sleep, during which both body and mind are restored, allowing you to wake up feeling refreshed. It will also enhance your creativity and help you to process your emotions and feelings.
 Be grateful for such a beautiful life and such a beautiful morning.


Do a few yoga stretches (Surya Namaskar) to improve your blood circulation.
 Eat healthy and drink water instead of sodas or sugary drinks.
 After working or studying hard, you deserve a treat. Have a massage, take a walk in the woods, visit a friend you haven't seen for ages, or simply hang out at home doing absolutely nothing.
 Take time everyday to have you time. Meditate, have a hot bath, read a good book just take it easy.
 If you are in a negative state of mind about yourself, write a list of good things about yourself and things that you can improve on. Also write how you can improve them and what you can then do to maintain it.
 You shouldn't want to be anyone else and if you do think why.
 Greet your neighbours, friends, newspaper boy and everyone whom you know. Smile with a gratitude to this universe for whatever you are. Say 'Thank You' with a heartfelt smile to all those who acknowledge your beauty. Help the people around you.


Spread positivity. If you do it, hopefully everyone else will too.
 Other people appreciate this. Try to understand what it would be like to be this person.
 However much you want to talk about your problem, a conversation is a two-way thing.
 This is best way to interact with others in life. Deliver it in huge amounts, and especially to the grumpiest and the saddest.
 If you've had a hard day, indulge in a relaxing bubble bath for 10 to 20 minutes. A little relaxation will put you in a good state of mind for the rest of the evening.

