


Observe your surroundings. Count the number of bushes, shelves, or whatever exists nearby.
Focus on one particular object. Take in all its details.
Look at pictures of things that relax you, such as the ocean, your favorite color, galaxies, or cute baby animals.
Trace an infinity sign (a sideways 8) in the air with your finger. Follow your finger with your eyes. This uses a technique called EMDR, which helps you relax.;
,


Put on headphones and listen to your favorite music.
Ask a loved one to read to you or tell you a story. Listen to the rise and fall of their voice.
Sing or hum.
Try listening to white noise, a gentle sound like radio static that blocks out intrusive noises.
Listen to nature sounds. If nature is not available, try nature recordings, such as Rainy Mood or Nature Sounds for Me.



Eat a favorite food. Desserts are a good choice, but you can also make your favorite meal, or choose your favorite fruit.
Savor your food. Eat slowly, and focus on tasting the flavor in your mouth.
Suck on something. Hard candy, jawbreakers, and vitamin drops can occupy your mouth for a while.
Chew gum. This allows you to taste without consuming lots of calories.
Wear chewy jewelry if you often find the need to taste or bite something.



Take a shower or bath. Smell the soap and shampoo before you rub it in.
Bake something. The activity will occupy you for a while, and then you get to smell it in the oven.
Rub scented lotion into your hands.
Carry something sweet-smelling in a pocket or bag, such as lavender oil or a tiny soap. Smell it when you need to relax.



Remove any itchy or stiff clothing. You don't need that.
Put on your softest clothes. Try a soft sweater or fuzzy winter socks.
Pet an animal. If you have no pets, curl up with some stuffed animals.
 This will engage your other senses also.
Climb a tree or object.
Swing on a swingset or spin in a swivel chair.
 Offer to exchange back rubs with a friend.
Put on lotion or wash your hands with soap. Rub well. This is like a miniature massage.
Squeeze yourself by wrapping your arms tightly around your body and hugging. Or, get a bear hug from someone else.
Wear tight clothing. For example, put on tight leggings under your pants.
Wear something heavy. Try a weighted vest, a thick leather jacket, or a weighted blanket. It feels kind of like wearing a hug.
 Do you feel better? Now you are ready to face the day with a centered and healthy perspective.

