 Learn the culture and how things operate. Pay attention to how people act and the relationships between them. What do people wear? Are they serious or playful? Is it a quiet environment or is it lively? Once you understand how things work, you can adjust your behavior.For example, if you find the people who tend to gossip or are high profile, you can avoid those people or limit your interactions with them.
Observation is especially important if you are new to a place. You can then adjust your behavior based on what you observe.;
, If you do well on a homework assignment or a project, do not tell anyone else. Only speak about it if someone else brings it up. Your accomplishments may go unnoticed, and you will not have to talk about them.Letting your work speak for itself also makes you appear humble and non-threatening. If people do not know what you are capable of, they will not expect much and pay less attention to you.
 If possible, dress like the other people in your environment. You may have to adjust your style a little bit. Dressing outside of the norm will draw unwanted attention.Wear simple, subdued colors. Stay away from bright colors and patterns. Keep your jewelry and accessories to a minimum.
 As much as possible, work alone instead of in a group. Working alone shows others that you are self-reliant and do not need a lot of help.On the other hand, be sure to reach out to others when you need help and be a team player when you are asked to. Being too independent can also make you stand out.


Working alone also teaches you to be self-motivated.
People may notice that you like working alone and will let you work in peace without interruptions.
 Making small talk and interacting with others is typical workplace/school behavior. If you go throughout the day and never talk to anyone, you will look suspicious. Take a few minutes and talk to people at the beginning of the day. This shows that you are taking the time to build relationships.Socialize with a wide range of people at school/work, while reserving nights and weekends for close friends and family. Be careful not to isolate.
 There is a fine balance between having alone time and socializing. If you are too quiet, people may feel that you are distant and will not be comfortable around you. This will actually draw more attention to you than you would like.You do not always have to initiate contact, but try not to turn down an invitation to eat lunch with someone.
Keep your conversations short, but talk to a variety of people instead of only three or four that you may be comfortable with.
 Rules and laws create order within your school, workplace, and society. When you follow the rules, you can blend in because you are doing what is expected. If you break the law, you will be going against the grain and may get singled out and punished.


Breaking a rule can also give you a bad reputation. People may talk about your reputation before they even meet you, and people are more likely to know who you are and what you have done.

