 The main way genital warts are spread is when infected skin comes in contact with non-infected skin. This skin-on-skin contact spreads the virus from one person to the next. It most often happens during sex or foreplay.You cannot catch HPV from a surface such as a toilet seat or even a door or sink handle.You also won't get HPV from sharing towels with an infected person.;
, One of the best ways to protect against the spread of genital warts is to use condoms, both the latex and female types. You can find condoms at drug stores or big box stores, and agencies such as Planned Parenthood or county health departments often give out condoms for free. However, condoms won't protect you completely, as genital warts can be on nearby skin, not just the genitals.Latex and polyurethane condoms have been tested for effectiveness. If you or your partner has a latex allergy, choose a polyurethane condom.Don't choose novelty condoms. Pick a package that says it is meant to prevent infection or disease, as they are intended to offer protection., Dental dams are basically like a flattened condom; they are a thin sheet of latex originally used in dental work. You use it as a barrier between you and another person's body part.You may have more trouble finding dental dams. Some Planned Parenthood locations have them, and you can sometimes find them at specialty sex stores. You can also find them online.If you're desperate, you can cut off the ring at the end of a condom, then slice down one side to produce a flat piece of latex like a dental dam., Girls and boys who are 9 to 26 are eligible to get vaccinated for HPV. Two vaccinations exist, though only one of them is appropriate for men. The vaccines not only protect against genital warts, they also protect against cancers that can develop from the virus.Ask your healthcare provider about the vaccination for you or your children.It takes three shots to be fully vaccinated., Being treated for the symptoms can reduce the number of warts you have. Though the virus can be spread even when warts aren't present, reducing the number of warts does reduce your chances of spreading it. Always seek treatment if you suspect an outbreak—even if symptoms are not especially present.