 Fruits and vegetables are part of a well-balanced and healthy eating plan. There are many different ways to lose or maintain a healthy weight and eating more fruits and vegetables along with whole grains and lean meats, nuts, and beans is a safe and healthy one.


Fruits and veggies are generally dense and still low-calorie. That means you'll feel full even though you're eating less. And that means you'll lose weight.
Helping control your weight is not the only benefit of eating more fruits and vegetables. Diets rich in fruits and vegetables may reduce the risk of some types of cancer and other chronic diseases. Fruits and vegetables also provide essential vitamins and minerals, fiber, and other substances that are important for good health., It may seem a bit counterintuitive (even though you've heard it a million times before), but those who eat breakfast, in general, weigh less. And people who have successfully lost weight and kept it off especially abide by this mantra.


It's tempting to think that skipping breakfast means consuming fewer calories, but you'll probably end up picking up your morning slack by eating more for lunch and dinner. In general, those who play hooky at breakfast nibble more during the day and binge at both later meals. If you skip breakfast, you're pretty much setting yourself up for weight gain., Most commercial vegetable oils are a mixture of unidentified oils (fat, fat, and more fat) that have been extracted with chemicals.Definitely not good for you or your waistline. Compared to their other oily friends, canola and olive oils are rich in the good fats -- the monounsaturated kind -- and keep LDL levels low and HDL levels high. That's good, by the way.Whenever you can, make the switch.


Keep in mind that olive oil, even though it's chock full of healthy fats, is still high in calories (this goes for other healthy oils, too). Use them only in moderation and as substitutes for other fatty foods, like butter or margarine. Don't use them on top of what you're already eating. And unhealthy foods, for the record, aren't any better when soaking in olive oil.
 The easiest way to do this is to ditch the processed foods. The more processing that a food goes through, the more additives and less nutrients it contains. Processing removes a great deal (if not all) of the vitamins, minerals and fiber in most foods. And then, processing adds in unhealthy fats, a ton of sugar or sugar substitute and synthetic vitamins and minerals.


Most of these ingredients, including artificial sweeteners, artificial colors, hydrogenated oils and high fructose corn syrup, are not even recognized as edible by your body. Think about that. You wouldn't eat a bowl of paper clips, so why would you eat something else that wasn't actually food? These non-food ingredients are considered toxins and most will end up languishing in your system, often stored with fat.No thank you.
Processed generally means something that's gone through packaging. Yep, that even goes for diet meals. If it's been vacuum-packed, those nutrients have been vacuumed out.
 When you cook yourself, you get to control every calorie that goes into your meal; not so with restaurants. Even something that sounds healthy by name might have been fried in butter or oil, doused with salt, or packed with preservatives to keep it fresh longer. To know exactly what you're getting into, it's just easier to make it in your own kitchen.


Alright, so it's a little unreasonable to ask you to skip the social aspect of many activities (eating, that is). So when you do find yourself in that booth faced with a menu full of meals over 1,000 calories, make it easy and take half to go. Odds are the portions are two serving sizes, anyway.

