 Do you want to work with movie and TV stars, or perhaps models and musicians? Do you plan on starting your own business doing wedding and special events makeup in your city? When you decide on the path that's right for you, start building your "brand," letting the world know that you specialize in a certain type of makeup artistry.


Fashion, theater, special effects, bridal and airbrushing are a few of the fields you could enter.
Network with stylists and makeup artists in your chosen field. Look for entry-level jobs and internships to help you get your foot in the door.
Get creative with collaborations. Ask your friend who's making a music video if she could use your makeup artistry services, or offer to do your coworker's wedding makeup. You'll hone your skills and start making a name for yourself at the same time.
 Your portfolio allows you to showcase your talents to prospective clients and employers. It should contain photographs of your best work and reflect your unique style and skill.


Invest in a high quality camera or hire a photographer to help you put your portfolio together. The quality of the photos can make or break a portfolio.
You will need to find models to showcase your talents on. While they by no means have to be professional models, find people whose makeup you enjoy doing and whose faces are compatible with your style. Consider including "Before and After" photos of your models.
Consider making an online portfolio (i.e. blog or website) in addition to a print portfolio. The benefit of an online portfolio is that it reaches a larger audience and can be promoted through various forms of social media.
Your portfolio, whether its print or online, should reflect the brand you are creating. Your best, most creative work should be showcased at the front so prospective clients get an immediate impression of your unique talent.
 Whether you want to land a full-time job with a particular company or work as a freelancer on a project-by-project basis, start marketing yourself to get the word out that you're looking for makeup artistry work.


Conduct research in your area to find available positions, and bring your portfolio and résumé with you on interviews.
You may need to volunteer your services in the beginning stages of your career, if only to develop more content for your portfolio.
Consider doing trade-for-print work with models.
Use word-of-mouth to promote your talents. Ask friends and family to consider hiring you to do their makeup for weddings, parties, or other formal occasions.
