 Creating a PVC water gun requires a few common piping parts. These can be found at most hardware stores, such as Home Depot or Lowes. You will want a few hardware tools as well, which may also be found at the same stores.


You will want the following materials: a 6 inch piece of 1/2" PVC, a 3 inch piece of ½” PVC, a tee with a threaded side outlet, two 4 inch PVC nipples, one 2 inch PVC nipple, a threaded PVC cap, two threaded ball valves, a garden hose adapter (hose to ½” female thread), a ½” male adapter (female slip to male threaded), and a 2 liter water bottle.
Think of the water gun as being made of three parts: the bottle adapter, the fill assembly, and the nozzle assembly.
 Drill a small hole into a PVC cap. The size of the hole you create will determine the size of the water stream that is created. The smaller the hole, the smaller the stream.


Check online for resources related to working with PVC pipe. There are many guides available for identifying, connecting, and modifying piping.Note that a larger water stream means you’ll have to fill up the bottle more often!

, The bottle adapter connects the water bottle to the gun mechanism. Heat the middle of the 6 inch ½” PVC pipe with a heat gun. When the plastic is softened, press the opposite openings of the pipe toward one another (like pushing an accordion closed). This will flare out the pipe, creating a small bulge in the center. Place this pipe into the bottle so that the bulge snugly fits in the bottle opening, and allow to cool.


Make sure to heat just the middle portion of the PVC pipe. Leave the ends of the pipe cool so that you can use your hands to compress the pipe.
If the tube does not fit snug enough, remove the tube, reheat, and compress once again., Remove the adapter from the bottle and mark where the rim of the bottle meets the pipe, as well as where the pipe is first fully inside the bottle. Drill 2 or 3 small holes around the second line (the line where the pipe is first fully inside the bottle.) These holes allow the water to more effectively drain into the piping.


As a softer material, wood and metal drill bits both work well on PVC pipe.On many bottles, about 1 and ¼” inches from the bottom of the pipe are where the pipe first becomes fully enclosed in the bottle.
 The nozzle assembly is the piping that connects the nozzle to the "trigger" of the gun. Attach the nozzle to a 4 inch nipple. Connect the nipple to a threaded ball valve. Afterwards, connect the other side of the threaded ball valve into another 4 inch nipple, and plug the entire assembly into the tee. Use Teflon tape to assemble these pieces., The fill assembly is where the hose connects to the gun in order to fill the gun with water. Connect a 3 inch PVC pipe to the female slip to male threaded adapter. Connect a 2 inch nipple to the ½” female threaded to garden hose adapter. You should now have two “parts.” Connect these two parts using a second ball threaded ball valve. The threaded joints can be connected with Teflon tape, but PVC primer and cement are needed to attach the PVC pipe to the tee and adapter., Place the bottle adapter created earlier into the remaining open tee and cement it in place. Adhere a little cement to the inside of the 2 liter bottle, and place it on top of the bottle attachment. Allow several hours for all of the cement pieces to set.


Don’t cement the bottle in place until you are sure the bottle fits snugly onto the attachment., Screw a hose into the bottom of the gun and turn on the water. Make sure the bottom ball valve is open to allow water into the bottle.Once enough water has entered the bottle, close the bottom ball valve and remove the hose from the water gun. You will now have a “loaded” water gun.
 To fire the water gun, open the valve that is connected to the nozzle of the gun. The internal pressure of the bottle and piping will force water through the nozzle hole, produce a stream of water! Close the nozzle valve to cease firing.


Keep a hose nearby for whenever you need to fill the gun back up.