 The other team will have to take the field while choosing defensive positions. One person on the defensive team must be the pitcher.
 The team who kicks first should choose a kicking order. The offensive team should get in a line to determine who will kick the ball first, second, third and so on.
 The pitcher rolls the kicking team the ball. The kicker stands at home base and the pitcher rolls the ball directly toward them over home base. They should roll it in such a way that the ball stays flat to the ground. The ball shouldn’t bounce wildly – that is considered a bad pitch. You are allowed to roll it fast, but kickball is supposed to be a fun game. Generally you want the other team to kick the ball and then it is up to your team to play good defense.
 The first person in line on the offensive team will try to kick the ball out towards the field as it rolls towards them. Start running as soon as you have kicked the ball as long as it remains in the field of play. You can kick it on the ground or in the air.


Try to kick the ball so that it doesn’t go right at a defender.
The kicker runs to first base, then second base, and so on around the bases. If you get back home base again after touching all other bases, you score one run. The defensive players try to catch the ball in the air to earn an out. If the defensive players are unable to catch the ball, they run to get the ball and then run or pass the ball to the base ahead of the kicker. They want to get to the base in time to touch the base while holding the ball, or touch the kicker himself with the ball. , Once the team gets three outs, the two teams switch places. The offensive players take up defensive positions and the defensive players form a batting order. You then continue to play the game in the same way.


Once each side has batted once, the inning is over. You play six innings in kickball before you determine the winner of the game.
 The team with the most runs at the end of the game wins.After the game the two teams can line up side by side and shake hands and say " good game" to show good sportsmanship.

