 Vegetables and flowers require at least six hours of full, continuous sunlight a day to thrive. Find a spot in your yard where there is a lot of direct sun for the majority of the day.You will want the plants to face south so they can get as much sun as possible. Make sure there are no obstructions like fences, posts, or trees blocking sunlight from the south.;
, The garden plot should be on flat, even ground. This will ensure water is evenly dispersed in the plot and every grows evenly.


If you have to choose a spot that is sloped, you will need to terrace the beds by building them up with boards, flat rocks, or wood slabs.Make sure the spot is at least ten feet from trees and shrubs. You do not want the roots of trees or shrubs to get into the garden plot, as this can disrupt the plants. The shade of trees and tall shrubs can also negatively the garden plot.
 Raised beds are boxed in wood above the ground. Raised beds are good for colder climates because the soil warms up faster in spring and you can plant sooner. This type of garden bed usually results in a higher yield of crops, especially vegetables.You can buy raised beds made of cedar or recycled plastic at your local hardware store.
You can also build your own raised garden beds.
 In-ground beds are more common than raised beds and are ideal for warmer climates. In-ground beds require less watering than raised beds. They also do not cost anything but they do require you to bend down to weed and maintain.In-ground beds are more susceptible to weeds and pests than raised garden beds. They also usually yield less crops.
 Usually a garden plot will have several beds. Multiple beds allows you to grow several different plants in one plot. You can then rotate the different beds to have healthy crops every year. A smaller plot of 100-200 square feet can fit four to six beds. A larger plot can fit eight to ten beds.The beds should be 4 feet or less wide so they are easy to weed and tend. You should also include 21 inch (53 cm) pathways between the beds so you can roll a wheelbarrow through it.
If you buy a raised garden bed box, you may not need to worry about having a pathway between the beds. Instead, make sure you place the boxes with enough space between them to walk through.
 If you are putting the garden plot in your yard, you will likely need to remove existing top soil and grass. Slice under the sod with a spade and cut it into small handfuls. Then, take off the sod and put it in your compost or use it to patch up bare spots in your yard., Use a weed whacker or your hands. Look for common weeds like Japanese knotweed, bindweed, couch grass, and ground elder.You should also remove any surface garbage in the plot. Dig out any inorganic matter in the plot like bottle caps, plastic, or newspaper.
 Use string and stakes to mark where the plot is going to be in your yard. This will make it easy for you to clear the area to prepare the plot for planting. Put stakes on each corner of the plot and attach string to each stake.
 Having the soil tested will ensure the soil has the right balance of pH and nutrients to grow plants well. You can use a home testing kit to test the soil. You can find home testing kits at your local hardware store.You can send a sample of the soil to your local cooperative extension service or bring it to a garden center for testing.
 Use a pickaxe or a pitchfork to double dig the soil so the new garden beds grow well. Dig to a depth of 12 to 18 inches (31 to 45 cm). Remove rocks and roots in the plot., Depending on the pH of the soil, you will need to add organic matter to improve the soil’s fertility. Add organic matter like compost, animal manure, plant manure, and sea soil to adjust the pH so the plants grow well in the plot.Layer 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of organic matter over the plot. Dig or hoe the organic matter into the top 6 inches (15 cm) of the soil so it reaches the root systems of the plants.
 Use a garden fork or a rototiller to turn the soil once more. Break up any large chunks of soil and get rid of any stray rocks or roots. Turn the soil when the it is dry and not too wet. It should crumble easily when squeezed in your hand.
 Once the soil has been turned, it is prepared and ready for planting. If you are planting tall vegetables or plants like tomatoes and cucumbers, you will need to put up barriers around the plot to protect them from wind. Use fencing panels, hurdles, or a hedge to protect the plot.