 Mechanical exfoliation involves scrubbing your skin with some sort of abrasive pad or cloth, with or without any gritty compounds added. The simplest way to remove dead skin cells is scrubbing it with a moist or wet cotton facecloth. Cotton is soft and not especially abrasive, so you're removing dead skin mainly by friction. Rinse your skin with warm water prior to exfoliating to open up your pores a little better.


Other choices include sponges, such as loofahs (a rough fibrous sponge made from the dried fruit of a tropical plant) and cellulose sponges, as well as special skincare brushes, pieces of pumice and microfiber cloths.If you have sensitive skin, choose a microfiber pad or cloth that's not too abrasive. Normal and oily skin can handle loofahs and rougher exfoliators.
Pumice stone is more appropriate for thicker skin on the heels of your feet and calluses of your hands.
Always moisten a scrubbing pad or cloth first, then rub your skin in circular motions. Don't spend too much time in one place or else you might irritate your skin.;
, Once you've selected an exfoliating pad or device appropriate for your skin type and body area you want to exfoliate, then you might want to add a gritty compound for better results and a deeper clean. There are many cream-based products that contain abrasive materials, such as salt crystals, raw sugar granules, pumice particles, micro-beads and finely crushed almond shells or apricot kernels.


Ask your dermatologist for a recommendation based on your skin type and budget. Effective exfoliating creams don't have to be expensive.
According to dermatologist Elizabeth Tanzi, people with sensitive skin should avoid using scrubs with abrasive compounds because it can lead to excessive irritation.Stick with some warm soapy water and a soft facecloth or sponge.
A simple and inexpensive home remedy involves making a paste with baking soda by adding some water. Add the paste to your pad, cloth or sponge and gently exfoliate your skin in circular motions.
Focus on exfoliating rough, dry patches on your skin where your complexion is dull, flaky or uneven., Microdermabrasion essentially involves gently sanding your skin (typically your face) to remove the top layer of skin cells, so it's considered a type of exfoliation also.Microdermabrasion devices are typically coated with fine crystals or crushed diamonds on the tips to remove skin and buff it to improve your complexion. The therapy is also used to remove pimples, warts, moles and other non-cancerous growths.


Make an appointment with your dermatologist for a microdermabrasion treatment for your face or feet. The sanding is not painful and typically takes between 30-40 minutes to treat your entire face.
Microdermabrasion is also performed by many estheticians, as well as some massage therapists. Microdermabrasion devices and machines are widely available for home use.
Like all other forms of exfoliation, a skin moisturizer should be applied after the microdermabrasion treatment.
 In addition to mechanical or physical exfoliation with pads, sponges and gritty products, chemical exfoliation is also effective for removing dead skin cells. Commonly used chemical exfoliators include alpha-hydroxy acids (AHAs), beta-hydroxy acids (BHAs), glycolic acid, citric acid and salicylic acids.These acids essentially dissolve dead skin cells and also clean the pores of debris and oils.


Prescription products have higher concentrations of acids and are applied by dermatologists, whereas over-the-counter products have lower concentrations and can be used at home.
Daily application of exfoliating acids with cotton cleaning pads is okay for most skin types, unless your skin is especially sensitive. Don't leave acids on your face for much more than a few minutes to avoid irritation.
For oily and acne-prone skin, daily use of a glycolic acid cleanser with an exfoliating pad is recommended.You can also get pads that are pre-soaked with AHAs and BHAs.
Use of glycolic acids can increase your skin's sensitivity to the sun, so always apply a good sunscreen after treatments if you're heading outside.
 Applying enzymes to your skin can also remove dead skin and the surface layer of living skin by dissolving the glue-like compound that holds skin cells together.These fruit-based enzyme products are gentle and non-abrasive to your skin. Like exfoliating acids, digestive enzymes are applied with cotton cleaning pads or something similarly soft.


Enzyme-based products should be left on for more than just a few minutes to allow the protein to be dissolved. Aim for at least 15 minutes or so and then rinse off with water. No scrubbing is needed.
Fruit enzymes are often found in cleansing facial masks, which are meant to unclog pores and remove dead skin.
Fruits that contain protein enzymes include pineapple, papaya, kiwifruit and figs.
 A chemical peel is an acidic solution applied to the skin (typically the face) that dissolves the outermost layer of cells, which peel off over the course of a few days.Chemical peels involve strong acids and remove both dead and living skin cells, which make them effective for not just exfoliation, but also for treating age spots, acne, sun damage and mild scarring.


Chemical skin peels can be considered as topical, moderate or deep. Deep peels may require you to miss work for a week or more while your skin sheds and recovers.
Estheticians can perform mild-to-moderate peels, whereas dermatologists are needed to perform or supervise deeper peels.
The acids used are typically concentrated glycolic acids, trichloroacetic acid (like bleach), salicylic acid, lactic acid, or a combination of acids called Jessner's peel.
Chemical peels cause an intense tingling or burning sensation and leave the skin looking bright pink afterwards.
 Shaving your skin is another form of exfoliation because it removes the surface layer of dead cells. As such, men incidentally exfoliate their face when they shave it, and women do the same when they shave their legs. Double-edged safety razors and straight razors are more effective at removing dead skin cells than electric razors.


Always apply a moisturizing shave cream as a lubricant before shaving your skin in order to avoid abrasions and small cuts.
Apply a warm towel to your skin to open the pores and get the hair to stand up more.
Shave in the direction the hairs grow, not "against the grain," in order to avoid ingrown hairs and skin irritation.
Women should be warned that shaving their face might make their skin feel more coarse because of the hair stubble as it grows back., Another form of hair removal that also exfoliates dead skin cells is waxing. Hot wax can be applied to virtually any body part to remove hair, but it should not be thought of as a viable replacement for other exfoliating techniques.Properly exfoliating your skin with one of the above-mentioned methods before waxing will help prevent ingrown hairs and bumps on your skin.


Thoroughly remove all wax with a cleaner, otherwise it can clog and trap wax and other debris within skin pores.
Waxing causes skin pores to open, which can leave them vulnerable. As such, after cleaning your skin, rinse in cold water to close your pores.
Waxing is usually done every 2-8 weeks to remove hair, which is not frequent enough to rely upon for exfoliation.
 Another potential way of exfoliating your facial skin is applying a facial mask primarily meant for cleansing. The masks can be made of clay or gels that dry hard and then peel off. Although facial mask can contain acids, they typically exfoliate by simply pulling dead skin off by sticking to it. Clay masks draw dirt, oil and dead cells out of the pores and then the clay is rinsed off.


Clays used for facial masks include bentonite (volcanic origin and rich in magnesium), French pink clay (great for sensitive skin), red clay (rich in iron), green clay (rich in copper and other minerals) and white clay (also called Kaolin).Facial masks often combine herbal compounds, such as cucumber, mint, green tea or citrus for deeper cleansing power, but it doesn't affect the degree of exfoliation.

