 Use your fingertips or nails and see if it will simply roll back. If so, all done. If not, move on to the next step.









These solutions should work for most smooth surfaces, including wood, metal, and stone. Do not use these on glass or plastic, however.
Always spot test a solution on a hidden part of the material to make sure it won't damage it, especially when working with something abrasive or corrosive, like acetone. If the spot test clears, you should be good to go.
 Add liquid dish soap to warm water, then soak a cloth in the mixture. Lay the cloth over the glue and let it sit for several hours.








You may need to cover the cloth with plastic wrap to keep it moist.
Try scraping away the glue again once it softens.
 Pulling glue off a finished wood surface risks lifting the surface with it, so some subtlety is required. The harsh acetone can also damage some stone and metal surfaces if you aren't careful.








Dip a cleaning rag into acetone or nail polish remover. You can also use a toothbrush -- just make sure no one uses the brush for their teeth afterward!
Rub the dampened part over the glue. For small areas, stick your finger behind the rag and use it to direct circular motions. For larger stains, swirl around with more of the cloth surface area coming into contact with the stain.
Use a rubber or silicone spatula to lift the glue off. Hopefully the acetone will help lift up edges of the glue and you can slide the spatula in under the edge and keep working at it till all the glue is removed.
Wash the area with soapy warm water to remove the acetone. For furniture, polish the furniture with beeswax or olive oil.
 If you don't have acetone nail polish remover or want a slightly less corrosive solution, consider using lemon juice. Apply the lemon juice to the glue in a similar fashion.









Apply a small amount of lemon juice to the glue using a scrap toothbrush dedicated to household cleaning. Using the brush, work the juice around in circles over the glue until the adhesive starts to lift.
Similarly, you may have success with rubbing alcohol.
 Provided the surface isn't painted, this might lift the glue. Dampen a cloth with the oil and rub on the glue stain until it lifts. Wash the oil off with warm soapy water and polish to complete.









This option works especially well with unpainted wood.
 In some instances, sanding the area may be the best option. Place masking tape around the glue stain, to protect the areas around it. Then sand over the glue until it lifts. Restore the sanded area with oil, varnish, or paint, whatever finish the wood originally had.








