 First remove any nail polish you may be wearing so you can better see the extent of the break and proceed in fixing it. The type of nail polish remover you use will depend upon the kind of nail polish you are wearing. For example, if you’re wearing really dark polish or glitter, you’ll need an acetone remover. Dampen a cotton ball, pad or cloth with the remover and wipe in the direction of the break so it doesn’t snag and get worse.A note on acetone nail polish remover: In general, acetone removers should not be used on natural nails because it will dry them out, causing them to break more easily. They also shouldn’t be used on acrylics or other types of artificial nails.
 Use small nail or sewing scissors, if you have them, to cut a piece of scotch tape that is just larger than your nail bed. Now cut that piece into the shape of your nail bed. You might find it easier if you hold the tape with a pair of tweezers. Your shaped piece of tape likely won’t be perfect. It’s better, in fact, for it to be a bit smaller and not touch your cuticle and the skin on the sides of your nail than for it to be too large. It’s also better for it to be a little long and hang over the end of your nail at this point., Using either your fingers or a pair of tweezers, place the piece of shaped tape on your nail bed. Use the pad of another finger to press it into place before gently smoothing it out to get rid of any air bubbles or wrinkles., Using your scissors or a pair of nail clippers, trim off some of the excess tape at the top of your nail. Next use a nail file with a fine grit and file the top lightly, in the direction of the break, to even out the tape with the tip of your nail. Run your fingernail under cool water to get rid of any excess dust or material and pat dry with a clean cloth., This step isn’t necessary but recommended, especially if you don’t plan to do a more permanent nail repair. Apply 1-2 layers of nail polish, nail strengthening polish or a base coat to the nail. Make sure you wait 2 minutes between applications. If the rest of your nails are painted, paint this nail, too. Nails are dry when you can put them to your lips, and they are cool and no longer sticky or tacky., When you’re ready to remove your temporary nail "band-aid," soak a cotton ball in acetone fingernail polish remover, stick your finger in it for about a minute so that it soaks into the tape, pull out your finger and gently peel off the tape in the direction of the break. The scotch tape may come off on its own when you take off your nail polish with an acetone remover.