 Before you rush into getting a title loan, consider alternative options like asking a friend or family member for a loan. Getting a loan from a trustworthy friend can make you feel less stressed about borrowing the money. They may also give you a better deal on interest than what you would get through a loan service.

If you do decide to pursue a title loan, always be aware of the terms of the loan and your payment plan. Be prepared to pay back the loan on time.;
, A title loan is a loan in which your car title is used as collateral. You do not need good credit for a title loan, but if you fail to repay the loan you will lose your car. Depending upon your state of residence and the condition of your vehicle, the maximum amount of the loan may vary from $1,350-$25,000.The car will need to be in your name and you will need the title of the car for the loan application. The title of your car will need to be free of outstanding loans in order for you to get a loan.
You do not need to give up your car to get a title loan with Check Into Cash.
Check Into Cash offers this service in: Alabama, Arizona, California, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, Ohio, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, and Wisconsin.
 Go to the Check Into Cash website and get a quote for how much you get on the title loan based on the value of your car. Fill out the title loan quote form to get an estimate online.


You can also do an online assessment of the value of your car using the “What’s My Car Worth?” tool on Check in Cash.com.
 Search online to find a Check in Cash location near you. Bring the following documents in person to the store to complete the loan:Government-issued photo ID, such as your Driver’s License or your passport
Proof of residence, such as a bill with your address on it or rent agreement
Proof of income, such as your most recent pay check
The title of your car

, The interest rate for the loan will depend on which state you live in. The interest rate can vary from 260.71% to 782.14% on a 14-day loan, dependant on state guidelines. Check Into Cash charges a flat rate that factors in interest, rather than a regular interest rate. Make sure you are aware of the interest rate for the loan before you agree to it.You will likely need to be able to pay the flat interest rate, in addition to the loan, back based on the term date of the title loan. Failure to do so can result in your losing your car and damage your credit rating.
 Title loans usually process right away when done in person at a Check In Cash location. You can then arrange to receive the loan into your bank account via Western Union.

Once you receive the title loan, you should make a plan to pay back the loan in installments over a set period of time. This will ensure you are not charged high interest rates and that you can keep the title to your car.

