 There are two ways to warm up your gel wax do the desired temperature: a pouring pot on the stove or a glass measuring cup in the oven. Both ways require patience.









If you want to use a pouring pot, cut up the gel into sizable pieces and place in the pot, on a low to medium flame. Let the gel wax melt until it becomes a thick, liquid syrup consistency. Using the thermometer, do not allow the gel wax to get hotter than 230 F (110 C).If you are going to use the oven, preheat it to 225 F (107 C). While your oven is warming, cut or chunk off the desired amount of gel wax. When the oven is heated, place the gel wax into the glass container and carefully set it in the oven. Let the gel wax melt in your oven for approximately one hour. Check the temperature of the gel wax periodically using your thermometer to ensure the gel wax is at the correct level of heat.Keep a constant eye on your wax. Do not let it exceed temperatures of 230 F--it may burn and turn yellow, not to mention be hazardous.

;
, Do this while the wax is melting. Though you don't necessarily need a tab, it does ensure things don't go awry.









Place a small dab of hot glue at the bottom of your container. Take an individual tabbed wick and place it on the spot, holding it for 15-20 seconds. This ensures it remains exactly how you want it.
If you don't use a tab, wrap the top of your wick around a pencil and place it on top of your container to hang it freely, yet stabilizing it.
 You have a number of different options for color and timing that will all result in different looks. Add fragrance while heating, and color now if you want a uniform look.









Use a fragrance that's hydrocarbon compatible and non-polar. If you made your own gel wax, test 1 part fragrance with 3 parts mineral oil.If it mixes in nicely, it's fine. If you bought your gel wax from a store, separate a bit and test the dye before possibly ruining the batch.
Adding the color now will create a monotone candle. The color will be evenly spread throughout all the layers.
Adding the color when just poured into the container will create a swirling effect.
Adding the color once the gel is mostly cooled will create a ring around the top.
You can also add color layer by layer, either in the pan (pour a bit, add color, pour a bit, add color), or in the container. The tone will get richer with each layer.

