 Your body requires a balanced diet to support optimal functioning. Unfortunately, most of us don’t eat a diet complete with all of the vitamins and minerals necessary. To make sure you get enough, take a high-quality multivitamin each day to help reduce your overall health risk and support bodily functions.Ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nutritionist for recommendations about which brand of vitamin to take. Not all multivitamins are the same, and because they are not regulated by the FDA, you want to make sure you are buying a brand you can trust.
 Multivitamins will help balance your vitamin intake, in order to reduce the effects of fatigue during menstruation. Although you may be taking a multivitamin, it may not meet all your requirements, depending upon your nutritional plan. It can be difficult to ensure you receive enough of all the right vitamins every day.


200 mg of magnesium daily has been shown to reduce symptoms of PMS and fluid retention.The addition of vitamin B6 with magnesium reduced the severity of symptoms of PMS, including fatigue, in a study performed on over 150 women.Take 1200 mg of calcium carbonate each day. In studies of women between 18 and 45 years of age, this dose of calcium carbonate supplement was found to decrease symptoms of PMS, including fatigue.In other studies, the use of L-tryptophan was demonstrated to reduce the effects of PMDD, including fatigue, in women.However, L-tryptophan is not used without some risk. Side effects can include blurred vision, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, head twitching, hives, nausea, sweating and tremors. Do not add l-tryptophan to your treatment regimen or supplementation until you discuss your individual medical condition with your physician., Birth control pills can help reduce the effects of PMS and extreme fatigue by modulating the hormonal levels in your body during your menstrual cycle. Use the pill for three to four months to determine if it will have the effect you desire.


The pill will also lighten your period, help clear your skin and can reduce your risk of ovarian cancer. 