 Before going to any additional methods, try removing a stain the same way you would with a new stain. You may be able to get rid of the stain by simply soaking the fabric and then machine or hand washing it. If linen items are stored improperly or are put away with existing stains, it may be more difficult to remove the stains.


Fill up a bathtub or sink with cool water for soaking. Hot water needs an added cleanser to prevent stains from setting.
Every once in a while, check on the stain to see if it is being absorbed into the water.
To test the stain, lightly rub the material between your fingers to see if it's coming out. Be gentle so that you don't rub the stain into the fabric.
 If the stains persist through multiple soakings and washing, let the fabric sit in the sun for a few hours. Sunlight can also damage fabric and bleach too much, so it’s important to keep an eye out if your fabric begins to look too light. Remove your linens from the sun if they begin to fade beyond the original color.


You can put the linens out completely dry, or you can lightly mist them with a spray bottle filled with water, non-chlorine bleach, or any other liquid stain remover.Do not soak the fabric if you’re leaving it in the sun. It may create an unpleasant odor.
Vintage fabrics may become damaged from direct sunlight so use caution when deciding whether or not to put antiques in sunlight.
 It’s best to iron linen while it’s slightly damp.Once you have successfully removed a stain, you can safely apply heat to any of your linen items. Use the proper setting on your iron so that you don't cause any damage. By pressing fabric, it is then easier to store and less susceptible to damage and wrinkling.


Ironing a stain is a perfect way to seal the stain into the fibers.
Check your whole garment or fabric to make sure that there are no other hidden stains.
 No matter the age of a stain, putting linens that have been rescued from stains in the dryer is not advised. Use a drying rack, clothesline with clothespins, or a clothes rack to air out your linens.

