 If you're dealing with low sodium levels or are having difficulty managing them with lifestyle and dietary changes, it's important to speak with your doctor. They will be able to tell you how to appropriately and safely manage your condition.


Your doctor may prescribe different medications to help manage your low sodium levels. Always follow these directions prior to making any dietary or other lifestyle changes.
Ask your physician if there are changes you can make at home to help support a normal sodium level.
 If your low sodium level is due to vomiting, you may want to consider trying an over-the-counter anti-nausea medicine. Taking anti-nausea medicine to may help make sure that you stop the excessive loss of fluid due to vomiting.


When you vomit, you expel most of the contents of your stomach, including water, sodium and other electrolytes.If you are vomiting excessively, such as during a stomach flu or other bacterial illness, you may lose so much water and sodium that your sodium levels drop dangerously low.
In addition to anti-nausea medications, you may also want to consider natural ways to manage nausea and vomiting. Ginger tea, ginger soda and more small frequent meals can help reduce nausea and vomiting.Always talk to your doctor prior to taking any over-the-counter medications.
 Another common cause of low sodium levels is diarrhea. Taking an over-the-counter medication to help lessen or stop diarrhea can help you manage low sodium levels.Diarrhea causes your body to flush out a large amount of fluids. It doesn’t have the time to absorb the needed minerals, including sodium.Take anti-diarrheal medications to stop diarrhea and allow your body time to reestablish your sodium levels.
In addition to medication, there are some natural ways to manage diarrhea. Try including bland, non-fibrous foods like bananas, white rice and toast. Also avoid high fibrous foods and dairy as these can make diarrhea worse.Consult with your personal physician prior to taking any over the counter medications.

