 Many office printers can attempt to clear the jam themselves. Look for a button marked paper release or paper jam. Consult the user manual if you cannot identify every button.


This may be worth trying again later in the process, if you have managed to remove some paper but still can't print.
 Turn off the printer and let it finish its shutdown process. Wait a few moments, then turn it back on again. Sometimes a printer will clear the jam itself during its start-up cycle. Resetting a printer can get it to recheck the paper path and stop detecting a jam that is no longer there.
 Many printers have a small screen that displays a line or two of text. When jammed, such printers may try to give you an idea of where the jam is and what to do next. Follow the on-screen instructions and the user manual to reduce the chance of damaging your printer.
 Make sure the trays are loaded, but not overloaded, with paper. Sometimes too much or too little paper will register as a jam. Try to print again after reducing paper stacks below the recommended maximum for your model.
 Remove all paper from trays. Fully open all trays and access panels until you find the jam. If a panel won't open with gentle pressure, look for a release latch or consult the manual.



Warning: Do not reach into the printer while it is still on. This can cause serious injury.
Some drawer-style trays can be fully removed. Look for a release catch.
It may help to use a mirror when checking trays and panels in the back.
If possible, have the printer moved away from the wall to allow for more access.
 Turn off the printer. Allow to cool for at least thirty minutes, or confirm with your user manual that the mechanism around the paper jam is a safe temperature.


For added safety, unplug the printer.
 When you find the paper, slowly pull it out with both hands. If you have a choice, tug from the end with the most paper sticking out. Do not use force, since tearing the paper could cause more problems.


If you cannot remove it, contact the people in charge of the office printer's repair.
 Dirty mechanisms are a less common cause than actual paper jams, but cleaning may be worth a try if you don't see any stuck paper. Refer to the owner's manual to avoid causing harm.
 Attach all trays and close all panels before you turn on the printer. After turning it on, give it time to finish its start up cycle.
 Some printers remember an unfinished print job and try again automatically. For other models, you may have to send the job again.


If the readout has an error message, consult the user manual to interpret it.
 Office printers are expensive, fragile pieces of equipment, and some problems are not easy to repair without specialized tools and knowledge. Typically, the office has a contract with a maintenance and repair service. Contact this service and request an inspection.

