 Cats often eliminate outside of the litter box if it isn’t clean enough for them. If you have a cat that always seems to use the litter box right after you clean it, this could be a sign that this cat is the culprit.

If this is the case, start cleaning the litter boxes more regularly to help alleviate the problem.
 If a cat is unhappy about its litter box situation, it may act out aggressively toward other cats in the home. If one of your cats seems to be acting out towards your other cats or is being irritable in general, you might be concerned that this is the cat with the litter box problem.Monitor how your cats interact with each other and look for signs of aggression.
Also keep an eye on which cat is being victimized most often. A victimized cat may fear going to the litterbox because it may be ambushed by the aggressive cat while using it., As you’re paying closer attention to your cats, see if one is acting a lot different than normal. Take the cat that’s acting differently to be examined by a veterinarian. There are certain medical problems like a urinary tract infection, kidney disease, or irritable bowel syndrome that may be causing your cat to avoid using the litter box.

If your vet recommends it, allow them to run necessary blood and urine tests on your cat.
Follow any medication instructions that your vet gives you., If your cat seems to pace in front of the litter box and meow at you, this could be a sign that it is displeased with the litter box situation.Eventually, the cat will begin to eliminate in inappropriate areas. But it may try to communicate with you about the problem first.
 Contact your veterinarian and ask about a non-toxic stain to help with this issue. You give it to your cats orally and it will show up in their urine when they eliminate in an inappropriate spot. This dye is usually called fluorescein, though there are other varieties.Make sure you only give the stain to one cat at a time, otherwise you won’t be able to tell who has the problem.

