 The muscles that surround your eyes can be strengthened just like the other muscles of the body. Begin by partially closing your eyes; the lids should only be halfway shut. You'll notice that your upper eyelids will tremble with the effort. Focus your efforts on stopping this trembling.Hint: Stopping the trembling of your eye lids will be easier if you focus your gaze on objects further away.
After holding for 10 to 15 seconds, close your eyes very slowly. Take a few deep breaths to increase oxygen in the blood. As you inhale through your nose, imagine the fresh, oxygen-rich air coming through your nose and into the eyes. Then, exhale out through your mouth. Continue this breathing exercise for one to minutes.;
, By focusing on objects at different distances, you exercise your eyes in focusing at distances both far away and near as well as provide relief from eyestrain. There are two types of focusing exercises you can try:


Hold a pen at arm's length. Focus your gaze on the tip of the pen. Bring the pen closer to your nose at a slow and steady pace. Repeat this exercise 5-10 times.Concentrate your vision on the tip of your nose. Then shift your gaze to an object further away, either at arm's length or 20 feet away. Then shift your eyes back to the tip of your nose. Repeat this exercise 10 times.
Be inventive and challenge yourself. Choose objects at several different distances to focus your eyes on.
 These exercises stretch and strengthen specific eye muscles, those that move the eye from side to side. For instance, when looking to your right, you are using the lateral rectus of your right eye as well as the medial rectus of your left eye. When you look to your left, you use the lateral rectus of your left eye and medial rectus of your right eye.Sit in a relaxed but upright position. Begin by look to the left-most position (without moving your head) and hold to stretch your eye muscles. Hold for 5 counts. Blink and return your gaze back to look straight in front of you. Then look to the right-most position with your gaze and hold for 5 counts. Repeat 3 times, blinking between each hold. Make sure to move your eyes either during inhalation or exhalation; try not to hold your breath.
Then, repeat this exercise looking up and then down. Do not forget about blinking.
 As in the previous exercise, diagonal stretches require looking in a fixed position for a few seconds. There are additional muscles worked here, however. For instance, when looking up towards your left, you are using the superior oblique of your left eye and the inferior oblique of the right eye.Sit in a relaxed but upright position. Look up and to your right for 5 seconds. Return your gaze to center. Look up to and to your left for 5 seconds. Return your gaze to center. Look down and to your right for 5 seconds. Return your gaze to center. Look down and to your left for 5 seconds. Repeat 3 times.
 Imagine an infinity sign or horizontal figure eight in front of you. Trace the eight with only your eyes slowly, and about ten times, without moving your head. Blink between repetitions.
 One helpful way to do this is to imagine that you are looking at the number 12 on a clock. Then, follow the numbers around the clock with your eyes. Repeat going the other way around the clock.

