 If you are in a situation where someone (whether a spouse, family member, or someone you do not know) has physically harmed you, abused you, or threatened to harm you, you can get a restraining order from the court. Similarly, if you think that your children are being harmed or abused by whoever has custody of them, you may be able to get an emergency custody order to remove the children from the situation.


If you or your children are in immediate danger or are being stalked and harassed by someone who has threatened you with physical harm, you can get an emergency protective order from the court, which will go into effect more quickly than a restraining order. , If you file a restraining order, a judge will determine the specifics based on your unique situation. Some of the things that a judge can order are:


ordering abusers or stalkers to avoid any contact with you and/or your children, whether in person, by phone, by email or any other medium.
Ordering abusers or stalkers not to come within a certain distance of you and/or your children. Most commonly, this distance is 100 yards (91.4 m), but it can be extended well beyond that.
If you live with the abuser, the judge can order he or she to move out.
The judge can order that a police escort be present during any necessary contact with the abuser, such as when he or she returns to a shared living space to collect possessions.
 To get a restraining order, you must get the proper forms from the courthouse. Visit the courthouse in your county, the other party's county, or the county where the abuse took place, and ask the clerk for a request form for the type of restraining order you wish to file. While it's not mandatory to have a lawyer with you when you file a restraining order, it would be smart to get an attorney if possible, to answer any extra questions you have about your situation or help you fill out your forms.


If you have questions but prefer not to hire a lawyer, ask for help from court staff or an advocate, who may be able to answer your question.
Additionally, you can call a domestic violence hotline to ask about your options, and in some cases, the organization associated with the hotline can provide a lawyer for you. To speak with someone from the National Domestic Violence Hotline, call 1−800−799−7233 or 1−800−787−3224. For more information on how to get a restraining order, look at wikiHow’s guide on Getting a Restraining Order.

