 For this type of fort, you’ll want as many pillows, blankets, and sheets as you can find. You’ll also need several items of furniture that you can move around into a circle.Get an adult to help you with very heavy furniture such as dressers. Don’t try to move your bed, just build around it.
 The bed is probably too big and heavy to move, so just pull the other furniture into a ring using the bed as your starting place.


Chairs, desks, and tables work well, as do nightstands and dressers.
 If you want some light to come in, you can leave places such as under chairs open. For a completely secure fort, fill in all the holes.
 You’ll want the floor of your fort to be soft and cozy, so lay down some soft pillows. You can also use fluffy bath towels or down comforters, if you have them. If you use pillows, spread a blanket across all of them to create a solid floor.
 Use sheets to build your roof because they don’t weigh as much as blankets. Secure your roof sheets to the furniture using heavy objects such as books, as well as fasteners like clothespins and binder clips.


You can tuck the roof sheets into dresser drawers and secure them to the drawers with clothespins or binder clips. This will give you a higher, angled roof.
Tuck some roof sheets under your mattress for a secure hold.
If you used furniture with hard, flat surfaces such as desk tops and chair bottoms, you can hold the sheet onto them with a stack of books or another heavy item.
You can also pinch sheets between heavy furniture and the wall. Just tuck the sheet behind something heavy, like your headboard, and then push it all the way to the wall.
Use rubber bands or string to secure blankets and sheets to the tops of chairs that have protrusions or spindles, such as kitchen chairs.
 Bring some snacks and drinks into the fort. If you’ve used furniture like chairs or dressers, you can stash your supplies under the chairs or in the drawers. You may also want a flashlight, a laptop, and some books and games. A friend is always nice, too.

