 Without taking a washcloth and some cleanser to your face on a frequent basis, dirt and an unwanted excess of oils will build up on your skin; this includes your lips as well. Keeping your face clear of any gunk is a sure way to improve a general healthy appearance, as well as prevent many factors that may play into weakening the lustrous appearance of your lips.
 Much like exfoliating, there are plenty of homemade solutions you can conjure up for moisturizing your lips. Among the more popular of these recipes is a combination of glycerin and rosewater. Add the two in equal measure to a small bowl, and apply the solution to your lips. Leave it on overnight; that way, your lips will have ample time to absorb the nutrients. Rosewater is well-liked by makeup artists as it is a mild astringent; it is perfect for cleansing your lips of impurities like dirt and old makeup. As you might imagine, this has the effect of making your lips look fuller.


If you aren't the DIY type, prefabricated rosewater and glycerin mixtures can be found in a pharmacy or health section of your local supermarket.
 While coconut oil may be used in tandem with brown sugar as a great exfoliator, by itself it can be a great lip balm.Coconut oil contains many nutrients, such as vitamin E, which are great for moisturizing. Coconut oil is anti-microbial, anti-bacterial, and full of antioxidants; with so many benefits, it has grown popular as a beauty tool as much as a cooking ingredient. Applying a teaspoonful to your lips will help to moisturize and soften them. Because coconut oil is a solid at room temperature, first you'll need to heat it a little for it to become soft and pliable.
 Much like coconut oil, honey has a lot of great nutrients and antioxidants, which help prevent aging and UV damage. In other words-- a great choice when it comes to skin care! Take a dab and apply gently to your lips as you would with coconut oil or a conventional lip balm. Look for raw honey, as unpasteurized honey has more active nutrients and enzymes that will help keep your skin moisturized and radiant. Put it on before bed, and leave it on while you sleep; that way, it'll have the time to work its magic.
 The next time you're drinking green tea, extract the bag once the tea has steeped. Hold the teabag between your lips while you're waiting for your drink to cool. Done on a semi-casual basis, this little trick can go a long way towards revitalizing the look and feel of your lips!

, Massaging your lips regularly is a great way to encourage blood flow, thereby making your lips fuller. Massaging them gently for a few minutes each day is a great way to achieve bigger lips naturally. One of the best ways to do this is to rub your lips with ice cubes. This will relax the lip muscles and promote a redder, more radiant pigment.


If they're too cold to contact the skin directly, wrap the ice cubes in a clean washcloth.

