 Moisturizing conditioner is ideal for most African hair, especially if the hair is dry and brittle, and breaks easily when brushed. (If the hair stretches before breaking, read the instructions for protein conditioning, below.) The "moisturizing" label on the front is a good start, but it's best to look at the ingredients list and instructions:


Ingredients that contain protein should be avoided in a moisturizing conditioner. This includes amino acids, casein, cholesterol, collagen, keratin, oat flour, and panthenol.
If the directions say to leave on for 2-5 minutes and rinse, this is not a deep conditioner. Look for a product intended to be left on for at least 15–20 minutes.;
, A leave-in conditioner will keep your hair in good shape between washing sessions. Buy one in addition to the other treatment(s) you selected.


A moisturizing leave-in conditioner is usually the best choice for African hair.
 Now that you've selected your product, decide which type of treatment to use. One option is a steam treatment, which lifts and opens the cuticles on the hair strand, allowing your hair to absorb more conditioner. This is ideal for dry, brittle hair, but more than two steam treatments a month may cause hygral fatigue. Here's a step by step explanation:


Wash you hair and gently squeeze it until damp, but not soaking wet.
Rub in deep conditioner. Focus on the ends, which are the weakest point, but condition all the way to the roots as well. Do not apply on the scalp.
Sit under the hair steamer for one complete cycle. If you don't own one, wrap hair in a hot, wet towel and cover with a plastic bag or shower cap for 15-20 minutes.
Rinse out conditioner with cold water. This closes the cuticle layer again, laying them flat to seal conditioner in and let strands glide past each other with minimal tangling. This also gives the hair a nice sheen.
Apply a moisturizing leave-in conditioner, then style.
 Many people find this method uncomfortable, but it's a good choice if you have dry, coarse, brittle hair. Also, this method can be used more often than the steam treatment without causing damage. Apply as follows, starting in the late evening:


Wash hair and squeeze until damp.
Apply moisturizing conditioner. Never use a conditioner that contains protein, as this can harden the hair and break it if left in longer than instructed on the label.
Cover with the thermal cap. If you don't have a thermal heat cap, use a plastic cap covered in a beanie or bandana.
Sleep with the cap on.
Cold rinse in the morning and apply a moisturizing conditioner before styling.

