 If there is an outing you want to organize, a movie you want to see, or a crush you want to “bump into”, stretches of boring class time is great for planning it.


If you have access to your phone, you can text your friends, look up events near you, and organize rides and carpooling.;
, If you are extremely comfortable in a class, you can bring a small and un-disruptive puzzle, like a crossword, sudoku or small Rubik’s cube.


This can be a good time to build skills as well-- you can pick more challenging crosswords and more challenging number puzzles as you get more advanced in your distraction skills.
 If you can get away with using your phone in class, you can always text, but sometimes there’s nothing left to say, even to your best friends. At this point, it can be fun to start playing games using emojis.


Play pictionary. Try to get your friend to guess a phrase or situation by communicating it entirely in emojis. Try to use themes: describe a movie, a celebrity, or a country entirely in emojis.
Play connect four or tic tac toe using emojis. This game takes a lot of time and a lot of concentration, and it’s on your phone. This is best to do in a lecture-heavy class that does not require very much participation, and where blatant texting will go unnoticed.
 Make them wear a funny hat or give them a parrot and an eye patch. This can be done with speech bubbles as well. Instagram it and get famous.
 Music will still allow you to concentrate if you need to, but is distracting enough to make class go faster.
 If you use some of what you’re hearing in class, you can go off on a tangent without having to actually think of anything new.


Make puns using the most-used words in class and think up memes for them. Write a rap about how boring your class is, or about one of your classmates.
Replace the most commonly used vocab words with funnier ones, and swap them out in your notes so that it looks like you’re taking notes about something ridiculous. If you write down a code for your invented words, these will also function as notes.

