 The media is infamous for playing political sides. In fact, certain major news stations are known for being either more conservative or more liberal. Avoid watching them, as doing so can increase the amount of polarization you experience.


For example, Fox News is known for being conservative, whereas CNN leans more towards the liberal side. To be sure you're getting information straight from the source, count on watching interviews that allow politicians to express their views.To avoid developing polarizing views, try not to lean one way or the other, but spend time watching liberal, conservative, or third-party content with an open mind. Also, be sure to verify the information you receive from other reputable sources.
Keep in mind that each political party has their own echo chamber of information. Be aware that there are two sides to the story and be cautious about what you believe. Try to find multiple perspectives on an issue before making up your mind.
 People tend to surround themselves with those who share their political beliefs. As such, you may notice that the people you are friends with on social media have similar political stances. Stay away from, or reduce the amount of time you spend on social media sites to avoid seeing polarizing posts.


If you can’t break free of social media, use a filter tool to limit what you see. For instance, on Facebook, you can hide your friends’ posts without actually unfriending them.When things get tense, simply log out of your social media platforms for self-care. Do this if you feel like others' viewpoints are too upsetting or biased.
 The beauty of the Internet is that it gives people a place to express their views. This is also a double-edged sword because it is the perfect arena to create political polarization. You may inadvertently visit a person’s blog in which they freely discuss their own views, which can add to the feeling of separation you are experiencing.


If you must visit a news or political site, attempt to find one that isn’t biased. For instance, independent reporters or news sites are more likely to be unbiased than those that are ran by big companies.If you want to reduce political polarization, look for impartial, fact-based sources like FactCheck.org or Project Vote Smart.