 Facebook will only merge Pages if the Pages being merged meet certain criteria:


You must have "Manager" access for all the Pages being merged.
The Pages must have similar content. For example, you cannot merge a page representing a nongovernmental organization with one representing a record label.
The Pages must have similar names. For example, you could merge "Cool Page" and "Cool Page1", but you couldn't merge "Cool Page" and "Totally Different Page". If the names are dissimilar, change the name of one of the Pages so that they are nearly identical. Go to the page, click Edit → Update Page Info. Enter the new name into the "Name" field. You can only change the name if the page has less than 200 likes.
The Pages must have the same address if applicable.;
, If you are attempting to merge a Places page that was created by a customer, you will need to claim it for your company first. This will require proving that you are really a representative for that company.


To place a claim on a Places page, visit the page and click the menu ("...") button at the top of the page. Select "Is this your business?" and then fill out the form. You may be asked to provide documentation proving that you run the business. Once you have claimed the page, you can merge it with your main business's page.
 When you merge Pages, the page with the most likes will be kept, and the other Pages will be merged into it. The merged Pages will be permanently deleted, leaving only the page you chose with the followers, reviews, and check-ins migrated over.
 Any photos or posts on the merged page will be lost forever. Make sure to download any pictures you want to move over to your main page, and copy the text of any important posts.
 You will perform the merge action from this page. Open the Admin Panel for that page.
 Select "Edit Settings".
 This is located at the bottom of the menu. If this option is not available, then Facebook does not detect any Pages that are eligible for merging. Double-check that the page you want to merge meets all the criteria.
 A list of all detected duplicate Pages will be shown. Check the box next to each page that you want to merge with your main page. When you click the "Merge Pages" button, all of the followers, reviews, and check-ins will be added to your main page, while all of the content posted to the merged Pages will be deleted.


Merge request may take up to 14 days to be approved. You will be notified of a successful or unsuccessful merge through email.

