 You will need 1 gallon (3.8 liters) of milk. For best results, use grass-fed. whole milk.


You can also use 4 cups (950 milliliters) of milk and 2 cups (475 milliliters) of cream.;
, You can gauge the temperature by sticking a cooking thermometer into the pot, then clipping it to the side. If you don't have a thermometer, just wait until the milk starts to simmer. 180°F (83°C) is the temperature at which milk simmers.Don't let the thermometer touch the bottom of the pot.
 If you don't have any lemon juice, you can use white vinegar instead. This recipe will produce ricotta cheese as well. If you wish to eat the cheese, white vinegar may actually be the better of the two options.If you are using milk and cream, add ½ tablespoon (8.5 grams) of salt and 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) lemon juice or white vinegar instead., Cover the pot with a tight-fitting lid. Take it off of the burner and set it some place where it won't get disturbed. Leave it there for 20 minutes.
 Place a large strainer on top of a bowl. Line the strainer with a piece of cheese cloth. Scoop the curdles into the strainer with a spoon of ladle. Pour the rest of the liquid into a large pitcher or jar, and store it in the fridge.
 It's best if you place the bowl into the fridge for this step. It may take at least two hours for the whey to drain out, and you don't want the milk to spoil., Pour the whey (both from the pitcher and the bowl) into the trays that came with you dehydrator; you'll need about 1 cup (240 milliliters) per tray. Process the whey according to the instructions on your dehydrator. Each brand will be different, but for most dehydrators, it will be 12 hours at 135°F (58°C)., Pour all of the whey into a pot. Bring it to a boil over medium-high heat, then lower the heat to a steady boil. Let it cook until it becomes thick and clumpy. Spread it over a tray lined with parchment paper or wax paper, and let it cool off.Break it into tiny pieces, then let it dry for about 24 hours., You can do this with a blender or a food processor. You can even use a clean coffee grinder, if you have one. If your manually-processed whey still feels damp after this, you will have to spread it out again, let it dry another 24 hours, and then blend it once more., A mason jar would work great for this. Use the protein powder in protein shakes, cupcakes, bread, etc.

