 Taking unnecessary breaks will only eat up your limited exam time; make sure you use the washroom, fill your water bottle, and so on, before you enter the examination room or hall. Do your best to focus, and avoid letting your mind wander. If you are finished or convinced that you can’t answer anymore questions, stay and review your exam instead of leaving. Attempting to address questions you don’t know the answer to may leave you with extra marks, while leaving them blank will guarantee you get nothing.
 Check your watch or the nearest clock periodically to keep track of how much of the exam remains; to avoid looking up too often, check only when you finish a question or turn a page. If this is too distracting, take off your watch (or pull out your cellphone, if allowed) and place it directly in front of you. Note how long you are spending on each question and try to stick to the number of minutes you budgeted for each question; if you are taking too long on a question, flag it for later and move on.
 Worry is normal during an exam, but letting panic get the best of you can waste a lot of precious time. If you start to feel overwhelmed, give yourself a moment to collect yourself and calm your mind. To do this effectively, put down your pen or pencil, close your eyes, and focus on your breathing; try to think positive thoughts. Once you feel stronger, resume the exam., Ensure that you stay comfortable during the exam by bringing a bottle of water with you, and a sweater that you can easily put on or remove. Anxiety is linked to temperature changes in the body, meaning that your exam worry can cause symptoms that might distract you and impede your work. Some physical manifestations of anxiety that affect temperature are:


Vasoconstriction: when blood vessels tense up and cause the body to overheatSweating: the body's response to vasoconstriction (to cool your body down)Over-sensitivity: discomfort caused by heightened sensitivity to the hot or cold, Take a final opportunity to complete any questions that you don’t know the answer to, which may at least earn you a few extra points. Have a strategy in mind for completing these questions before you get to them. When “guessing”, remember that:


multiple choice answers that feel familiar are likely to be correct. choosing longer multiple choice answers over shorter ones is usually the best bet.the answers to difficult questions may be found in prior questions.