 If there are instructions on how to clean the brace, read them carefully to ensure that you don't damage the fabric or structure. The fabric of your brace needs to remain both strong and flexible in order to support your wrist during daily activities or exercise.


You can find these instructions on the brace itself or enclosed within the product packaging.
Usually these instructions will include specific information about the proper washing temperature, proper chemical detergents, and safe drying techniques.;
, In order to wash the brace, you’ll need: laundry detergent, a clean cloth, a large bowl, and a colander. Gathering your supplies in advance will save you time and energy.


Use only mild detergent, in order to protect the synthetic fibers of your brace and the skin of your hands.
You may substitute 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of dish soap for laundry detergent., Most powdered detergents are designed for use with warm water, and warm water is recommended for man-made materials, as it removes stains and dirt with a lower chance of shrinking your brace than hot water.You can also try a coldwater detergent as a more eco-friendly option, as a number of coldwater alternatives are equally efficient at cleaning fabrics., Make sure that the detergent fully dissolves to avoid leaving residue on the brace, which could damage the fabric quality and irritate your skin.
 Move with care and attention to your injury or pain, as your wrist will no longer have the support of the brace.
 The chemicals in your detergent may damage or rust the metal components of the brace. Take note of the proper location for the metal splints so that you can replace them correctly after washing., Using the cloth, instead of just your hand, will reduce your exposure to potentially harsh chemicals and will ensure a more thorough clean.


Avoid vigorous rubbing that may damage the fibers of the brace.Pay attention to small, hidden areas, especially between the finger area, to fully remove dirt and bacteria.
 If your faucet has a sprayer, place the brace in the colander and rinse. If not, submerge the brace in a clean bowl of water and squeeze the water through until clear.Rinse completely: residue remaining in the brace could irritate your skin.
Avoid using running water, as the force of the water may stretch the fabric and reduce its effectiveness., Avoid "wringing," or twisting while squeezing, in order to prevent damaging the brace. Twisting can pull the fibers of the fabric apart and weaken the brace's support structure.Lay the brace flat on a dry towel, then gently roll the towel and brace together to remove more water.Avoid hanging to dry, as the weight of the water may stretch the fabric. Do not dry the brace in direct sunlight, as the artificial materials of the brace can shrink when exposed to hot temperatures, and the UV rays of the sun may bleach or lighten the colors of the brace., The synthetic fabric will dry quickly in just a few hours, although be sure check interior of any splint pockets to ensure they are thoroughly dry. Dampness in those slots could damage the metal components and decrease the long-term usability of the brace.

