 Most airlines have very similar interview questions they will use for all applicants, but the airline you are applying to work for may have more specific requirements. Do an online search for interview questions for the specific airline you are applying to work for and be sure to read online forums of applicants who have gone through the interview process for that airline and have proved successful by landing a position. Many airlines will use very similar questions, such as:“Why do you want to join our airline?”
“Why did you decide to become a flight attendant?”
“Tell us about yourself.”
“What are your career goals?”
“Why should we hire you? Tell us more about your qualifications for this job.”
“How would you handle a disagreement between passengers on a flight?”
“How would you handle a situation where an passenger breaks basic flight rules, such as refusing to put on his seat belt or refusing to straighten his seat?”
“Tell us about a stressful situation where you had to use your communication skills and your problem solving skills. How did you handle this situation and resolve it?”;
, To prepare yourself for the interview, you should take the time to write down answers to several sample questions. Try to come up with detailed, specific answers to the questions that are honest and genuine. Use real life examples to back up your answers and focus on being personable. Showing the interviewers you personality and your energy should impress them and make you stand out from the other applicants.


For example, if you are answering the question, “Tell us about yourself”, try to be specific and interesting without rambling or being too general. You may respond, “I’m a born and bred Californian with a passion for adventure, meeting new people, and surfing on my days off. I also paint and write in my spare time and volunteer at my local animal shelter. In my previous job, I was recognized for my excellent customer service skills and my ability to think quickly on my feet. I enjoy solving problems and handle stress well, especially when I know I can be supported by my peers and co-workers. I also like having a flexible work schedule and feel this position would be a good fit for me.”
For a question such as, “Why should we hire you? Tell us more about your qualifications for this job.” You may respond with a general note on your key skills and qualifications, supported by a specific instance in a previous job or role where you had to demonstrate these skills and qualifications. For example, your response may be: “I think I would make a great flight attendant because I am passionate about providing excellent customer service and making people feel welcome. I am also a strong problem solver and enjoy the challenges of working on my feet and being social with my peers and with passengers. In my previous role, my employer would compliment me on my desire to help others and make them feel comfortable, despite high stress levels due to under-staffing or overwhelming client needs, and I think I can apply that drive and passion to this role.”

, It’s one thing to write down your answers to these questions and it’s another to be able to respond to them in person out loud. Get better at face to face interviewing by enlisting the help of a friend, roommate, or partner, and ask them to quiz you on several sample questions. Work on responding confidently and naturally to these questions while still providing well rounded answers.


When responding to sample questions in person, you should try to set up to the area to closely resemble the setting of the interview, with your partner sitting at a table and you sitting in a chair in front of the table. This can help you get more comfortable with the interview setting and project confidence as you answer the sample questions.
 While you want your personality and warmth to stand out during the interview, you do not want your outfit to be too loud, bold, or showy. Many airlines put a lot of time and effort into their dress code so do some research on the airline’s dress code for flight attendants and wear an outfit to your interview that matches the dress code.Skip bright colors and prints and go for a suit in a neutral color like dark blue or black. Women should wear skirts that are no higher than an inch above the knee with pantyhose and low high heels. Men should wear a well fitted suit with a clean white collared shirt and dress shoes.
 Present a clean, fresh professional appearance by being well groomed and smartly put together. For men, that means clean shaven, with well groomed hair and no dangling or heavy jewelery. For women, that means a sleek updo or a low ponytail and nails that are neat and well groomed.Women should wear clean, simple makeup that includes blush, mascara, and lipstick. Do not put on any elaborate or heavy makeup and keep your accessories minimal, with stud earrings and a small watch. You can finish your look with a simple necklace or a scarf.
 Present a put together appearance by organizing all your documents into one folder, including your resume, your cover letter, and your letters of reference.If you are required to bring any other documents to the interview, be sure to include them in the folder. This will save you from having to rifle through papers on the day of the interview and cut down on your stress levels the morning of the interview.
 This may seem obvious but a good night’s sleep the day before the interview can really help you mentally and physically prepare for the interview. Have an early night in and get ready for bed early so you get at least eight to nine hours of sleep. This will allow you to perform at your very best during the interview.
 Do not be the applicant who rushes into the interview five minutes late. Make an effort to be ten to fifteen minutes early for the interview so you can get settled in the interview location and present a professional look.Make sure you bring your folder of necessary documents with you, as well as mints or gum to freshen your breath for the interview.
 Your interview will likely be with several other applicants or you may be in a waiting room with other applicants waiting for your turn. Chat and be friendly with the other applicants as a way to calm your nerves and show your friendly side. You will likely be observed and rated on your ability to interact with the other applicants as an indication of your people skills. Give the other applicants warm smiles and introduce yourself.Start a conversation with the other applicants by asking them where they flew in from or how they heard about the interview. Break the ice by joining in existing conversations and try to get to know the other applicants. Demonstrate politeness and good manners to the other applicants while you wait, as this will likely be noted by the reviewers.
 Be personable as soon as you step into the interview setting. Give firm handshakes and repeat someone’s name when they introduce themselves to help you remember their names. Recalling the interviewers’ names later will show you have good attention to detail and care about recognizing someone by name.You should also hand over the folder of documents to the interviewers for review and show off a big smile and a genuine deposition. Though you may feel nervous, try to be yourself and let your personality shine through.
 Be assertive but not aggressive when you answer questions, and try to give off warmth and positivity. Avoid using negative terms like “not”, “no”, and “never”. You want the reviewers to see that you can display warmth and energy, even when faced with difficult or challenging questions.Try to speak slowly and clearly when you are answering questions. Take deep breaths as you speak and pause if you feel you are speaking too fast. You can also break up your speech with smiles and laughter, as you want to show you can bring joy to the room.
If you are in a group interview setting, you should raise your hand to speak and speak up, as you will need to distinguish yourself from the other applicants in the room. You should also listen respectfully when the other applicants are speaking and comment on one thing another applicant mentioned when they spoke as a jumping off point for what you are going to say. This will show you are paying attention to what the other applicants have to say and are not trying to dominate the conversation.
 This means keeping your body positioned towards the interviewer or the person asking you questions, with your hands relaxed by your sides or in your lap and your legs crossed in a calm, relaxed pose. Avoid crossing your arms over your chest or averting your head away from the speaker.You should also maintain eye contact with the interviewers, scanning from face to face as you speak. Avoid staring at one person only during the interview, as you want to show you are conscious enough and confident enough to look at the other people in the room as well.
 All flight attendants are expected to greet all passengers when they are boarding or departing a flight. You can demonstrate you know how to do this by ending the interview with a friendly thank you and that you look forward to seeing her again.

You should then follow up with the interviewers one week after your interview if you do not hear from them. Most airlines will notify you within a week if you have been offered a position.

