 Goals should relate to the child's passions and desires in some way for them to be meaningful. They should also be short and measurable, so that kids can feel like they achieve them. Work with gifted students to set their own goals, so that they can have the motivation to achieve.For instance, say a kid wants to win a reading award at the library because they want to be part of the pizza party. While that's an extrinsic goal, it can work to motivate the child. The key is to break it into smaller goals. If the child needs to read 40 books over the course of a year, set the goal at one book a week, with a chart set up to see how they are working towards their long-term goal as well.
 Many gifted kids need to understand why something is useful before they want to put drive into learning it. Maybe it's useful on a social-cultural level, but it will likely connect better with students if it has a more utilitarian purpose.For example, a child may not be able to see how math is useful to their everyday life or their long-term goals. However, say the child wants to be a vet. Explain that vets need math to help their furry patients, as vets need to do things like calculate medication dosages. In other words, connect what their learning to what they want in life.
In the short term, help kids see how math is used in everyday life. For example, math is useful in things like cooking, figuring out a tip, calculating how much something costs (adding on tax), and playing physical games (geometry).
 Sometimes, the best way to show a kid why something is useful is to let them learn through that practical application. This approach is often used in science class, where kids learn a concept, then apply it through an experiment. However, in other subjects, kids may not be getting the same sort of motivation. Try to attach what kids are learning to practical applications to help motivate them.


For example, if you're teaching kids about persuasive letters, consider having them write to a local politician about something they care about. It will help connect the activity to something in real life.
If you are a parent, discuss your daily responsibilities with your child and how learning provided you with the tools to take care of these responsibilities.
 Even young kids have dreams of what they want to be, and they can be motivated by those dreams. What they are learning and achieving now affects what classes they can be in later. In turn, that affects what colleges they can get into. Helping kids to see how their achievement level now affects their future can provide motivation.Arrange for the gifted child to talk with an older child, college student, or new graduate. This will get them excited about their future and also underscore the importance of learning for the future.

