 Place the double boiler on the stove and heat over medium-low heat, enough to make the water hot but not boiling. Do not attempt to mix your organic sunscreen over direct heat using a standard sauce pot.;
, Slowly heat and stir the two ingredients together with a heat resistant spoon until both have melted into a liquid state and have combined.


Beeswax makes your sunscreen water resistant, and coconut oil has a natural SPF between 4 and 6.
 Use the same spoon to stir them into the mixture over medium-low heat until thoroughly combined.


Almond, sesame, and avocado oils all have a natural SPF of 4 and all have moisturizing properties that help prevent sun-exposed skin from drying out.
 Lift the top portion of the double boiler out of the bottom portion and set it down on a heat resistant surface.
 Stir rigorously, with a spoon, to combine. Do not add the shea butter to the mixture before removing it from the heat because shea butter that gets too hot develops a grainy texture.


Shea butter has a natural SPF that ranges between 6 and 10.
, Stir the mixture vigorously until the powder has completely dissolved. Zinc Oxide has no harmful effects when used topically, but inhaling the substance as a powder can be hazardous to your throat and lungs, which is why you must wear a mask when using it. Sunscreens that use Zinc Oxide are the most effective, but if you are strictly against the use of any chemical additives, this step may be omitted.
 Use a low heat to prevent the ingredients from burning, and stir them constantly with a heat resistant spoon. Continue heating and stirring until the aloe gel turns into a liquid and combines with the oil.


Vitamin E oil nourishes and moisturizes the skin, and aloe vera is a cooling agent that can relieve your skin when it feels hot.
 Do not allow the gel to re-solidify, however. This second mixture should still remain in a liquid state.
, For best results, mix the two liquids together using an electric mixer. Otherwise, use a whisk to beat the liquids together.
 Whisk or beat the oils in.


You can use just about any essential oil you want, but carrot seed oil and rose oil are both valued for their aromatic properties, and both have a natural SPF of about 30. You can also mix and match essential oils as long as the resulting smell suits your personal preferences.
 Plant oils tend to be sensitive to light, so the jar must be dark. Glass works best because it is the least reactive material.
 It should solidify within a few hours and be ready for use the following day. When properly stored, this sunscreen should last up to six months.

