 Combine 1 cup (237 ml) distilled or purified water with 1/2 tsp (2.5 g) natural salt and 1/2 tsp (2.5 g) baking soda. Shake or stir the ingredients together in a clean container.


Distilled water is ideal, but if you opt for tap water, boil it first to remove any impurities. Allow the water to cool to lukewarm temperatures before use.
Only use sea salt, pickling salt, canning salt, or other unprocessed non-iodized salt. Do not use table salt.
 Natural anti-inflammatory additives can help minimize the inflammation causing your stuffy nose and may reduce any stinging caused by the nasal rinse itself.


Ghee is one possible anti-inflammatory. Add 1 tsp (5 ml) to the saline solution and mix well.
Warm milk and glycerin can also be used to make the rinse more soothing. Add 1 tsp to 1 Tbsp (5 ml to 15 ml) of either option to the rinse.
Xylitol can also make the solution sting less. Additionally, it can help kill candida, making it helpful if you are battling a sinus infection. Add 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) to the solution.
 If you're dealing with sinus troubles caused by viruses and bacteria, adding something with natural antiseptic properties can help your body fight off infection.


Apple cider vinegar, colloidal silver, grapefruit seed extract, and raw Manuka honey are all natural remedies believed to have antiviral and antibiotic properties. With any of these additives, start by only mixing in one to two drops. Using more can increase stinging or cause further complications.
Alternatively, you could try using 1/4 to 1/2 tsp (1.25 to 2.5 ml) hydrogen peroxide.This can be especially helpful if you are diagnosed with an actual sinus infection, but you should not use hydrogen peroxide with any other antiseptic additive. It is also recommended that you use hydrogen peroxide with xylitol powder to help minimize the irritation it can cause., Certain essential oils can help clear or soothe your nasal passageways, but since many are so concentrated, they can also cause burning and further irritation.


Eucalyptus, peppermint, frankincense, and rosemary are all safe and may help relieve sinus pressure and associated pain.Only use one at a time, however, and mix in no more than one drop with a standard batch of saline solution.
Do not use oregano oil. Even in small amounts, oregano oil will be too strong and will likely cause severe irritation or pain.
As a general rule, it's best to only use essential oils you're already familiar with. Use pure essential oils, and do your research to verify that a particular oil is safe to use internally.
 After preparing the solution, draw it into a clean bulb syringe. Insert the tip of the syringe into your nostril and carefully squeeze the solution through your nasal passageways.


Tilt your head downward over a sink and rotate it slightly to the left.
Insert the tip of the filled syringe into the right nostril, aiming it toward the back of the head.
Squeeze the bulb to spray the solution into your nostril. After several seconds, the solution should run out of your left nostril or mouth.
Repeat the same procedure for the left nostril.
 Repeat this procedure two to four times daily. Continue for up to seven days, or stop sooner if your symptoms subside.


Clean the syringe in between each use.
Typically, saline solution can be held for three days if kept in a covered container at room temperature. Discard the solution earlier if it turns cloudy or smells strange.

