 Dip your brush into the acrylic liquid and then into the acrylic powder to create a bead. An oval brush is best for creating roses. Try using an oval size 6 Kolinsky brush if possible.Place the acrylic bead on a non-stick work surface, such as on a piece of aluminum foil.Press out the bead until it forms a rose petal.








To create a rose petal shape, press and shape the bead into a half-moon shape with a bit of a curve to the center part (the inner part of the petal). As you press and shape the petal, try to make the central part of the petal a little thinner than the outer part.
Make a second rose petal in the same fashion.
 The first two petals will form the outer edges of the rose. After you have made two petals, you can begin to assemble them on your nail. Pick up one of the petals and place it on the nail. Make sure that you shape the petal so that it is curving at the center and the outer edge is raised slightly.








Use a little acrylic liquid and powder on the inner part of the petal to help make it stick.
Apply the second petal in the same way, but make sure that the petals overlap slightly. You will continue to layer petals onto the nail in this way to create the rose shape.
 Keep making rose petals and layering them onto the nail until your rose is complete. As you layer more petals into the center of the rose, you will need to make the petals a little smaller so that they fit properly. Try to decrease the size of the petals a little bit with every layer until they are about half of the size of the petals you started with.








Create and add more rose petals one or two at a time. This will prevent them from drying completely and make it possible to shape them on the nail. If it takes you a while to create one petal, then only make and apply one at a time to prevent the petals from drying out.
Use a little acrylic liquid and powder to help make the petals stick to the nail.
 To finish your rose, you will need to create a central bud. This will be the last piece that you create and add to the design. Dip your brush into the acrylic liquid and then into the acrylic powder to create a bead. Then place the bead on your non-stick surface and flatten it into a long strip.








This piece will need to be thinner on one edge and thicker on the other edge, but it will not be in the shape of a half-moon like the other petals.
After you have formed the strip, begin to roll it up to form the rose bud. Use the brush to lift up one of the short edges of the strip and then roll the strip inwards to create a spiral or bud shape.
Add a little acrylic liquid and powder to the center of the rose before you apply the rose bud. Then, pick up the rose bud and place it in the center of the rose.

