 Crate training is a method that works with the natural denning instinct of dogs to adjust problem behavior, though it should not be used as a punishment. Your puppies' crates should become their individual refuges, and help them curb their separation anxiety. Purchase crates that will accommodate puppies when they grow to adult size. Visit the Association of Professional Dog Trainers website at https://apdt.com/pet-owners/crate-size/ to see a list of dog breeds and the right sizes of crate for them.While dogs are still puppies, separate the crate with dividers so that they aren't too big for them.
 Line the crates with soft blankets and throw in some toys to make them inviting. Leave crate doors open so the puppies can explore them, and put sleepy puppies in crates to nap to build comfortable associations with them. Start feeding your puppies inside the crate (both treats and meals) to get them used to the idea of being inside, but leave the doors open., With each puppy, start closing the crate door with the puppy inside of it for a few seconds at a time during meal time. Stay close to the crate until your puppy seems okay with being inside with the door closed and doesn’t whine to be let out. Leave the room for a few minutes while your puppy is inside, then give it praise and treats as a reward once you come back to let it out.Leave the room for longer periods of time once your puppy starts to seem more comfortable.
 Once puppies seem okay with being left in their crates for up to 30 minutes, try leaving the house with them crated. Puppies can have anxiety about being unsupervised in a big space, so crating your puppies while you are out can keep them calm and behaved. Lead puppies into crates about 15-20 minutes before you leave to prevent associations between crate time and you going out without them. Keep your departure and arrival calm and quiet to avoid getting the puppies riled up.Keep crating regularly. Puppies should be crated while you are home as well, but in short periods. Avoid leaving puppies younger than 6 months old in their crate for more than 3-4 hours at a time - they need to relieve themselves more often than older dogs.
 Once they're over 6 months old, try crating your puppies overnight. At first, keep the crates in your bedroom, so that you can let your puppies out for bathroom breaks if necessary during the night. When the puppies get more comfortable with sleeping in crates, try moving them out of your room..To get puppies used to being alone, try moving the crates into separate rooms.

