 You can establish a connection with your crush simply by copying their actions. You’ll leave your crush with the impression that the two of you are simpatico.


If your crush leans in, you lean in.
If your crush turns to face you, turn too.
If your crush takes a sip, take a drink too.
If your crush smiles, smile too., While overt flirts go straight for the touch, subtle flirts gauge their crush’s comfort level first. Before you graze your crush’s arm or pat their back, find an excuse to enter into their personal space. Step towards them to let someone pass behind you or reach for something near them. If they move towards you when you pull away, they're comfortable around you. You have the green light to “accidentally” or playfully touch them.Try placing a hand on the person’s arm or shoulder if he or she says something you find funny. Leave it there for a few seconds while you are laughing and see how the person reacts to your touch. If the person pulls away, then this may indicate that he or she is not interested.
 Subtle, flirtatious gestures are powerful signals of attraction. As you flirt with your crush, you can use self-touch, body posture, and other flirtatious gestures to show your interest. However, keep in mind that the gestures you use may be different depending on your gender.


For example, if you are a girl, then try playing with your hair, stroking your neck, biting your bottom lip, glancing at your crush over a raised shoulder, wiggling your hips as you walk, parting your lips slightly, or playing with your jewelry.
If you are a guy, then you might try sitting or standing with excellent posture to show off your best assets, puffing out your chest slightly, or using a dominant stance when you are sitting.For example, you might sit with your legs slightly wider than shoulder width apart and place your arm over the back of a chair, such as the chair of the person you are flirting with.
 Smiling is the perfect way to let your crush know you are approachable—you are friendly and willing to engage them. As you interact with your crush, smiling signals approval—you find them acceptable—and rapport—you enjoy sharing this experience with them. Smile freely and don’t be afraid to laugh (it gives you an excuse to tilt back your chin and show off your neck!)

