 Usually, you know that you're moving well in advance, so you should have plenty of time to find free boxes for your move. Ask at your local liquor store if you might have some of their used boxes. These are often sturdy and ideal for moving. Additionally, you can use soft objects, like towels and blankets, to cushion fragile items and save money on bubble wrap or packing peanuts.


Boxes, like those used for printer paper, are often thrown out at workplaces. These are a durable, free option that can save you a great deal in your move.
In many cases you should be able to find suitable boxes thrown out in bulk behind large- to mid-sized stores., You might need Internet in your old home up to the day you move out, but you might be able to save money by turning off the gas, electricity, or water early. Whatever you do, don't forget to cancel these services when you move.


Moving can be very hectic, resulting in you forgetting to cancel some monthly services. Make a complete list of all of your monthly utility payments to prevent yourself from forgetting any., Any old or unused possessions that you couldn't sell might need to be thrown away. Even if some of these items hold nostalgic value, they'll only add on to your moving expenses.The more possessions you move, the greater their weight. This can add fuel cost to your trip.
Old and unused possessions will also take up space and may cause require more trips than you'd have to make otherwise, which can drive up your gas expenses., Media mail isn't the quickest way of transporting your print media, but it is one of the most affordable. Boxes containing your print media will be extremely heavy, which often translates to a higher shipping fee.


With media mail, you can generally expect a 20 lb (9 kg) box of books to ship for under $12, before tax., In some cases, like during the busy season in spring and summer, it may be impossible to get a deal with movers. However, by moving in the off-season during fall and winter, you can save up to 30% on the movers' fee.


Before you jump at an offer, get at least three quotes from moving companies. This way you'll know the average cost better and can choose the cheapest of the three., Movers are most frequently paid by the hour. The more pre-packing you do, the quicker the movers will be able to relocate your stuff into a moving vehicle and the more money you will save.


Remember to clear obstacles from movers' paths beforehand so they can move quickly and efficiently.