 Move to the closest distance to the target, which is usually the 10 yard (9.1 m) mark. Stand so that your body is perpendicular to the target, and draw an arrow back with your bow. Look down the sight at the top pin and shoot your arrow at the target. Repeat with a few more arrows.


Take note of where the arrows hit compared to the site. If the arrows went above what the pin was indicating, move the sight box up on the bow.
Repeat this step until the arrow is not shooting above the top pin.
Step back to 20 yards (18.3 m). Repeat the sighting process, raising the sight box if necessary. Once the arrows are not hitting above the top pin, you can make adjustments for arrows going too far left or right by moving the sight left and right respectively.
Don't worry about perfect accuracy yet, this pin will most likely change.
 Once you deem your 20 yard (18.3 m) top pin suitably accurate, you can move back to the 30 yard (27.4 m) mark on your range. Aim down the sight using the second pin and fire off a few arrows at the target. Start making the same adjustments that you made while sighting in at 20 yards (18.3 m).Remember to move the entire sight box when making adjustments at this stage.
Take the time to make the 30 yard (27.4 m) pin as accurate as possible, because it will not be changing. This will be the anchor of your sight.
 Shoot arrows at the target while looking at your 40 yard (third) pin in the sight. When you make you adjustments this time, move the pin itself instead of the entire sight box. You won't be moving left and right with the sight box anymore; instead focus on making the 40 yard (36.6 m) arrow go to exactly where the pin is pointing.The distance between the 30 and 40 yard pins will be greater than the distance between the 20 and 30 yard pins.
If you need to readjust your left and right sight placement, return to the 30 yard (27.4 m) marker on the range and make your adjustments there.
 Once you've set the 30 yard (27.4 m) pin and made adjustments to your 40 yard (36.6 m) pin, go back and shoot at 20 yards (18.3 m) again. This time, make adjustments to the pin itself instead of the whole sight.
 Depending on your sight, you may have additional pins for 50 yards (45.7 m), 60 yards (54.9 m), and more. Move back from the target and repeat the previous steps, moving the pin to make adjustments.