 However, gently fit it into your conversation with him in a comfortable way to avoid sounding like an interrogator. Once you know that the atmosphere is relaxed and not awkward, ask appropriate but helpful questions that will give you more information about his parents. The more you know about their likes and dislikes, the better. Suggested questions to ask are:


Are his parents conservative or laid-back?






Are his parents strict or lenient?






Do his parents expect a formal or casual evening?






Do his parents dress formally or casually when they're at home?






What types of clothing do his parents approve and disapprove of?






Are his parents allergic to anything (ex: perfume)?





;
, How you dress will depend heavily upon whether the event will be formal or casual. You may dress a little differently if you were all going out for coffee than you would if you were going out for a nice meal. Make sure you have picked out your outfit ahead of time so that you aren't rummaging through your wardrobe at the last minute. Several things to avoid are:


Slightly transparent clothing






Clothing that shows the top of your bra or cleavage






Dresses or shorts that go above the knee






Skimpy clothing/immodest apparel







, Make sure you appear as a modest, young woman, but don't look like you tried too hard either. You can still dress like you, but don't dress the same as you dress around your boyfriend, unless if you do wear modest clothing around him. Be sure that all wrinkles found in your outfit have been already ironed out beforehand and that the outfit is clean and free of stains.
 Covering yourself in it makes you only look like you can't appear pretty without it. If you do want to wear makeup, go for natural colors to enhance your face and avoid overusing it. Less makeup will appeal much more to both your boyfriend and his parents. You may even want to go without makeup for this event if desired, but that is up to you.
 It's recommended that you wash your hair the day before you meet with your boyfriend's parents to avoid greasy or oily hair with dandruff. Although you don't want to look like you're trying too hard, you need to make it clear that you have made an effort. Don't just throw your hair up into a messy bun or ponytail, but do something pretty with it, such as a half ponytail or an elegant bun. However, avoid going too crazy with the glitter and all that jazz.


Curls are a good way to look relaxed and feminine.
 Too much jewelry or make-up makes a girl look high maintenance. Use it elegantly - some stud earrings and a necklace will make you look pretty enough. If you have piercings other than in your ears, it's probably best to put some fairly small studs in them to make them less noticeable or bold.
 You know those adorable peep-toe four inch pumps you got last weekend? Leave those for a date with your lucky guy. Stick with a basic black pump or a preppy tennis shoe or ballet flat to make sure you don't overdress or win his parent's disapproval.
 If you feel good in it, you probably look good in it. There's no point spending ages finding an outfit that you think they'll approve of if you then spend the rest of the day worrying about it. Go for something similar to what you'd normally wear, but adjust it a bit to suit the occasion.

