 Spend a few days with your puppy before deciding on a name. Play with him and see what he likes or dislikes. For example, during which activities does he wag his tail or seem excited? In which moments does he seem withdrawn? Are there particular foods he prefers? After some time, you both will be more comfortable with each other. You might draw a name from his personality traits or habits. If your dog has lots of energy, you could name him Sparky for instance.


It is important to teach your puppy his name before you begin teaching commands. Having your puppy know his name will help the training process.;
, A puppy's name should produce a quick response. Dogs respond better to short sounds. For example, ideal dog names are Bella, Buddy, or Lucky. Use a name that you will not mind repeating endlessly. Allow household members to contribute to the naming process. If you have small children, consider picking a shorter name that they can say., By having easily identifiable sounds in the name, the puppy can differentiate his name from surrounding noise. Utilize names with crisp, commanding consonants (“k” or hard “c”) like "Cocoa." Sibilant consonant or blends (“s,” “sh” or “zh”) in names like "Shadow" also help dogs hear their names. Consider names like BeeBee with distinct vowel sounds., For example, do not choose a name that rhymes with a household member's name (e.g. Jim, name: Tim), an oft-used word (No!, name: Bo), or command (Stay, name: Shay). If the name sounds too close to another word, the dog might be confused. Your dog does not understand the meaning behind his name. Instead, your puppy responds in a particular way to a certain sound., You can train in your home in the kitchen or living room. A backyard or a quiet outdoor space where there are no distractions also works. Your puppy can be on or off his leash to start.
 Dogs have short attention spans. For this reason, it is best to plan more frequent, shorter training sessions. Plan five minute training sessions with three to five "name calls" during different times of the day. Practice over the course of a few days., Use your puppy's name one time per exercise (e.g. Come, Molly!). If you repeat the name continually before the dog comes, he will tune the name out.Use the puppy's name with positive commands.


Consider running away from your puppy while you call his name. Dogs love to chase things and might be more likely to follow you.Use the Name Game to practice name recognition. In the training area, keep him on a ten-foot leash. Give him five feet to wander. When he is not looking, call the puppy with an excited voice. Make sure he comes to you. If he does not come, pull him gently towards you. When he gets to you, praise him and give him a treat. Repeat the exercise until your puppy consistently returns to you when you call his name.Do not use the puppy’s name in conjunction with negative commands or words (no and stay). No not scold the puppy if he comes even if he took awhile.Avoid nicknames that might confuse your dog., Say, "yes!" when he comes.Give him verbal praise and/or a treat. Overall, act very excited and pleased about his behavior. You also could give your dog a belly rub. You can alternate what rewards you give the puppy. The goal is to associate puppy's obedience with a positive response from you.
 After your puppy has mastered initial training, train in different locations. Throw in a distraction like a bouncing ball, then call its name. Practice while your puppy is playing, chewing, grooming, sleeping, etc.Aim to have your puppy respond to you no matter where you are.
 Once your puppy consistently responds to his name, slowly stop giving him treats (for name response). Give him a treat every other time he responds. Lengthen the time between treats until he no longer needs treats for name response.
 Once you are done training, continue using the puppy's name frequently. Say it when you walk, feed, bathe, or groom him. Say his name during positive moments.
 If it takes a while for your puppy to learn his name, that is okay. Each dog learns at his own pace. The key is to be consistent in saying his name. Over time, he will learn to understand that when he hears his name, you want his attention.


Remember that no dog will respond to his name 100% of the time. Dogs are not machines and thus make errors. They might not hear you or they might have a bad day and not want to listen.Some dog breeds like hounds are more difficult to train than other breeds. Be extra patient.