 The cat may need help for any number of reasons. For example, she may have injured herself or swallowed something she shouldn’t have. No matter what, it is important for you to stay calm while tending to her.Animals can notice a person’s fear or anxiety. Since the cat may already be distressed and in pain, you do not want her picking up on any anxiety or panic that you may have.;
, Even if it is your own cat, you should still be on guard to protect yourself from getting bitten or scratched. Animals that are afraid or in pain can be unpredictable and even dangerous,so even the sweetest cat in the world could lash out when in pain. If the cat is conscious, it may help to talk to her in a soft and soothing voice as you walk towards her.
 As much as the cat will allow, look her over to determine what kind of care she will need. Be gentle when you examine her, since she may be in a lot of pain, or just very uncomfortable. If she seems particularly agitated or aggressive, stop your examination.Some injuries will be obvious, such as leg fractures, bleeding wounds, or burn marks.
If the cat has swallowed something poisonous, she may be drooling, panting heavily, or vomiting.In some serious cases, the cat may not be breathing due to choking or shock.
Your examination does not have be extensive or take very long. The quicker you can look her over, the quicker you can help her and call for more help.
 Even if a veterinarian is not nearby, or the veterinary office is closed, you still have the option to call an emergency veterinary clinic. Although your main responsibility is to give the cat first aid, you will still need to get her to a veterinarian as soon as possible. First aid should not take the place of veterinary care.Calling an emergency veterinary clinic will let the staff know what kind of care the cat will need and allow them to prepare accordingly.When you call for help, try to provide as much information as you can about the situation, including the cat’s breed and age and the nature of her injuries or illness.
If the cat has ingested something poisonous, call the Animal Poison Control Center., Before helping the cat, gather some basic supplies, such as 2x2 gauze, clean towels, and some mild soap. Other supplies include a pet carrier (or strong cardboard box), blanket, and a muzzle.You can find many of the cleaning supplies at your local pharmacy. If you are not able to go to a store, you will need to work with what you have on hand.
If you do not have an actual cat muzzle, you can use a necktie or a pair of nylon stockings., One of the best things you can do to help a cat when no veterinarian is around is to keep her warm, calm, and comfortable. Restraining her is a good way to do this. You can wrap the cat in a bag or warm towel, but only if you do not think she has a fractured limb or spinal injury.If you wrap the cat in a bag or towel, make sure she has room to keep her head out and breathe comfortably.Place the muzzle (or makeshift muzzle) around her mouth to keep her from biting you. Do not use a muzzle if the cat is vomiting.You could also just drape a towel over head to keep her calm.If she has a fractured limb or potential spinal injury, lay her on a flat surface, such as a sturdy and flattened cardboard box.
 If the cat has a minor bleeding wound, there are a few things you can do on your own to slow the bleeding. Apply direct pressure to the bleeding wound with a few pieces of clean 2x2 gauze (or a towel if you do not have gauze). Apply this pressure for about 10 minutes.Do not lift the gauze to check to see if the bleeding has stopped. This could disrupt the blood clots and start the bleeding all over again.If the blood soaks through the initial set of gauze, add more gauze on top.Lifting up the original gauze would dislodge the clot.
Do not spend a lot of time trying to slow or stop the bleeding.If the blood is coming from a major wound and is continually soaking through the gauze, get the cat to an emergency veterinary clinic as soon as you can.
 If the cat has wounds, you can probably determine whether the wounds are superficial (minor cuts or scrapes) or major (visible bone or muscle). You can clean superficial wounds on your own with some mild soap and water. Dampen a clean towel with lukewarm water and soap and gently clean the wound.Do not use hydrogen peroxide to clean a wound, since it can cause tissue damage. Even worse, hydrogen peroxide can enter the bloodstream and cause fatal internal blood clots.Try to clean out any debris from the wound.
Do not try to clean a major wound.This type of wound requires immediate veterinary care.
 Burns are typically very painful. Unfortunately, they usually get worse before getting better and can make a cat susceptible to infection. Sources of burns include fire, caustic chemicals, and electricity.Burns are treated differently according to the source of the burn. For example, chemical burns are treated by flushing the wound with lukewarm water for 15 minutes. Thermal or electrical burns require the use of a cool water compress.If you are not sure what caused the burn, do your best to keep the cat calm and comfortable in general and transport her to an emergency veterinary clinic as soon as you can.
Even if you cannot identify the burn source, there are certain things you should not apply to a burn wound: ice, butter, or ointments.If the burn wound has blisters, do not pop them. Also, do not try to remove any skin or hair that has gotten in the wound., Just like in people, choking can be a very serious situation in cats. If a veterinarian is not immediately available, you will need to help the cat stop choking. If the cat is still conscious, try to find and remove the object causing the choking. Remember that a choking cat is probably panicking and may bite you.Use tweezers or pliers to remove the object if you can see it. However, doing this can actually push the object further down. If you are not able to remove the object, get the cat to an emergency veterinary clinic immediately.If the cat is unconscious, perform the kitty Heimlich: place your hands on each side of her rib cage and apply firm, quick pressure to her rib cage three to four times to force the object out of her throat.Repeat this until the object comes out.If you can successfully perform the Heimlich, you will need to resuscitate your cat to get her breathing again after the choking incident.If you are not able to get the foreign object out, whether the cat is conscious or unconscious, get her to an emergency veterinary clinic as soon as possible.
 In emergencies when there is no veterinarian around, you may need to breathe for the cat, known as rescue breathing. She may not be breathing because due to choking or a serious injury that has put her into a state of shock (e.g., weak pulse, pale gums, cool extremities).Breathing for the cat will help stabilize her before getting her to a veterinarian.


Breathing for your cat is also called ‘mouth to nose resuscitation.’
Reach into the cat’s mouth to remove anything that could be blocking her airway (e.g., saliva, foreign object), and pull her tongue out of her mouth.To perform rescue breathing, hold the cat’s mouth closed, blow into her nose, and watch her chest to rise and fall with each of your breaths.Breathe into the cat’s nose at a rate of 20 times per minute., If the cat is still not responsive after you have cleared her airway and performed rescue breathing, you may want to try CPR on her. To do this, lay the cat on her right side. With one hand, place your fingers on one side of her chest and your thumb on the other.Squeeze your thumb and fingers together to compress her chest about one-half to one inch.Compress her chest about 100 to 150 times per minute.Give the cat one breath per four to five seconds of chest compressions.Remember that your attempts at resuscitating the cat are only a stop gap until you can get her to an emergency veterinary clinic.
 If you know the cat has swallowed something poisonous, your first thought may be to get her to vomit. This may be a good idea in some cases, but some poisons can do more damage on the way back up the throat. Your best bet is to call the Animal Poison Control Center before inducing vomiting in the cat.Do not use syrup of ipecac or hydrogen peroxide to induce vomiting.When you call the animal poison control center, provide information about what you think the cat may have ingested and the symptoms she is showing. If you can, provide details about how long it has been since she ingested the poison and how much she ingested.Follow the instructions you receive about how to treat the cat at home. Ultimately, you should take her to an emergency veterinary clinic for further examination and treatment.

