 A great way to gain the skills and information needed to become a master gardener is to attended classes. Many such classes are available today and at varying levels of intensity. Find a course near you that you can attend and get started towards your goal of becoming a professional gardener.


You can search on-line for courses at http://www.ahs.org/gardening-resources/master-gardeners

Course time will vary greatly between programs. Some are based on hourly requirementsand others are based on weekly schedules.
Generally you will be required to volunteer for a certain number of hours to finalize your certification as a master gardener.;
, If you are taking a course or receiving any kind of training in gardening you will want to make sure it covers core concepts. Finding a course that offers these basic skills of gardening will help you to be at your best professionally. Review the following outline of what a good course should offer:Pesticide use, safety, and alternative methods.
Plant science and nutrition.
How to recognize weeds and how best to control them.
Disease, pest, and insect identification and management.
Some form of certification.
 Volunteering is a great and inexpensive way to get hands-on training and experience with gardening. By volunteering you can learn some of the core skills that any gardener should possess and work towards you goal of becoming a professional., During either your training or professional life as a gardener you will want to consider you location when pursuing this career. Your location will dictate how often you practice gardening based on what climate and season that location might have. Think about how well your location fits your goal of becoming a professional gardener.Certain climates will affect which plants are able to grow.
Learn more about your climate zone at http://planthardiness.ars.usda.gov/PHZMWeb/#

Weather and season will affect the amount you are able to work.Even though winter may present a challenge for gardeners, there are still some services you can offer such as pruning or fencing.
If your location doesn't have a long growing season you may want to consider moving.

