 First and foremost, Lestat is charming and well-loved, and has many friends from all walks of life. Don't be afraid to strike up conversations with, well, just about anyone! Be sure the conversation is about something interesting and slightly unique. Art, music and the theatre are good, but always seem mysterious and or unique.;
, Lestat takes good care of his loved ones, for the most part. Do your best to be around when people need you, and to show your loved ones that they are appreciated. Pay attention to your family and friends, and shower them with gifts. It doesn't have to be expensive.
 Do your best to learn all about proper etiquette (especially antiquated manners and affectations) and take an interest in the fine arts.Such as piano, poetry, painting, etc. (Remember Lestat loves his music so try to take time in that.)

, Not annoyingly melodramatic, but have a very noticeable sense of style. Lestat wears everything from black velvet and antique lace to leather and chains, to tailored fashions and violet-tinted sunglasses. Growing your hair out "long and full" and giving it a slight wave is a good idea. Applying some light powder (either bronzed or translucent, depending on the look you're going for) and eyeliner isn't a bad idea at all.
 Get well-made, classy and dark things with it. Lestat has all kinds of money, but you might not. Live within your means but get nice things when you can. This goes with having taste. If you live on a budget, you can usually go to a Goodwill, E-bay, or Craigslist for very neat things to go with your look.
 Lestat's taste in music is as eclectic as his taste in clothing and friendships. Favorites seem to be any kind of violin, symphonic metal, death metal and Classic or Romantic-era orchestra pieces.
 Such as Edgar Allen Poe or any other very strange poet.
 If you're experiencing a strong emotion, don't dance around it! Get your true feelings out in the open and experience them fully. But just don't go too far. Vampires usually hide their emotions to fool humans.
 Make friends with some but always have a rather small group of people that you mainly adore and care for like Lestat had. Find someone who is your total opposite but at the same time complements your personality. Don't worry if you disagree; Lestat and Louis fight a LOT but really they adore each other. You'll always reunite!

, His emotions change rather fast.He has some-what of a short temper so be kind of short with people. Although he can be loving and caring, just don't get him upset.

