 You may feel angry at your child for bullying, and that is normal, but you should still try to maintain your composure and listen actively and calmly as your child opens up to you more about the situation.;
, You will want to know what the name of the other child is, what grade he/she is in, whether the two of them have any classes together, and how the victim reacted after being bullied, if your child knows (did he/she tell a trusted adult? Did he/she report the incident?).


It's also useful if you know about the severity of the situation; while you don't want to condone any poor behavior, your reaction is likely to be different if the situation involves some mutual, light teasing, as opposed to any physical violence or ongoing verbal or emotional abuse. Match the seriousness of your discussion to the seriousness of the incident.
"Bullying" won't mean the same thing to all people. Stay away from using that term directly at first, and try to get your child's account of the facts. Both sides will have a story to tell, and both stories should be taken with a grain of salt, but it's important to get a clear account of what your child thinks happened, and how he or she reacted to it.
Ask your child specific questions, like "What did he/she say?" and "What did you do then?" and "How did that make you feel?" Get the full story of what your child recalls happening and how he or she felt about it; you may never know all of the details from a neutral standpoint, but it's important to understand your child's perspective.
 Maybe he or she was bullied by the same person and wanted to get revenge? Maybe the two of them are "enemies" and hate each other? Maybe your child didn't realize the impact he or she had on the other child? Maybe he or she was feeling depressed and lashed out because of those feelings?


Avoid leading questions, since these can become excuses if your child is looking for an "out" from the responsibility. However, keep an open mind about where your child is coming from; if there's a history of bad behavior between the two children, it may explain the lead-up to the current situation. A history of tension does not excuse an act of bullying, but it may put into context a difficult relationship that both parties are at least somewhat responsible for.
 Ask your child what he or she could have done differently. If something in particular set him or her off or made him or her lash out, ask what your child could have told instead; structure your discussion in a way that helps you child discover the "right" answer (for example, telling a teacher, getting a parent involved, or simply walking away).


If there was no clear catalyst to the event, talk to your child about ways he or she can channel the energy of a bad mood or unhappiness. Suggest that if he or she doesn't want to be around someone in particular, your child can just go elsewhere and avoid that person, rather than lashing out. Equip your child with ideas for solo activities to engage in until he or she feels better. For example, if your child is on the playground, he or she can get out some energy by running or playing ball, or spend some quiet time alone reading a book or drawing. Help your child find out what activities improve his or her mood and avoid bad behavior.
Do some role-playing. A lot of tense social interactions become easier with practice. Act the parts out with your child, and take turns being your child and the other kid. Have a go at egging each other on and even teasing/needling one another, so that your child can practice more calm and productive ways of dealing with that kind of tension. Help him or her practice how to take the higher road and walk away, rather than retaliating or bullying. Give your child some firm but respectful words to use when a game or social interaction moves towards a fight or altercation, like "I don't want to do this anymore. I'll see you around."

, One of the best ways you can teach your child to interact positively and supportively is by doing so yourself. Even in a situation like this, where you're upset with your child, don't lash out at him or her; be supportive and understanding. Make sure you're listening actively, and let your child know he or she is being understood. Even if you stand firm on how unacceptable bullying is (and you should!), you can still express some understanding for how your child was feeling. Be fair and kind but firm; this kind of approach will help show your child how he or she can handle disagreements and take a higher road, even when others are disrespectful.
 You could tell your child to apologize in person or write a letter stating how sorry he/she is. If you have him/her write a letter, review it and make suggested edits before he or she passes it to the child in question. Review it just to make sure he or she does not use bad language, "non-apology apologies", etc.
 By definition, bullying is using superior strength or influence to harm or intimidate those who are weaker. Reiterate that bullying is never okay, no matter how much smaller the other person is, no matter how much one hates another, or no matter how depressed/hopeless one is feeling.


The term "bullying" itself might be a loaded one, if it's used in the disciplinary context a lot at school. If your child objects to the use of that label, explain gently that it doesn't matter what you call it, so much as how you treat other people. Give your child a rule of thumb: "Treat others how you want to be treated." Whether or not your child considers what he or she did bullying, ask him/her whether it was how he/she would want to be treated by someone else. If not, that's his or her sign to avoid that kind of behavior in future.
 You want to be understanding when it comes to your child's feelings and help him or her navigate through any difficult relationships at school; however, even while offering this support, you want to be absolutely clear that bullying, disrespecting, or abusing others is not an option. Tell your child that he or she will be punished if he/she does it again, and that you will work with his/her teacher to make sure guidelines and expectations are consistent both at school and at home. Consequences could include being grounded, having his/her electronic devices taken away and being deprived of sweets.
 Check in to see if there have been further incidents that need to be addressed where your child has been bullying others. Get to know the other child's parents, if appropriate, and check in with one another about how the relationship is going. The more you can communicate with everyone involved, the better.

