 You will be spreading the finished muddy buddies across this at the end, so that they can cool.
 Make sure that the bowl is large enough to fit the rest of the ingredients. You will be mixing everything in this bowl at the end.
 If you really like peanut butter, you can use peanut butter chips instead of chocolate chips.If you don't like peanut butter, try a chocolate-hazelnut spread, such as Nutella, instead., The chocolate won't be quite melted yet, but you still need to stir it. This will help it melt more evenly in the next few steps.
 Keep doing this until the chocolate mixture is smooth. There should be no lumps or clumps.Do not melt the chocolate for longer than 30 seconds at a time. Once it starts to melt, it will burn easily. If you heat it too long, it will scorch.
 This will help give the muddy buddies a hint of flavor., Try to use a rolling motion, where you bring the cereal from the bottom of the bowl to the top. Also, try to stir gently so that you don't crush the cereal.
 If you don't have a plastic, resealable bag that large, you can also put the cereal mixture into a large, plastic container with a lid. You will be shaking the cereal mixture in this, so make sure that there is enough space for the cereal to move around., For something more chocolatey, try dry, brownie baking mix instead., Be sure to leave plenty of air in the bag when you close it. This will help the cereal move around easier when you shake it.


You may have some powdered sugar left over. If this happens, simply toss it out, or save it for another recipe.
 It will take about 10 to 15 minutes for them to cool. Once the cereal cools, it is ready to eat. If you notice any clumped together, gently break them apart using your fingers., Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge.For some extra color, mix in 1 cup (175 grams) of M&Ms, or a similar candy, just before serving. You can even use seasonal mixes for the holidays. For example, you can use red, white, and green M&Ms for Christmas.