 Wearing the right size of bra will go a long way to making you comfortable about the prospect of wearing one. Grab a measuring tape and measure yourself:


Wrap the measuring tape around your chest against your ribs. Don’t pull it tight but it should rest snugly without slipping down.Write down this measurement in inches. Round up to the nearest inch. Add 5 to this number. This will be your chest or band size (size 32, 34, 36, etc.).;
, Wrap the measuring tape around your breasts at the fullest part. Again, don’t pull the tape tight. Rather, it should rest snugly without slipping down.

Write down this measurement in inches. Round up to the nearest inch. This will be the number you’ll use to calculate your cup size (AA, A, B, C, D, etc.) in the next step.
 Proper cup sizing is important so that you don’t wear something too small where your breasts don’t fit and spill out the sides. You also don’t want to wear something too big, because the bra can sit uncomfortably. To calculate cup size:


AA: if the band size and cup measurement is the same, you are an AA cup size.
A: less than 1” difference between band size and cup measurement.
B: 1” – 2.5” difference between band size and cup measurement.
C: 2.5” – 3.5” difference between band size and cup measurement.
D: 3.5” – 4.5” difference between band size and cup measurement.
DD (E): 4.5” – 6” difference between band size and cup measurement.
You will grow out of your first bras. Every six months, measure yourself again to make sure you are wearing the right size.
 Go bra shopping with an adult that you trust, such as your mom or aunt. They can give you honest feedback about how the bra looks on you, and they may be able to buy you a few bras.
 Bras can feel very different when you try them on and when you wear them all day. Try on a few different types, such as a sports bra, a cami, and a regular bra with cups to see which will be most comfortable. Buy a couple of different options and test them out when you’re at home. Which feel most comfortable to you?


Try a sports bra, especially if you have smaller breasts. Sports bras do not usually have separate cups, and they are usually more comfortable than regular bras.
Try an underwire bra if you have larger breasts. This type of bra can provide more adequate support.
Try a tank top with a built-in bra. Ease into wearing a bra by choosing a tank top that has a built-in bra. You will look like you’re wearing a tank top only. Layer another shirt over the tank top.
You probably don’t need to bother with a push-up or padded bra. These will usually make your breasts look bigger and can draw unwanted attention to yourself. Padded bras can add a bit of extra shape, however.
 Don’t draw unnecessary attention to yourself with a bra that can be seen through your clothes. Skip the dark-colored bra when you’re wearing a light-colored shirt. Instead, go with something neutral-colored.


Wear a bra made of fabric that isn’t too thin. Otherwise, your nipples might show through.
Try on your shirt over the bra to see how it looks. You might have a decoration on the bra that could stick out under your shirt and be noticeable.