 Be clear but polite about any boundaries that you have with the annoying person. These boundaries can remain the same or they can change depending on the conversation or circumstance. You can give a reason for your boundary to minimize hurting their feelings, but you do not have to explain your boundaries.For example, if a classmate is always interrupting your study session you might say something like, “I don’t mean to be rude but I have two more hours to study before my exam.”;
, Sometimes being direct with an annoying person isn’t an option or isn’t working. If someone is constantly annoying you, you might consider enlisting the help of a friend. Discuss this with your friend and suggest that your friend “rescue” you when the annoying person is around.For example, when you have a guest who is going to visit your home and often overstays their welcome, coordinate a plan with a friend to call at a certain time. Your friend can call and need you to help them with an emergency.
Keep in mind that this technique is probably only going to work one time.
 Be clear about the amount of time that you have to talk to an annoying person before they begin the conversation. Let the annoying person about the commitment that you have that restricts your time with them. Then, be sure to stick to that time commitment.You might say something like, “I only have five minutes to chat right now. I am working on a deadline.” to a co-worker who keeps bothering you in your office.
 The world has no shortage of rude or obnoxious people. The best way to deal with these annoying strangers is not to deal with them at all. Even if they say something that irritates you, let it go and stay focused on yourself.If someone says something that you find to be annoying as you walk by, just keep walking and don’t acknowledge them.
 If you have an annoying friend or co-worker, it might help if you have a conversation with them. Be as polite as possible, and point out specific behaviors that annoy you and/or other people. Make it clear that you are not trying to upset them, but you have noticed that they are having trouble interacting well with other people in your group.


You could say something like “I don’t want you to take this too hard, but you get way too close to people when you talk. It invades everyone’s personal space, and they feel uncomfortable.”

