 Determine the route you want to travel and look at the available times.


Train schedules are available on a number of websites (including English language sites). A few examples include seat61.com (which includes train schedules and information from all around the world) and chinatrainguide.com.Train schedules can also be had at local train stations. However, the availability of schedules in English may vary greatly from city to city. Cities that typically have large numbers of tourists are the most likely to have schedules in other languages.;
, Tickets are typically available 60 days before departure online and 58 days before departure at the station. Keep in mind that most long-distance trains do sell out, so you may want to book some time in advance.There are a number of websites that list available tickets. The most used booking site for people in China is 12306.cn, but this site is only in Chinese. A few, such as chinahighlights.com and china-diy-travel.com, are in English.
 You can book through the websites listed in the above step. Be aware that only chinahighlights.com lists the prices in U.S. dollars (others list them in renminbi).


Purchasing in person at the station is convenient. You will pay for the ticket and receive it immediately. However, it can be clumsy if you do not speak Chinese.
You can pay for the ticket directly on the website, but you cannot print out the ticket at home. You will receive an e-ticket number, but you cannot use that for boarding. The website chinahighlights.com can send the ticket to a hotel front desk or reserve it for you at the train station's ticket office.The website china-diy-travel.com will only reserve the ticket at the station., Of course, if you are taking a train during a busy travel season, you may want to arrive even earlier. During the Chinese New Year (or Spring Festival) period, some recommend that you arrive two hours in advance.Be sure of which station you are going to, as some places (like Beijing) have multiple stations. The name of the station will be clearly printed on your ticket.
Consider taking the subway or a cab to reach the station you will depart from. The biggest cities have fast and efficient sudway lines, and most such lines include connections to regional transportation hubs. In smaller cities or at times of lower traffic volume, cabs are also readily available. Most cost little (at least for anyone familiar with U.S. rates).
Understand that those waiting to get into the state might not be lined up. Queuing, as the British call it, is almost rare in China. Of course, its actually rare everywhere in the world except for the U.S., Canada, some portions of Europe, and a few former European colonies. Just be patient and follow the person in front of you. It may take longer but you will get there., In many stations, there will checkpoints outside of the station and another you must pass before you board.At the first gate or checkpoint, show your passport and ticket to the security guard. Proceed to the next security checkpoint.
In the next step, you may be asked to pass through airport-style security checks. There's typically no need to remove your shoes or outerwear. Put all of your luggage on the conveyor belt of the x-ray inspection machine. When security signals to you (either verbally or with a hand gesture), make your way through the metal detector. You will most likely set it off, but don't worry. A security guard will use a "wand" and may gently pat you down. Do not forget to fetch your luggage in the other side of the conveyor belt.
 There should be several electronic screens displaying the times of arrival, departure, locations, and other information. Use the train number on your ticket (ex: FD234) to find the platform your train will depart from.


Note that most stations will only show city names in Chinese, at least on their display boards. Know the characters for the destination city or station., A series of signs near the platform doors will display boarding trains. If your train is not boarding or queuing, rest in the waiting room. When it is your time to board, a broadcast will inform you (in Chinese). Your train number will also be displayed on the screens., You cannot check luggage, so make sure you have everything. Show your ticket to the attendant so they will let you pass. Follow signs to your platform. If you do not know where the platform is and there are no signs, follow the crowd. They will not let you pass if your ticket is different, so you are clearly in the right line.
 Your ticket will have a car number marked on it. Once you reach the platform, look down. The floor usually has markings for the train cars. Be aware they may not line up when the train comes. When the train arrives, allow passengers to exit the train before you step on., These numbers may be hard to see because they are on the wall. If you are standing, find a comfortable place to stand that is out of the way. People and food carts will pass through once the train starts., If you're not sure where to get off, ask someone seated next to you or listen for announcements.

