 This is especially important if you’ve been touching dirty or greasy objects. Even your fingers have natural oils on them, which will leave streaks and smudges on your lenses. Only touch your glasses and lenses when you need to, and always wash your hands first. Common sources of dirt and oils that get on eyeglasses include:The fur and skin of household pets
Food products that include flour, oil, grease, or spices
Workplace objects, including stair railings and elevator buttons;
, If your glasses have slipped down your nose and you need to push them back up, grip the frames to do this. Never push directly on the lenses, as this will transfer grease and oils from your hands onto the lenses.


Adjusting your glasses by gripping the frames will become a habit over time if you do it consistently and never adjust your glasses by pressing on the lenses.
 If you are cooking greasy foods on high heat, the hot oils will spray out of the pan, and can splatter high enough to smudge your glasses. If you need to wear your glasses while cooking, put a lid over the pot to protect yourself and your glasses from being sprayed with hot oil. If your glasses have been smudged by grease, clean them as soon as possible. Foods that are likely to splatter grease and oil while being cooked include:


Bacon or other pan-fried meats
Eggs
Anything sautéed, especially onions

, The skin on your face will naturally build up oils during the day, and these can transfer to your lenses if you push your glasses up high on your face. Similarly, natural oils from your hair can leave streaks or smudges on your glasses also.


Wash your face regularly—at least once a day—to prevent oils from building up and smudging your lenses.
If you have long bangs, these can carry oils as well, and potentially transfer that oil to your lenses. Pin your bangs back to prevent them from smudging your glasses.
 Windy, rainy, and dusty weather all present unique challenges for individuals who wear glasses. Be aware that your glasses will be smudged and speckled with dirt after being in a dusty or dirty environment, and will be streaked with water after a rainstorm. Take your glasses off in these environments, or avoid spending much time outdoors when the weather is windy or rainy.


Although rainwater will evaporate from your glasses, it will leave behind a residue which smears the lenses.
If small dust particles have stuck to your glasses, do not try to rub them off without first rinsing the lenses. Dust can permanently scratch your lenses if rubbed or pressed farther into the glass.
 It’s important that you never sleep while wearing your glasses. While sleeping, you’ll roll over and move around, and this poses a threat to your glasses. They can easily become smudged by oils from your face and pillow. Worse, you’re at risk of breaking the frame if you roll over while wearing glasses.


Even if you’re only lying down to rest, still take off your glasses. It’s not worth the risk of rolling over and snapping the frames.
 When putting on makeup, determine where your glasses’ nose pads contact the bridge of your nose. Lightly wipe that spot on your nose clean from makeup—otherwise, the makeup on the bridge of your nose is likely to smudge your glasses. Once you’ve cleaned off the makeup from the spots of contact on the bridge of your nose, clean your glasses and gently scrub your nose pads.


Because of its high oil content, makeup can be difficult to remove from your lenses.

