 (detailing your partner at least once a year isn't a bad idea either!) Wash the dirt and road salts from the top AND bottom...get underneath there and scrub. Next, wax her down. Do NOT buff off chromed surfaces yet. This can wait until you remove the car from storage. Lubricate all its rubber parts and clean its upholstery. Vacuuming up any food crumbs will discourage animals (other than yourself) from getting some action in your back seat over the Winter.;
, Ideally, you should drain your car's fluids while it's still warm. When it is heated and circulating, oil picks up and emulsifies contaminants. That's why you must always wear a glove to protect yourself from hot engine oil burns. Note: Make sure the oil contains corrosion protection.
 This only applies if your car has lube fittings. Put clean grease on all of the steering and suspension fittings and pack the front wheel bearings.
 The best way to insure your baby against brake deterioration is to drain your system of old fluids and refill with new ones. (You can apply this one to your partner too...*wink*)

, Once you've done that, start your car to run the rest of the gas out of the lines. Any old gas left behind can clog carburetors and valves. If you are only going to be storing your car for a few months, you can simply add a can of gasoline stabilizer instead.
 This is so air can continue to circulate. Then, refill it with a rust-inhibiting antifreeze. Don't forget to disconnect the heater hoses and drain the heater too. After this, all the car's fluids should be completely drained. BE A FRIEND TO THE ENVIRONMENT: You MUST contact your local household and hazardous waste service for proper disposal!

, Wash it down with water and baking soda, then rinse it off with distilled water. Store it off the ground, and in a dry place...but not on concrete. You can also hook it up to a battery charger/maintainer to keep the battery alive.
 Remove the tires and stack them, placing cardboard between each one as you do so. Finally, cover tires to protect them from harm.
), Depress the clutch and lock it in position. To do this, press a 2 x 4 against the clutch and the front of the seat. This will prevent your clutch plates from sticking together in storage.
, Convertible tops can shrink if they are left in the down position for an extended period of time.
 When choosing a car cover, it's very important to select the right kind of fabric. Cotton flannel fabrics breathe well, allowing air to circulate through them as well as being "cottony soft" and gentle on your paint job. On the other hand, cotton/polyester fabric blends trap heat and moisture. Plastic films don't breathe at ALL and, therefore, should be avoided. They are a breeding ground...for rust...not like your car’s back seat, which might be a “Breeding Ground” of another kind.

