 Coat two round cake pans with non-stick spray. Place these pans to the side for now.


If you do not want to cut the layers before you frost the cake, use three or four cake pans. Or simply made a 2-layered cake.
 Empty the boxed cake mix into a large mixing bowl. Following the instructions on the back of the box, add the oil, eggs, and water to the mix. Beat with an electric mixer until well blended.
 Pour the batter into the two greased cake pans. Bake for thirty minutes, or until a toothpick is inserted into the middle of the cake and comes out clean.
 Remove the cakes from the oven when done. Let cool for about 15 minutes. Then, transfer cakes onto a wire rack. Loosen the edges of the cakes with a knife before trying to remove them. Let cool completely before frosting.
 Pour the can of cherries into a strainer or colander over a small saucepan to separate the cherries from the syrup. Over medium-high heat, bring the syrup to a boil. Reduce heat, and simmer until reduced. This should take approximately 10 minutes. Remove from the heat. Stir in the lemon juice.If you wish to add alcohol, you can also stir in kirschwasser or rum. Set aside. Allow to cool completely before adding to the cake.


This step should be completed while the cakes are baking or cooling. This will give the syrup enough time to cool before you put it on the cake.
 Cut the cherries in half or into small pieces. Place them into a bowl and add 2 tablespoons of the syrup. Stir together.
 Using a serrated knife, cut the two cakes into four layers. Use a toothpick to poke holes into the smooth side of the cake. Drizzle 1/4 cup of the cherry syrup over the tops of the layers. Make sure to sprinkle where the holes are so the syrup will soak into the cake.
 Place a layer on a cake plate, smooth side up. Spray 1/4 of the can of whipped cream onto the cake, then spread with a rubber spatula. Pour 1/4 of the cherry syrup evenly over the whipped cream. Use a slotted spoon to spread 1/4 of the cherries over the filling. Leave the syrup in the bowl. Place another layer of cake on top, smooth side up.


Repeat this step for the remaining layers.
Make sure to only spread the filling within an inch of the sides. You don't want the filling spilling over.
If you don't want to use a can of whipped cream, try Cool Whip instead.
 Using the rest of the whipped cream, frost the outside of the cake. On top of the cake, pour any remaining cherry syrup over the whipped cream. Line the edge of the cake with the remaining cherries. Make sure to space them evenly apart. Sprinkle dark chocolate chips on the top of the cake and along the sides.


If you would like more whipped cream topping, buy 2 cans instead of 1. If you would like more cherries and cherry syrup, use 1.5 or 2 cans instead of 1.

