 You will find there are three types of circular saws. The differences are based on how they operate or how the saw blade is turned as well as how they are powered.


The direct drive, or sidewinder, is the saw you are probably the most familiar with. This saw, with the blade attached directly to the motor, is powered by 110 house current and normally is the least expensive of the three types.
The worm drive circular saw, on the other hand, is the most expensive of the three types. Here, the saw blade is driven through the use of reduction gears that put less strain on the motor and have a history of longevity. This is most often the choice of professional carpenters.
The third type of saw is the cordless, or battery operated, circular saw. This saw is a direct drive (sidewinder) type but uses an attached battery, like the cordless drill, to power it. The cordless circular saw also will have a smaller diameter blade.;
, This is, perhaps, more so than just how it is driven.


A cast-metal plate attached to the bottom of the saw on the more expensive version determines the depth and angle of cut. It also gives a reference mark for you to follow while making the cut.
The cheaper version has a plate made from aluminum, which will be easier to bend or knock out of alignment due to abuse.
The heavier cast metal plate will hold up better on a job site.
 Higher amperage indicates the saw's longevity and power in cutting certain types of wood. They will normally come in the cheaper 12 amp and the more expensive 15 amp saws.


Higher amperage saws have a reputation of holding up better over time. It is not uncommon for a 15 amp worm drive saw to be used for several decades and even be handed down to another generation.
A basic aluminum plate 12 amp sidewinder model will cost in the $30 range while a 15 amp cast metal base worm drive model runs $200 or more.
Cordless saws depend on the size of the battery - 12 to 24 volt - and who the manufacturer is to determine the cost.
 Never buy one without checking the holding balance and seeing how easy it is for you to safely use.


How easy is it to operate the double-safety switch that turns it on? Are the saw's adjustments assemble and easy to use? Does the blade guard operate correctly at different depths and angles of cut you might use the saw in?
These are all considerations that only your hands on the saw can reveal.
 Do your homework before you go to the tool store to buy, look at, and handle the circular saw. Look up the different saws that have been reviewed including the owner satisfaction and complaint comments. This will save you aggravation and wasted money on the circular saw you buy.

