 Start by turning on your deep fryer, or finding a pan that’s spacious enough to completely submerge the bacon in. Fill the pan or fryer with about 2 cups of vegetable or canola oil. The bottom of the cooking surface should be covered with a couple inches of oil.A deep fryer with a built-in basket will make this type of culinary project much easier, but it is not a requirement.
To ensure that the bacon has the right consistency, the oil you use should be a liquid at room temperature, not a semisolid like coconut oil or shortening.;
, Turn on the fryer or stove and heat the oil until it reaches 360-375 degrees. At this point the oil will be bubbling and popping, so be careful not to stand too close.It might be a good idea to wear a pair of gloves or an oven mitt while frying to prevent oil burns.
 Carefully lower the strips of bacon into the fryer one at a time. Use a fry basket, fork or a pair of tongs to keep your hands away from the hot oil. Add as many pieces as you can comfortably fit in the fryer—that way there will be no need to make multiple batches.If you’re working with a smaller pan or fryer, cut the strips of bacon in half before you drop them in., The bacon will sizzle as it cooks. Keep an eye on both the clock and the bacon itself to make sure it doesn’t get too done. The oil will continue cooking the bacon after you remove it from the fryer, so you’ll want to take it out before it starts turning brown.There is no exact time it will take to fry the bacon. You’ll just have to watch it closely and use your best judgment.
The thickness of the bacon you’re preparing may cause it to cook a little faster or slower.
 Use a pair of metal tongs to extract the bacon strips from the hot oil. Let the excess oil drip off each strips, then set them aside on a layer of paper towels until they’re cool enough to eat. You now have a mound of tasty bacon that’s evenly cooked, perfectly done and ready to enjoy!Dab the bacon with a paper towel if you don’t like it quite as greasy.
Thick-cut bacon will have a chewier, meatier texture when deep fried than thinner slices, which will be especially crispy.

