 Bring together pictures of events you've put on or helped to produce. Write down the facts about the event and its success.


If you don't have any experience with graphic design, you may want to hire someone to help you with portfolio layouts. Print everything on quality paper, laminate it and stick it in a professional quality envelope.
 Attend conferences and bridal fairs, and introduce yourself as a wedding planner assistant. Many people in the wedding industry believe many of these positions are made available informally to contacts rather than posted on job boards.


Create business cards with this title. Bring your portfolio with you, in case you find a job prospect.
 Network with people on the site, post on their job boards and attend events.


Note your professional organization on your business card.
 A well-edited wedding blog can show your passion for the industry. Keep on top of the newest wedding fashions and put the site on your business card and portfolio.
 Some wedding planners may be willing to offer a trial run of an assistant position. If they are not hiring, ask them to keep your resume on file.
 Although there are not always a lot of wedding planner job postings, you may find occasional positions on Craigslist, CareerBuilder, Indeed, SimplyHired or another site.


Look for work as both a wedding planning assistant and as a personal assistant to a wedding planner. A planning assistant is likely to work more independently than a personal assistant, but either job is a good entry-level position in the wedding industry.
 Let wedding planners know that you'd be willing to aid them when large accounts come along. You will be able to gain experience and prove your worth to prospective employers until you find a full-time position.
 If you are not finding many job positions and there aren't many wedding planners in your area, then you are less likely to find a planner assistant job. Search job boards in larger cities and move to a more populated or destination wedding area that has more prospects.

