 Your sibling may unintentionally annoy you because he doesn’t understand what behaviors or actions upset you. Sitting down with him and establishing the type of actions that you consider acceptable can help you avoid problems. If your sibling crosses a boundary, have a parent intercede.Your boundaries may involve physical space, such as your right to privacy in your room or the safety of your belongings, but they can also refer to emotional space, such as your right to spend time alone or not continue a conversation that upsets you.
If your sibling has a habit of calling you names, identify words that especially hurt you so he can avoid using them.
You may want to have your parents present when you discuss boundaries with your sibling. That can help show your sibling how serious you are about the limits you’re setting.
 Stopping annoying behavior before it starts is usually the easiest way to handle it. If there are certain situations that trigger your sibling to act out, do what you can to keep yourself out of them. Identify warning signs that indicate your sibling is in a bad mood, such as raising his voice, so you know when it’s best to walk away from him.If your sibling is extremely competitive, don’t play games or engage in other activities where you face off against one another.
If your sibling gets cranky when he’s under stress, try to avoid him when he’s in high-pressure situations, such as studying for a test or preparing for a big game.
 It may seem easier said than done, but keeping your cool when your sibling irritates you can be an effective way to defuse the situation. Try to remain patient, and reign yourself in with some anger management techniques if you feel yourself getting upset.Sometimes, giving yourself a quick time-out from the situation can help. Try counting to 10 in your head, so you take a minute to relax before reacting to your sibling.You feel more relaxed if you’re sitting or lying down, so if you know you’re getting upset, take a seat to help your brain realize that it’s time to calm down.