 Aligning yourself with or even supporting one of these causes may get you your foot in the door. If you're just a fan, volunteering for a cause like this will give you and Kravitz some common ground beyond the regular fan dynamic.


Lenny Kravitz is also devoutly Christian. Although being Christian isn't necessary in order to contact Lenny, you should at least have a respect for his beliefs if you want things to go over well.;
, Although chances are slim that you'll get a word in alone with him, you can try hanging out by his tour bus or limo by the venue after the show is over. Keep in mind, however, that you may have to compete with other fans for his attention. Even if your reasons for contacting him are legitimate, it will almost certainly be difficult to make yourself heard.


There may be VIP ticket options for an upcoming show in which you can "meet and greet" with Kravitz beforehand.
 If your prospective business with Kravitz is related to a show, you can make things happen via his booking agent. Although they won't respond unless you have the proper down payment available, getting a hold of a celebrity via one of their proxies is easily the most professional way you can go about it.


You can also write a letter and message to Lenny Kravitz’s agent, Troy Blakely. Address it to “Agency for the Performing Arts, 405 South Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, CA 90212.”, Interviews are a mutually beneficial arrangement, as it attracts mutual buzz to both the outlet and artist. To look into an interview with Kravitz, contact his manager at Delafont artist management. A minimum of $10000 is required to interview Kravitz.


You can reach Kravitz's manager, Craig Fruin, directly by calling (310)-550-5240.It is explicitly stated on the Delafont website that interview opportunities are not intended for fans who simply want to talk. You need to be affiliated with press or media first in order to do this.
 As with any celebrity, getting in contact with someone as famous and busy as Lenny Kravitz is a slim chance at best if you're starting from scratch. Unless you're already well-established in the music business, you shouldn't keep your fingers crossed that you'll be able to reach him. You are best off contacting his manager or agents rather than trying to contact Lenny right off the bat.

