 Cut a large heart out of adhesive paper, and stick it onto the side of the jar. Paint over the jar using Mod Podge. Shake on some white, pink, or red glitter, and then peel off the heart. You will be left with a heart-shaped hole; the candle light will shine through this hole. Wait for the glue to dry, then tie a pretty pink ribbon around the mouth of the jar.Wipe the entire jar down with rubbing alcohol first. It will help the glitter stick better.
Consider painting the jar first. Match the color of the paint to the glitter you will use.
Try to use fine, scrapbooking glitter instead of thick, chunky glitter. It will look more professional.
 Go outside and find a tree branch; it should be no longer than your arm, with thin, delicate twigs. Cut some hearts out of pink, white, and/or red paper. Glue the hearts onto the twigs using hot glue. Stick the branch into a vase.Try using pearly scrapbook paper or glitter paper. It will look more romantic.
 Find cardstock in red, pink, and white. Punch or cut hearts out of the cardstock. Arrange the hearts in a row, making sure to leave some space between each one. Draw a thin line of glue along the center of each heart, going from side to side. Cut a long piece of string, and place it across the hearts, right on top of the glue.


For a romantic garland, fold lace, paper doilies over a piece of string. Secure the doilies with a drop of glue on the inside.
To decorate for school or a book-lover, use photocopies of book pages instead.
 Cut large hearts out of pastel-colored paper, and write cute messages using red marker. Punch a hole through the left and right sides of each heart. Tie the hearts together using shiny, white ribbon; be sure to tie the ribbon into cute bows. Tie a piece of ribbon onto each end of the garland so that you can hang it up.Aim to make each heart about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) across.
For a simpler garland, use smaller hearts. Glue the hearts across the middle to the string. Leave about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) on each end of the string so that you can hang it up.
 Cut hearts out of red, pink, and white felt. Place red thread in your sewing machine. Sew the hearts across the center, from top to bottom. Feed hearts into the sewing machine, one after the other, until they are all included on one long piece of string. Back stitch at both ends to ensure the thread doesn't unwind. Hang it with tacks in a doorway, or lay it across a table.
 Apply some white glue onto the area you want glittery. If you want to use more than one color, start with your first color; you will apply the other colors later. Shake the glitter onto the glue, then tap the excess off. If you want to add more colors, apply the glue for your next color. You can apply glitter to just about anything, including candles, jars, and cards.


Use Valentine's day colors, such as red, pink, and iridescent, when coloring large areas.
Use gold and silver for small, accent areas.
For large areas, use loose glitter and glue. You can use spray-on glue, or liquid glue. Use a paintbrush or foam brush to apply the liquid glue.
Use double-sided tape on boarders. Place the tape down first, then shake some glitter over it.
Use glitter glue pens for fine, detailed areas. Glitter glue pens will also work for letters.
 Use cardstock, lace doilies, and glue to layer a heart design. Color the card with colored pencils, markers or crayons. When you are done, you can pin the Valentines to walls or windows for decoration.

