 Tying someone up without their consent is illegal. It's important to understand that being hogtied can be quite uncomfortable for long periods of time.;
, A rule of thumb is to not leave someone tied up in this position for more than an hour. The bigger or heavier a person is, the shorter he or she will stand a hogtie. Accordingly a rather lightweight person, such as a woman of slender build, can endure a hogtie for quite many hours, some have reported having stayed hogtied over night without any problems. However fatal incidents of full-bodied males are known from police custody. So: keep it safe & sane


Periodically check to make sure the person is breathing easily and comfortable, especially if gags or other bondage implements are being used simultaneously. Under no circumstances is a person to be left unattended, if gags should be used. Again: be safe, first and foremost!

, Gently bring the person's hands behind their back with the palms facing each other, wrists crossed or palms facing outward. Take the rope and wrap it several times firmly around the persons wrists. Tighten the rope by cinching it firmly between the arms.
 Tie right above the elbows pushing them as close together as possible, but tight enough where they won't slip out of place. The degree to which you tie the arms together is up to you, and you can just tie the wrists if you want.


At this point, some people also like to secure the person's hands to their waist, though it's not necessary for a basic hogtie. If you want to, this can be done by wrapping rope around the person's waist/stomach like a belt, and pushing the arms down, so they're unable to shift them up or down, then securing the ropes together with an overhand knot.
 Make them comfortable and ensure that they can breathe easily while lying flat on their stomach in the prone position. Again, check periodically to make the person being tied is comfortable.
 Use the same basic approach you used on the hands and arms, bringing the ankles together, passing rope between the ankles and wrapping each individually, then wrapping them together snugly with the rope.









For best performance, make sure the person is not wearing any footwear but remains in bare feet. Taking away the shoes (and socks if any), it will give you further advantage since the ropes will be placed on the bare skin instead of clothing so they won't slip off. It is easier to tie up a barefoot person in general. In case the captive is struggling, you will run lesser risk of getting bruised by a shod kick. (You can also bring a struggling captive quickly under control by simply grasping some of their toes. Chances are, the person will let you finish to tie them up rather compliantly.)

,


For this purpose it is recommended to check the tactile sense of the toes and soles at regular intervals during a hogtie, which obviously cannot be performed if the person is wearing shoes or even socks.
 Use the same technique as the wrists and ankles, making sure its tight enough that the rope doesn't fall down. This stops their legs from struggling forwards and backwards as well as left and right.
 To finish off the hogtie, first pass a rope through the ankle ropes and the wrist ropes, pulling them together and bringing the ankles up by bending the person's knees. The ideal angle is found, when you stand right in front of the hogtied person and the undersides of their feet are looking right at you if the ankles are relaxed.








