 Go to Settings > General > Reset > Rest Network Settings and Reset your Network Settings. Wait until your device re-boots, then go to Settings > Wi-Fi again and see if you can connect your network. If you can't connect to the internet, then go to the next step.;
, Turn on the Airplane Mode and shut down your device. Then Go to your network provider and ask to restart the Modem or do it yourself (just unplug the power cord and plug it back in). You will have to wait for 30 seconds. After that, boot your device and turn off the Airplane Mode from Settings > Airplane Mode and try connecting to your network again by going in to Settings > Wi-Fi.
 (You will need a laptop or a desktop for this step.)


Go your laptop/desktop and open your favorite browser.
Type this on the search bar: 192.168.0.1 and click Enter. If it doesn't work then go and ask your network provider for an address for your modem/internet settings.
Once you enter the settings, change your modem/internet settings to "no password mode" and make it "available/visible for everyone". Now go on to your iOS device and go to Settings > Wi-Fi and connect to the network to see if it works this time. If it works, that means it is your modem/internet's problem not your iOS device but if it still doesn't work, then go to the next step (fixing the modem/internet problem is available in Apple support, also in Apple's official forum).
Note: If you are going on to the next step, it means you are experiencing a Critical System Error that had been caused by glitch/bug during your previous iOS update or it came with it when you first purchased your iOS device.
 Note that this process if basically re-installing your iOS device's operating system. If you can't update it because a new update is not available yet, you will have to wait for the next update. After updating your iOS device, try connecting to your network again from Settings > Wi-Fi. There is a 99% chance that it will connect to the internet.
 If you are on this step, it means your device is happen to be experiencing hardware problems. It is time to use a complimentary/warranty service or genius troubleshooting service from Apple.


If your warranty is still available (this can be checked in Settings > General > About > Warranty), go to your nearest Apple Store or official retailer/reseller store and ask for the warranty service and they will take care of it. It is also possible to complete this process online from www.apple.com/support/.
If your warranty service is not available, you will need to use the paid service from an Apple store or authorized retailer/reseller. You may also check out online paid services from www.apple.com/support/. The genius troubleshooting is only available in the Official Apple Store or authorized retailer/reseller. It is cheaper than paid services but it is not available online and there aren't may Apple stores, retailer/resllers that have genius troubleshooters at your service.

