 Make sure that the page has a lead that users will want to use. Keep the design simple and lead easy to find. You can keep details in another page of the website.;
, Remember that users will be looking for something that will enhance their knowledge and help them to follow it. If you can perceive what users want, then, incorporate it in a conspicuous position.
 Visitors don’t read a webpage like they do a book. What they actually do is simply scan from left to right and top to bottom and spend no more than a few seconds to do it. They will not even take the trouble to scroll down. So present everything in a nutshell.
 If you design your links to open in another tab or on the same page, keep it that way throughout the website’s design. It may be repetitive, but the advantage to the user is they will not be lost in the wilderness.
 The size of the fonts is just as much important. Using a small font to cramp more content can produce negative results. They make it difficult for an average user to read and they will want to leave the page fast. If you are in doubt about what is best, choose something big rather than small.
 A designer may be tempted to ask for user information – email ID and name for example, but it is a turn off for most visitors. If it is not an absolute necessity, don’t ever ask for it – keep it an option instead.
 A trigger placed in the wrong place is seldom found and used. Remember, we said, visitors scan the pages, not read.
 If you are designing an e-commerce website, don’t forget that most users are switching to mobile devices. Therefore make the design responsive. Though mobile devices have keyboards, not everyone will want to spend time in using it. If you want a quick response, do away with the registration process. It takes time and visitors don’t have enough of it for you.
 It will save a lot of time for users. A link to the guide on every page of your website will be really wonderful so that it can be accessed anytime by the user. You should avoid asking for too many information because privacy is important to users. Most users will not want to part with it.
 Do not be led into believing that every visitor has a screen as wide or tall as yours. Choose an optimized size that will fit every other size your potential visitors will be using.

