 When teaching math to young children, it is a good idea to use very visual examples. This will help the children imagine what you are saying in their minds so that math isn’t an abstract concept, but instead is a very clear part of real life.For example, ask the children to help you figure out the following problem: “5 turtles crawled onto a giant rock, but then 1 got too hot, so he decided to go for a swim. How many turtles are left on the giant rock?” You can ask the children to make a drawing of the turtles to make the activity even more fun.
 Like acting the problem out using visual examples, having children use their bodies will make math less abstract, as abstract concepts are usually difficult for children to understand.You can ask them to count the legs of all the children in the room and add it together. You can also ask them to answer questions by showing the correct number using their fingers. For example, if you ask, “Do I have 3 arms or 2 arms?” Then ask the children to show you how many arms you have using their fingers.
 Setting up games and allowing children to play while learning will make math a fun and interesting subject for young children. This will help them to be less afraid of a challenging subject.For example, you can have them set up a shop in the classroom. You can use monopoly money, and have some students be shoppers and other children be cashiers. Use toys or other things you have around the classroom, and assign everything a price. Then allow the shoppers to choose one or two items that they will take to the register. Help them to add the total price of the items (e.g. one item costs $1 and another costs $2. Ask them to help you figure out how much both items cost together). Once they have done this, have them hand the cashier some money, and help the cashier to calculate the change (e.g. if the total cost of the items is $3.00, and the shopper gave him $5, how much change should the shopper receive?)

, You don’t always have to just show them how to do something. You can start out by asking them to think about how they would figure out a problem. This will help them to develop and enhance their own problem solving skills, and show them that math is simply a matter of thinking critically about how to solve a problem.For example, have them all sit down at a table, and say that it’s time for snacks, but that you don’t know how many snacks to bring to the table. Ask the students to tell you how to figure it out. When they tell you, you can make the problem harder by saying that 3 extra guests will be coming. How should you figure it out now?

, Most children love to play computer games, and while this shouldn’t be the main learning mode, allowing children to play math-based computer programs is a fun way to reinforce what they’ve learned.Many of these programs also provide assessments, which will allow you to see what concepts a given student might be struggling with.
 You can incorporate things that the children are learning spontaneously throughout the day. This will help them understand that math is something that is always important, and not just something they spend 1 hour each day trying to understand.For example, if young children are learning to count, you can have them count the number of students present in a morning circle. During clean up, you can ask the children to only clean up 10 of the items on the floor.
 When you are teaching young children, you give them what might be their first experience with math. This is where they will either learn that math is something interesting and useful, or that they are one of those people who aren’t good at math. Try to dispel this myth early on by showing children that math is something that everyone can learn.


Studies show that young girls especially tend to believe that they are not talented enough for math, which offers one explanation for why fewer girls tend to pursue math related careers. This is despite the fact that there have been no significant differences demonstrated in actual ability between girls and boys.While you shouldn’t show favoritism towards girls, you should make sure that it is clear that math isn’t a “boy subject”.

