 If you'll only be cutting hair; not shaving it, do it while the hair is completely dry — it'll be easier to manage. If you're shaving though, soaking in a warm bath or shower for 10 to 15 minutes can reduce the irritation to your skin.;
, Before either trimming or shaving, wash your pubic area with soap or bodywash. The presence of bacteria can aggravate infection in case of a cut, nick or razor burn.
 The tools you use to trim your pubic hair can make or break the experience. Avoid regular-sized scissors, and try these options instead. Remember, whatever you choose, try to set that tool aside for only pubic hair maintenance to cut down on potential infections.


Nail scissors, which are small and ideal for sensitive maneuvering. If you can, buy a set with blunted ends. These can be found in the nail care section of most drug stores.
A small goatee, ear or nose hair trimmer, which should have a guard you can place over the blades to achieve uniform length. You can find these at most drugstores. Don't use an electric razor with rotating heads, which can cause painful razor burns.
Embroidery scissors will work in a pinch. They are like nail scissors, but be wary of the sharp points at the end.
 A new, disposable razor is best. A dull razor will encourage itchy red bumps. If the hair is long, trim beforehand. Consider shaving with the direction of the hair instead of against it; though it takes longer, it also causes less irritation. Use a gentle, unscented shaving cream or gel.
 Stand in the shower, or sit over the toilet. That way, clean-up simply consists of running the faucet or flushing.
 It's hard to gauge progress you can't see, so take a small mirror with you to check up on how things are going.
 You can do some minimal maintenance on the area without making it look too manicured. Simply trim the hair evenly, leaving it in its current shape. The length is somewhat up to you, but you will be limited by how close to the skin you can get.


Trim with scissors or an electric trimmer. To produce an even trim with scissors, consider running a comb through the hair and cutting against it (the way hairdressers do).
 This is a low-intensity but beach-appropriate style. Trim the hair evenly, but shave anything along the creases of your legs (so that no hair sticks out of your bikini bottom, thong, boy briefs, etc.).


Give the hair an overall trim with scissors or an electric razor to keep the area sleek and swimsuit-friendly.
Remove the hair from the edges by shaving it, or using a depilatory chemical.
 This is a playful, sexy style leaves your entire pubic area bare except for a shaped patch directly above your genitals. Popular shapes include a small, downward-pointing triangle or a heart.


Give the hair an overall trim so that the shape can come through more clearly.
Shape the hair above the labia with a razor or wax.
Remove the hair around the labia with a razor, wax, or an epilator.
 This is a provocative, hybrid style. Remove all the hair on the outskirts of your labia, leaving a thin rectangle along the slit.


Give the hair an overall trim so that the rectangle can come through more clearly.
Remove the hair on the outskirts of the pubic area with a razor, electric razor, wax, epilator, or, provided that you are careful about getting too close to your delicate membranes, depilatory chemicals.
Trim the hair on the landing strip to a uniform length.
 This is the classic movie-star style that leaves the entire pubic area bare.


Trim the hair to make it more manageable.
Remove everything by shaving, waxing or using an epilator.
 This is a good choice if you're just looking for some basic upkeep.. Simply trim the hair evenly, leaving it in its current shape. The length is somewhat up to you, but you will be limited by how close to the skin you can get.


Trim with scissors or an electric trimmer. To produce an even trim with scissors, consider running a comb through the hair and cutting against it (the way hairdressers do).
 This slightly higher-maintenance style is the male version of a women's bikini-style shave. Trim the hair evenly and shave anything growing along the creases of your legs (so that none sticks out of your boy briefs, Speedo, etc.).


Give the hair an overall trim with scissors or an electric razor to keep the area underwear-friendly.
Remove the hair from the edges by shaving it or using a depilatory chemical such as Nair or Magic Powder.
 This is a style that enhances your package. Remove the hair from the testicles and base of the shaft, but leave it everywhere else.


Remove the hair from everything but your upper pubic area using a razor or wax. You can tidy/trim the remaining hair if desired, but you may want to leave it as is for maximum effect.
 Draw the eye to your package with a distinctive line of hair. Leave your entire pubic area bare except for a downward-pointing arrow or thin strip above your genitals.


Give the hair an overall trim so that the arrow/rectangle can come through more clearly.
Shape the hair above the shaft with a razor or wax.
Remove the hair from everything but your upper pubic area using a razor or wax.
 Leave your entire pubic area bare.


Trim the hair to make it easier to remove.
Remove all hair using wax (traditional) or by shaving (which will require more upkeep).
 Use a natural moisturiser like aloe vera, egg oil, coconut oil, cocoa butter, kokum butter etc. Good skin care is a must and will reduce discomfort later on. Make sure to choose a product that is perfume-free; the last thing you want is to scorch your most intimate areas with harsh chemicals. Something containing vitamin E and/or aloe will go a long way to making you more comfortable and may improve healing time and appearance.


Note that shaving and depilation leave your skin vulnerable to infection. Though applying rubbing alcohol will help prevent these infections, it will also burn, especially for women. Use at your own discretion.
 Getting started is the hardest part — after you wrangle your hair into the style you want, though, upkeep is fairly easy.


Re-do shaved areas every two or three days.
Re-trim hairy areas every one or two weeks.
Re-wax every four to six weeks.

