 The hair is an outlet of expression. You can make you hair any color or style you want it to be. Scene kids typically go for a layered choppy look. They also tend to put crazy colors like hot pink,neon blue,lime green, or even rainbow in their hair. If you don't have the money to buy expensive colorful hair dye, You can always use kool aid to dye it, But what ever part you're dying must be a light color or you must bleach it. You can find tutorials of this on YouTube. If your parents won't let you dye your hair, Try to convince them that you want to stand out of the crowd and be yourself, if that doesn't work you always have the hair style!;
, Scene clothing is loud and proud! Skinny jeans are a necessity, Band tee's are loved, Girls love to wear tutu's cute short poofy dresses, skinny jeans,and skirts. Guys usually go for skinny jeans,and in the summer shorts or capris. V necks are also a must have! The scene style is a very expensive one, so if you're on a budget you can always check re-sale shops (You gotta look hard!) or check out sales at some cool stores like hot topic. And you can always cut up some shirts you get from resale shops to make them look cool, Also adding some safety pins or cute buttons adds to it. For shoes, Converse,vans,and ballet flats.
 That hello kitty watch you got out of a kids meal when you were 9? Yup! Making your own jewelry is not only a great way to save money, but a great way to make something that makes you stand out! Belts are a must, Any belts with studs,splattered paint,cool buckles, or with any cute or cool print to it. Hats and hairs clips, This is a cute way to accessorize with your hair, Whether you have a domo hat, or coon tail extensions.
 Music is how a scene kid lives, if you don't know the music, you're going to be called a poser. Some music to try are Millionaires, Blood on the Dance Floor, BrokeNCYDE, Owl City and Scene Kidz.
 In a way you're more mysterious. You blush a lot, and sometimes mess up when you say stuff. You get easily embarrassed, and hate getting called on to answer something in class. The outgoing scene girl: The outgoing scene girl usually talks A LOT, and makes friends with ANYONE. She usually says random things like "Hey, where did my mustache go?.." But this is not an excuse to be annoying. If you're overly dramatic with the randomness, you'll be considered an annoying poser. The laid back scene: You talk but not too much, You hardly get angry or sad, You can make friends with anyone, you don't really care about what people say or what people think about you. Just don't act like a stuck up jerk, or you'll be considered a poser. The adorable scene girl: Usually says cute things like, "Aaah" or "Cookies!" "cupcakes!" She usually loves to give hugs, and friends are a #1 priority, She tends to be very sweet, and giggles, but don't be overly sweet or giggle too much, or people might say you're fake.
 And blush for your cute cheeks!

, Just brush it off and keep it cool.

