 When your cat is not feeling well, it may require extra attention. A sick cat might need special food, to have its litter box cleaned more frequently, help moving around, etc. Caring for your cat in this way and being patient with it can comfort it.If your cat wants rest or to be left alone, honor its wishes. Do keep an eye on it, however, to monitor its condition and make sure it improves.
A warm bed can make a sick cat more comfortable.Moving your cat’s litter box closer to it while resting can also make its life easier.;
, Many cats enjoy being groomed, at least occasionally. If yours is not feeling well, it may appreciate the attention. Grooming your cat also provides an opportunity to inspect your cat’s fur and skin. Their condition can often indicate whether or not your cat is well., Generally, you can feed your cat any kind of food that is nutritionally balanced and formulated for felines. If your cat is sick and seems reluctant to eat, you can offer it maintenance food, which is formulated to be especially palatable. Maintenance food is generally canned, and should be available at pet supply stores or wherever cat food is sold.Normally, you can feed your cat either wet or dry food according to its preference.
If you want to ensure quality, you can look for cat food that is certified by the Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO).
If your cat is reluctant to eat, you can warm its food first, offer its favorites, or try giving it small portions. If it still does not want to eat after 24 hours, contact a vet., Cats, like humans, are susceptible to a number of diseases, pains, and other conditions. Since you can’t know directly how your cat is feeling, you will have to look for various signs that can indicate a problem. These may include:Decreased appetite
Vomiting or diarrhea
Swollen abdomen
Loss of hair
Dull or patchy coat
Flaking or scabs
Bad odors or breath
Unexplained lumps
Discharge from eyes or nose
Red, watery eyes
Difficulty moving
Red gums
Drooling
Frequent sneezing
Unusual vocalization
Change in social habits
Reluctance to groom
Sudden decrease in sleep time

, If your cat shows any worrisome signs, keep a close watch on it. If the symptoms do not improve within 24 to 48 hours, contact a vet. Lingering problems can indicate a serious condition that requires professional attention., In some cases, your cat may display symptoms that are severe enough to warrant consulting a vet right away. Warning signs include:Inability to urinate
Blood in urine
Swollen abdomen
Excessive vomiting or diarrhea
Seizures

, If a vet prescribes medication for your cat, get it right away. Give your cat the medication according to the package instructions and/or any additional advice provided by your doctor. Make sure that your cat takes the medication for as long as the vet advises. Do not stop giving your cat the medication even if its symptoms disappear (unless specifically advised to do so by the vet)., Even if your cat appears in pain, you should never give it any medication that is intended for humans. Painkillers and other medications that humans use can be dangerous to cats. Even vitamins can be toxic to felines. If you think that your cat needs any kind of medication, consult a vet for specific recommendations.