 To meet new people and make good friends, you’ll need to be where people are interacting on a social level. The first step is to walk through the door and out into the world. When you get out to places where there's a good likelihood of meeting and interacting with people in a social context, you've already put yourself on the right track.;
, Search online for club opportunities in your area. Remember, you aren’t the only one in town hoping to find a new friend!


If you’re a mom, you can join a mothers club. A mothers club is a place for mothers to get together to discuss their kids, problems they've been having or what they've been doing, as well as just spending time with other mothers and getting to know each other and share stories.
If you appreciate literature, join a local book club where you can hang out and discuss the month’s readings.
 Concerts, neighborhood meetings, or even store grand openings and events at your local library are places where you can interact on a social level with like-minded individuals.


Being more present in your community can make a huge difference in your ability to find good friends.
Being a member of the same local community means you will always have something to talk about.
 Find forums on subjects that interests you. In online forums you can discuss a wide variety of subjects and issues that you relate to with other people, and increase your chance of making a connection with someone who shares common interests. Look into forums that:


Relate to your occupation, especially if you are in a specialized field.
Focus on a particular sport or hobby that you like.
Are populated by people who are in your age group, or share similar backgrounds.
 To find good friends, you should get involved with things that you like do, so that if you do meet someone, you'll have the same interests. When you connect with someone with similar tastes as you, be ready to use that connection to develop your friendship further.


If you’re into sports, join an intramural or amateur league for your sport of choice.
If you’re a veteran, hanging out at the local VFW is a great way to meet fellow service members.
If you live in a place with lots of outdoor possibilities, hiking the trails, skiing, swimming or engaging in other outdoor activities regularly can put you in contact with other outdoor enthusiasts (and help you stay in shape, too). Spending active time with a new friend, or even someone you've known for a while, will help take your relationship to a higher level.
 Join an online social site, like facebook, so that if you meet someone you can add them to your social network. Even if you don't know them very well, you can see what they've been doing and keep in touch. Being aware of what is going on in a friend's life makes it more likely that you will be able to connect on a deeper level, and make a casual friendship into a more intimate and close one.
 You might think they’re all dating apps, but there are some services that cater specifically to people looking for platonic connections, such as Meetup and Peoplehunt. These apps can help put you in touch with groups or individuals in your area, and tailor your interests to theirs. Apps such as Foursquare and Crowded Room are also good tools for using location to put you in touch with other like minded individuals. , Often the best way to meet new people is through mutual acquaintances. Meeting and spending time with the friends of people you already know gives you a leg up-and you’re more likely to get along with someone that your friends get along with. , If you want to make new friends, especially good, long-lasting ones, you may need to make yourself get out more. It’s perfectly understandable to want to just relax at home at the end of a long workday or week, but getting out and about is crucial for making new friends. Instead of ordering your favorite take out, eat in the restaurant.
Make a habit of going for a walk around the neighborhood in the evenings.
Think of the whole world as your playground, not just your own backyard. Get out and enjoy the sights-you’ll end up meeting people in the process.
 It’s very easy, especially if you’re a somewhat solitary person, to rationalize why you don’t want to go to the party, for instance, why you won’t enjoy it, why it’s not a good idea because you were sick a week ago-but if you want to make friends, you’ll give yourself a major advantage by being willing to accept invitations.


Be wary of declining invitations too often; people may eventually stop asking.
Accept that you’ll need to inconvenience yourself from time to time in order to spend time with potential friends. Usually the inconvenience stops once you’re together and having a good time. Let others change you. Sometimes, especially if you have emotional walls up, making a good friend requires letting someone break them down. When someone is trying to connect, they may be trying to bring you out of your shell. Let them in, and share your more intimate thoughts and desires with them.

