 Use a paddle attachment if possible.;
, Don't worry if they don't mix just quite yet. Add the water, oil, and vinegar mixture to the flour,.


Keeping the paddle attachment mixing on low speed.
 Mix just long enough for all the ingredients to come together. Add more water if dough is too dry.
 The hook attachment of the mixer will simulate kneading, which is essential for phyllo dough to develop good elasticity.


If you don't have a stand mixer and wish to knead the dough by hand — God bless you — get ready to knead for approximately 20 minutes., While kneading, pick the dough ball up and throw it down on the counter several times to help push out any trapped air.



Once coated, set aside in a medium bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Wait for at least 30 minutes and as much as 2 hours for the dough to set. You'll get better results (i.e. the dough will be easier to work with) the longer you let is rest.
 Starting with nearly 3 cups of should give you 6 - 10 separate balls of dough. The bigger the ball to begin with, the larger the rolled sheets of phyllo will end up being.


While you are rolling one piece of dough, remember to keep the other pieces of dough covered so that they do not dry out while you are rolling.
 Dowels work great for making phyllo; their thin profiles make rolling very easy, and their length means that you can work on a large sheet of dough all at once. For the first couple of inches, roll the dough much like you would a pizza dough, trying to maintain a circular shape.


While rolling, be sure to use ample flour or cornstarch. You pretty much can't over-flour the dough during the rolling phase.
 Place the dowel slightly above the bottom of the dough. Wrap the dough around the top of the dowel so that part of the dowel is completely covered in dough. With both hands on either side of the dough, roll the dowel back and forth to thin out the dough.
 Rotate the dough 90°, flour it lightly, and repeat the rolling process.
, Almost like working with a pizza, use both hands to very carefully stretch apart the sides of the dough, making sure to rotate the dough in your hands.


This will create the thinnest possible dough for the amateur baker. It's very difficult, if not impossible, to get the dough as thin as you might in the store.
Your dough will occasionally rip as you handle it and stretch it even farther apart. Don't worry about these small rips. As long as the piece of phyllo you put on top is without blemish, you'll never notice them in the final product.
 If you want your dough to be extra-crispy, consider brushing on either oil or melted butter between each layer. If you prefer your phyllo a little chewy, leave as is.
 You can increase the bulk of your phyllo by cutting the dough in half and stacking it on top. Dough can be kept frozen and saved for later use.
 Use your phyllo to make spanakopita, baklava, or even an apple pie with phyllo subbed in for pastry dough.

