 Mistreated Rottweilers have given the breed an overall bad reputation, leading some cities to ban the breed, some apartment communities to restrict them, and some insurance companies to refuse homeowner’s policies to those who own them.Research your area to ensure that owning a Rottweiler is both legal and responsible for your circumstances.


Begin by looking into your lease with your apartment community for any breed restrictions. If you own a house, then check with your homeowner’s insurance policy provider, as well as any homeowner’s association rules.
No states have banned Rottweilers, but a number of cities and townships have.Try contacting a representative from your local mayor’s office or the office of a member of the city council for any municipal codes in your area pertaining to Rottweilers.;
, A good breeder will be in good standing with the American Rottweiler Club and follow its list of mandatory practices, which includes screening all breeding dogs for genetic diseases prone to the breed.You can find breeders and related information on the AKC Breeders Page.


Also check your local animal shelter or Rottweiler rescue. Plenty of purebred, wonderful Rottweilers end up in these places because their owners didn't know how to correctly care for them.
 Make sure that your dog has had all of the necessary immunizations in order to keep both the dog and you healthy. The standard immunizations include rabies—which is administered at twelve weeks of age or older—and then every one to three years depending on your local laws and your vet’s recommendations. Distemper, parvovirus, hepatitis, and para influenza are usually administered together.Puppies should receive a set of four injections every three weeks starting at six weeks of age and then annually, as adults, again based on your veterinarian's recommendations.
Your veterinarian will also make recommendations for items such as monthly heartworm preventive, flea & tick preventive, and deworming protocols based on the season and specific region you live in., Spaying and neutering are procedures that prevent unwanted pregnancies and can help to eliminate many health and behavioral issues. Ideally a Rottweiler puppy should have this done at around six months of age. Discuss this procedure with your veterinarian during your regular puppy visits or at the first visit after adopting an adult dog.Neutering can prevent testicular cancers, prostate problems, urinary marking, and some aggressive behaviors in males.Spayed females have a greatly reduced incidence of mammary tumors (If desexed before their second season) and no possibility of uterine infections or uterine cancer., If a puppy, feed your Rottweiler a diet labeled specifically for large-breed puppies to ensure healthy bones and joints as the puppy grows. As an adult, find a high-quality food with meat as the first ingredient listed on the bag's label. Crude protein should be no less than 30 percent and crude fat no less than 20 percent. The fiber content needs to be 4 percent or less.


Rottweilers are susceptible to gastric dilatation-volvulus (GDV), which is a dangerous accumulation of gas in the stomach. To help prevent this life-threatening condition, feed two or three smaller, non-fatty meals a day (not in elevated bowls) and don’t mix dry food and water. Try to restrict your pup’s activity for at least an hour after feeding.It is always important to allow your dog access to a fresh, clean water source. Keep a hand towel nearby for wiping up excessive drool or slobber that, unfortunately, is a common occurrence for this breed. While you should always have clean water available for your Rottweiler, stop the dog from drinking large amounts at one time since it can also lead to GDV.
Remember that as your pup grows, Rottweilers can weigh up to 135 pounds—though your dog is likelier to average around 90-110 pounds.Ensure that you have plenty of space for such a large dog!

, Rottweilers tend to have short, smooth hair that requires less brushing than many breeds—roughly twice a week.The best type of brush to use on your dog is a rubber hound mitt or soft bristle brush.In general, the coat is easy to maintain, but the breed will shed much more than you would think.Invest in lint rollers for your furniture and clothes if shedding becomes an issue for you.
 Your Rottweiler’s short hair also means less frequent bathing. Bathe as necessary, such as if your pup decides to roll around outside.During bath time, also use an ear cleaner to flush out your dog's ears.Do not use a cotton swab to remove the waxy debris from the ear. Use a cotton ball or a paper towel wrapped around one of your fingers instead., Long nails on your dog can easily lead to discomfort or injury while running or digging or even from catching on your carpet. At the ideal length, you won’t hear the clicking of the nails across hard-surface flooring.Also be careful not to trim your Rottweiler’s nails too short since trimming to the quick can cause bleeding and pain for your dog. If you’re unfamiliar, consult your vet before the first time you trim your dog’s nails for the ideal point at which to clip them.
 Though an often-forgotten part of caring for a dog, dental care is important. It can also help cut down on the possibility of expensive vet bills later on due to costly tooth extractions. Consult your vet for an approved toothpaste and brush as directed by the product., Rottweilers are large dogs that need plenty of exercise. You should take your dog on at least two walks a day, each lasting ten to twenty minutes.Without exercise, you may have a bored and potentially destructive dog on your hands. This could come in the form of chewed-on furniture in your home or massive holes dug in your yard.


Some Rottweilers prefer to be lazy dogs that are happy lounging on the couch all day with no desire to be exercised. In that type of situation, although there may be less work involved for you, it is easy for a Rottweiler to become overweight, which can lead to a variety of health issues, such as diabetes and injuries to their knees and hips.
Rottweilers have a natural tendency to play rough, so do not be surprised if your Rottweiler plays and romps with vigor and occasionally sends things flying, including people. Have fun with your pup during exercise, but be careful too!, In addition to walks, you also want to spend some time each day playing with your Rottweiler. Playing fetch and tug of war are two easy games that your dog will pick up quickly. Training and puzzle toys can be a great backyard or in-home option for some added mind stimulation. These types of toys can easily be found at your local pet supply store.


Remember that a Rottweiler is a big dog. Choose toys that aren’t so small they’ll create a choking hazard for your dog.
For more information on teaching your Rottweiler games, check out How to Play with Your Dog.
Rottweilers also bond very closely to their owners, so be ready for plenty of affection as well.
 Rottweilers are prone to certain health concerns. Some of the more common ones include parvovirus, hip dysplasia, osteosarcoma, entropion, diabetes, gastric torsion, ruptured cruciate ligaments, skin tumors, and muscle and nerve diseases. Most of these concerns are treatable. Some may only require a simple medication while others may need to be corrected with a surgical procedure. Consult with your veterinarian about any health concerns you may have regarding your Rottweiler.Routine physical exams, which can include fecal exams, a heartworm test, and routine blood work, will help detect any health issues that need to be addressed in order to maintain your Rottweiler's long-term health.
If cared for properly and in good health, your Rottweiler can be a loving companion for up to ten or even twelve years., Training and socializing your Rottweiler are two of the most important parts of owning the breed, and the process should start before the puppy even leaves the breeder.Well-socialized pups are accustomed to many different sounds and actions going on around them, and your presence shouldn’t be a big surprise.


A shy, withdrawn, or overly cautious pup is probably not well socialized and has not been exposed to a lot of different situations. A less socialized pup may make just as good a pet as one who isn’t, simply requiring more time when training., Exposing your Rottweiler to other people, animals, and locations as young as possible is another great way to help socialize the breed. If at a dog park, slowly introduce your dog to the other dogs and people around you while still on the leash. If your dog seems to be friendly and comfortable and welcomes the interaction, offer praise for the good behavior and gradually allow more interaction off leash and in larger areas.


If possible, you should also enroll the puppy in “kindergarten” obedience classes starting around ten or twelve weeks old., Each dog will develop social skills at his or her own speed, so go as slow as needed. As your dog becomes more socialized and comfortable with new things, you will see that he or she develops an overall better temperament. Don't forget to introduce cats, children, and anything else that you want your dog to be familiar and comfortable with as well., In addition to socializing your Rottweiler, you’ll also need to do plenty of obedience training, which can require dedication and patience. Your Rottweiler will need to know that you are the dominant one in the relationship. This role can be especially difficult to master for first-time dog owners.


Obedience schools can be a good option from the very beginning or to correct unwanted behaviors.
It will be beneficial for you and your new pup to train with voice commands as well as hand signals. The upside to training with both of these commands is that if you are in a situation where your dog can't hear you, your hand signal will still communicate what you’re asking to the dog.
 Positive reinforcement goes a long way with this breed as Rottweilers enjoy pleasing their owners. After bonding to you, your dog will love your attention, so ignoring your dog when he or she exhibits bad behavior will work better than other disciplinary measures.
 During any sort of training, if you feel overwhelmed or your dog doesn't seem to be learning at a reasonable pace, consult a professional trainer or canine behaviorist. They will be able to answer any questions or concerns you may be having about the process or techniques that you are using.