 If your child knows that a certain word sends you into a rage, they will use it to push your buttons later. Similarly, do not laugh when your child curses. This will make them think the behavior is acceptable and they might use it again to be funny.
 Kids curse for many reasons. They might be seeking attention, expressing anger, or bullying another child. Find out why the child cursed by asking, “Why did you use that word?” after you’ve heard or received word of the child swearing.,

Kids copy what other people in their lives -- including parents and other adults -- do and say. They are also intensely influenced by TV, music, and film. Carefully monitor who your child spends time with and what kinds of media they consume.If your child heard the word from a parent, older sibling, or other family member, limit the child’s contact with that individual. Let that adult or older sibling know that you do not want them speaking with foul language in the presence of your child.
If the child heard the word from a friend or playmate, it’s also good to limit the time your child spends with them.
If your child heard the word in a show or movie, do not allow them to watch it again. Permit your child to view only age-appropriate programming and always conform to the suggestions of the rating system. If you see an “explicit lyrics” label on an album, do not allow your child to listen to or purchase it.
 Along with typically vulgar words, explain to your child that name-calling, yelling, and a sharp tone are also unacceptable. Invite your child to ask questions so that they are clear on your policy about what kinds of language you tolerate and what kinds you do not tolerate. Outline the various types of discipline your child will face when they utilize foul language in the future.


Be clear when explaining why certain types of speech are inappropriate. For instance, you could explain to your child that “bad words” offend many people. If you are religious, you might also inform them that certain words are forbidden by your faith.
 In these cases, simply ignore the bad language and the problem will likely go away. As the child ages, teach and remind him or her what constitutes appropriate language. Tell them that vulgar language is rude and hurts people’s feelings.


For younger children, you can utilize time-outs or the suspension of privileges. For instance, you might place your child in time-out for five minutes on the first offense, ten minutes on the second offense, and so on.
With teens, grounding and restriction of privileges work well. For example, you insist that your child must spend the night at home instead of going out with friends if they were going to under normal conditions.
Do not use physical force against your child such as slapping or spanking. This can deteriorate the relationship between you and your child and inspire them to inflict violence on others.