 Consider your skill level, and do your homework. Do you feel up to tackling rough waters? Are there dams on the river you will need to 'port' (pick your canoe up out of the water and walk it to the other side of the dam)?;
, Lots of rivers that are navigable will have multiple canoe liveries that can not only rent you a canoe and the proper equipment, but also shuttle you to a convenient drop-off point and pick you up where you want to end your trip.
 A good livery will be able to give you a rough idea of how long it will take to travel down different portions of the river, what obstacles you might face during the trip (dams, rough water, etc), and who you will need to talk to for the proper permits.
 Even if the river is a straight shot from one end to the other, you will probably want to know where you are at some point. There are a few detailed maps published that you can purchase through Amazon.com for more common waterways, but the easiest (and cheapest) way to get a river map is to find it with a mapping tool like Google Earth. Just locate the river and print out the portion you plan on canoeing. It is a good idea to get a few good close-up images of important sections (campsites, forks in the waterway, entry and exit points, etc.) to help you identify landmarks. A GPS unit can be helpful to keep you on course, too.
 Plan your snacks and meals out and bring only as much food as will be consumed. Remember that you will probably have to pack out any opened cans or plastic garbage, and keep them to a minimum. It's best not to bring perishables (like eggs, meat, etc) on multi-day trips, but if you must then use a small cooler with a block of ice in the bottom and cubed ice up to the top, tied closed and to the canoe with bungee cords. Plan to use the most perishable items first.
 You will probably (or at least should) drink a great deal of water - much more than you normally do, since you are exercising and exposed to the elements throughout most of the trip. Bring a sports-style water bottle for each person, and a gallon of clean drinking water in a jug to get started. This probably won't be enough, however. To get potable water from a river, you can A) filter it with a pump-style water filter, B) clean it chemically with iodine tablets and neutralizer, or C) boil it.
 There is usually a distinct lack of shelter while paddling down a river. Check the local weather the day before you leave to get an idea of how to pack, but always expect at least one cold night, one hot day, and rain. Always bring a raincoat and some lightweight tarps in case of rain, sunblock and sunglasses for lots of sun, and a light jacket and pants for cool evenings.
 Pack all of your fire-making tools in a water-tight container, like a plastic jar or dry bag. Pick up a fire starting product that says it will light even when wet, since you might have trouble finding dry tinder lying around.
 All clothing, bedding, and food should be kept in plastic garbage bags (the clear ones are best). These won't help if you dump the canoe, but they will keep important things dry if it starts to rain or your canoe gets splashed. Pack an assortment of extra zip-locks and garbage bags to replace ones that have ripped open.

