 Before your rabbit can start having fun in his cage, you will need to make sure the cage is well suited for him. Rabbits need plenty of space to do their daily activities: sleeping, eating, using the litter box, and playing/exercising. To accommodate each of these activities, choose a cage that is at least four times the size of your rabbit.Also consider the following:The larger the cage, the better.
The cage should be based on the adult size of your rabbit, not his current size if he is not yet full grown.
If your living area does not allow for a one-level cage that is at least four times the size of your rabbit, consider purchasing a multi-level cage that has ramps connecting the levels.
Consider an even larger cage if your rabbit does not frequently leave his cage to play and exercise.
The cage should be large enough to have separate areas for each of your rabbit’s daily activities listed above.
If available, choose an enclosure with a high ceiling to give your rabbit space to jump with his hind legs.Enclosures are available at your local pet store or online.;
, A cage with solid flooring is safest for your rabbit. Mesh flooring could cause your rabbit to injure himself or develop sore ankles.

Wire flooring is not ideal because it can cause foot problems for your rabbit., Enclosures with glass sidings, such as aquariums, do not provide adequate ventilation for your rabbit.

A cage with wire siding provides good ventilation. Make sure that the wire spacing is not wide enough for your rabbit to get any of his body parts stuck in.In addition, make sure the wire siding is not coated with plastic—your rabbit could easily chew through the plastic coating.
 Making your rabbit’s cage playful for him is about providing him with an enriching environment in which he can play and, essentially, act like a rabbit (e.g., run, hop, forage).

In addition, providing him with toys and materials that will keep him physically and mentally stimulated will ward off boredom and prevent him from getting stressed and lonely.The more enriched your rabbit’s cage is, the happier and healthier he will be.
The toys and materials you use to create the playful environment in your rabbit’s cage should have smooth and rounded edges, and be non-toxic.
 Rabbits love to chew on things! Chewing not only helps keep your rabbit’s teeth filed down, but can also keep him entertained for long periods of time.

Hay, which is a major part of your rabbit’s diet, takes a long time to chew and will thus keep your rabbit occupied for quite a while.

You can also put branches from non-chemically treated fruit trees in your rabbit’s cage.
Wooden chew sticks are also good, but your rabbit may become quickly bored with the sticks.Make sure to provide him with a variety of items, such as an untreated wicker basket and dried-out pine cones, to chew on.
 In the wild, rabbits are prey animals, and thus spend time scanning their environment for danger.

With a platform, your rabbit will be able to perform that same scanning activity, even though he will not need to be on the lookout for predators.

Platforms are also good exercise for your rabbit. The act of jumping onto the platform will improve his physical fitness and bone strength.
If your rabbit did not exercise much before you brought him home, he may not have the strength to jump up or down from the platform, and might injure himself trying to do so. Consider starting with a low platform, then use increasingly higher platforms as your rabbit builds up his strength. You could also use interval platforms or ramps.The platform should be sturdy and made of non-slip material. Examples of good platforms for rabbits include wooden crates, sturdy cardboard boxes, and tree stumps from non-chemically treated fruit trees., Toys are a great way to make your rabbit’s cage more playful. There is a variety of rabbit-appropriate toys. Fortunately, you can make some at home so that you do not have to spend a fortune on toys at the pet store. One inexpensive toy that your rabbit would love is paper, such as shredded newspaper and brown paper bags with the handles removed.

Cardboard boxes also make great toys. Cardboard boxes with holes cut in them make hiding places, which rabbits need to feel safe in their environment. If you make the holes large enough, large cardboard boxes could also be tunnels for your rabbit.Store-bought tunnels, either fabric or plastic, would be good additions to your rabbit’s cage.
Items that your rabbit can manipulate and/or toss will keep him entertained. Examples of these items include toy balls, plastic flowerpots, and untreated wicker baskets. Your rabbit may also enjoy tossing around baby toys (e.g., rattles, stacking cups).
Put a few toys or playful objects in his cage at a time, and rotate them out on a regular basis—this will prevent him from getting bored with the same toys., Rabbits like to dig, so providing your rabbit with digging opportunities will make his cage feel more playful. Filling a plastic flowerpot with earth, or filling a cardboard box with shredded newspaper, will foster your rabbit’s natural digging activity.A wicker basket filled with shredded newspapers or old magazines would also encourage your rabbit to dig., Foraging for food is another natural activity for rabbits. Rather than simply placing your rabbit’s food in front of him, turn his eating time into playtime. For example, hide his food under a flowerpot or in a cardboard box.

You could also scatter bits of your rabbit’s food throughout his cage to encourage his natural foraging behavior.
Another option is to hang his food in hanging baskets so that he has to reach up and find his food.
Placing treats (e.g., small bits of fruit) in a food ball will help keep your rabbit entertained. Make sure that the openings in the ball are not blocked. In addition, the food in the ball should be part of your rabbit’s daily ration.
 Although there are many ways to make your rabbit’s cage more playful, some items may frighten your rabbit or cause him to feel distressed. As you introduce new items into your rabbit’s cage, watch his behavior closely. If he avoids the object and seems frightened by it, remove it from his cage.Have a hiding place, such as a cardboard box, that your rabbit can go to if he feels frightened.

