 Having good skin means that you will feel more confident wearing less make-up.;
,


If you have acne that won't go away with over-the-counter products, make an appointment to see a doctor or a dermatologist. Even if it's pricey, having nice skin that will make you more confident is worth good money.



Gently exfoliate once or twice a week, depending on your skin type.
Cleanse your face morning and night with products suitable for your type of skin.
Moisturize. Moisturizing is very important and depends on your skin type: oily skin requires a light moisturizer and dry skin requires a rich moisturizer.
 If you have just a few small spots, look for a good concealer, or perhaps try a tinted moisturizer. If you have oily skin, then a matte powder could work, and if your skin tone is uneven, again, try a tinted moisturizer.
 You can use bronzer but stick with a natural light-colored blush to give your face a flush of colour. To make your lash line look defined try applying a black eyeliner in your tight liner (upper waterline). An eyeliner (gel eyeliners or felt tip style liquid liners are nice) applied close to your lash line will also look very nice. Finish off by curling your eyelashes and applying mascara and a natural pink lip gloss, lipstick, or just a simple lip balm.
 If you have frizzy, dry, curly hair, try to use a deep conditioner at least once a week to moisturize your hair. Also try to find hair products suitable to your hair, like serums and mousses. For shampoo and conditioner, find one that hydrates and moisturizes(one specifically made for curly/frizzy hair) and finish off with some serum (like frizz-ease) or some curl crème.


A good tip is to put your hair in a plait instead of sleeping on it while it is in a ponytail or just loose because those can create friction on your pillow and cause frizz.
Use a wide toothed comb instead of a brush and avoid using hairbands with metal parts in them.
Rinsing your hair in cold water helps to make it look shiny and reduces the fading of your hair color if it is dyed.
If your hair is dry, do not wash it everyday because that strips your hair of its natural oils which makes it even dryer. Hot oil treatments and hair masks can also be used occasionally. On the other hand, if your hair is oily, find shampoo and conditioner for oily hair and try using dry shampoo to absorb the oil. Nice hairstyles are braids, messy buns, pony tails, and twists. If you feel like you can't do much with your hair, get loads of nice hair things like headbands to accessorize your hair.
 Make sure your clothes are always clean and make sure they have been ironed and aren't crinkly. A good pair of jeans should be in everybody's wardrobe, other key pieces include: a high-waisted skirt, fitted blazer, jacket, pair of boots and little black dresses. These are the type of clothes that you can wear with anything for a casual and dressy look and you can always add a necklace or bracelet to accessorize. Converse trainers are also a comfy, cool pair of shoes which look good with jeans.
 You don't necessarily have to wear make-up to feel and look good. Having nice eyebrows is key as they frame your face. If you want you can go to a beautician to have them waxed or threaded or you can pluck any stray hairs yourself. Clean teeth and fresh breath are very important; brush your teeth twice a day and use mouthwash and floss. Carry gum and mints around with you during the day. Wear deodorant or anti-antiperspirant to help fight sweat and keep you smelling nice. If you do feel you sweat too much though, see your doctor, because they might be able to help you. Find a nice light body spray or perfume which isn't too overpowering; vanilla, floral, or fruity scents tend to smell nice. Also most people shave or wax their legs and underarms. Having clean well manicured finger nails and toe nails is also nice, simply cut, file and paint them. A pale pink or clear coat looks natural and lovely.

