 Outdoor shuffleboard features a 52-foot-long (15.6 m-long) rectangular court with a triangular scoring area at either end.Have all of the players come and stand around the board.
 You will be using a cue to push the disks down the shuffleboard court. Disks are in 2 colors, usually yellow and black, with a diameter of 6 inches (15 cm) and a thickness from 9/16 to 1 inch (1.4 to 2.5 cm). The cue is a pole no longer than 6 1/2 feet (2 m), with a U-shaped prong on the pushing end.
 Have the players or teams alternate sliding their disks across the court until all of the disks are cast. Starting with the player with the yellow disks, players place their disks in the "10-off" section of the scoring area on their end of the court on their turn and shoot toward the opposite scoring triangle.


The yellow player's disks are launched on the left side of the court, and the black player's disks are launched from the right side. A player's cue cannot push past the scoring area when shooting a disk. Disks must cross the "dead line" 3 feet (0.9 m) in front of the opposite scoring area but must not hang off the edge of the court; disks that fail to cross or that hang are removed from the court.
As in table shuffleboard, players try to knock their disks into the higher scoring areas and their opponents into lower scoring areas or out of play entirely.
 The triangular scoring area in outdoor shuffleboard is divided into 6 sections; a disk must be entirely inside one of these sections to score points. A disk in the apex of the triangle scores 10 points, a disk in either of the 2 areas behind the apex scores 8 points, and a disk in either of the 2 areas behind the 8-point areas scores 7 points. A disk that lands in the "10-off" section deducts 10 points from the score of the player or team who owns the disk.


Unlike table shuffleboard, outdoor shuffleboard assesses penalties for rule infractions. A disk that touches the 10-off area line before being played costs a player 5 points; if it touches one of the triangle's sides, the penalty is 10 points. Ten-point penalties are also assessed if a player's body crosses the baseline while playing or shooting an opponent's disk.
Remove any illegally played disks from the court. Give any of the opponent's disks that were displaced by an illegally played disks back to the opponent to replay.
 Alternate sliding disks from either end of the court until one side wins. Whichever side reaches a score of 75 or more after all of the disks are played in a turn wins.

