 You child’s eyes are crossed at birth until two months old, when they typically stop crossing their eyes., By three months of age, typically developing children are able to follow moving objects and also the movement of your hands.They may also stare at moving objects. If your child is not acknowledging or focusing on moving objects, this may be a warning sign.
 Normally, children at four months of age and older will have less head movements when looking or gazing at moving objects.


If your child moves their head with their eyes when looking at objects to the side of them, this may indicate a problem with the eye muscles that control the lateral (side) movement of the eyes.
 At seven months of age, your child should be able to grab objects near them. If they cannot do this, they may have problems judging distance, or be nearsighted or farsighted.By age three, if your child continues to complain about having to narrow their eyes to see distant or near objects, or if this issue is noted by a teacher or caregiver, they may have visual developmental issues., Frequent rubbing of the eyes may be related to a blocked tear duct, causing the eyes to become irritated and watery.


If your child complains of eye pains or discomfort, they may be experiencing visual developmental issues.
 There are several possible causes of vision delays, including:


Issues of refraction, such as nearsightedness and farsightedness.
Amblyopia or lazy eye, which is poor vision in one eye that may appear to turn outward.
Blocked tear ducts, meaning tears cannot pass through the tear ducts because it is obstructed, causing your child’s eyes to become irritated and watery.
Strabismus or cross eyed, which means your child’s eyes turn in or out and up or down.
Infantile cataracts, which can be inherited and look like a cloudy appearance on the lens of your child’s eye(s).
 The best way to treat visual developmental delays is early detection of the exact problem and its causes, in order to immediately begin correct treatment.


Depending on the cause, your child may need glasses, contacts, an eye patch, or eye surgery.