 Adding beans to your first meal of the day can give you a boost of protein and fiber to help energize you throughout the day. Make a traditional English breakfast with all the sides, including eggs, bacon, and a small portion of baked beans. If you are a vegetarian, try a Southwestern scramble by adding some black beans, avocado, and hot sauce to your scrambled eggs., If you are a vegan, a vegetarian, or if you are trying to minimize your meat consumption, consider using pulses as a meat alternative for your next meal. Many beans have a rich, meaty texture and are a great source of plant-based protein. Next time you are craving a hamburger, opt to make a patty made from black, white, or pinto beans at home or order a bean burger at a restaurant.


Mash two cans of your favorite beans and mix with breadcrumbs, raw eggs, salt, pepper, and your favorite seasonings. Form patties from the mixture, and throw them on a hot skillet or a grill as you would a hamburger patty. Cook for about six minutes on each side, and top with a slice of tomato, onion, cheese, or your favorite hamburger toppings.You won’t miss the meat with these hearty, flavorful bean burgers.
 Chickpeas, also known as garbanzo beans, are a key ingredient in hummus. They are a staple in many diets around the world and are packed with fiber, protein, potassium, and vitamins K and B-6. Soak dry chickpeas overnight or grab a can of pre-cooked chickpeas to make homemade hummus for your next party. Blend with olive oil, garlic, lemon juice, and tahini (or substitute peanut butter to save on cost) and serve with a side of pita chips or fresh vegetables for dipping.Use homemade hummus as a spread on your next sandwich to boost your lunch’s protein and fiber content.
 Next time you are craving something with a salty crunch, skip the potato chips and opt for some roasted chickpeas. Rinse a can of chickpeas and pat dry with a paper towel. Toss with your favorite seasonings and a pinch of salt, and roast in the oven for 20 minutes at 400°F (200°C).Try making roasted chickpeas for your next game day party and skip ordering buffalo wings. Toss the chickpeas with enough buffalo sauce to coat each seed, and roast in the oven until they are golden and crispy.
 Add some protein to your salad by mixing in some of your favorite pulses with fresh vegetables. Mix cooked black beans with a dash of cayenne pepper to add a Southwestern kick to your favorite garden salad. Try mixing whole chickpeas with a sprinkling of feta to make a delicious Mediterranean salad.
 Lentils are low in calories and are an excellent source of iron, fiber, and complex carbohydrates. They also contain many heart-healthy nutrients such as potassium and folic acid. They come in a variety of colors such as red, green, black, and brown, and they do not require overnight soaking. Adding these pulses to your favorite soup or bowl of chili can boost your metabolism and help you feel fuller for longer, which may aid in weight loss., Black beans are an excellent source of protein and bone-strengthening vitamins and minerals like iron, magnesium, and calcium. A half cup or 86 grams of cooked black beans contains almost 7.6 grams of protein and 7.5 grams of fiber. Add a layer of cooked black beans to add a tasty, meaty texture to a burrito or a taco, or blend cooked black beans with garlic, cilantro, onions, and lime juice to make a flavorful sauce.