 Ensuring that you properly protect your skin and limit your exposure to UV light is the most basic and reliable measure you can take to lessen the chances of experiencing any kind of hyperpigmentation. This means both applying sufficient sunscreen, and limiting your time spent in the sun. Generally, opaque sunblocks that contain zinc oxide or titanium dioxide are considered the most effective.As lentigines has been associated with exposure to the sun, protecting your skin with sunscreen will help prevent this from occurring or getting worse.
If you have PIH it's too late to prevent it, but avoiding further sun exposure can help you ensure you don't worsen your hyperpigmentation. Be sure to wear sunscreen.Re-applying a sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30 every two hours can help reduce PIH.Wearing a broad-rimmed hat and UV protective clothing can also help.
 As well as protecting your skin from UV light, there are other everyday steps you can take to look after your skin which in turn will help prevent hyperpigmentation. Use gentle skin care products and avoid scratching, popping blemishes, and picking at your skin. This is especially important if you have some areas of pigmentation already. Avoid the temptation to pick at them.


If you have PIH it is important to skin for your skin to allow it to heal as quickly as possible.
Using moisturizers to soothe your skin can help reduce the irritation. Gently massaging a cooling lotion onto the skin is much better than scratching.A gentle exfoliation once or twice a week can help clear out old skin cells which are discoloured., Some drugs can increase melanin production and bring about hyperpigmentation.In order to keep yourself as fully informed as possible always ask the doctor or pharmacist about any medications you are taking that might cause hyperpigmentation. Ask them for alternatives if they are available.


If you think your melasma hyperpigmentation is caused by oral contraception, hormone replacement therapy or another hormonal treatment, discontinue and contact your doctor., As with many medical conditions, there is thought to be a genetic element involved in melasma pigmentation. A family history of melasma has been cited as one of the potential causative factors.Determine if you have a history of it in your family. This is an inexact science, so be sure to talk to your doctor about any concerns you have.

