 It can be any kind of paper, though origami paper is best.;
, Crease the fold, then unfold the paper.
 Crease the fold, then unfold the paper. The paper should be split into fourths.
 Then make a diagonal fold, bringing the bottom right corner of the paper to the top left corner of the paper. Crease the fold, then unfold the paper.
 Crease the fold, then unfold the paper.
 There should be eight total triangles, and 2 triangles in each fourth of the paper. Anyway, there should be a fold starting from the left side of the paper all the way to the right side of the paper. Not a vertical line, not a diagonal line, but a horizontal line. It doesn't matter which way you place the paper. There should be a line from exactly left to right on the paper. If you didn't crease hard enough, you may have trouble identifying this line. But if you creased correctly, this line should be easy to spot.
 Next, bring both parts of the horizontal line together, forming a 3D figure.
 Push one of the triangles down on a flat surface, then bring the top triangle down on the bottom triangle. Keep on pushing until both triangles come together into one triangle. You should not be able to push the top triangle further down into the bottom triangle.
 Well, you are going to make more flaps! Before you make more flaps, you should see a crease in the center of the triangle, giving a right part and a left part to the triangle. Get hold of the right part of the flap, then fold up that flap to meet the crease in the center. After that, get hold of the left part of the flap, then fold that flap to meet the crease in the center.



You should have a basic diamond shape right now, but there are still more steps.
 Fold the right part of the first part of this diamond to meet the center of the diamond.
, This time, use the second part of the diamond instead of the first part of the diamond.
 Extend the pockets with your fingertips, then notice the two flaps on each side of the diamond at the very top of the diamond. Slide each of the flaps at the very top of the diamond into each of the pockets.
, Make sure you keep the flaps down with your fingers because sometimes if you don't tuck the flaps in very well, the flaps might come out and you may have to start over.
