 Knowing what you value can give you insight into who you are at your core. Many values are based on your personal experiences, and some change as you learn more about yourself.


Sometimes values are hard to identify because the term and concept is abstract and often vague. Your values are your beliefs and ideals that you base your choices on throughout life., Identifying and defining your values will bring you closer to realizing who you are and what is important to you. In order to seek out your values, you will need to spend some time in reflection, analyzing what is important to you and which values make you who you are. Begin identifying your values by writing your answers to the following questions:


Identify two people you most admire. What are the qualities they have that you admire? What is it about this person that makes them admirable to you?
If you could only have three of your possessions for the rest of you life, which would they be? Why?
What topics, events, or hobbies are you passionate about? Why are these things important to you? What is it about these things that make you passionate?
What event made you feel the most complete and fulfilled? What about that time made you feel this way? Why?, You should start to have an idea about what is important to you and what you value. Try to group these ideas, moments, or things into core values to help you have a better idea of your core beliefs and ideals. Some examples of core values include courtesy, honesty, optimism, confidence, friendship, achievement, faith, friendship, kindness, justice, trust, and peace.


Use these core values to understand and know yourself better. These values should help you make choices and identify what is important to you. Through analyzing yourself in this way, you are that much closer to unlocking your true self.Your may have multiple groups of values. This is normal because humans are complex and feel many different things. For example, you may value honesty, faith, competence, and confidence, values that don't necessarily group together. But these traits show you the kinds of situations and people you value around you as well as traits you likely strive for in yourself.

