 Take an old toothbrush, preferably one with straight bristles that are very soft, and put a bit of petroleum jelly on it. Rub the toothbrush on your lips in a circular motion.Leave the petroleum jelly on to rehydrate your lips, or apply a little more if most of it gets rubbed off.


You won’t want to use this toothbrush to brush your teeth again. You can save it in a clean dry place to use for exfoliation, but don’t contaminate it by using it for other purposes.
For sensitive lips, try a children’s toothbrush. These are usually extra soft.If you don’t want to use a toothbrush, you can do the same trick with a soft, clean washcloth.
 Mix a tablespoon of lemon juice with a tablespoon of castor oil or glycerin.Apply this to your lips and leave it on for an hour or so. Then, gently rub the mixture off with a soft washcloth wet with warm water. Moisturize as usual.


This works well for chapped, dry lips and skin.
 Because of its grainy texture, oatmeal exfoliates well and can effectively absorb and remove dirt and impurities from your skin. Mix 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of oatmeal with 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of warm water or milk, and rub the mixture onto your lips in a circular motion for 1-2 minutes. Afterwards, rinse your lips with warm water and then cold water., Not only does it sound romantic, but using rose petals to exfoliate can moisturize your lips and add some red color to them. Soak some clean rose petals in raw milk for about 3 hours. When the petals are completely soaked, mash them up to make a paste. You can use a mortar and pestle or just the back of a large spoon. Once this is mashed to a paste, apply it to your lips in an even layer.This is a gentle exfoliant and moisturizer and may be helpful for sensitive skin.
 There are many lip scrubs on the market, such as LUSH lip scrub and e.l.f. lip exfoliator.Look for products with natural ingredients like aloe or shea butter, and avoid salicylic acid which can be too harsh.Proceed with caution with new products – use gentle pressure to avoid over-exfoliating.


If your lips feel irritated after using a product, stop using it.

