 This plant grows well in zones 3 through 10. It is a reliable grower and has colorful blooms that usually last into fall. These plants are also great for attracting butterflies. Best of all, this plant is often the first to emerge in spring.


Varieties of this flower that bloom in the fall are perfect for attracting monarch butterflies and other migrating species of butterfly., This plant does well in zones 3 through 8. Although it does not bloom, its leaves offer silver and purple tones that look enchanting in the shade. This plant is a great way of filling out your garden and adding ground cover to it.Although a fern, this plant isn’t very aggressive or invasive. It’s just the thing if you want a tidy and orderly garden., This perennial is drought-resistant, making it a great choice if you have a busy schedule or have difficulty maintaining a regular watering schedule. It grows well in zones 5 through 11. The blooms are relatively tall, making this an excellent plant to use behind plants that grow lower to the ground.


The flowers of this plant will be an open invitation to hummingbirds and butterflies for the duration of the summer.
At the end of its growing season, agastache develops seeds at the head of the plant. These often attract birds.
Agastache comes in many different colors. You can buy varieties that come in orange, pink, red, purple, and blue., Although it has “weed” in its name, the brightly colored blooms of this plant, usually yellow or orange, will look right at home with other flowering perennials. It grows well in zones 3 to 9, and is ideal for a sunny spot in your garden.The first year butterfly weed is planted, it’s often stunted. This is completely normal. The following year, expect a much fuller plant.
This plant is also resistant to drought. If your watering schedule is irregular or you leave home frequently for business, you won’t have to worry about this plant.
As you might have suspected from its name, many species of butterflies love to visit this plant., This plant comes in annual and perennial versions. Two common perennial strains are referred to colloquially as “Moonbeam” and “Zagreb.” It flourishes in zones 3 through 9, does well in direct sunlight, and can survive dry conditions.


Traditionally, this plant offers blooms in shades of yellow. More recently, growers have come up with more colorful options. Look for this plant in orange, pink, and red in addition to yellow.