 You can purchase craft hair online or at any craft store. It's hair designed to be used in costumes or on things like dolls. Run a flat iron over your craft hair to get smooth and easy to work with before you start forming your mustache.Craft hair can sometimes be very fine, so it's best to err on the side of caution and use a low heat setting.;
, After ironing your hair, you want to make sure it looks as smooth as possible. Use a fine-toothed comb to brush any tangles out of your mustache so it looks smooth. This will help your fake mustache look more realistic., Cut out four sections of hair from your craft hair. These should be thin sections of one to two inches each (about 2.5 to 5 centimeters)., If you have any hair on your upper lip already, shave or wax it off first. Then, use a cotton swab to gently clean your skin with rubbing alcohol.Even a small amount of stubble should be shaved off, as this can make removing the mustache later painful.
 Cosmetic adhesive can be purchased online or at a costume store. Use a cotton swab to dab a thin layer of cosmetic adhesive along your lower lip., Take one of your sections of hair. Pinch the hair between your fingers and push the upper ends onto the cosmetic adhesive. Hold for 30 seconds so the hair stays in place. , Some stray hair may not stick to your face. Use your fingers to pull out any stray hairs. Then, take a small pair of scissors and trim away any excess hair that is hanging over your lip., Take your second section. Apply just above the first section of hair. Draw a line of adhesive just above the hair on your lower lip and attached the section section to your lower lip. Hold for 30 seconds and then remove any excess hair., Cut out a small, square-like section from your craft hair to fit under your nostrils. This will bridge the gap between either side of your mustache. Apply cosmetic adhesive near your nostrils, getting as close as you can. Then, press your square-shaped section of cosmetic hair against your nose. Trim away any excess hair., Using your last two rectangular sections of craft hair, repeat the same process. Attach the first section of hair to your lower lip and attach the second section on top of this. When you're done, you will have a nice full fake mustache to enjoy.