 Once you decide on a calorie goal for your weight loss regimen, then it’s important to create a matching workout plan. If you plan to keep incorporating your favorite foods, then you need to remain flexible with your expectations. To lose 1lb per week, you need to consume 500 fewer calories per day than you burn.

You might lose weight more slowly than those who adhere to very strict diets, but remember that your approach is more healthy and sustainable in the long-term. Crash diets and overly restrictive diets usually lead to binges and other unhealthy eating habits, and people usually gain back the weight they lost.
 When you want to lose weight and still eat your favorite foods, it’s important to exercise to offset any extra calories you might consume. Interval training in which you alternate bursts of hard cardio exercises with moderate cardio are very efficient calorie burners.For example, if you know that you will be having a high-calorie dinner, then you can help offset the calorie overload by increasing your workout for that particular day. Be sure to accurately Measure Calories Burned During Exercise.
Running interspersed with fast walking or using an elliptical machine at varying levels of difficulty are excellent ways to incorporate interval training.
 If you have an office job or are a student, you might find that you spend a majority of your day sitting and getting little to no exercise. Incorporate techniques that will help you Burn Calories at Work, such as taking the stairs to your office, stretching at your desk, and taking walks during your lunch break.If your workplace allows it, install a standing desk. We burn more calories standing than sitting, so this is an option to increase your calorie burn while at work.You might even be able to use a walking/treadmill desk, though these can be expensive.
 If you are a visual person, then a fitness tracker might be helpful for you in your weight loss goals. These trackers can track your steps, calories burned, sleep patterns, and heart rate, to give you a broad picture of your weight loss and exercise progress.Knowing your calorie burn for the day will tell you how many calories to allot at mealtimes, which will help accelerate your weight loss.
 Don’t beat yourself up if you experience a setback and binge one day or skip a week at the gym. One day of overeating will not completely sabotage your weight loss goals. Be sure to pick up the next day with your exercise routine and eating the foods you love in moderation.


Remember that 3,500 calories equals a pound, so even if you binged on your favorite unhealthy food, you probably didn't undo very much of your weight loss progress.

