 Most people tend to associate drinking with some sort of activity, setting, feeling or time of day. Just thinking about socially drinking can lead to increased cravings for alcohol.So, your own thoughts can be triggers to drinking. Negative feelings such as stress and anxiety can also trigger cravings for alcohol.Clubbing or going to bars is also often associated with drinking and it might be difficult to stop your cravings when visiting such places and witnessing everyone around you drinking. That is why, at least while your cravings are really strong, you should do your best to avoid such trigger settings.
You might feel sure that you won’t be tempted to drink, but it is still best not to test yourself, at least in the beginning.
This is not to say that you should avoid your friends or having fun, just try to do it in places that don’t remind you of alcohol.
 Memories from your past can also contribute to cravings. If you start remembering all the good times you had drinking with friends and partying, stop and try to focus on your negative experiences with alcohol instead.Think of all those times when you felt physically horrible because of alcohol, or call to your mind the times when you made huge mistakes because you were drunk. Concentrate on how these situations made you feel and tell yourself that you don’t want to feel this way again.
If you don't like dwelling on negative memories, try concentrating on the future. Try to picture, as vividly as you can, all the wonderful things that will happen to you in the future and think about how alcohol will get in the way of these hopes and dreams.
 Social support is integral to combating cravings for alcohol. Have you ever been on a diet? As most people who have will let you know, dieting together with friends or family members is much easier than doing it by yourself. This way, when you are craving a piece of moist chocolate cake, you can talk to someone who will help you overcome the craving. The same goes for other types of cravings as well, including those induced by alcohol.


The first thing you should do on your path to overcoming alcohol cravings is pick one or several people whom you trust and love. Share your experiences with them and ask them not to judge you, because this can only push you further into your cravings, instead of making things easier.
Next, tell them that you need their support whenever you feel a craving coming on. They can take you out, simply talk on the phone or engage you in any other way. This type of encouragement will go a long way in helping you deal with the cravings.
 If you don’t yet feel ready to tell a friend or family member about your problem, you can contact an Alcoholics Anonymous group near you. A.A. has a spiritual component and many of the 12-steps involve a relationship with a higher power (which can be anything greater or more powerful than yourself such as a group of people or Mother Nature). Spirituality and religiosity can assist individuals in reducing cravings for alcohol.The people there have lots of experience in dealing with this exact sort of problem. Even if you don’t feel you are an alcoholic you can give this option a try, as additional support never hurts.
Feeling emotionally supported is an incredibly important aspect of overcoming any hardship. That’s because we, as human beings, need other people in order to feel well, especially during difficult periods of our lives.
Therefore, the emotional support you get from a support group like Alcoholics Anonymous is something that can make or break your willingness to fight the cravings.
 You are probably used to drinking alcohol while doing certain activities and being around certain people. Over time, your brain gets used to being stimulated by alcohol in these exact situations and therefore craves a drink whenever you are performing this activity. However, this is dangerous and addictive behavior and the best way to break it is by changing your routine.


For example, if you like having a few drinks while reading, try to change things up a bit – you could read your book in the park or go to a library, where you won't be able to take alcohol with you.
Another option is to make yourself some tea, freshly squeezed juice or another non-alcoholic beverage. This way your brain will still get what it is used to because you will be drinking something. With time, you will be able to substitute another drink for alcohol and not even miss it.
 Alcohol cravings are something that you may need to deal with long after you have sobered up. However, they will get easier to deal with over time, so it's important to be patient and to have faith in yourself.


Even though it can sometimes feel overwhelming, you should always remember that you are much stronger than the cravings and life without alcohol holds much more diversity and happiness.
Some of the techniques to deal with cravings might seem a bit silly or awkward at first, but don’t write them off without trying them at least ones or twice – it might turn out that the one that seems the silliest works best for you.

