 Keep your school materials organized and in one place so that it will be easy to find them. Mark upcoming deadlines on your calendar and start school projects early to allow sufficient time to complete them in case other things come up in the meantime. If you're taking several courses at once, don't spend all of your time on one course while other deadlines begin to loom on the horizon.
 Focus on the main ideas covered in each class rather than all the superfluous information. Focus on noting steps in larger processes, summary statements (therefore, consequently), information that your professor repeats frequently, and everything written out on the board or in handouts. This is the information your professor will draw from for your tests. Focus on it.If you have to miss class for some reason, ask a classmate if she'll take notes for you.
 Find a place where you can study comfortably and without interruption. Make sure that you have a comfortable chair, a table, adequate lighting, and all the study materials you need for that study session., Turn off your cell phone and television. Leave your email alone. Keep away from social media. The key to efficient studying is to focus all of your efforts on the task at hand.If you are easily distracted by social networking sites such as YouTube, Facebook, or others, download one of several applications designed to regulate your access to them and to increase your focus. When you are done with your work, you can unblock access to all the sites as before.Make sure that your family understands that your study time is important. They should know not to interrupt you while you're studying. Don't feel bad about telling people that you cannot help them while you're studying.
 Start studying the first day of class and review your materials on a regular basis. Don’t put it off to the last minute and then try to cram a month or more’s worth of work into a single study session. Your brain won’t be able to process and retain all that information in one fell swoop. Your brain is a muscle and like other muscles, constant repetition builds strength. You can’t just go to the gym, lift one really heavy weight, and expect to be better for it. You need to go to the gym (to study) frequently and in short bursts, gradually building up to more difficult levels., If you don’t understand a topic, visit the source. Professors hold regular office hours and/or answer emails relating to specific content questions. Create an open dialogue with your professor. It will help you jump hurdles in the class more quickly., Many schools have free or cheap tutoring services staffed by fellow students or graduates. Rather than spend hours mulling over the same material at home, only to still not understand it, visit someone who does like a tutor.