 Creating a parallel circuit is an excellent and easy experiment for students learning about electricity. This method of building a parallel circuit is excellent for younger students: they may have limited dexterity, and you may not want them to use sharp tools.


If you are making a parallel circuit as part of a lesson plan, it may help to have your students or child make a list of questions, predictions, and hypotheses about what they'll be observing.;
, The cheapest and most convenient power source for your parallel circuit project is a battery. A 9-volt battery is an excellent choice.
 This is the item that you'll be hooking up to the power source. We'll describe making a parallel circuit with lightbulbs (you'll need two); flashlight bulbs are also a good choice.
 You are using aluminum foil as your conductor in this method of building a parallel circuit. The foil will be used to connect the power source to the loads.


Cut the foil into four narrow strips: two 8" pieces, and two 4" pieces. They should be narrow, about the width of a drinking straw.
 You're now ready to start hooking up your parallel circuit.


Take one of the 8" strips of foil and connect it to the positive terminal of the battery. Take the other 8" strip and connect it to the negative terminal of the battery. , You're now ready to connect your loads to the conducting material.


Take the two shorter, 4" strips and wrap one end of each around the long strip coming off the positive terminal. (Place one 4" strip near the top of the strip, and the other about three inches down towards the battery.)Wrap the loose ends of the shorter strips around your two lightbulbs. You may find it helpful to secure the strips with electrical tape.
 Once you finish connecting all of the elements of the parallel circuit, your lightbulbs should glow.


Place the ends of the two lightbulbs against the 8" strip of foil that is attached to the negative terminal of the battery.
The lightbulbs should now shine brightly!

