 When it comes to living a satisfying life, silence about what you want is the enemy. In order to find your voice and stop suffering in silence, you must acknowledge that you are not using your voice. Awareness of the problem is the first step towards changing it. Here are some signs that you may not be using your voice:


You often get stuck with work no one else wants to do.
Other people get credit for your work or ideas.
You often do things because others want to, but not for yourself.
You feel dissatisfied because you are not living life on your own terms.
 Think of your values like a road map--they direct us down the life path that we want to be on. If you often feel like you are suffering in silence, you may be living against your personal values.


If your personal values are unclear, you can learn to identify your values by completing an inventory., Assertiveness gives you the opportunity to be more open, honest, and direct in your communication. This will allow others to recognize your needs and so that you can feel as if your voice is being heard. Practicing assertiveness can help you overcome suffering in silence and boost self-confidence.Practice being assertive frequently, in small ways, to get started. Reach out to someone every other day. Send a text or call family and friends, ask someone to coffee, or let a friend know that you need a shoulder to cry on.
You might text your friend, "I've been feeling blue today and need a pick-me-up. Are you up for take-out at my place?"

, When you are talking to another person, turn towards them. Stand with your feet planted firmly on the ground. Have a pleasant, but firm, facial expression. Speak with a calm and soft voice, but be sure it is not overly quiet or whiney., Phrase your words in the form of "I" statements. This involves stating needs in a way that allows you to take ownership of them while minimizing defensiveness of others.For example, instead of saying "You never listen to me!", you could say "I would appreciate it if you would allow me to finish talking before you interrupt or change the subject."

