 Some brands include Chest FX which are currently the top of the line product that can be purchased online.;
, You may not have the time or the money to fix your gynecomastia permanently right now. If this is the case, the best solution you can hope for is to hide it a little bit with an overshirt and make it less obvious. If your breasts are too large, this won't work, but in most cases, it's an acceptable short-term answer to the problem for things like reunions and other brief public appearances. Begin by taking note of your shirt size.


You probably already know your T-shirt size, but write it down anyway.
Using a tape measure, find the girth of your neck to get a collar size. American collar sizes are displayed in inches on the tags of collared shirts. Write this number down, as it may come in handy at the store. To convert inches to a size classification, follow this rule of thumb:

14-15”: Small
15-16”: Medium
16-17”: Large
17-18”: Extra Large
18-19”: Extra Extra Large
Above 19”: 3XL, or specialty sizes not commonly available in department stores.


Measure your girth (around the stomach) and torso height as well. If either of these numbers are large, you may need to look for a tall-cut (“tall”) or wide-cut (“big”) shirt. These are generally available at specialty “big and tall” stores, as well as many of the larger department stores.
 Choose something that fits you well. It should be reasonably loose in the sleeves, and broad enough to be buttoned easily, though you won't be buttoning it.


Avoid “work shirts” (the type that often come in plastic boxes at department stores), as they are not meant to be worn unbuttoned and usually have a tail in the back for tucking into your pants that will look odd hanging free.
Avoid anything with an overly flashy screen print or pattern, such as flames, dice, or skulls. (Skulls with flaming dice for eyes, though quite entertaining as a concept, are also right out.) You'll look out of touch unless it's already a well-known part of your personal style, in which case you already own such shirts and don't need to be buying any more anyway.
Try different colors and patterns to find what suits you best. Silk and other clingy fabrics won't hide your man boobs as well as stiffer cloth, so choose a shirt made of such material at your own risk. Consider gingham, plaids, block-stripe prints, or Hawaiian shirts – whatever suits your taste and doesn't clash with the rest of your wardrobe.
 Be sure it is unbuttoned and untucked, and wear it over a T-shirt. (The T-shirt can be tucked or untucked, as you prefer.) Your overshirt will help hide your gynecomastia with reasonable effectiveness for social functions.


If the shirt alone isn't enough, consider the time-honored tomboy tradition of breast binding. Though uncomfortable, binding your breasts with tightly-pulled linen bandage cloth or a similar lightweight material is a very effective way to reduce their profile. By combining binding with an overshirt, all but the most severe cases of gynecomastia can be effectively, if temporarily, hidden.

