 You're probably good to go in the morning, after you've showered and put on clean clothes, but it's a good idea to take some time to freshen up throughout the day. Whether you're at school or work, there are things you can do to keep yourself smelling great even though you've been on your feet or at a desk all day long.


Brush your teeth or use mouthwash. It instantly makes you feel and smell fresher.
Reapply perfume if necessary. Don't put on too much - just a light mid-day spritz.
Change clothes if you need to. If you've been physically exerting yourself, you might want to change your underclothes or socks halfway through the day.
Use sanitary wipes to quickly cleanse yourself. Get the unscented kind, since scented wipes have a strong smell. Do a quick swipe in areas that need freshening, then reapply deodorant.
 On days when you're extremely concerned about smelling good, try not to eat a lot of onions, garlic or spicy food. These foods have components that linger in the system for awhile, and they can change the way your breath and body smells.


Cruciferous vegetables, nuts and legumes also affect your smell. Eating a lot of broccoli, nuts or beans could cause you to get gassy.
Instead, eat fruit and other water-heavy foods. They'll cleanse your system and help you smell good.
 Is your bedroom clean and fresh, or does it smell a little stale? How about your car and other places where you spend a lot of time? Keeping the spaces around you clean will help you smell fresh, too. Start by making sure your bedroom is clean. Put all your dirty clothes in a closed hamper, and hang up or fold your clean clothes for storage instead of letting them stay in a pile. Here are a few other ways to keep your spaces extra fresh:


Scent your sheets and pillows with herbal spray. Mix a few drops of essential oil with water and spray your linens when you make your bed.
Shampoo your carpet regularly. Carpets tend to hold in odors, and can affect the way all of your belongings smell. Between shampoos, clean your carpet by covering it with baking soda, then vacuuming it up.
Clean out your car. Wash the seats and air it out regularly.
 If you want to keep your clothes smelling great, try storing them in drawers and closets that are scented with sachets. You can make your own sachets by filling small cloth bags with dried lavender or other herbs you like. Simply place the sachets in the corners of your drawers or hang them in your closets. They'll lightly scent your clothes and keep them from smelling stale.

