 Once you've tantalized the player enough and have remained mysterious, sexy, and independent, he should be eating out of your hand. He may even be obsessed with the idea that he has to win you over or that he'll be some kind of a failure if you're always immune to his charms.


When he's eating out of your hand, you'll know it. He'll be calling you all the time, complimenting you, acting jealous whenever another guy or other plans come up, or he'll just want to spend all of his time with you.
The look in his eyes will tell you all you need to know. If he was shifty-eyed or distracted in the beginning, but now he stares at you like you're a true wonder, then you've got him where you want him.
 Before you cut him loose, you should get him at the peak of his affection for you -- if you cut him loose too early, it won't mean as much to him, but if you cut him loose too late, he may have given up on you. You should say goodbye at the peak of his affections for you, or when you get even the slightest inkling that he's growing bored with you.


You can also say goodbye just because you're getting tired of playing him. It's a tough job.
If he starts getting really attached and even tells you he loves you -- and actually sounds like he means it -- then you should cut him loose immediately.
If you wait too long to say goodbye, you may also begin to fall for him, so don't forget to protect your heart.
 Once you've decided it's time to say goodbye, you should cut off all contact with the player. You don't have to be honest about why -- you can tell him that you got sick of him, that you've got better things to do, or that you're just not into him. Don't make a big production of it or take him out to dinner to end things -- just take a few minutes to tell him how you feel at a time that's reasonably convenient for both of you.


Or if you really want to hurt him or get him back, just let him catch you out with another guy. When he sees you, don't even look surprised or like you've been caught. That will hurt him even more and he'll get the picture.
 Once you've cut the player loose, your decision is final. There's no turning back -- you won't hang out with him again, return his calls, or even grab coffee with him because you feel sorry for him. Remind yourself why you played him in the first place. Either he really hurt you or another friend, or you just realized that he's the kind of guy who doesn't respect women. If he doesn't respect women, then why should you respect him?


If you give in and do see him again, he'll quickly lose respect for you. If he's a true player, he'll only want you if you don't really want him all that much.
Once you've played a player, you'll be better at recognizing them in the future. Watch out for these cagey guys and protect your heart as you move forward in your love life.
Remain humble. Don't let this accomplishment get to your head; although it does add an extreme boost to your confidence (you might start to think that you can get any guy you want or feel that you're "playing" some guys when they only look at you as a friend)the tables can turn quick if you get caught up (with other dudes). They might know the game a little better than you do.

