 This will require advanced planning because the pope only speaks on Wednesdays and Sundays. To receive his blessing on a Sunday, you will have to arrive long before noon to find a good place to see him in the crowded square.


You can request tickets to see him give his Wednesday papal address if you visit between September and June. Go to vatican.va to fill out a request form and fax it into the number on the form.;
, The Vatican Museums and Sistine Chapel cost approximately 15 Euros ($19, 12 pounds) and St. Peter's Dome is approximately 6 Euros ($6.4, 4.8 pounds). St. Peter's Basilica, St. Peter's Square are free.


The admission to The Vatican Museums and Sistine Chapel are combined. You cannot buy tickets for 1 of these places.
 You will save waiting time at the gates. However, you cannot book discount or student tickets in advance, unless you are with a tour group that does it for you.


Go to biglietteriamusei.vatican.va/musei/tickets/do?weblang=en&do to book these tickets.
 Italy has a very strict rule that only licensed guides can tour these areas, so be sure to ask to see their licenses. There is such a wealth of art and information within the Vatican walls, that this is 1 place where your visit will be enhanced by paying a guide.


Go to mv.vatican.va/3_EN/pages/z-Info/MV_Info_Servizi_Visite.html to see a description of the various tours you can choose. There is a link at the bottom of the page where you can book your tour as a group or an individual.
 The Vatican carries its own dress code. Ensure your knees and shoulders are covered, although some people wear long pants and long shirts as a sign of respect.


Both men and women will be turned away if they do not have their knees and shoulders covered. This means tank-tops, sundresses and short shorts will not be tolerated. Women can modify their outfit by bringing a shawl and wearing tights.
Italy and the Vatican City are extremely warm in the summer and they can be rainy in the winter. Bring lightweight clothing that dries easily. This will help you when you need to cover up during your visit.
Wear good walking shoes. Many people spend a whole day on their feet in the Vatican City. Prepare in order to be comfortable on these hard surfaces and when you wait in line.
 Large bags, backpacks and all umbrellas will need to be checked in order to enter the Vatican Museums. This will be a hassle if you want to move freely within the Vatican walls, so leave the majority of your gear at the hotel.
 Some years, the highest rates of petty theft are in front of Michelangelo's Pieta in St. Peter's Basilica. Always keep your small bag in front of you, with your hand on it.


Never wear flashy jewelry or flash cash. Men's wallets in back pockets are particularly susceptible to theft. Buy a money belt and tuck in your shirt, if you want to be extra safe.

