 Pull the person aside who you feel is overlooking you and ask them about it directly. This is especially effective if you’re feeling slighted in this way by your family and friends. Having an honest conversation about this can help you understand what is going on and possibly help you to feel better.

Avoid being confrontational when addressing the person. You could say, “I feel like we aren’t as close as we were before and I’m feeling left out of a lot of things. Do you feel like this, too?” Asking them how they feel gives them the opportunity to state their opinion, as well, so they don’t feel like it is a one-sided conversation., Show people your gratitude for them and tell them how much you appreciate them, often. Doing so may encourage them to do the same towards you. Give someone praise even if it is for something small. This can be particularly helpful for them, especially if they are feeling overlooked, also.

Focusing on the good that others do may help you get your mind off of feeling overlooked. You may then start to realize how much others do, as well.Be sure to include other people as well. This may increase the chances that they will include you in their plans in the future.
 Stop working so hard to get noticed. Instead, do it because you feel a sense of pride from it. Feeling good about yourself and the work you are doing can build your confidence and self-esteem.

Over time, having this increased sense of pride in yourself could affect your personality and appearance, which could ultimately make you more noticeable., You don’t want to be someone you’re not just to avoid being overlooked. You should feel comfortable being yourself, but it may also help to take it up a notch. Just be a little more outgoing, outspoken, or driven. Take a good look at yourself and figure out what really defines you. Then, try to enhance those traits.

Talk to others about what you’re passionate about or put a little more work into things you enjoy doing. The charismatic part of you will really shine and make it almost impossible for people to overlook you.