 All novels are notated with italics, such as The Old Man and the Sea or Mrs. Dalloway. Book length poems or epic poems are also notated with italics, such as Beowulf or The Odyssey. You should make sure these titles all have quotation marks, regardless of if you are citing original work in text or published works in a bibliography.Story collections and poetry collections are also notated with italics. For example, The Collected Stories of Grace Paley or The Collected Poetry of Dorothy Parker.
An anthology of essays is also italicized. For example, The Best American Essays.
 If you are citing a magazine or a newspaper, you would italicize the title. Italicize For example, Vanity Fair or The Globe and Mail. Do this for both original works in text and published works in a bibliography.The titles of encyclopedias are also italicized. For example, Encyclopedia Britannica or The Encyclopedia of Botanicals.
 If you are citing the title of a music album, you would use italics. For example, Nina Simone Live in Paris. The titles of plays and films are also italicized. For example, A Doll’s House or Raging Bull.The titles of television series or shows as a whole should be italicized. For example, Friends or The Mindy Project.
 Visual artworks, such as paintings, drawings, sculptures, and mixed media pieces, should be cited using italics. For example, Vincent Van Gogh’s Starry Night or Henry Moore’s Reclining Figure., Though underlining was once popular for titles of longer works in the past, in recent times italicizing has been used in MLA style. Some copy editors and publishers prefer titles in italics rather than underlined, as italics are thought to be more aesthetically pleasing than underlines.Check with your professor or teacher about her preference for underlying or italics before you format titles in a paper or an assignment so you do not get docked points due to formatting errors. If your professor does want you to use underlining instead of italics, follow the same steps above using underlining instead of italics.