 You may sign up for an Xbox LIVE Gold membership here; after doing so, it will be available on your Xbox One or Xbox 360 on which you're logged in., It's below the "Support" tab that's near the top-middle of the page., This option is near the middle of the "Xbox Live" drop-down menu., It's a green button in the lower-left section of the page., It will say "1 Month Xbox Live Gold" in the box; clicking it will prompt a drop-down menu with three options:


1 Month Xbox Live Gold - This option costs $9.99.

3 Month Xbox Live Gold - This option costs $24.99.

12 Month Xbox Live Gold - This option costs $59.99 and is the best value.
 Doing so will select it for your Xbox LIVE account., This is the blue button below your selected pricing option. Doing so will take you to a login page., You'll need to do this even if you were already signed into the Xbox LIVE website, since this step serves to verify your identity.

You can also enter your phone number or your Skype name here.
 It's below the email field., This is the password for the email address you entered on the previous page., It's below the password entry field. This will take you to a verification page where you'll enter a code sent by Microsoft., After doing so, you'll be taken to a payment page where you can proceed with purchasing an Xbox LIVE subscription. To verify your account:

Select a verification device (phone or email) from the drop-down box.
Type in the email address you chose or the last four digits of your phone number.
Click Send code.
Open your phone's text messages or your email address.
Open the message from Microsoft and view the seven-digit code.
Enter the code into the box at the bottom of the verification page.
Click Submit.
 It's a blue button below the "Xbox Live Gold" heading and options on the left side of the page., It's in the bottom-right corner of the payment window. Doing so will take you to a page with two payment options:


Credit card or debit card - This option will require you to enter your credit or debit card number, security code, name, and expiration date.

PayPal - If you have a PayPal account linked to your bank account, you can pay for Xbox LIVE through PayPal.
 Doing so will take you to the payment entry page., For a debit or credit card, this will entail the card details.

If you clicked PayPal, you'll need to log into PayPal to verify your identity.
 It's at the bottom of the page. As long as your payment information checks out, you'll be taken to a page where you can review the card (or PayPal) details., Doing so will keep your card details for use with your Xbox LIVE account., It's in the bottom-right corner of the window. Doing so will purchase your selected Xbox LIVE Gold membership package; the next time you log into your Xbox LIVE account on your Xbox One or Xbox 360, your Xbox LIVE Gold membership will be active.

Your membership begins on the day on which you purchase it.

