 First things first: decide who you’d like to have a relationship with and write it down. Use this list to narrow down your search and concentrate your focus on boys that you think you'll get along with.Come up with a list of potential guys you know that are single and that you find interesting.
Think of all the pros and cons for each guy: for example, one might be especially cute, but maybe you don’t have all that much in common with him. Don’t just go for looks, but think about who you’ll actually get along with and will want as a boyfriend.Don’t be afraid to include boys you’re already friends with but would be interested in as a boyfriend. He might feel the same about you, but you might never find out if you don’t get the ball rolling in that direction.If you want to go for someone new that you don’t know yet, think about what personality, physicality, and intellectual type of guy you’re interested in. This way you’ll know what you’re looking for when you meet new guys and know if they’re potential boyfriend material for you.;
, Hang out at places where the type of guys you like tend to frequent -- whether it’s a coffee shop, library, gym, or the beach.


Be sure to appear open and approachable, don’t have your nose buried too deeply in a book at the coffee shop, for example, or be distracted by hanging out with friends.
Go to places alone, dressed to impress, and try to catch someone’s eye with a look and smile.
 Many internet dating sites give new members a free 7 day trial, so you can comb through their pool for potential boyfriends.Sign up for at least 3 sites so that you will have the widest selection of guys.
Find 5 guys you might be interested in and that meet your age, location, personality, or other requirements and send them an email. Starting with 5 increases your chances of hitting it off with 1 of them and striking up a romance by the end of your 7 day trial.
 Another sure fired way to meet potential guys in a short amount of time is to attend a “singles” themed weekend activity or meetup group. Not only will there be lots of eligible, interested bachelors, but you’ll already have a hobby in common., Speed dating is becoming an increasingly popular way to strike up romance and find a boyfriend fast.Search the web for any speed dating nights in your area and signup.
You'll go on several 30-60 second "dates" with a dozen or so guys in that one night.
You might just find someone you’d like to see more of after just one night of trying to find someone!,
Enhance your best features with some extra makeup or hair styling.
You don’t have to go too glam, but do make a little extra effort during the week you’re trying to catch your boy’s eye.
 Looks aren’t the only thing that go into attraction. Your behavior and attitudes can also be a turn-on or turn-off.


Be confident. Be brave and take the initiative to talk with the boy you’re interested in. Confidence is an attractive quality, and he’ll start to get the hint that you like him if you make the effort to give him attention.Play it cool. Don’t overdo it and be too forward or aggressive in your interactions, especially if your boy’s a bit on the shy side.
Ty to make him feel comfortable and at ease in your conversations by keeping things fun and light and open enough for him to make a move on his own too.
Be sure to compliment him frequently so that he feels confident around you.
 Your mannerisms can go a long way towards communicating that you’re available and interested in turning you male friend into a boyfriend.Subtly play with your hair while talking. This signals availability while also drawing attention to your lovely locks.
Sneak glances at him from across the room and keep eye contact while you’re talking.
Occasionally touch his arm during your conversation to grab his attention and show that you’re warm, outgoing, and physically comfortable with him.
 Don't worry, this isn’t going to get you stuck in the dreaded “friend zone.” Rather, it’s an important first step especially if you just met him; it shows initiative and indicates that you’re interested in the guy while establishing a portal for further communication.
 The more you two happen to bump into each other, the more face-time you’ll have, and the more chances for you to win him over.


Frequent the places he likes to hang around at school, work, restaurants, or around town. Obviously, you don’t want to be stalker-ish and be waiting for him around every corner, but strategically plan to cross paths once a day during the next 7 days.
Get involved in the clubs and activities that your love-target is interested in. You’ll show that you share common interests, but you’ll also end up seeing a lot more of each other if you're involved in the same activities., Don’t wait for him to do it! You can take the lead as a modern, empowered girl and ask him yourself.Clearly verbalize your feelings by telling him you're interested in him as a boyfriend and that you'd like to go on a date that weekend.
If she says yes, success! You've got yourself a date and (likely) a boyfriend.
If he declines, don’t sweat it. If he isn’t into you it wouldn’t be fun trying to date him anyway. Move on to someone else ---- there are plenty of other boys out there, and at least one who will dig you for you.

