 Where can you set up a tripod without blocking someone else's view? Taping from straight-on is not always the best shot. If you are in the front of the room and off to the side, you will be able to pan over and get audience questions at the end.;
, If the program is going to be miked, find the audio technician. He or she will probably be able to tell you if the presenter will be standing at the podium or walking around with a wireless microphone. If you are friendly and you have some cables and adapters, he or she will likely give you a direct feed from the audio board.
 If one goes bad, you'll have a backup.
 If you lose your external audio feed, you can unplug and use your built-in camcorder microphone.
 Ask the audio technician where all the speakers are located.
 If the presenter will be standing at the podium, you can attach your microphone to the existing podium mic with tape (with permission). If the presenter is moving around with a wireless microphone, you could mic one of the amplified speakers. Closer is better. Put it one inch away if you can.


Wired or wireless (requires batteries).
Dynamic or condenser (requires independent power source).
Omnidirectional or cardioid.
 If the audio technician can provide a direct feed from the board, ask for a "mic level" feed. Your camera probably has a microphone input. If there is a little switch next to that input that toggles between mic and line, you can then alternatively accept a "line level" feed. A line level is slightly amplified. If you send a line level into a jack that is only designed for microphone inputs, you will get lots of distorted sound.



Omnidirectional.
Uni-directional.
Cardioid.
Bi-directional.
Shotgun.
 Ask the presenter if he or she would mind wearing an extra mic. Don't forget to retrieve it at the end of the presentation!

, Do this after listening to the quality of each source on your headphones. Be ready to switch to your secondary source if your primary source fails. Practice doing that.
,