 The things you say to the guy, or even the things you talk about when you're not around the guy, can be a big indication of whether or not you have a crush on the guy. Here's how to know if the things you say mean that you have a serious crush:


If you find yourself always teasing the guy. If you always end up poking fun at the guy without meaning to, it means you have a crush.
If you talk really fast or stutter when you say anything to the guy, it means you have a crush.
If you're careful about not saying anything that might make you look like a ditz or dumb in front of the guy, then you have a crush. And if you feel like everything you say to him does make you sound like a ditz, then you probably have a crush.
If you can't talk to one of your friends for more than ten minutes without mentioning the guy, then you have a crush. If you have a crush, your friends may be able to pick up on it before you do.
 You can learn a lot about whether or not you have a crush on the guy based on how you act around him, or even how you act when he's miles away. Here are a few ways to know if your actions mean you've been bit by the crush bug:


If you go out of your way to hang out with him, then you have a crush on him. If you've never watched baseball in your life but are suddenly going to all the school games because you know he'll be sitting in the bleachers, then you have a crush.
If you want to be near him whenever you do hang out. If you find yourself drifting toward him when you're in a group of friends, or even touching him in a playful way whenever you can, then you have a crush.
If you can't stand being around him when he's flirting with other girls, then you have a crush.
If your heart falls when you show up to a place where you thought he'd be and he isn't there, then you have a crush.
 It may not be a coincidence that you're suddenly spending twice as much time in front of the mirror whenever you know you'll see the guy. Here's how to know if your grooming habits and attention to your looks say that you have a crush on the guy:


If you try twice as hard to look good if you know you'll see him. If you wear your best outfit, best hairdo, and most amazing eye makeup when you know he'll be there, then you have a crush.
If you find yourself experimenting with new makeup looks or jewelry to see if he notices, then you have a crush.
If you find yourself not caring at all about how you look if you go somewhere where you know you won't see him, then you have a crush.
 Let's say this guy is the athletic, typical-boy type. You might find yourself practicing basketball and soccer, or buying Nike shoes, so your guy can get interested at you. And if you want your guy to get interested at you, that basically means you have a crush on him and will kind of do anything for him.

