 Support him in his work and hobbies by offering positivity and words of encouragement. It is an instant self esteem boost to know that someone is proud of you and has your back.


Show him how supportive you are of him by admiring and respecting him in front of his friends, your friends, or family members.
Find an accomplishment or an attribute about him and lift him up to the people around him or you. “Hey, did you know Harry just got a job at Carter’s corporate office?” or “I’m really proud of him for pursuing his songwriting. It’s been amazing to see him grow.”, Men crave compliments just like women do, just not as often or not quite in the same way. Men want respect so compliments that reflect that should be the kind you give.For small gestures, just as readily as you would for big gestures, say “thank you” to show your appreciation in a simple but effective way.
Admire his looks by telling him, “You look really handsome today” or be more specific and say, “You look really handsome in that shirt today”.
Show him that you’re in his corner by saying, “Hey, I’m on your side.”
Never be too prideful or too egotistical to admit when you’re wrong. Say “I’m sorry” whenever there’s a need to.
 If he works hard or long hours, don’t question it. Offer help and support by being present when he needs it.


Realize that he is building and show that you want to be a part of that by asking him questions that express genuine interest for what he does and who he is trying to become in the work place.
Have confidence that he can do his job and do his job well and watch as your faith leads to how well he approaches his work. Offer a complimentary back rub or head rub every now and then as a treat.
 Motivate and support him in being the best man he can be by helping him create goals that he can work toward.


Talk to him about where he wants to be and what he wants to do in life between the next six months to two years. After you help him see that image, help him think bigger in five years, in ten, and in twenty.Make goals are as specific and grounded to reality as possible, but make room for goals that might be a little more star-worthy. For every “I want to be debt free by the time I’m 35”, leave room for “I want to skydive from a plane”.

