 Mostly wear t-shirts. Get a white, short sleeve one with a low neckline, to wear under jumpers, or a navy, long sleeved one with horizontal white stripes. She is seen wearing this underneath her lab coat at Oscorp.;
, Wear jumpers either on their own, or over a t-shirt. Gwen has a navy, tank jumper, which is best worn over the white t-shirt. Look out for other smart, thin, close fitting sweaters, preferably with v-shaped, or wide necklines.
 Gwen favors skirts over trousers, but if you feel better in trousers, try black or dark denim skinny jeans. Get a couple of skirts - straight or pencil style, in either denim or corduroy. These should come to just above the knee. For colour, think dark blues and browns. If you want something a little more playful, try a looser, purple cotton skirt, a little shorter than the others.
 Try to favor socks over tights (Although feel free to wear skin colored tights under your socks, if you feel more comfortable). Find several pairs of black socks that come to either just below or just above your knee. These can be decorated with lace, or buttons if you like.
 Find a good pair of knee high leather boots, in either black or tan. These should have a low heel, and be either pull on or zip up. If you want something more suitable to warmer weather, try black ballet pumps or ankle boots.
 In the last scene of the film, Gwen is seen wearing a straight-style, dark blue dress with navy, velvet polka dots. she wears this with a cardigan in a similar colour. This could be more suitable for formal occasions.
 Try to find a knee length mac, in either beige or dark green, and wear it left open. If you like you could try to find a waist length, long sleeved woolen jacket, with a flat, curved collar.
 Gwen does not wear much jewellery, apart from maybe a small pair of stud earrings. However, she is very well prepared for cold weather, look out for a beige cable knit hat, and matching finger less gloves. You could also try to find a white cotton scarf with blue polka dots.
 Find a brown leather backpack, similar to that which Gwen uses for school.
 Straighten your hair. Either wear a plain black headband, or if your hair is long, tie it into a mid-high ponytail. Use a red ribbon to make a bow around the base of the ponytail.
 Wear light make up, a touch of mascara, brown eyeliner and pinkish blush is all that is needed. If you like, you could also wear a little lipstick similar to your natural lip shade.

