 This is to make sure that you have enough energy to play Dance Dance Revolution. Eat at least one hour before to prevent you from vomit because playing DDR means that you are going to jump and turn you body and hips more than usual.;
, This is good to adapt to the beat of the songs. Some songs have several parts that can indicate a stop or a slowdown, so repeat the songs over and over to get the beat. This way, you can predict what kind of chart will it be, and you can adjust your body position, control and speed.
 Start the warm-up by doing a round or two rounds consisting of easy songs. This is to get your muscles ready or adapt them if you haven't play Dance Dance Revolution for a long time.
 Increase the difficulty a little as you proceed. This way, your muscles can adapt with the increasing difficulty that you can be always ready for higher difficulty.
 Play more songs can be a way to learn new patterns, new beats and new gimmicks. Some charts have patterns or gimmicks that are similar to other charts, so practice them to know how you should move your body if you find similar patterns or gimmicks.
 If you are panic because of seeing a killer part of the chart or the killer chart itself, you cannot focus and you won't be able to adjust your body's reaction to the chart. Think positive and maintain a clear mind so you can react as fast as you can.
 Bars are useful to maintain your body balance on the correct position. But, use it wisely (on how to use bars properly, see Tips section).
 Try finding a way to control your speed and step necessarily. There are some patterns that require double-stepping, and some must use body turns to avoid unnecessary waste of energy. Also, watch your stomping method.
 It cannot be to rigid or too flexible. Getting to be too rigid limits your body movement too much that it is difficult to get along with the beat. Getting to be too flexible usually cause your body to make unnecessary moves unconsciously.
 After two rounds, don't push yourself over because your body's endurance and concentration will not last long. Drink a little bit and take a breath.
