 In your web browser, type “https://disneyauditions.com/” into the address bar. You’ll find lots of information there, which includes the audition calendar and an explanation about the audition experience. Explore the site to find the information you want.

You’ll see so many fun characters that you may not even be able to pick which one sounds the best!

, The audition calendar shows a large number of performance roles that Disney is currently looking to cast. Select something specific in the “I’d like to see” and “Auditions for” boxes to filter the results.Even if you’re busy most of the dates, you’ll want to clear your schedule for such an exciting experience!

, As you look through the list, click on something that catches your eye. It will explain when the auditions are taking place and what is required and expected of you when you attend the audition. Make sure you are available on the date listed for the audition.

If you want to perform but don’t like the spotlight, look for the various ensemble positions. You’ll still get to sing and dance, but you won’t be doing it alone.
Even if you have to travel for the audition, think of it as a great reason to take a couple of vacation days!

, Write down or print out the specifics of the audition you select. If you currently have a job, make sure you schedule to be off work on the day of the audition. You may have to travel far from your home, so make travel plans ahead of time for that.

Make sure you plan well enough that you can be early to the audition.
For open calls, it’s not necessary to fill out an application ahead of time. You’ll be given an application to fill out when you attend the audition.
 Print the headshot in color on standard letter size paper. Make sure it is of good quality and is representative of the way you really look. Keep your resume to one page, and list recent and relevant experience.Carry these in a folder to keep them clean and crease-free.
 Disney offers tips on exactly what to expect for each type of job such as singer or actor. Spend at least a few weeks working on your monologue, dance routine, or character portrayal.Your best shot for the audition is to practice your performance carefully and repeatedly.
It would suit you best to choose something from the Disney catalogue or classic plays. Sing your favorite Broadway tune, perform choreography from a Disney film, or do a well-known theater monologue.
 In a way, your audition starts as soon as the casting directors see you, so present yourself well from the start. Put a smile on your face and hold your head up. Walk with good posture and casual steps. Greet the people you’ll be auditioning for.

