 Buying local can help curb animal cruelty. Animals raised on local farms were likely subjected to more ethical conditions than animals on factory farms. If you can find a local farmer's market or grocery store, make that your first option when it comes to grocery shopping.


Locally raised meat is usually free from the antibiotics and growth hormones animals are force fed at factories. Animals raised on an organic diet are significantly healthier than factory raised animals.In factory farms, animals are kept in tight pens and cannot move more than a few feet. Local farms usually allow animals to be free range, meaning they can spend more time outside and are not confined to pens.When you buy meat, eggs, or cheese from a local farm, your money goes straight to supporting that farm. At a grocery store, you are more likely to be supporting a multinational food conglomerate than individual farmers. Allowing these farms the money they need to sustain themselves gives happy homes to a variety of animals., If farmer's markets aren't available in your area, try to find a grocery store that supports local markets and adheres to ethical guidelines when it comes to the buying and selling of meat.


Whole Foods, one of the biggest grocery shopping chains, buys from local markets and only stock meat products purchased from farmers that meat strict standards for animal welfare.Earth Fare, similar to Whole Foods, follows strict ethical standards when it comes to the animal products bought and sold.If you look around, you might find a local grocery store in your area that buys local.
 Many people believe the best way to curb animals cruelty is by not eating meat or by not eating animals products at all. This is called vegetarianism/veganism and if you are dedicated to the cause it's something you can consider.


Vegetarians do not eat meat, fish, and poultry. It's possible to meet all nutritional needs while maintaining a vegetarian diet.
Vegetarians find alternative sources of protein in beans, lentils, tofu, nuts, seeds, tempeh, and peas.
Vegans, in addition to not eating meat, do not eat anything with animal byproducts. This includes dairy and honey. Vegans can easily meet protein requirements as almost all foods have some protein. Chickpeas, tofu, peas, peanut butter, almonds, and other nuts are great sources of protein on a vegan diet.The vitamin B12, often found in meats and other animal-based products, is very important to maintain a healthy diet. Vegetarians and vegans can find B12 in soy meats, some cereals, soy milk, and nutritional yeast. You can also talk to your doctor about B12 supplements., You don't always know what you're getting eating out, and by cooking your own meals at home you can assure yourself you're eating ethically.


Use food you bought locally, or food that contains no hidden animals products.
If you eat meat, buy locally raised grass-fed meat from local markets.
By making meals at home, you can make sure the products you're using are cruelty free. Even when eating vegetarian options at restaurants, you never know what hidden animals products could be used in the food.
In addition to reducing animal cruelty, eating at home is also better for your health as your food is generally lower in calories and less stocked with hidden sugars and fats.

