 Plastic film is probably the most standard covering for a book. You can use clear or colored adhesive plastic contact paper. Or you can use various types of book covering plastic that isn’t adhesive but is made for book covering.


Either type of plastic will protect your book. But, the non-adhesive method tends to be less damaging to the book in the long run. should you wish to ever remove the plastic covering, non-adhesive is easier to remove. You can also opt to make a plastic sheet protector book cover.
The chemicals in the adhesive may eventually tarnish the book. Additionally, the adhesive method is not an environmentally friendly way to cover a book because recycled versions of it have not yet been created.
Regular plastic coverings take a bit more work but can be easily removed. You can also try covering a book with plastic wrap.
Contact paper book covering comes in a roll. It is usually available from anywhere that sells stationery or craft supplies. Most rolls will have measurements printed on the backing of the contact paper, which will help you to align the plastic.
 Place the book on the contact paper. Center the book using the lines on the backing of the paper. If there are no guidelines, use a ruler. Think of this part as similar to wrapping a present.
 Leave enough room when cutting so that you have enough paper to fold over the front cover. This will free the roll from the portion you’ll be working with.


You should now have you book lying on top of a free, flat piece of plastic paper. There should be some excess paper around all sides of the book.
 Peel the contact away from its backing if you need to.


If you're using sticky contact paper that has a backing, you'll need to peel away the backing to reveal the adhesive side. When you lay the book back down, lay it on the adhesive side. The plastic will stick to the book.
 Open the front cover of the book to bring a fold over of plastic paper.


Bring your plastic paper over to the inside front cover of the book. You will want to apply a small piece of tape to hold the plastic in place. The repeat with the back cover. Don’t tape down the back cover yet.
 After you have folded the plastic over the corners you will have excess paper that needs to be trimmed and cut.


First cut two slits in the plastic on either side of the book’s spine. Then, cut off the corners of the plastic from the top and bottom of your book. Cut at an angle so that your scissors go up to the corners of your book.
You need to cut the corners so that you can easily cut away a layer of plastic inside the book covers. And fold down the extra plastic on the top and bottom of the book.
 You will see flaps that are no longer connected to the parts of paper that are extending on the top and bottom of your book.


Cut away these flaps so that you can easily fold down the extra plastic.
 You want to lift the book to reveal the spinal tabs you cut.


Then fold down the spinal tabs toward the center of the paper. Gently lower your book back down over the folded tabs.
 All that’s left to do is to open up your covers and fold the remaining parts of plastic paper into the inside covers.


Try to tape the plastic together to hold everything in place without taping the book if possible. Tape can be hard to remove from the book, especially without causing damage.
Check for air bubbles. Running a ruler across the cover usually dispels these. Then you’re all done.

