 For severe cases of Achilles tendonitis, you should consult a physical therapist in order to come up with a strengthening regimen to suit your individual injury. A physical therapist will likely have you start with easier exercises and build to ones that place a greater stretch on the tendon.


Even for mild cases where a physical therapist is not necessary, keep in mind that gentle strengthening and stretching options are always recommended when healing a tendon., To perform this exercise, sit in a chair with your heel on the floor. Reach down and pull your big toe up and back toward you.Hold the position for around fifteen seconds when you first start the exercise, but gradually increase time to thirty seconds.You can do this exercise for up to four repetitions at a time and five times a day., To perform this exercise, sit on the floor or a mat with your legs outstretched and knees straight. Loop a towel around your foot on the injured leg so that it passes just beneath your toes. Pull back on the towel with both hands to stretch your foot up toward you.Hold the position for 15-30 seconds.You can perform this exercise for up to four repetitions at a time and five times per day., This basic exercise is great for stretching calf muscles and your Achilles tendon. Plant one foot behind you with your heel flat on the ground. Lean against a wall with both hands and place your weight on your bent, forward leg. Slowly push your hips toward the wall while keeping your back foot planted. Hold the position for ten seconds. You will feel a strong pull in the calf of your back leg.You can repeat this exercise up to twenty times on each foot daily.You can find further instructions for this calf stretch exercise at: How to Stretch Your Calves


, Heel drops are eccentric exercises, which means they tighten a muscle as it elongates, making them great for stretching.To perform, stand with the front half of both feet on a stair, and then raise your heels up before lowering them down as low as you can.Since the back half of your feet will hang off the stair, you should be able to lower them further than the rest of your feet. Perform this exercise in a slow, controlled fashion for twenty repetitions.As you build strength, you can begin holding weights in order to increase strengthening as you perform this exercise.You can also perform single heel drops, which are basically the same exercise but on one leg only. Always start with bilateral heel drops, and consult your physical therapist before attempting single heel drops since they can potentially cause further damage to the tendon., You can take several steps with regard to exercise in order to prevent injuring the tendon again (or in the first place). You should:Start slowly and increase activity level gradually with regard to exercise and sports
Stretch daily
Focus on calf muscle exercises
Alternate between high- and low-impact exercises

