 Obviously, the coach isn't going to pick someone who always double touches and runs into the net. Search for the "rules of volleyball" online to see if any good websites that have the rules listed come up. Focus on sites that have rules relevant to your part of the world; variations may exist elsewhere.;
, Practice about 60 minutes daily.Practice all the basic volleyball moves before the try-outs. Practice setting, spiking, bumping, blocking, and serving.


Practice by yourself as well as with others. Set/bump against the wall, practice your serves, and jump rope. Jog daily, but not for too long, because long distance running damages your vertical jump., These will help your serves and hits. If you are strong, the coach will probably accept you on the team.
 This will give you a lot skills without the pressured level of expectation. Plus, you'll have a ton of fun.
 If the coach is expecting everyone to get their serves over, you had better work on serving. Almost all coaches will want to see how good you are at the fundamental skills. Try to show the coach these fundamentals in try-outs.
 This will give you time to check out the atmosphere, watch players and feel relaxed.
 If you think you can hit it, you are more likely to follow through on your internal confidence.


Always go for the ball in try-outs, otherwise, how will the coach know how good you are at passing? Also, remember to call the ball.
Overhand serves are more preferred, but if you have the right fundamentals the coach might work with you.
Don't talk about how bad you are at hitting, etc. Such negativity is a total downer and a coach will likely avoid someone who shows such a lack of confidence from the outset.
 Volunteer when the coach asks for volunteers, wear brightly colored clothes. Act overall peppy and the coach will definitely notice you.


Be sure to ask questions. This will show your coach you want to get better and care if you are doing something wrong.
When the coach calls for you to shag up the balls, be the first to be out on the court running and shag the balls.
When the ball is coming toward you yell "Mine!" or "Got it!" to let other members know that you have the ball and they won't go after it. Your coach might even be impressed.
 Just remember, there's always next year, and practice makes perfect!

, Coaches like to know what's going on and they'll appreciate your honesty. If you have a minor injury but are still going to play, then tell them before tryouts start so that she'll understand if you need to take a break instead of thinking that you're not trying your hardest.
 Coaches look for upbeat and can-do attitudes in sport. And listen to what the coach says. They appreciate it when you listen. If the coach says to change something the next time you do it, your main focus should be on changing what the coach told you. It shows the coaches that you are willing to listen and learn.
 Encourage others around you to do their best. Be prepared to talk to your teammates. It's very important in volleyball to communicate with your team and the sooner you are known as someone willing to do this, the sooner people will rely on you. A team player who is reliable and relied upon is valuable and will be kept as part of the team. You may even make team captain if you keep the good attitude!

