 There are three popular formats to use: block, modified block, and semi-block. Block format means that all elements of the letter are aligned to the left of the page, modified block allows for some elements to be shifted to the right, and semi-block is aligned left but each paragraph is indented.Block format is the most formal and widely used format. If you are unsure of what type of format to use, this is the best choice.
Keep in mind that different organizations utilize different formatting techniques, so be flexible in your formatting if needed.;
, The standard for font selection is Times New Roman, 12 point. Arial is also considered an acceptable font. The important thing to remember is not only readability of the letter but also who your audience is.


For example, if you are writing to a conservative organization you should choose the standard Times New Roman. Alternatively, if your organization is more liberal, you have more leeway to choose different fonts., Margins are the areas of white blank space around the edge of the writing area.Most word processors are automatically set to the standard (1-inch margins all around), but you can always double check to make sure you are formatting correctly.


Check the proportions of the letter by using print preview.
 Business letters should be typed (single-spaced) on a word processor that is set to print to 8 ½" by 11" blank, white paper.
 The heading is the return address (usually 2-3 lines) and it contains information about the organization and where the reader can return any correspondence. It includes organization name (first line), street address (second line), and city and state (third line).


The heading should be placed two inches from the top of the page.
It is also acceptable to include additional contact information (phone, email, fax) after the third line of the address.Try not to use abbreviations (for example, spell street instead of st.). If abbreviating the state, make sure you use the standard postal service abbreviations and capitalize both letters.
You do not have to include a heading if your company has a standard letterhead which includes all of the organization's identifying information.
 When using block style, always skip a line and then include the date under the return address. The standard American formatting for the date is: month, day, and year (including a comma after the day). Do not abbreviate months, and use four digits for the year.The standard British formatting for the date is: day, month, year (with no comma).
If using letterhead instead of a heading, place the date three lines below the last line of the letterhead.
 The inside address is the recipient's title, full name, and address. This should be included one line below the sender's U.S. postal address or one inch below the date. It is always aligned to the left.Always write to a specific individual at an organization. If you don't have a name or title, call or go online to do some research.
Include the highest title possible (Dr., Professor, etc.). If addressing a woman without a professional title, determine whether she should be addressed as Mrs., Ms. or Miss. When in doubt, use Ms.
When using international addresses, include the name of the country (in all capital letters) on the last line.
 Use the same name/title utilized in the inside address. The type of greeting will depend on your relationship with the recipient, but the most common greeting is "Dear," followed by the recipient's name and a colon. The salutation should be placed on the left margin, two lines below the inside address.


If you don't know the recipient's name, you can also use phrases such as "To whom it may concern" or "Dear Sir or Madam."
In British English, you do not need a colon after the recipient's name. Instead, leave it blank or use a comma., The subject line is a sentence which helps the reader quickly understand the purpose of your letter. It is completely optional. It is usually preceded by the word Subject: or Re: and can be placed either one line below the greeting, or directly after the inside address.To make the subject line stand out, you can use bold font, all caps, or underline the text.
 This is where you introduce both who you are and your purpose for writing the letter. This should be aligned to the left, two lines below the salutation (or whatever is before the body of the letter).


If using block or modified block formats, no indentation is necessary. Only indent if using a semi-block format.
 The additional paragraphs should provide more details, more background information, or clarify any information.This should again be left aligned, single-spaced, and only indented if using semi-block format. Skip a line between each new paragraph.


Add an additional paragraph anytime you introduce a new idea or new information.Remember that it's important to be concise and get straight to the point in business letters. Try not to let your paragraphs drag or run on longer than necessary., This is the final paragraph of your letter. It should remind the reader of your main point and provide the reader with a request for a follow up action (if required)., The complementary closing is a brief, polite phrase that brings your letter to an end. It should be one space below the ending of the body of the letter. Standard closings include phrases such as Sincerely, Sincerely yours, or Yours truly.


The first word of a closing is always capitalized while the second is not.
Align to the left for block format. For modified block, tab to the center and begin typing (so it justifies right). For semi-block, fully center your closing.Other options include: Respectfully, Very truly yours, Regards, and Cordially., After your closing, hit the enter bar four times to leave space for a signature. After that, type your first name, last name and any credentials. Your title can be included underneath your name.


When signing your name, use blue or black ink.
Your signature should begin over the first letter of your typed name., End notations are used for any additional information such as initials or enclosures. The information should be placed on the left margin, two spaces below the signature information.


Initials are included if someone other than the author of the letter types it. The author's initials come first (in capital letters), follow by a colon or forward slash, and the typist's initials in lowercase letters.Enclosures are any other items that are being sent with the letter. It is signified by the word "Enclosures" or the abbreviation "Enc." or "Encs." as necessary. If there are multiple enclosures, it is customary to signify this by putting the number of enclosures in parenthesis: Enclosures (3)., The tone is known as the writer's attitude or feeling towards the writing.It's important to have a professional tone throughout the letter because it reflects both the writer and the organization.


Be courteous and sincere in your writing by using phrases such as "thank you," or "please feel free to contact me."
Never use a condescending tone--even if the information is negative. For example, instead of saying, "You did not read the instructions carefully," instead say, "the system may shut down if the instructions are not properly followed.", Don't use any type of generalizations or language that others could find offensive. Use non-gender specific titles for generalizations and avoid stereotypical statements.


For example, use chairperson instead of chairman or say,"the office staff" versus "the girls in the office.", Use complete and complex sentences and avoid fragments and run-ons. Always re-read to make sure your sentences are cohesive and well put together.Don't use slang terms or lower level words, no matter how popular they are. For example avoid using words such as: stuff, like, or really.
Avoid overly used words such as: a lot, good, or nice.
Don't use run-on sentences that seem to have no end and require punctuation but don't use any and put together many ideas into one sentence that should be broken up into a few. (This is an example of a run-on sentence)
Make sure your sentences. (are complete and not fragments like this one).
 This includes punctuation and spelling. When in doubt, utilize your spelling and grammar checker in your word processing system.


Don't use shorthand such as LOL (laugh out loud) or TTYL (talk to you later).
Avoid using excessive punctuation marks!!!!!!

