 If you hear someone use racial slurs, make a racial joke, or mistreat people because of their race, step in say something.You might be afraid of someone who is openly hostile, but think about how the other person feels. If you are afraid for your or the other person's safety, feel free to get an authority figure, such as the police, or an adult if you are a child or teenager.


If the person sees nothing wrong with what was said, ask the person not to say racist or bigoted remarks around you anymore. Tell the person that you will no longer hang around them if they continue to act this way.
For example, if someone says "All _____ are criminals," ask the person, "Why do you say that?" or "Where do those beliefs come from?"Try saying, "That was an inappropriate thing to say." or "How would you feel if someone said something like that about you?"
If you miss the opportunity to say something or chicken out, do not beat yourself up about it. Promise yourself that you will speak up the next chance you get.
Address the behavior or the comment instead of the person. Do not resort to name calling or tell someone, "You're a racist." This will only offend them and make them angry.;
, Most cities have cultural festivals and events. These events are a great place to learn about different cultures and interact with people from that culture.Invite your friends and family to go with you as well. Educating yourself and others is a way to have a more positive attitude towards people from different backgrounds.Events are often held in accordance with larger celebrations such as Black History Month, Asian-Pacific Heritage American Month, National Hispanic Heritage Month, etc.
 Protests and demonstrations are powerful ways to combat racism in your community. These can be coordinated in response to events that happen around you. For example, if someone puts racial graffiti on a building, you could get together with some people to paint over the graffiti. If a hate group such as the Ku Klux Klan is coming to town, create a petition to stop them from coming.Even if you are not able to organize something yourself, just the act of speaking up and introducing the idea is helpful.
Always start by contacting your friends, family, classmates, neighbors, etc. You can also contact local law enforcement about your concerns or about what you are interested in doing.
 Racism happens at both the individual level and at the institutional level. Local and federal legislation can promote racism. Educating others and reforming yourself is more important, but the government does make a difference. Look for laws that promote equal salaries, equal opportunity, and punishment for people who discriminate in housing or employment.Write your elected officials, newspapers, or contact community organizers about the policies.
 Many organizations are dedicated to working towards these issues. Joining or supporting one of these organizations is another method you can use. You may meet like-minded people or get useful updates. You can volunteer at the organization or donate your time and/or money to their cause.


America Healing maintains a list of organizations that work on racial equity issues., Having a good understanding of your community will help you identify the best approaches for reducing racism. Read through your local newspaper, magazine, or websites to get some background information. What groups of people live in your community? Do these groups live and work together? Are neighborhoods segregated? Have there been any incidents of racism between different groups?