 Do not do any other work on the soil; instead focus on the way the tomatoes are grown in that soil.
 Plant about 8-10 plants in total for a small, manageable garden.


Leave about 2 feet (0.6 m) between each seedling, and the rows 2 feet (0.6 m) apart. This helps the fruit and ground to stay cool.
Plant 2 seeds in each hole. Wean out the weaker one at about 4 inches (10.2 cm) of growth.
 Don't over prepare the soil. The seedlings are very sensitive to new conditions when transplanting (or from seed). They can not only die, but can be slowed way down and the yield can be poor. Instead, use chicken poop (such as "Chickity Doo Doo"). It comes in pellet form and doesn't take much knowledge to use. Use about 1 cup per plant spread out on the surface. Watering will leach the nutrients into the soil for you. Do not cultivate.
 Spread them around in your garden. The more the merrier, to about 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) height. Not only does this keep the weeds down but it also keeps the soil cool and moist. So less watering!

It also provides more organic material (compost fertilizer) for the next growing season.
 Do not water at night, as this creates dangerous conditions for your plants as insects love wet dark environments and rot and other diseases such as mold, verticillium rot, etc. are easily avoided by watering during the morning.


Also, watering during high noon isn't great because most of the water will evaporate before the plants are able to absorb.
 This standard exists for two reasons. First, it is hard enough to maintain the tomatoes, so there is no reason to go reaching as well. You can make them shorter; just make sure to stop them when they reach desired growth. Second, tomatoes don't care about fruiting that much. Most breeds like to just grow and grow. Causing the plant to vine out will focus most of the nutrients on greenery rather than on fruit production. So keep them small and you will have higher yields and much faster.
 Hold up three fingers. Now cut the middle one. That's how it's done.

