 Perhaps the best way to avoid late fees is to pay your credit card bill as soon as you receive it. This way, you do not need to worry about the due date or setting any reminders. Your statement generally allows about three to four weeks before the payment is due. If you write your check and send it in as soon as you get the monthly bill, you will be certain to avoid any late fees.


Some people might choose to post-date the check if they write it immediately. Post-dating means putting the due date on the check, rather than the date that you are writing it. For example, if your bill arrives on April 2, and payment is due on April 25, you could write a payment check on April 2 but date it April 25. Your intent here is that your check will not be cashed until the written date of April 25.However, you must be very careful if you choose to post-date a check. In addition to dating the check ahead, you must provide written notice that you intend the check to remain uncashed until the date written. Without that notice, the bank could go ahead and deposit your check when it arrives. If you do not have sufficient funds in your account at that time, you could face penalties (including criminal charges) for writing a bad check., If you are setting reminders for yourself, give yourself a few extra days before the actual due date. You must allow time for the check to travel by mail and to be received by the company. You cannot rely on the postmark date to show that you have mailed your payment on time. The applicable date is when your payment actually gets received., You can usually buy yourself some extra time in the month if you pay your bill electronically. Most credit card companies now send their bills electronically and allow you to manage your account online. With a password, you can see your bill, set the payment amount, and make the payment. Such sites generally have you link to your bank account using the bank’s routing number. Electronic payments like this occur almost right away., Find out if your credit card will allow you to set up automatic monthly payments. With this system, you can link your credit card to your savings or checking account, using your bank’s routing number. Your payment will automatically draw from your bank account each month, and you do not need to worry about remember to make the payment.You do need to make sure that the bank account you use contains sufficient funds. You run the risk of overdrawing your account if you set up an automatic withdrawal and do not keep a sufficient balance in the account.

