 If you want to call in a truly anonymous tip to the press, you can't do it from your personal phone, or from work. In fact, you should leave all electronic devices at home when you go to purchase the burner phone.The best place to buy a burner phone is a convenience store or bodega in a low-income part of town. Look for a place that doesn't seem to have surveillance cameras, or has older cameras with footage that gets erased and taped over frequently.
Buy a cheap prepaid phone that has enough minutes to last as long as you need it. Expect to make at least a few phone calls. Pay for the phone with cash.
If you're exceedingly concerned about your security or believe you are being followed, you might want to enlist a trusted friend to buy the phone for you. Don't tell them why you need it.
 To make your phone call, you need to go somewhere that you don't normally frequent. Mobile phone signals can be traced, and the phone keeps records of the wireless networks and locations where it has accessed them.Choose a place where you're not likely to be overheard, and don't turn the phone on until you reach your destination. Again, only use cash for any purchases you have to make along the way.
Do not take any of your personal electronic devices along with you, as the records of them can be used to put you in that location.
Avoid storing the phone number on the phone. Once you call the number and have your conversation, delete the phone's call history.
 After you've finished your phone call, wipe all information from the phone, power it completely off, and remove the battery. Return home by a different route than the route you took to get to the location.If you have to make more calls in the future, do not go to the same location more than once. Try to keep your locations as random as possible, so a pattern cannot be discerned.
 Either when you're done communicating to the journalist, or when the phone runs out of minutes, you have to get rid of it. You'll want to go through the same process if you fear that you're about to get caught.If you believe authorities know what you're doing and are on your trail, you may want to destroy the phone after every call.
To destroy the phone, restore it to its factory settings, wiping all data. Then smash the phone with a hammer, including all chips in the phone.
Disguise the pieces by wrapping them in something else, and throw them away in a public trashcan or dumpster not located near your work or home.

