 A tank size of 2.5 gallons (9.5 liters) at minimum is recommended for a single betta fish. If you have more than one fish, you should get a bigger tank to accommodate all of the fish.If you have a larger tank, you may not need to change the water as frequently. Toxins will build up more quickly and in higher concentration in a smaller tank.
 Having a good pH balance will help restrict the levels of ammonia, nitrite, and nitrate, which will in turn keep your betta healthy. An ideal pH is 7.Treat the water with a dechlorinator. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions to put this into the water.
Test your water for ammonia using a test kit. You will either use a dip-stick test or gather a water sample to test the water. Your ammonia level should read 0, since you just used a dechlorinator. Measure the ammonia level once per day until you start seeing ammonia levels. This will tell you how long you can go before changing the tank’s water., Twice a week, you should change the water in the tank to make sure that you don’t have dangerous levels of ammonia, nitrate and nitrite building up. You can use distilled, bottled or tap water, but each kind of water needs to be treated before it goes in the tank in order to restore the proper balance of nutrients in the water.Change 25%-50% of the water in the tank twice a week. This means you add 25% new water and keep 75% of the old water (or 50% new and 50% old).
Use aquatic water conditioners, available at your pet store for $5-$10, to adjust pH levels in the water. Use them according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
Add 1 tablespoon of aquarium salt and 1 drop per gallon of a fungus preventative like Aquarisol. Do not use table salt in place of aquarium salt. Table salt may have additives like iodine and calcium silicate, which can be harmful to fish.
 Cycling your tank means that you build up good bacteria in the tank so that your fish can flourish. This bacteria will help keep ammonia levels low by breaking down fish waste into nitrite and then into nitrate. Start with a fresh tank with no fish in it to cycle the tank.Add an ammonia source to start the process of generating the good bacteria in nitrate. You can either add fish food or an ammonia solution to the tank. Use a test kit to test the water for ammonia, nitrite and nitrate levels. Your ammonia level will initially read 0.
Test the water every day and the ammonia level will start to show trace amounts. The ammonia level will then drop as the nitrite level starts to show up. Then the nitrite level will decrease and the nitrate level will go up.
Add a few flakes of fish food every day to keep the ammonia levels generating, which generate nitrite and nitrate levels in turn.
Be patient. Cycling a tank properly can take 4-6 weeks to introduce the proper levels into the tank. The improved water quality will keep your fish healthy and sustain longer lives.
 The tank’s temperature should be between 75 and 79 degrees Fahrenheit. Use a 25 watt heater to keep the temperature constant. This heater is available at your pet store or online for $10-15.Keep a thermometer in the tank and check it periodically to make sure the temperature is constant.
Keep the tank in a warm area of the room. The tank should maintain an even temperature. Keeping it by a window can risk exposure to colder temperatures that can be damaging to the betta.
 Place a filter in the tank to help clear the water of impurities. The filter should not cause the water to stir too much, as bettas don’t like turbulent water. Filters are available at the pet store for $30-$150, depending on the size of your tank.Try an air stone that connects to a small pump if you don’t want to get a filter. Air stones are available at your pet store for $5-$10.
Buy a filter that is the correct size for your tank.
 Aquarium salt is derived from evaporated sea water and can be used in fish tanks to reduce nitrite in the water and promote healthy gill functions. It can also help increase electrolytes, which improve a fish’s overall health.Add 1 tablespoon of aquarium salt for every 5 gallons of water.
Add aquarium salt to new fish tanks, when you are changing the water, and when you are trying to figure out a fish’s health problems.
Do not use table salt in place of aquarium salt. Table salt may have additives like iodine and calcium silicate, which can be harmful to fish.

