 If you are giving the cat to a child who is not your own, it is absolutely crucial that you talk to their parents first. The parents will be assuming most of the responsibility for the care and cost of the cat.You can say, “I know Jenny has been wanting a cat, and I was thinking of giving her a kitten for her birthday. Do you think that’s a good idea?”

, Age and maturity are important factors to consider before giving a child a cat or any pet as a present. The child should be old enough to understand how to properly approach and handle a cat.


Young children under the age of six cannot be expected to care for the cat themselves. You should carefully teach them how to pet the cat as well as how to leave the cat alone when the cat doesn’t want to play.
Children under the age of 12 may or may not be able to help out with caring for the cat. In general, you should encourage the child to help feed and play with the cat, but the adult should still be handling most of the care responsibilities.Teenagers can be expected to help care for the cat. They may be better equipped for a kitten than younger children. That said, if the teenager does not care for the cat, you must step in.
 Kittens are playful and adorable, but they can be easily injured by children who do not know how to handle them. For children, it is better to adopt an adult cat. Aim for a cat around two or three years of age, especially for children under the age of six., Before you give the cat as a present, you may want to introduce your child to a friend’s cat or a cat at the shelter. Show them how to properly handle cats. Have them hold out their hands for the cat to sniff before they try to pet the cat.


The child should be sitting when you first bring the cat to them. Let the cat sniff them. If the cat is relaxed, you can place the cat on the child’s lap.
Teach the child that when the cat’s tail is wagging, it may mean that the cat is irritated.Older children should learn how to properly lift the cat from the ground. Show them how to scoop under the cat with one hand and support their back legs with the other.
 If the child ends up neglecting their cat care duties, you will have to care for the cat yourself. Make sure that the cat is properly fed and socialized.Never neglect the cat as a way to teach the child responsibility. This only ends up harming the cat. Understand when you adopt a cat for a child, you are assuming the responsibility for the cat yourself.
No matter how well the child takes care of the cat, the adult will be responsible for all bills related to food, toys, medical care, and bedding.

