 Your primary care provider is an excellent resource to help you stay positive after an HIV diagnosis.They can help you manage and treat your disease, as well as offer strategies and suggestions for coping with the diagnosis. Your healthcare provider can also refer you to other services to help you manage your HIV diagnosis.


Take the list of questions provided by the US Department of Veterans Affairs http://www.hiv.va.gov/patient/diagnosis/questions-for-doctor.asp to your next doctor’s appointment.
Have a trusted friend or family member accompany you to help you take notes and remember things.
Ask your primary care provider about resources in your community for people who have HIV. You might say, “Could you tell me about the support available for managing my HIV?”;
, While your primary care physician can help you maintain your health in general, you will need to also have an HIV specialist on your support team, as well. Your specialist can work with you to specifically manage and treat your HIV.Visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention webpage https://www.cdc.gov/actagainstaids/campaigns/hivtreatmentworks/getincare/findcare.html for information on locating an HIV specialist.
You can also check either The American Academy of HIV Medicine or the HIV Medicine Association at http://www.hivma.org/Patient_Assistance_Programs.aspx to find a specialist.
 By no means do you need to tell everyone you know about your diagnosis. However, sharing your HIV status with people that you trust and who care about you can help you stay positive.Your family and friends can provide you with encouragement and assistance when you need it. Let them know what’s going on and ask for their support.


Tell them that you need their help staying positive. For example, you could try saying, “I’m going to need your help maintaining a positive attitude after my diagnosis.”
Let them know specific ways that they can support you. For instance, you might say, “I could really use your help getting organized. It’ll help reduce my stress to know everything is in order.” Also, when people offer to help you, be sure to say “Yes, I will take you up on that offer,” instead of simply saying “thank you.” It is important to let people know that you do want their help, even if you cannot think of how they can help you right now.
Your friends and family could read books on how they can best support to you, like Caring for a Loved One With AIDS: The Experiences of Families, Lovers, and Friends by Marie Annette Brown.
 There are a number of community and national organizations that provide services and assistance for people diagnosed with HIV.They can provide support for managing your disease and for maintaining a positive attitude. They can also recommend and refer you to other services and resources. Reach out to the organizations in your area and include them in your support team.


Visit https://www.aids.gov/hiv-aids-basics/just-diagnosed-with-hiv-aids/find-care-and-treatment/locating-hiv-aids-services/ to find organizations providing HIV services in your area.
Ask your primary care provider about community agencies and organizations that offer support for people with HIV.
 Talking to people who are also HIV positive can help you maintain a positive attitude after your diagnosis.Hearing the experiences, challenges, and successes of other people living with HIV can help boost your outlook and provide you with hope. People in a support group can also offer you encouragement, specific advice, and strategies and tips to help you manage your life with HIV.


Ask your physician, service organization representative, or mental health professional about HIV support groups in your community.
Consider joining an online support group or forum if you can’t attend a face-to-face support group.
Visit http://www.aidsmap.com/Where-to-go-for-emotional-and-mental-health-advice-and-support/page/1321443/ for information on support groups and services near you.
Try to commit to attending three group sessions before you decide if it is for you. Some people find they make them feel better, while others find they feel worse after a session. Give it a few visits to decide how it affects you.
 Counselors, therapists, psychologists, and other similar professionals have the training and experience to help you stay positive after an HIV diagnosis.They can provide you with specific strategies and techniques for maintaining a positive attitude, as well as for managing your stress and the emotions that come along with an HIV diagnosis. You can see a therapist for a designated period of time after your diagnosis, or you can see them on an ongoing basis.


Ask your physician for a referral to a mental health professional. For instance, you might say, “I’d like to talk with a counselor to help me cope with this. Can you recommend one?”
Consider family therapy if there are loved ones that your diagnosis affects. Family therapy is also a good way to help your family learn how to support you.

