 If you live where it snows and where salt is used on the streets to keep them clear of snow, your boots are going to pick up the salt. Salt stains mar the look of boots and weaken the fabric. If there are metallic parts to your boots (zippers, hooks, etc.), these will begin to rust if the salt is not removed.For the best results, always clean off any salt stain as soon as you spot it. Use the cleaning agent recommended by your boots' manufacturer (desalting agent).
Still wet salt lines can be quickly fixed by wiping over the leather boot with a damp, warm cloth. Leave to dry in the mudroom (not near a heater). To retain the shape of the boot if it's not able to do so on it's own, stuff with newspaper or other scrap paper.
Dried-on salt lines can be removed with commercial products or you can make your own easily (for leather boots). Combine equal parts of vinegar and water to make a liquid solution. Dip a cleaning rag into the solution, then wipe around the salt line. To finish, use a clean damp cloth to wipe off the solution and any remaining salt line. Wipe with a dry towel, then leave to dry away from direct heat. When dry, buff. (This method is not suitable for suede boots.)
For suede boots, clean marks off with an eraser or sand gently with an emery board.To restore flattened nap, use a clean toothbrush or towel to brush it up or steam gently over the spout of a just boiled kettle.
 Never dry boots in front of an open fire or open heat source. This will cause them to crack and dry out too much. Dry in a warm, dry place away from direct heat sources. Try to dry them upside down over a boot holder or similar item or stuff with newspaper to retain the shape.
 Scuff marks can be removed from leather boots using baking soda. Simply dip a damp cloth in baking soda and wipe over the scuff marks. Wipe clean, let dry and buff., Oil stains can be removed from suede boots by rubbing as soon as possible with either cornmeal or talcum powder. Gently brush off with a towel after leaving for a few hours to soak up the grime., Boot liners that can be removed should be washed separately by hand or in the washing machine (see manufacturer's instructions). Make sure they're completely dry before re-inserting into the boots.
 To do this, remove the insoles or liners from the boots.You should wash them and completely dry them before putting them back into the boot. You can then add a generous amount of baking soda (as much as desired) to the boot to eat away at the stinky bacteria. Let the boot completely dry. You can then easily vacuum or wipe out the baking soda.


You can also simply air out stinky boots by removing the liners and loosening up as much as you can on the boot. If the boot has laces, remove the laces and pull the tongue of the boot up as much as possible to create airflow. If the boot has a zipper, completely unzip and open the boot as much as you can to let air in.

