 If you obsess over your friend’s need to lose weight, you may drive him or her away. Let your mate know you are there to help in any way he or she needs, whether it be just to listen or to give a 5am wake-up call every day.
 If you are desperate for your friend to commit to losing weight, resist the temptation to threaten by using “or else” statements or making your friendship or affection contingent on his or her commitment to losing weight.


Forcing your mate to choose between losing weight and having you as a supportive friend is unhelpful and may only drive your friend to poor eating habits or a sense of denial.
If your friend has rejected your attempts to encourage weight loss, drop the issue for a while. Sometimes your friend needs to know that you support him or her despite any weight problems, and time may be the key ingredient in helping him or her develop the personal motivation to lose weight.
 When he or she makes a healthy decision or reaches a goal toward committing to losing weight, celebrate with an activity that does not involve a focus on food or weight loss, like getting a manicure together, playing a game, going shopping, or simply offering positive compliments.
 Insulting your friend in words or deeds, making derogatory comments about his or her size or eating habits, or excluding your friend from activities will not motivate him or her to lose weight safely and effectively.


If you criticize your friend’s weight, clothing size, eating habits, physical activity levels, or appearance, you may inadvertently trigger unhealthy binging, eating disorders, and mental health problems while reducing your ability to influence him or her positively in the future.
Do not lose your temper or turn the matter into an argument. Your mate will begin the process of losing weight when he or she is ready, and alienating yourself by speaking or acting offensively will endanger your friendship.
 If your discussion about weight loss, health, and motivation has identified things that may be preventing your friend from taking the first step for weight loss, work to address the roadblock and help your friend find motivation.Some people just need regular reassurance that he or she is able to succeed at losing weight and that you will remain a friend no matter what the result. Others need a regular, firm reminder to exercise or eat well.
If your friend does not know how to eat well or exercise, this may be the primary barrier between your mate and weight loss. Work with him or her to prepare healthy meals, take walks, learn how to lift weights, buy more vegetables instead of chips, and identify healthy substitutions for foods and activities.
At times, the main barrier between individuals and a commitment to lose weight may be a mental or emotional difficulty. If your mate will not acknowledge a need to lose weight or get healthier, a doctor, loved one, or your friend alone may need to work through the matter without your interference.

