 As in all travel, it is highly recommended to pre-book/purchase your accommodation well before your travel date, as is the same in Sydney. Many different types of accommodation (hotels, hostels, apartments, etc) can be easily found in Sydney's CBD, conveniently walking distance from Sydney's "Central" Railway Station. From here, you can usually take a train to almost anywhere in New South Wales, additionally with the convenient rail link to the domestic and international airports.;
, Despite being a large city, Sydney is relatively easy to navigate on foot given some time to get familiar with your surroundings. If you are travelling short distances in the city, depending on your preference, it is usually recommended to walk instead of taking a train, as the public transport system charges for the stops you make, not travel time as some other states. Day pass and other longer forms of ticket passes are available, but are usually not cost-effective unless you are using several trains each day.
 Again, with most trips you will probably have an itinerary/list of things to do planned out; if you are short on time and want to get really technical, you can look up certain attractions for their opening hours and then estimate how long it will take to visit, and how many you can visit in a day.
 As a small bay well south of Circular Quay, Darling harbor has a great atmosphere, many great restaurants, and an amazing playground for kids. With many attractions located nearby, it is definitely worth visiting

, As the name suggests, the Chinese Garden of Friendship is essentially a Garden dedicated to the Friendship of Sydney and China; well worth the entry fee, it is a privately run Chinese garden with an amazing look and feel, and includes many traditional plants, features, and sculptures.
 At Darling Harbour, there are also three big attractions run by the same company group. Here, you can purchase multi-attraction deals and save a decent amount of money in the process.


The first is Sydney Aquarium, perfect for the family and friends. The Sydney Aquarium lets you walk under water and see the sights of Australia’s rich and diverse marine life and habitats. Sydney Aquarium houses more than 650 species that includes over 6,000 individual fish and other aquatic creatures.
The second, Sydney CBD's Zoo (not to be confused with Taronga Zoo), is a smaller version of a traditional zoo. It is located mostly indoors but is still a zoo worth visiting if you are not able to get to Taronga Zoo or are short on time.
Lastly, the third is Madame Tussauds, a wax figure celebrity museum hosting extremely realistic life size wax figures of a huge range of celebrities and famous personalities, such as John Howard, Taylor Swift, and Einstein. Personal interaction and photographs with the wax figures is encouraged and contributes to a great visiting experience.
 Although is caters more to kids, the Maritime Museum is still worth a visit if you are interested in maritime history and activities, It is the last on this list located near Darling Harbour, though there are likely many more.
 Many great stores and street activities can be found in this area.


Located east of Chinatown, the Powerhouse Museum is a very large science, history and arts museum. It's very entertaining for people of all ages with many highly engaging and interactive exhibits including an enter-able train, train station, space shuttle, and more!
Located east of Central station, Paddy's Markets is a good-sized public market selling anything from clothing to toys and other assorted goods, additionally with a variety of cafes and local food vendors.
 The Sydney Opera House never fails to mesmerize tourists with its splendid and elaborate façade and structure. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, Sydney Opera House is one of the most magnificent, unique and popular buildings of the 20th Century.


The Sydney Harbour Bridge is also one of the most famous landmarks not just in Australia but across the globe as well. Sometimes informally called "the Coathanger", it links the city centre in the south and the residential north. Thrill-seekers are welcome to the Bridge Climb, a guided walk to the top of the world, or as high as 50-story. The tour is available at dawn, during the day, at twilight or at night.

