 Switch off your computer. Trace the connection of your mouse to the CPU or monitor. Carefully remove the cord from the computer port. If your mouse is wireless, simply remove the USB from the port., You can use water or a mild cleaning agent, such as window cleaner. Apply a small amount to the cloth. Aim for damp, not dripping. Wring out any excess moisture., Run the damp cloth over the surface. Focus on any dirt or grime that has accumulated. Apply gently pressure, moving in a back-and-forth motion until the dirt is gone., Look for any buildup of dirt or grime around the wheel area. Gently insert a toothpick between the scroll wheel and the slot it rests in. To avoid breaking the toothpick, don't apply too much pressure. Scrape outward to remove the buildup. Wipe away any excess that falls on the outside of the mouse.

You could use your fingernails instead of a toothpick., Use a separate clean cloth for this step. Make sure it's free of lint to avoid new dirt buildup. Rub the exterior of the mouse until it's completely dry., Flip the mouse so that the bottom of it is facing up. Turn the cover counterclockwise and remove it from the mouse. Cup your free hand. Flip the mouse one more time so that the trackball falls into your free hand., Direct it over the surface of the trackball surface and into the trackball well. This will help to loosen any dirt or debris. If you don't have too much buildup, this might take care of the entire cleaning., Use a dry cloth or tissue for this step. Move over the surface of the trackball. Focus on any stubborn dust or grime that the compressed air didn't remove., Study the interior of the mouse for a few seconds. Look for three rollers that control the motion of the trackball. Often, dirt and grime accumulate on these rollers and cause the trackball to stick.You can remove this buildup by:

Wiping it off with the cloth.
Scratching it off with your fingernails, if they're long enough.
Scraping it off with tweezers., Drop the trackball into the well. Place the cover on top of the trackball. Apply a small amount of pressure to keep the ball in the mouse. Turn the cover clockwise until it clicks back into place., If the mouse is wireless, plug the USB back into the port. Otherwise, reattach the cord to the computer CPU or monitor. Most computers designate a mouse port with a small engraved image of a mouse.Power the computer up. Test the mouse to make sure you've reconnected it correctly.If your computer doesn't recognize your mouse, refer to your user's manual or contact tech support.

