 You just need to go to www.weekdone.com and register as a user. Push the orange button with the text "get started now".;
, Don't worry - all you need to share with the company is your name and e-mail address. All information will be confidential. You need to choose the report (for personal weekly planning, use "Plans, Progress, Problems report"). Type your name, e-mail and create a password.
 In the main page, you can see three important categories: plans, progress, and problems. This is your key to success. These are the categories that you need to fill out, keep an eye on and come back to, if focus is lost.


Start by simply adding 4-5 key tasks that you need to achieve within the next 5 days. Click on the row that says +Add a new plan, and start typing. No need to hit save; the system automatically saves all your work.
After you are finished with the description of your first plan, click again on the row that says +Add a new plan to list at least 4-5 items to your report.
 During the week, go back to your form (by just signing in to your Weekdone account) and move any item that has been done to the progress list. You can do that by simply dragging the done item to the progress list or by opening the drop-down menu and choosing the first thing written ("done").
 You can do this every Monday or every other day of the week. However, keep in mind that it is not beneficial to have more than 5 items on the plan list, since you might feel overwhelmed and lose the concentration.


Write down the most crucial plans that need to be done in the next 5 days, in order to ensure that these items will be moved to progress.
 If you encounter a problem then just list it under the category "problems". Try to find a solution to your worries and feel excited when you can move a problem item to progress.
 At the end of each week, you will receive an automated report right to your inbox. Open the report and reflect. See how many planned items got done, what problems are you facing and which plans are still unfinished. Remember that after 7 days, all unfinished plans are marked as overdue to pressure you even more to finish what got planned.
 At the beginning of a new week, or at the end of the week (whatever you prefer), write your plans to your Weekdone report. During the week, go back to your report to move any done item to progress, report a problem or add new items.
