 Peer down the diaper to see if it is dirty or smell the child.
 It'll take you a few minutes to change this diaper, so you need to make sure the other kids are safe and have enough supervision while you're focused on the changing., Gather these items and set them below the changing table, within arm's reach.

a clean disposable diaper
disposable baby wipes
a diaper pail
a plastic bag
cream, ointment, or lotion (if needed)
hand wipes
Latex disposable gloves

, Wet your hands with warm water, put soap on them, and scrub your hands for 30 seconds. Wash in between your fingers, under your fingernails, the backs of your hands, and your wrists. Rinse with warm water and dry with a paper towel. Turn off the faucet and light with a paper towel, before throwing it away.,, Remove clothes as needed to get to the diaper., Slide a clean diaper under the dirty diaper. Pull on the tabs and take the dirty diaper out. Set the dirty diaper below the changing table., Wipe the child's sides, belly, legs, back, and bottom. Remember to wipe front to back. Use a clean wipe for each part. Place the wipes in the dirty diaper after using. Put any cream, ointment, or lotion on if needed.,, Then, take off your gloves and set them in the dirty diaper. Put the clothes back on., Wipe the child's hands off with a hand wipe as well as any toy they may have been holding. Unstrap the child and let them go back to what they were doing., Place the dirty diaper, gloves, and wipes in a plastic bag and zip or tie closed. Put the bag in the diaper pail.

Wash the changing table pad or cover with soap and water. Wipe the rest of the changing table off with a disinfectant wipe. Dispose of the wipe in the trash can. Use a spray to clean the changing table pad to kill germs and sanitize after washing and rinsing it. Use bleach and all purpose cleaner on your changing table once a week.
Put the package of wipes, the cream, ointment, or lotion back in the diaper bag or in their proper place.
Wash your hands again, using the same process you did before.
 If the daycare has a diaper log, fill out the information there. Otherwise, fill out the needed information on the child's individual sheet.