 Your mission statement is a written piece of paper setting out what your children's ministry is out to do. It provides evidence of what your children's ministry promises to do and what it will not do. Remember to hand out your mission. Keep the original and copy it to give out to all of the people in your church before the children's ministry takes off. Take on board the comments that will help to ensure your mission is exactly as it needs to be for the children's requirements.


Here is a sample of a mission: We, the children's ministry committee, are set out to bring each and every child closer to Jesus. We will do our best to reach every child and accommodate your needs. We cannot promise that everything will turn out as you please, we must make all of our decisions for the benefit of the whole congregation. No physical punishment is ever used as well as bad words or lies. Every child is disciplined and brought up to the will of God. We are set out to keep everyone safe and healthy, as this as our priority. Join us as we follow Christ.
;
, Look for possible people in your congregation to recruit. The ideal minimum number for people in the committee is six. This would consist of: One person for the nursery, one person for Sunday School, one leader, one special events coordinator, one special needs coordinator, and one person to be in charge of training all volunteers in your children's ministry. The committee is then formed by the minimum five people in charge of children's ministries.


Try to schedule a meeting with each possible committee member, telling them exactly all of the job meetings, expectations, payments, and any other information.
 Do this with the committee's help. A vision is a typed paper with all of your goals. Based on these goals, you can choose activities and events to help you move further in this direction.


Here is a sample: Imagine, a nursery full of infants, toddlers and fully certified volunteers. Children are being rocked. The children are being taught and know that Jesus loves them and cares about them. Calming music fills the air, along with laughter and a steady, perfect noise altogether. An updated bulletin board is in full view, all children have name tags and a parent is given a pager along with filling out a slip of paper about their child. On Sunday, Sunday School classrooms are filled to the brim with children. More than enough adults wanting to volunteer. Exciting games are played, Bible stories are told in creative ways, crafts are made. Children return again and again. On Wednesday the excitement continues with children's classes filled to the brim and attendance flying out the roof. the nursery is open, more than enough volunteers are helping, and parents have their own class, too. There are three VBS programs, one morning in the summer, one evening in the summer, and one Christmas. Children gather with joy and adults are right with them! Fall festivals are held as well as an Easter family celebration that gets everyone in a good mood. And it's all topped off with a summer ice cream social an preschool programs that bring kids from near and far.
 For example, your children's ministry could have a yearly theme such as "The Fruit of the Spirit" or "Jesus' Little Lambs." Create logos online with clipart and drawings. Include this logo on everything in your children's ministry.
 Here are some ideas:


Create a barnyard room for your preschoolers! Paint farm animals on the walls and attach textures such as cotton on the sheep, fake grass on the bottom of the wall, a hairy horse, feathers on a rooster, etc. Also turn a corner of your classroom into the "Barnyard Corner." Provide farm books, farm animal stuffed animals and plastic figures, a sensory table with mud and plastic pigs, a little kiddie pool with paper fish and real nets to "catch" the fish. Another option is to have a tub of soapy water and old clothes to pretend to wash and barnyard dress-up clothes with a full length mirror. You may need to block this area off during class time.
Create an ocean room. Paint the walls blue and let children paint ocean animals on to the walls. Have a fish tank in your classroom with eels, fish, starfish, and plants. If this is a classroom for younger children, provide a sand table with buckets and shovels, or a water table with plastic ocean creatures.
A home room may be ideal. Paint a roaring fire on the wall and place pillows in front of it to curl up for a Bible story.
Another room idea is a tree house room. Paint trees and forest scenes on the walls. Place stuffed forest animals such as squirrels around the room. Having a loft in the room that is named "The Tree house" and naming your room "The Friendship Tree Room" will add even more excitement and interest.



Curling ribbon works greats to hang from ceilings. Try hanging pastel colors in the church nursery to create a feeling of comfort. Add primary colors to the ceiling of your Sunday School classrooms or special events room to create energy. Season or holiday colors are also fun. For example, green and red for Christmas, blue for winter, red for Valentines Day, and so on.
Mobiles are also nice. You can make a homemade mobile by forming pipe cleaners into a circle and hanging doves, shapes, or other pictures and items form it with string or yarn. Otherwise, you can just purchase a mobile with animals and other items.
 Here are some ideas for ways to get the word spread around:


Create a bulletin board in your church's main hallway. Use children's handprints or a border that has to do with your theme or logo. Staple your theme and logo to the top of the bulletin board and write papers about children's ministry, events, and items that need donated. You can also try putting a paper rocket ship with the number of days left on a chalkboard.
Hand out brochures. In your brochures, write about what programs your ministry will offer, your children's ministries mission and vision, and pictures. Hand these out all over town and at your church.
Make a website. If your church already has a website, consider putting the link to your Children's ministry's website. On your website, write a full description of each part of your children's ministry, including: the church nursery, your mission, your vision, Sunday School, VBS, training events and certifications volunteers must do, special events, and any other parts of your children's ministry. Create a page for each different part of your ministry.

Be colorful! Make sure all pictures and videos are in color, and add colors to your words such as red words for one page, rainbow with all colors on another page, and so on. Color is pretty and appealing to the eye.
Include pictures! Take pictures of each room such as the Sunday School rooms and nursery rooms. You don't need to take pictures of the storage room or the training room, just the main places. Make sure that the rooms look colorful, neat, and appealing in each picture. It's best to keep the rooms like this always, not just for pictures time. As time goes on, take pictures of children doing activities and playing games. Just be sure to ask parents if their children's pictures may go on the children's ministry's website.
Upload videos. Record training outlines, for volunteers to review and parents to see what volunteers are being taught. Putting slideshows of programs such as a special event or VBS, is a great thing to place on your website.
Always include your logo and theme. The home page should include this, and having each page include this is even better.
Try adding clipart. Attach pictures of symbols of "nursery" or "Sunday School."



