 You cannot sneak onto someone’s property in order to take a photograph. Also, if you are invited onto someone’s property, you don’t necessarily have permission to start taking photographs.


If you want to photograph something, then find the property owner and ask permission to enter. Also explain what you want to take a photograph of and get permission.;
, You also generally cannot use long-distance lenses to peer into someone’s house and photograph them. This is called “intrusion upon seclusion” and is a civil wrong which you can be sued for.You can be sued even if none of your photographs are published.


Generally, however, you can take pictures of anything plainly visible in public space.If people are on the sidewalk, in a public square, or on the road, then they are in public space.
 Although you can take pictures of someone in public, you should avoid constant surveillance or stalking. In particular, you should stop taking someone’s picture if they ask you to stop. Failure to stop could be harassment.


In a famous case, Jackie Kennedy sued photographer Ron Galella for constantly taking pictures of her point-blank in public. The court found that Galella had engaged in “systematic public surveillance” which intruded on Kennedy’s privacy., You have no general right as a photographer to enter and take pictures of a crime scene when the general public is also excluded.Instead, at a minimum, you must get permission to enter from the police or fire chief in charge of the crime scene.


A homeowner might still object if you take pictures even after being invited into a crime scene. You need to be careful in this area. You do not have a clear right to take pictures of dead bodies or injured people even if you have been invited to enter a crime scene.
You should use your best judgment. Exercise caution and consideration for the feelings of family members who might see the picture of an injured loved one. If your goal is to avoid a lawsuit, then you should err on the side of caution and not take the photograph.
 You can always avoid liability if you get the subject’s consent. You will need to draft a valid consent form (called a "release form") that covers two things: (1) the subject’s consent to have their picture taken and (2) your right to publish the picture. These are not the same two rights, and you need to get permission for both if you intend to distribute the photograph in any way.


Consent also must be given by someone who can validly give it. For example, a minor cannot give consent. Instead, you would need consent from a parent or guardian.You can also get oral consent. However, you must be careful. Someone might turn around and claim not to have given it. It is always better to have written consent.
 There are additional legal considerations you must take into account if you are involved in selecting images to publish. For example, you cannot use a celebrity’s photograph in such a way that it implies the celebrity’s endorsement of a product. This is an example of invasion of privacy.Always be careful when using identifiable people in a commercial manner. As a general rule, you can nevertheless use someone’s likeness if they are the subject of the story. For example, you can use a celebrity’s photograph to illustrate a story about her—even without her permission.
 There are good sample release forms on the Internet. You can copy and use them. For example, the American Society of Media Photographers publishes four different release forms you can use.


The language you use on the release form will differ depending on the context. For example, if you are taking photographs of professional models, then your form will be different than if you are taking pictures of people out on the street.
The sample release form in this section would be appropriate for people you approach in public places or as part of your work as a journalist.
 To draft your own consent form, you should open a blank work processing document and set the font to a comfortable size and style. Most people can read Times New Roman 12 point.
 Include the words “Permission for Photography” in large, bold letters, centered between the left- and right-hand margins.
 The body of the release will explicitly grant you the ability to take the photograph and to publish it. Make sure to also include a release of liability. This release will protect you from lawsuits.


Sample language could read: “For valuable consideration received, I grant to (“Photographer”) and his/her legal representatives and assigns, the unrestricted right to use and publish photographs of me, or photographs in which I may be included, for editorial, trade, advertising, and any other purpose, regardless of manner and medium. I also grant the right to alter and compose the pictures without restriction and without my approval or inspection. I hereby release Photographer and Photographer’s legal representatives and assigns from all claims and liability relating to said photographs.”

, You want a line for the subject’s signature. If your subject is a child, get the child’s parent’s signature. You also want other identifying information from the subject, which you should include blank lines for:


printed name
date of birth
the date the photograph is taken
phone number
street address
city, state, and zip code

, In order for the release to be a valid contract, each side has to offer the other something of value. This is called the “consideration.” The subject letting you take their picture is something of value. However, as the photographer, you also need to provide something of value.


The consideration you offer can be as simple as giving someone your business card and offering to send them a print of the photograph in exchange for them signing the release.
 Each state has its own privacy laws, which continue to evolve.In fact, this is an area of law where there are few bright-line rules. Instead the law develops piece by piece, as new cases emerge.


A general introduction to each state’s privacy law as it applies to photographers is available from the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press website.Click on your state on the left-hand column to read a general introduction to your state’s law.
To fully protect yourself, you should always contact an attorney with questions. If you practice as a photographer in more than one state, then you should contact an attorney in each state that you practice.
 If you want to ask questions or have a lawyer help you draft a release form, then you should contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.Once you have the name of an attorney, you should schedule a half-hour consultation.


Try to get a referral to an attorney who specializes in media or First Amendment issues. You can ask the person at the bar association for someone who specializes in these areas.
You also might want to get referrals from other photographers.
 Several non-profit organizations exist to help people in the media with legal issues. For example, the Reporter’s Committee for the Freedom of the Press runs a legal defense hotline, 1-800-336-4243, which is available during regular office hours (9:00 am to 6:00 pm Eastern Standard Time).


Other legal aid organizations might also provide free legal assistance to photographers who work as photojournalists. You can find a local legal aid organization by visiting the Legal Services Corporation’s website., Defending yourself from an invasion of privacy claim is very difficult, and you would benefit from professional legal assistance. If you are sued, you will receive a copy of a “complaint,” which is the legal document the person suing you files with the court to start the lawsuit.Read the complaint and then schedule a consultation with a lawyer.
See Defend Yourself in an Invasion of Privacy Lawsuit for more information.

