 Oftentimes, perfectionism is what makes feeling laid back difficult. If you're a perfectionist by nature, try to work against the tendency.


Periodically remind yourself no one expects you to be perfect. People will still like you if you make a mistake. Try to work to be less critical of yourself and avoid thinking of life in terms of either success or failure. Your accomplishments are not a reflection of your worth as a person and many perceives failures are only minor setbacks.Perfectionists often have a tendency to compare themselves to others, feeling that they're falling behind or that they have more flaws than others. If you catch yourself comparing yourself to another person, stop. It may be difficult at first so you might have to do something to distract yourself. Go for a walk, for example, or watch something on TV.Try to do a little less each day. This might feel awkward or uncomfortable at first, but you'll be taking a tremendous amount of pressure off yourself longterm. Start small. For example, cut 5 minutes off your daily run or take a little longer at lunch during work., When an event occurs, especially an event that's perceives as stressful, your first thought may be to react. This can lead to acting impulsively and saying or doing things that worsen the situation. Instead of reacting immediately to stress, pause to process. The vast majority of situations do not require an immediate responses. When you experience something stressful, give yourself a few hours to process before reacting. Do something relaxing, like reading a book or watching a movie, to take your mind off the stress before trying to deal with the situation., It can be very difficult to let go of what is beyond your own control. However, if you want to be laid back it's important to be able to live with life's frustrations. Try to make a conscious effort to recognize when a situation is beyond your control and accept the fact.


Focus precisely on what you're concerned about in the present moment. For example, say you're stressed because your brother is coming into town. He can sometimes be difficult to get along with and tends to pick fights with other family members.
From there, figure out what you can control in the situation. In regards to your brother's visit, you can choose to disengage if he tries to bait you into an argument. You can try to be polite, even if he's being difficult. You cannot, however, reasonably control or change another person's behavior. Therefore, try to let go of any frustrating comments or behavior your brother makes. As you have very little control over it, it's best not to linger., It's important to embrace downtime. Downtimes is a necessity in life, not a luxury. You can't be expected to be a laid back person if you're always on the go. Make time in your schedule to spend an hour each day doing something you find relaxing. You could take a bath before bed each night, read a short story after work, watch a movie you've never seen before, or call a long distance friend. If you work at actively embrace downtime, and accept your need for it, you'll feel more laid back in your day-to-day life.
 Some people struggle to feel laid back due to an underlying mental health condition. If you have an anxiety disorder or are depressed, it can be hard to cope on your own. If you consistently struggle to enjoy life's pleasures and can't let go of worrisome thoughts, make an appointment with a psychiatrist or counselor.


You can ask your regular doctor for a referral to a therapist. You can also call your insurance company and ask for a list of mental health providers in your area.
If you're a student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your college or university.

