 You may be allergic to substances that come in contact with your lips. Fragrances and dyes are common culprits. If you frequently get chapped lips, use only products on them that have no fragrances or dyes.Toothpaste is another common culprit. If your lips itch, feel dry or painful, or blister after brushing your teeth, you may be allergic to the ingredients in your toothpaste. Try switching to a natural product with fewer preservatives, dyes, or flavorings.Lipstick is the most common cause of contact cheilitis (contact allergy) on the lips for women, but toothpaste is the most common cause for men., Licking your lips will cause more chapping. Even though it might seem like this helps keep them hydrated, it actually dries lips out. In fact, "lip-licker's dermatitis" is frequently seen in people who lick their lips too much, and can cause an itchy rash around the mouth.Use a lip moisturizer instead.Avoid using flavored lip balms, as this may encourage licking your lips.
Don't over-apply any product as this may also cause you to lick your lips.
 Biting lips removes their protective covering which causes further drying. Allow your lips to heal and function without picking or biting them.Pay attention to when you bite or pick your lips as you might not notice doing it.
Ask a friend to remind you not to bite or pick if they see you doing it.
 Spicy and acidic foods may irritate your lips. Pay attention to your lips after eating and look for any signs of irritation. Try removing these foods from your diet for a few weeks to see if that irritation subsides.Avoid anything with hot peppers or sauces.
Don't eat any highly acidic foods such as tomatoes.
Some foods, like mango peels, contain irritants that should also be avoided.
 The constant flow of air caused by breathing through your mouth can dry your lips out and cause them to chap. Breathe through your nose instead.If you have trouble breathing through your nose, see your doctor. You may have allergies or another health condition causing congestion.
 Certain medications may dry your lips out as a side effect. Talk to your doctor to learn if any of your medications might be responsible for chapped lips.Medications may include prescription and non-prescription drugs used to treat:


Depression
Anxiety
Pain
Severe acne (Accutane)
Congestion, allergies, and other respiratory troubles
Never stop any medication without a doctor's approval.
Ask your doctor for alternatives or how to manage this side effect.
 In some cases, chapped lips may be the sign of another medical issue that will require a doctor's care. If you have any of the following, see your doctor:


Persistent chapping despite treatment
Very painful chapping
Swelling or drainage from the lips
Chapping in the corners of your mouth
Painful sores on or near the lips
Sores that don't heal

