 If you've done a multi-rename of LEFT and RIGHT image folders in preparation for doing a multi-conversion, be sure to look at how many files are in each folder. It's not uncommon to have made a mistake or to have an unequal number of files in them. Doing a multi-conversion in such circumstances will be a mess. If you have an unequal number, you may need to look through them to remove "stray" single images, and then run multi-rename again.
 In Multi-Conversion you tell the program which files you want it to work on, how you want them to be saved, and where to save them. For this tutorial we're assuming that you're starting with two independent images files. As you become more advanced in working with StereoPhoto Maker this may not be true, but for the purpose of this tutorial let's start there.
 You don't need to choose a file name or file type.
 When you choose this, just below it a box saying Right Image Folder appears.
 Click on Browse and choose the folder that contains your RIGHT image files. Leave the L Normal and R Normal boxes as they are. You'd use these if you needed to rotate the images or flip them.
 For the sake of this tutorial, choose Color anaglyph . After you've run this conversion sequence you may want to do it again and choose Gray anaglyph , Side-by-Side , or Independent L/R, but for the moment choose Color anaglyph.
 There are lots of other options that you can explore later.
 This is where you tell the program where you want the new files you're creating to go. Remember at the beginning of this tutorial we suggested that you create folders called "anaglyph".
 Even if you didn't create those folders before, it's not too late. Go to Windows Explorer and create that folder, and browse to it.
 If it asks you whether you want to use the "previous report files", click on No. Now just walk away or watch if you must. You'll see no dramatic graphics, just the computer running madly through its paces, trying to make sense of your stereo pairs. Depending on the speed and configuration of your PC it can take from 5 seconds to 3 minutes per pair.
 If you've been careful taking the two images here should be no problem in the majority of the images it produces.
 Just click on the Save box on the lower right of the window, and give it a name. To use those setting another time you'll click on Restore(File) and choose the file you saved.

