 Even if you are no longer in contact with the cause of the burn (such as an open flame or the sun), tissue damage can continue. Thus, it is essential you reduce further damage first before attempting to clean the injured area.Place the affected part under cool running water for approximately 15-20 minutes.
If the burn is on your face, hands, over a joint, or is large, seek medical attention right away.
Use warm water for less harsh chemicals or when there is chemical exposure to the eyes.
It is also important that you call your doctor if you have a chemical exposure to your eyes or mouth as this can cause more serious complications.
In the case of a chemical burn, you must neutralize the burning chemical. If you are unsure how to do this, seek medical attention.
If you are not near water, apply a cool compress to the area such as an ice pack wrapped in a towel.
 Use aloe vera lotion or gel or a low-dose hydrocortisone cream to protect the skin and help the healing process.Be sure to pat dry the skin before applying any lotion if needed.
Reapply the aloe vera lotion throughout the day to ensure the affected area remains moist, but don't use hydrocortisone cream more than twice a day.
 Burn injuries can be painful and thus you may want to take an over-the-counter pain medication (such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen).Use the medication according to the label and do not exceed the recommended dose. In case of severe or continuing pain, seek medical attention.
 Burn injuries often result in blisters -- fluid-filled pockets under your skin.If the blister breaks, rinse the area with water, apply antimicrobial ointment and cover the area with a non-stick bandage.
 If redness, tenderness, swelling or drainage develops, apply antimicrobial ointment and cover the burn with clean gauze to protect it while it heals.


Contact a physician if the burn gets worse, doesn't appear to ease, it looks infected and is not getting better quickly with home care, or develops severe blisters or discoloration of any kind.

