 Personal attacks will put your parents on the defense and make it hard for them to see your side of the argument. These attacks will also show that you aren’t handling the situation in a mature and responsible way. Instead of making personal attacks, stay on point and be clear about what you want to get out of the conversation.Attacks like “You are the worst parents ever! I hate you!” have no place in any argument. Instead, try things like “I know you think that this is the best decision for me, but I disagree.”

, A compromise should benefit both sides. By offering legitimate compromises, you show your parents that you are trying to be responsible. You also present an opportunity for them to gain or achieve something that helps them. This shows that you understand their position, and are willing to work with them.You might say, for example, “I know that you are afraid that my grades will suffer if I play a sport, but I will commit to studying an extra hour every Saturday and Sunday if you let me play.”

, If your curfew is at 8:00 and you’d like to be allowed to stay out later, you should ask your parents to make it 9;00, or maybe even 10:00. Asking your parents to go from a curfew of 8:00 to midnight is not a reasonable request. This kind of jump is unrealistic and does not put any burden on you to show your parents that you can be out a little later and still be responsible.
 Sometimes your parents are unwilling to budge from their decision. In those cases, you may be able to get part of what you want if you're willing to look for the middle ground. Offer a few suggestions for things that can get you closer to what you want while still honoring your parents' wishes.

You might say, for example, "I understand that you don't want me to stay overnight for Rachel's party because you're worried we'll get into trouble. What if I stay until midnight, and then you pick me up? I could also check in via text and have Rachel's mom call you."

, Avoid getting angry or fed up with the conversation before a resolution has been reached. For example, if you are still discussing the exact time of curfew, it will not benefit you to end the conversation just because your parents say “Midnight is out of the question.” It eliminates the possibility of reaching a compromise that would up your curfew to 9:00, 10:00, or even 11:00. It also shows that you aren’t mature enough to handle being told no, and may reinforce your early curfew.