 He or she will pay better attention and will be more eager to please.;
, If you don't have a clicker, a retractable pen will work the same. Eventually the dog will respond to the 'click' sound and know that treats will follow. Use any small treat that can be eaten quickly without much chewing. For example, Goldfish snack crackers work very well. Anything small that your dog likes will do, even his or her kibble. Put the treats in your left pocket, and some in your left hand. Put the clicker in your right hand. This is a time for training, try to ignore any distraction such as the phone, etc.
 If your dog has not learned the basic command 'come', you can teach that to him or her first. Say the dog's name first before the command. (Such as "Fido, come".) Keep the command short and simple. Saying his or her name first gets the attention of the dog, and the simple command next tells the dog what you want.
 This is reinforcing positive behavior, and soon your dog will understand that he or she can respond to a command and a treat will follow that click. The dog will actually begin to watch you and listen, which is what you want.
 With your dog in front of you, the treats in your left hand and the clicker in your right, the two of you are ready. Move the treat hand over your dog's head between its ears. When he or she looks up, click and treat. You don't have to say anything, not yet. Repeat this several times.
 As soon as his or her back legs start to fold, click and treat. Repeat this several times.
 Eventually your dog will sit. Click and treat. Move to another part of the room and see if your dog follows. If not, call him or her to you, then hold your left hand out over his or her head. Don't say anything, see if the dog sits on his own. Click and treat. Then move again and repeat the process several times. Many dogs will begin to follow their owner around and sit, hoping for a treat! Have fun with your dog!

, Repeat this several times.
 Once your dog has mastered the sit command, try teaching him or her the down command. As your dog is sitting, put your closed treat hand to his or her nose. Move it downward between his or her paws, keeping your hand close to the dog's body. The nose will follow your hand, and the dog will start to lie down. Once those front legs start to bend, click and treat. Repeat this several times.
 If your dog doesn't lie down, begin again with the sit command, click and treat, and then try the down process again. Repeat several times. Eventually your dog will lie down.
 Wait to see if your dog lies down on his or her own. Click and treat for any movement in the right direction! Wait a few moments before you click and treat, this keeps your dog's attention riveted on you.
 Once your dog has mastered the down command, move to another part of the room, call your dog to you, hold your treat hand over his or her head. If the dog sits, click and treat. Put your treat hand to his or her nose, and lower it down. If the dog lies down, click and treat. Move to another part of the room and repeat the process. Most dogs will find this to be a very fun routine and will eagerly participate!

, As you hold your treat hand over his or her head, say the dog's name then sit. (Such as "Fido, sit".) Repeat several times. Then proceed several times with the verbal down command as well.
 Once your dog has learned the three basic commands of come, sit and down, you can teach your pet more. You can use clicker training for heel, shake paw, beg, roll over, chase your tail, speak, etc.

