;
, You'll be brought to a signup page asking for details with which to create your account.
 The button is at the bottom of the page.
 Now that you've created a Spotify account, you'll return to the Spotify homepage and find that the "Log In" link at the top-right corner now displays your username. You're ready to go!

, If you can't readily find the application:


On a smartphone, go to your home screen and tap on the Spotify application's icon.
On a Mac, click on Spotlight (the magnifying glass) in the top-right corner of your screen, type in "Spotify", and click on the Spotify search result.
On Windows, click the "Start" button on the bottom-left corner of your screen, type "Spotify" into the search bar, and click on the Spotify search result.
 Usernames on Spotify exist separately from full names, so when searching for friends, contact them to ask for their Spotify usernames so that you don't end up guessing what numbers or symbols might exist in their username.
 You will find this bar in the upper half of your screen, labelled in white.


On the mobile app, tap on the three horizontal lines in the top-left corner of the screen to reveal a menu containing the search function. Tap on "Search" to activate it.
 Replace with the username of the user you'd like to follow.


This is a tip for following Spotify users, but not artists.
 If you entered in the valid name of a Spotify user, you will see their profile appear.
 This button will appear just below the user's username.
 You'll now see a live update of the music that any user you've followed has listened to, liked, or save. To return to your activity feed:


On a desktop, tap the "Activity" button in the sidebar on the left of the screen.
On the mobile app, tap the three horizontal lines in the top-left corner of your screen to pull up the menu bar. Then, tap "Activity".
 Find this in a box in the upper-right corner of the application's window.
 If you didn't sign up for Spotify through your Facebook account, click on the "Connect to Facebook" button and enter your login details to see a list of your Facebook friends who are on Spotify.
 Click on the names of any Facebook friends whose music updates you would like to see.
 You will find this bar in the upper half of your screen, labelled in white.


On the mobile app, tap on the three horizontal lines in the top-left corner of the screen to reveal a menu containing the search function. Tap on "Search" to activate it.
 You will see matching results appear in the menu that drops down from this search bar.
 You will be brought to that artist's Spotify page.
 You'll now receive updates in your music stream whenever that artist releases new music on Spotify.



On a desktop, this is located in the sidebar on the left half of the window.
On the mobile app, tap on the three horizontal lines in the top-left corner of the screen to reveal this option.
 You'll be brought to a list of playlists, albums and artists that Spotify recommends to you based on the music you have listened to and saved.
 Tap or click on a song, album, or playlist that you'd like to check out. Once there, tap on the name of the artist (or user, in the case of a playlist) to be brought to their profile. Tapping/clicking the "Follow" button will add their releases, listens and likes to your Activity feed!

