 If you are unable to use the 2-1-1 service for any reason, you should contact your nearest United Way branch for information and assistance.


Your local branch won't be able to provide you with direct financial, health, or social assistance, but they should be able to direct you to a partner that can.
If you want to request funding for an agency or project related to the work of the United Way, you will need to contact your local branch. Each local branch is independently incorporated, and each has its own deadlines concerning grants and funding.
 The easiest way to find your local branch is to use the online database.


Go to the organization's homepage and type your zip code in the "Find and Support Your Local United Way" box, located in the upper right corner.

The United Way homepage can be accessed here: http://www.unitedway.org/



Alternatively, you can go to the database listing and select your state. From there, you will need to choose the nearest city from the secondary list provided to you. Choosing a city should provide you with the contact details for your local branch.

The database listing can be found here: http://apps.unitedway.org/myuw/



You can also check the yellow pages to find a contact number for your local United Way branch.
 When you find the contact details for your local branch, you should be given an address, phone number, and website.


Note that many local branches are only open during standard business hours.
Use the phone number if you wish to contact the branch as quickly as possible.
In most cases, you can write or visit your local branch using the address provided
The website can provide you with additional information about the local programs available through your branch and may also have additional contact details.
 Once you reach your local United Way, you will need to discuss your need with the worker on the other end of the phone or on the other side of the desk. This individual is trained and should be able to let you know about a few different options that are available within your local area.


In most cases, the United Way worker you speak with will either tell you about the available services or will direct you to another worker who can. In some instances, you might be given the alternative contact information for your local 2-1-1 service and instructed to contact them.
Provide as much detail as possible when describing your need so that the worker will be able to direct you to the best possible resources to address it.
 The United Way can tell you who to contact, but they generally won't do any of the actual contacting. Instead, you'll be given a phone number, fax number, website, e-mail address, and/or mailing address. Use this information to contact the actual resource yourself.


The United Way may, however, contact the resource if you need a referral or if you are otherwise unable to contact that source by your own means.
Once you reach the organization or agency that will assist you, follow the instructions that organization provides to get the help you need.

