, This is to ensure that the longer side of the material to be cut is to the left as this is the side which you will be firmly holding as the saw does its work.
Place the material under the blade and grasp the handle with blade guard release DO NOT PRESS THE POWER SWITCH AT THIS POINT.
Gently pull down the saw until the blade almost touches the material and adjust the material side to side, until the blade is positioned to the waste/off cut side of your mark.
Release the saw back to its resting point and keeping a firm grip on the workpiece, start the motor.
While waiting for the blade to reach full speed, listen to it. Become familiar with how the motor sounds and be vigilant to anything unusual. Sometimes small pieces of material get trapped in the guard mechanism and can rub against the blade until they fly out without warning! Stop, unplug the power and investigate any unusual sounds immediately!
With the blade at full speed and sounding good, gently pull the saw down into and through the workpiece. Become familiar with how the blade feels and cuts, learn to judge how much pressure to apply and do not slow the blade down excessively, about 10% or so is about right. Once all the way through the material, gently return the saw to its upright position, switch off the motor and wait for the blade to completely stop.
All done, you should now have the correct size workpiece. Ready for transferring to the workplace for fixing.
Never leave a flip over saw running in-between cuts. On a busy site a running motor can be dangerously and deceptively quiet.
 Always ‘double check’ visually that the saw bed is secured in position.
Always use the riving knife and blade guard when ripping down timber, again, as per manufacturers description. This stops the timber binding the blade after the cut and prevents the blade ‘throwing’ the timber back towards you at some speed!
Set up the fence or guide if making a parallel cut using the graduated marks on the saw table bed or by measuring between the fence and blade with a tape measure.
If you have set up the saw as per the earlier instructions you should have a clear area in front of the flip over saw (it is so tempting to stack material behind you, but as you can see, this is a mistake).
Once you are ready, start the flip over saw and step back from the machine with your material in hand. Again, listen to the motor as the blade spins up to full speed and place your material on the front edge of the table and line it up with the fence.
By now the blade will be running at full speed, gently but firmly feed the material into the blade, keeping a firm sideways and downwards pressure on the material into the guiding fence and table bed. Once you are about halfway you have the option to stop, withdraw the material, turn it over end to end and run the other half through until you meet the first cut. Shorter lengths may be fed straight through in one go, keeping hands well away from the blade or use one or two push sticks.
 Always know where your off cut is going to go. Small ones can fly out if not properly managed and long off cuts can tip and trap the blade also causing trouble. Good support is the answer, BEFORE, DURING and AFTER the cut., The only limitation that you will find with a flip over saw is that of having to continually flip the machine between the two modes if the work demands it or you don’t properly plan your cuts. Flip over saws do mean that you need to look a little further ahead and think about what you are doing.
As with many combination machines there is some compromise to achieve the flexibility. With flip over saws this may mean that the table saw bed is a little small or that the capacity of the miter saw is a little less because it doesn’t have a sliding arm.
Ultimately though, using a flip over saw is simple coupled with good capabilities and versatility means that a flip over saw can handle most jobs, either on site or in the workshop at home.

