 These are services that allow you to submit an electronic copy of your book and print the book for you. Through these services, you can put your book on the online marketplace of that service and buy as many copies of that book as you like. Some vendors even distribute your book to other sellers, which gives your book more of an opportunity to have a readership. Here are the advantages and disadvantages of using a POD service:Advantages:

Having a physical copy of the book. Having a book that you can hold in your hands can make the book's publication feel more concrete, and can make it easier for you to show or give the book to friends or people who are interested.
Having a vendor work out the formatting and printing. Instead of doing this yourself, you can save time and effort by having someone do it for you. If you leave this work to the professionals, you have a higher chance of making the book look amazing.



Disadvantages:

You still need to market your book.
Expenses. This option is much more expensive than self-publishing an e-book.
Less room for creativity. Though the online vendors will have a wide variety of size, binding, and formatting options for you to choose from, you'll still have to meet their formatting standards and have less room to branch out.
 Before you choose a vendor, research as many vendors as possible to find the best place for publishing your book. If money is a concern, focus more on the pricing at each vendor, but if you're more worried about the quality of the product, spend more time focusing on the formatting and the look of the book once it's printed.


If you're struggling to make a decision between vendors, consider creating an account with one vendor and publishing one copy of the book and sending yourself a copy to see what it looks like.

Do this without making the book available to the public or creating an ISBN, so if you're not happy with the product, it will be easy for you to remove the book from the market and try somewhere else.
 Each vendor will have different formatting requirements, but the basic process of formatting won't vary too much. First, create an account with that vendor, and then do the following things before publishing your book:


Choose whether it will be a paperback or hardcover book.
Write the title and author's first and last names.
Select the privacy settings you want. This can determine whether anyone can view the book on the vendor's marketplace, or if it can only be seen by you.
Choose the type of paper you'll use.
Choose the size of the paper.
Choose the type of binding.
Choose whether the book will be in black or white or in full color.
 Once you've decided on the formatting settings for your book, upload a copy of your manuscript. Also upload your book's cover. If you haven't created a book cover in advance, most vendors will help you choose a theme and layout for your cover and create it before you publish the book.


You can also enlist the help of a professional to make your cover, or ask for the help of a design-savvy friend.
 Once you've chosen your settings and uploaded your book, simply push a button that will publish the book. Once the book is published, you can search it in the vendor's online marketplace and order as many copies of the book as you want.
 Though you have self-published your book of poetry, your work is not over. If you want to reach a wider audience, you'll have to advertise for your book, whether it's by starting a blog or a website, creating a Facebook fan page, emailing your friends and acquaintances, or getting a business card to promote the book.


Many vendors will also have an option that will help you promote your book, but you will have to pay for that.

