 How do you expect others to see you in a favorable way if you don’t see yourself in a favorable way? Having self-esteem begins with confidence. Being comfortable in your own skin is attractive because you know who you are. You don’t need to demean or compete with others to get ahead in life. People find that quality attractive.


Discover who you are. Once you have that under control, hang on to it and don’t be afraid to let the world know. Having a firm grasp on your own sense of self will go a long way when it comes to making you attractive.
Practice positive affirmations. They work. List things about yourself that you love and revisit them once in a while.Be careful not to brag or tip over into the realm of arrogance. Few people find arrogance attractive., There has been a lot of research showing that people who are happy are more attractive (and attractive people are happier).Practice gratitude and forgiveness. These two things will boost your happiness.Focus on the relationships in your life. Relationships have shown to be one of the most important influencers of happiness. Spend time with trusted friends and family.Think positively. When negative thoughts enter your mind, kick them out. If this is something you struggle with, you might look into cognitive behavioral methods., Some studies have shown that people who are kind or agreeable are more attractive. Their attractiveness can even improve over time just based on their personality., If you want someone to like you (or find you attractive), let them know. Studies have shown that we tend to like people who like us. If you show interest in someone, they'll more likely be attracted to you if you show interest in them first., A sense of humor makes you attractive for more than one reason.


Having a sense of humor makes you easier to be around. That’s an attractive quality to have.
Laughter releases a chemical called Serotonin, which is the cause of our good moods. Helping people laugh puts them in a good mood, and they have you to thank for that.