 Don't take the cookies apart. Just place the entire cookie inside the blender/food processor. If the cookies don't fit in your blender/food processor, then you will need to blend them in batches.









If you don't have either of those, place the cookies into a plastic, resealable bag. Use the heavy-duty freezer kind. It is more durable than the regular kind.;
, If you are using a plastic, resealable bag, close the bag, and whack the cookies with a rolling pin. There should be no large chunks or crumbs when you are done.
 If you had to crush the Oreos in batches, get them all crushed and into the bowl first, before moving on to the next step.
 Use a rolling motion when you stir, so that all the ingredients from the bottom of the bowl get moved to the top. Keep mixing until everything is smooth. The dough will look chocolate-y with some white streaks and swirls.
 You will be placing the cookie balls onto this, and then putting it to the freezer. The wax paper will keep the cookie balls from sticking.
 This way, it won't stick to the counter and make a mess.









You can form the balls by rolling lumps of dough between your palms, or by using a cake pop/cookie scoop.
It is better to make the cookie balls on the smaller side. They will end up much larger once you dip them in the melted chocolate., The longer you freeze them, the better. This will help keep them from coming apart when you coat them with the melted chocolate. It will also help the melted chocolate harden faster., You can use dark chocolate, milk chocolate, or even white chocolate.
 Put the bowl into the microwave, and heat it for 30 seconds. Stir the chocolate with a spoon, then microwave it for another 15 seconds. Keep doing this until all the chocolate is melted and smooth.









Stirring the chocolate will help it melt more evenly. It will also keep it from scorching.
 Plop the ball into the bowl, and roll it around with a fork or spoon until it is evenly coated. You will be coating the cookie balls one at a time.
 Some people find that it helps to use tooth picks to lift the cookie balls out of the chocolate.Give the cookie ball a little shake, if you need to, to get the excess chocolate off.
 Don't worry if the chocolate starts to pool at the bottom of the cookie ball. You can trim it away using a sharp knife after the chocolate hardens.
 As soon as you finish one ball, place it back on the tray, and start on the next. If the chocolate starts to harden, melt it in the microwave again, and give it a stir.
 Store any leftover cookie balls in the fridge or in the freezer. Do not leave them sitting out at room temperature for too long, or they will go bad.









Sometimes, the melted chocolate will pool at the bottom of the cookies. You can leave it there, or trim it away using a sharp knife.
 This can give your Oreo cookie balls a pop of color. You will need to do it while the chocolate coating is still melted, or the topping won't stick. Here are some toppings to give you ideas:Try crumbled Oreos. They work best against white chocolate.
Add a pinch of sprinkles for a pop of color.
Try crushed candy cane for something festive.
Match shaped sprinkles to the season/holiday. For example, use pink hearts for Valentine's Day and shamrocks for St. Patrick's day.
 Once you have coated the cookie balls in chocolate and refrigerated them, take them out of the freezer. Melt some chocolate in the microwave, and drizzle it across the top of each ball using a spoon.


Try using a contrasting chocolate. For example, if you coated the cookie balls in dark chocolate, drizzle white chocolate over them.
A quick and easy way to drizzle chocolate is to pour the melted chocolate into an empty squeeze bottle, and then to squeeze out a zigzag.
 You can find chocolate in all sorts of interesting colors in the baking section of an arts and crafts store. Some baking supply shops may also carry this. If you can't find any colored chocolate, you can make your own by melting some white chocolate and mixing some candy coloring oil into it. Don't use water-based food coloring, or the chocolate will seize., There are many different types of Oreos. Some of them are seasonal, and available only during certain times of the year. If you'd like to try something a little more special, follow the recipe as usual, but use a different type of Oreo cookie. You can dip these Oreo cookie balls in any type of melted chocolate as well. Listed below are some ideas to get you started:


Pair Golden Oreos with white chocolate and rainbow sprinkles.Pair Red Velvet Oreos with white chocolate and a dark chocolate drizzle.Pair Mint Oreos with dark chocolate and green sprinkles.Pair Golden or Birthday Oreos with white chocolate and rainbow sprinkles., Roll the dough out using a rolling pin until it is about ½ inch (1.27centimeters) thick. Use mini cookie cutters to cut out some shapes. Dip the shapes into the melted chocolate, and decorate with sprinkles.Consider matching the sprinkle shape to the cookie shape. For example, if you made heart-shaped cookies, use heart-shaped sprinkles.

