 There are a few different versions of the game, with the original at Pouetpu Games. For this tutorial, we're using Super Mario Flash 2 from Pouetpu Games but you can find it in a few different places:

Pouetpu Games - Super Mario Flash and Super Mario Flash 2

Mario Games - Super Mario Flash and Super Mario Flash 2

Via gaming sites like FRIV! - click the Mario icon
And many more - just search 'Super Mario Flash' and you'll see pages of search results.;
,, Press 'Change' to view the next background, 'Select' to pick the one you're currently viewing or 'Custom BG' to upload your own image to use.
Next, set the dimensions of the course (just use the default values if you're not sure) for both layers and press 'Select'. You're ready to start building!, However, to build the best possible level it's a good idea to think about what your level will involve. If you like, draw it out roughly - but only if it's going to be complicated.

Planning what you're going to have before you get stuck in means that it'll have a better structure and you can make it more quickly.
Plus, once you're finished you will probably be more pleased with the results because it's what you wanted it to be, not a random collection of enemies!

, Do you want it to be scary, or fun? Both? Will there be ghosts? Water and fish? How about revolving platforms, invisible walls or warp pipes? There are infinite possibilities!, Or are you going upwards (if so, you may need to adjust the dimensions of the course that you chose in Part 1 to make the Y bigger than the X)? Downwards? Backwards?, If you were eager, you might have closed down the pop-up box that tells you the editor controls before you read it. Don't panic - here they are:

Move around: arrow keys

Show or hide menu: space bar, ctrl or end key

Select objects: mouse


, One thing that's easy to forget is to set Mario's starting position. If you don't set it, your game won't work and he won't appear at all. Do it as soon as you start, otherwise it gets... complicated. Here's how:

Press Space to open the menu.
Choose 'Entrances' from the menu options across the top.
Click on Mario.
Press Space to hide the menu.
Position Mario wherever you want him to start.
Click once he's in place.

If you change your mind, you'll need to do the same but instead of clicking where you want him to go, first click on the Mario that you've already set to remove it. Then position him in a new place and click.


If you're planning on setting a halfway point, check Halfway and End Points below before you add any other entrances (otherwise you'll need to redo them all!)

, If you've ever played Mario, you'll know that there isn't a single level where there are no coins, blocks, question blocks etc. They're super quick and easy to insert, and will give you the overall layout once you've got a few in place:

Press Space to open the menu.
Choose 'Tiles' from the menu options across the top.
There's a range of tiles to choose from. Click on the one you want to insert.

Note: the icons above the question blocks show what you'll get when you add them.


You can insert coins for Mario to collect in the same way.
 Now you've added a few blocks, you might be wanting Mario to jump across a gap in the ground. Who knows, perhaps you want to remove all the ground and make it a different colour. Or maybe not (that would take ages!) - but at some point this might be handy. Here's how you can remove ground:

Press Space to open the menu.
Choose 'Tiles' from the menu options across the top.
Click 'Next' once or until you see ground tiles that match your theme.
Select any tile and press Space to hide the menu.
Click on the ground tiles that are already there to remove them.
Remove the tiles next to the hole and replace them with blocks that curve round into the hole.

This means that the ground doesn't end abruptly; it looks better and more professional. It's highly recommended, though not essential.
To do this, open up the menu again, choose the appropriate block, hide it and click. You'll need different ones for each end of the gap.
 You know how to remove ground, but how do you add it? Making platforms is fairly straightforward, in theory, but just like when creating gaps it takes a little more work to create smooth, professional platforms:

Remove the ground if necessary using the steps above.

Note: you don't need to remove the existing layer of ground first - it's personal taste.


Go back to the Tiles section of the menu that displays ground tiles, as described above.
Choose the tile that has ground on the left going upwards. ID (if you're using the grassy ones): Tile 69.
Click to place the tile to build up the left side of the platform.

Note: if Mario needs to jump up there, it can't be too high. Don't use more than three of these plus the top layer of ground.


Return to the menu and get the block that has ground on the left and the top. Place this on top of the vertical blocks.ID: Tile 242.
Return to the menu and get the block that has ground on the top. Place these blocks joining on to the corner across the width of the platform. ID: Tile 2.
Return to the menu and get the block that has ground on the right and the top. Place this as the final block to the right of the horizontal ones that you've just placed. ID: Tile 70.
Return to the menu and get the block that has ground on the right. Complete the platform by placing these blocks from the top of the platform down to ground level. ID: Tile 74.
Return to the menu and use blocks that have no ground to fill in the platform. ID: Tile 12.
If you did remove the ground, you should neaten the edges by joining them to make a smooth curve. To do this, use the inside corner blocks. IDs: Tile 71 and Tile 243.
 The easiest way to do it is probably to follow the pictures above.

Remove the ground if necessary using the steps above.
Go back to the Tiles section of the menu that displays ground tiles, as described above.
Choose a tile which has ground going at a diagonal. There are three different slopes which each have a different steepness, and go either up or down. Decide which one you want, click it and hide the menu.
In the menu, the slopes are lined up so you can see how they fit together. The bottom ones, in particular, may take a little bit of working out to fit them together into a smooth slope.
Once you've correctly built the edge of the slope, fill in the rest of it with plain blocks (which have no edge). If you're using the grassy ones, the ID is Tile 12.
It's up to you how you finish off the slope: you could continue the ground on a raised level or remove the ground below so Mario has to jump on a moving platform. Try using a corner block and dropping back down.
 You know how to add an entrance from the first step in this part, but warp pipes (the green pipes that you see everywhere in Mario levels) are a little more complicated. Here's how to create them:

On the Tiles section of the menu, click Next until you see the pipes. Build two pipes in whichever directions you want, just as you've done with the other tiles. That's how you can create pipes for decoration (or to confuse the player).
If you want to make them work, decide which pipe you're going to go into and which pipe you're going to appear out of.

The one you're going to appear out of is the entrance (you're entering a place via the pipe) and the one you're going into is the exit (because you're leaving the place via the pipe). This is confusing as it seems almost backwards at first!


You must start with the entrance. Go to the Entrances section of the menu and look at the pipes to see which matches yours.

Check the direction that the arrow is pointing to ensure that you've got the right one.


Hide the menu and match up the entrance pipe with the one that you've built. When you click to place it, a number should appear - probably 2, if it's the first pipe that you've built (the first entrance is Mario's starting point).
Now go to the Exits section of the menu and look again at the pipes to see which matches up with your exit.
Before you click on it, make sure that you click on select the entrance until it shows the number that matches the number on your entrance. If you forget to do that, you'll turn up at the first entrance - Mario's starting point.
Hide the menu, position the pipe over the entrance and click to place.
Now's a perfect time to test it out. Take a look at the final part of this article to find out how to play your level.
 This one isn't so tricky, but it's easier to add sprites once you've finished the basic building blocks of the course (not right at the beginning). Before you start, understand what a sprite is: it's not, as you may think, a 'character' or an 'enemy'. It's simply a part of your level that you can interact with in some way. Here's how you add them:

Press Space to open the menu.
On the Sprites section of the menu, press Next and Previous to see all the sprites available to use.
Pick one and click on it to select.
Now hide the menu and click to insert the sprite wherever you want.
 While you pretty much need an end point, halfway points are completely optional (and slightly more complex to add). Here's how you insert them:

Press Space to open the menu. Go to the Sprites section.
Click Next until you see the halfway and end points. They're the H-shaped blue things on the last page of the sprites.
Click on whichever one you want, press Space to hide the menu and click to position it.
If it's the end point, you're done: that's all there is to it. If it's the halfway point, you'll need to add another entrance.

To do this, check Starting Position in the part above: add an entrance exactly the same way, making sure that the number on the second Mario is 2 (if you've added warp pipes before doing this, you may need to go back and change them).
 Autoscroll is really confusing, and tricky to get the hang of. It is - as the name suggests - when stuff moves along by itself. The hard part is getting the right thing to move in the right direction...

At the top right of the screen, there's a red arrow where it will say 'L1 L2'. Click on the red arrow to switch it round so that it says 'L2 L1'. This means that, instead of editing layer 1 (the main layer), you're editing layer 2.
If necessary, insert the blocks, platforms, spikes or whatever you want to be moving. Make sure that you're inserting them in layer 2!

If it helps, you can click on L1 to hide the main layer. However, this usually isn't necessary - it's easier to show both layers so that you know you are placing blocks in the right place.


Open up the menu and go to Sprites. Press Next and Previous until you see the green 'A1' and 'A4' buttons. Check the list of auto scroll blocks below to see which you need, then click on it and hide the menu.

Choose A1 for A1, A2 or A3 and A4 for A4, A5 or A6.


Put it in the appropriate place - touching whatever you've built that needs to be moved. Check that it displays the right autoscroll - as you move it, it'll change.
Test it out by playing the game using the steps in the Last Steps part of the article. This is important, as it's easy to get it moving in the wrong direction.List of Autoscroll Blocks

A1 - affects both layers: moves upwards (everything moves up)

A2 - affects layer 2: moves to the right (certain parts move along)

A3 - affects layer 2: moves up and down (certain parts go up and down)

A4 - affects layer 2: moves to the right while floating slightly up and down
A5 - affects layer 1: moves to the right while going up and down
A6 - affects layer 2: makes layer 2 rise to the top from the bottom - see this tutorial




, This isn't massively hard, but is a quick and fun trick to try! Here's how you can make Mario run up walls:

Build a wall (obviously...)! Make it as high as you want.
Insert Tile 37 from the Tiles section of the menu (or Tile 39, if you're running up in the opposite direction) at the bottom of the wall, to the left.
Remove the ground below Tile 37 - or 39 - and insert a Special Tile - the green box with a blue and white S - in the gap. You won't see this when you play the level obviously!
That's all there is to it - test out your walls using the steps in the final part.
 It's easy to make this more complex than it needs to be. Looking on the Internet, there are no tutorials for making invisible blocks, perhaps because it's actually so much more simple than you would think...

Insert a Special Tile (the green as described above) where you wanted the invisible block to be.
And that's literally it - test it out if you don't believe it using the steps in the final part.
 Some people may prefer to do this at the start, but it's probably better to fill this in once you've finished creating the level. Either way, it's something that is easy to forget:

Press Space to open the menu.
Choose 'Settings' from the menu options across the top.
Click on 'Set Level Info'.

Note: be careful not to press Ctrl when typing! It will hide the menu without saving what you've put in.


Think of a level name to enter into the corresponding box. It should match your level while sounding fun and intriguing!
Think of a brief description of the level to enter into the corresponding box. Like the level name, it should relate directly to the level while making you want to play the game.
Enter your name into the 'author' box. Consider using a username or nickname, especially if you're planning on sharing the level online.
 It sounds obvious, but you need to save the level before closing down your browser. If you don't save the level and copy the code somewhere safe, you'll lose it all! Anyway, here's how to do it:

Press Space to open the menu.
Choose 'Settings' from the menu options across the top.
Click on 'Save'.
Copy the code using the steps below.
 Surely you can just press Ctrl+C and copy your code? Well, pretty much. Here's how you copy the code.

Save the level using the steps above.
Click 'Code'.
Either highlight all the code (Ctrl+A) and copy it (Ctrl+C), or simply click 'Copy to Clipboard'.
Open up a new document, notebook etc. and paste the code (Ctrl+V). Don't forget to save that document somewhere sensible where you'll be able to find it when you want to play the level.
 This isn't necessary if you've just saved the level, but if you're returning to your level or playing someone else's then you'll need to load the code before you can play or edit it.

Go to the home screen. If you're currently editing a level, either open it in a new tab or save and copy it using the steps above before clicking 'Delete'. It's safe to delete the level once you've copied the code.
Click 'Level Editor' where you will see the main options: Create, Level Info, Delete, Load Code and Play. Choose 'Load Code'.
 Perhaps this step should have been earlier in the article as you may find yourself wanting to test out functions and features while creating your level. But here's how you actually play the level:

Save, copy and/or load the level you want to play using the steps above.
Click Play.
If you've not played Super Mario Flash before, you may not know the controls. Here they are:

Move: left/right arrow

Jump: up arrow

Crouch: down arrow

Fireballs: space

Hold/fly/jump off: X




, All you need to share the level with friends is the code that you've copied. Here are some ways you could share your level:

Email the code to friends with a link to the site.
Share it on Pouetpu Games, where you can also find awesome code to load and play. Note: you'll need to register for an account first.
Record yourself playing the level and post it on YouTube (you can include the code in the description). You can also view others' levels there if you're stuck for ideas.
 Now you know how to create levels with Super Mario Flash, you can create more complex, exciting and imaginative adventures for you and your friends to enjoy playing.