 Politics can be considered to be propelled by the reinforcement theory, that people seek out political discussion and information that supports their own political views. Understand that discussing politics in a mixed social setting will lead to opposing beliefs and it should lead to more thoughtful discussion.;
, Before jumping to any conclusions, listen to the other person's point of view. Ask thoughtful questions if their views are not completely clear.


Avoid using questions, such as "How could you think that?" Instead, ask questions like "What is your opinion about...?" or "What makes you feel that way?"

, This is along the lines of the classic "think before you speak" adage. Try to be empathetic toward their point of view, and you are likely to achieve more thoughtful conclusions about your own beliefs.
 If you are quoting sources, make sure you recognize potential flaws in the facts or how you are quoting. This is another example of reinforcement theory, since you may consider your sources to be objective, but other people may consider them subjective.
 No one likes a "know-it-all," so be prepared to learn something new in any discussion. The talk is much more likely to remain friendly if no one insists on always being right.
 In order to have a friendly discussion, try to return to points you agree on from time to time. Most people can agree on a few things that they think are working or that they think need reform.
 Some party hosts, family members and work environments ask that people leave their political beliefs for their private interactions. This rule has probably been brought about because of a past problem, so respect the desire to host a politics-free social engagement.
 Some political discussions are not worth the possibility of making a relationship strained. Get to know the person better before trying to engage the person in political talk.


If someone engages you in political discussion and you are unsure of your relationship, approach the talk with caution, especially if alcohol is involved. It is better to find common ground and change the subject than to get into an argument.
 Part of maintaining friendly discussion is a frank desire to say when you agree. Indicating that you understand and asking a follow up question may make the discussion more enjoyable.
 In fact, save the winning mentality for political debates or people that are very close to you. Enter into polite political discussion to learn something and get a better background of your friends and the issues.

