 It is best to apply a heat pack or wrap about a half-hour before any physical activity. Then, when you are done, ice the area or apply a cold wrap immediately and keep it going for about 20 minutes. This will reduce swelling and allow your knee to heal.Even during rest days it can be therapeutic to ice your knee for 20 minutes every 3 hours or so. Be careful with putting ice directly on your skin as it can cause burns. Use a wrap or ice pack., Analgesics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, can help to reduce swelling and minimize pain. They may not shorten your period of healing overly much, but they can make your more comfortable during the process. Make sure to follow any dosing directions carefully., If you decide to continue with sports, then you may need to wear shock-absorbent insoles in your shoes. This will minimize the pressure placed on your knees. When playing a sport that requires kneeling or bending, like wrestling, then it’s a good idea to wear fitted pads to protect your knees.Just any insoles or knee pads won’t do. Buy yours at a sporting goods store to make sure that they will hold up will with lots of movement.
 Casts are usually only used in the most severe cases of OSD with adults. Most OSD patients are given a brace, such as a stabilizing knee wrap or patella strap, for optional use during physical activities. Your doctor may ask that you wear this brace off-and-on for up to 8 weeks.Your doctor may also give you a set of crutches if walking causes you pain.
A patella strap works by spreading out shock absorption around the entire knee area, so that they tendon does not do all of the work., Surgery for OSD is quite rare and used only in the most extreme cases. In adolescents, the most common sufferers of OSD, their skeleton is still forming, which makes invasive bone procedures more problematic. If your doctor does recommend surgery, consider seeking out a second opinion., In many cases, the most severe OSD symptoms will entirely disappear by the time that a person completes their adolescent growth spurt. So, at the age of 14 for girls and 16 for boys, you should see some improvement in pain levels and range of motion.While the interior of the knee will improve, be aware that your child may still have a bump present on the front of their effected knee, called a tubercle.

