 Look through catalogs or search for wedding rings online to find a style that matches your price range, personality and aesthetic sensibilities. Before setting foot in a jewelry store, you should already have a basic idea in mind about what kind of ring would be best for you and your spouse. It can be overwhelming to start searching for a wedding ring with no concept of what you even want, so do your homework now and save yourself the headache later.Visualize your ideal wedding ring. What is it that you’re picturing? If you’re at a loss for how to get started, this type of mental exercise can help put you on the right track.;
, Get a sense of what you’re willing and able to spend on a wedding ring. This can help eliminate a lot of superfluous options right off the bat. Decide whether you’d rather finance a ring or buy it outright. Come up with an approximate figure that you’d be willing to drop on a piece and only look for rings in that price range.If possible, create a separate “ring fund” and set aside a small amount from each paycheck to go toward purchasing the ideal ring once you find it., Where should you even begin looking? The obvious choice is local jewelers in your area, along with some of the larger chain retailers such as Zales, Kay and Jared. Don’t count out smaller independent jewelers: many of them have been in business for decades and have accumulated a lot of experience helping indecisive couples find rings that they’re happy with. Give the jeweler the details of your wants, needs and budget and they’ll be able to show you a selection of rings matching your unique specifications.Visit only reputable jewelers. Perform a quick search for customer testimonials to see what kind of materials a store specializes in and how knowledgeable their sales staff is. Stay away from pawn shops, deep discount outlets and mall jewelry kiosks that try to pass off uncertified merchandise at questionable prices.The internet can be a helpful tool in previewing types of rings, but it’s probably not your best resource for buying due to the inability to assess the quality of a ring up close, complications in getting it sized properly and a lack of live specialists who can inform you and answer any questions you may have in person.
 Find a ring that you will be comfortable wearing day in and day out. It’s easy to fall into the pattern of desiring the purest, brightest, most elegant ring on the market, but stop to think for a moment about how your ring will fare once the initial infatuation wears off. It’s possible that you may not wish to wear your wedding ring at all times, so size and visibility may become a factor in keeping up with it. Additionally, some materials such as silver and white gold are known to tarnish under certain conditions, meaning they will require regular polishing and upkeep. Simplicity and practicality should also be criteria in your search.One option that satisfies many couples is to go for more elegance and flair when picking out an engagement ring, while sticking to a simple one-piece wedding band that will be worn all the time.Don’t be put off from buying a ring you really like just because you’re worried about its utilitarian value. However, keep in mind that in most cases, your ring will be worn all day, every day, with many different clothing styles and accessories and under drastically different conditions.

