 For example, you can find a great video on making an accordion wallet, on YouTube. Some people learn better by watching and listening to someone making a craft, and others learn better from following written instructions. Use whichever method suits you best. If you are going to make your craft based on a video, watch the video once all the way through, before you get started. Make sure to write down all of the supplies that you will need, including the measurements for the duct tape fabrics.
Pantomime making your craft along with the video, if you are nervous about beginning the process. Familiarizing yourself with the steps will help boost your crafting confidence.
Stop the video after a step, if you need more time. It will probably take you a few more seconds to do each step, so do not hesitate to stop the video several times.
 Some craft websites, like Crafts Unleashed, give more detailed instructions on how to make duct tape crafts than the Duck Tape website does. These websites also give instructions for even easier duct tape crafts, like duct tape bracelets and earrings. Crafts Unleashed's duct tape crafts’ instructions include hyperlinks to buy the specific duct tape product that is being used in the craft. Additionally, the hyperlink for the duct tape is to consumercrafts.com, a website that sells patterned duct tape, for cheaper. This hyperlink feature is extremely useful, because you do not have to hunt through pages of prints, to find the right duct tape.
30minutecrafts.com is another website that not only provides instructions for easy duct tape crafts but also features videos of craft bloggers making duct tape crafts. However, the quality of these videos can be hit and miss, so make sure to check out the whole video, before you prepare to make the craft.
These websites often give helpful tips for making your craft. For example, in the instructions for how to make duct tape bangles, at craftsunleashed.com, it suggests ways to fold your duct tape to make sure you are completely covering the sticky parts. This is especially important for this craft because arm hairs can get stuck in the bangles, if the duct tape is not very carefully folded.
 Comments are typically below the craft instructions. Find out what the people who actually made the craft have to say about it. You may want to use their suggestions, to learn how to improve your duct tape craft.


For example, for the beach bag craft, one commenter suggested that you add a clasp to the bag, so that it will close.
In order to figure out how add a feature like the clasp, you can look at related crafts, for example, a duct tape clutch purse, with a magnet, that closed.
 Read the directions for a craft with the feature you want to add. For example, the magnet clutch purse directions explained how to tape magnets to a purse so that it will close. Now you can make your beach bag close.
 For example, you can make the anchor with an Etsy stencil and a red sheet of duct tape, if you are making the beach bag craft. However, make sure to cut shapes carefully. Cut shapes by:









Laying a strip, or sheet, of tape flat, on the cutting surface
Placing a stencil, if needed, on the strip of tape
Tracing the shape on the sheet with a pen or marker
Placing the blade of the razor firmly onto the tape and cutting out the shape
Lifting the edge of the tape with the edge of the blade and peeling the shape away from the cutting surface.

