 While extra-virgin olive oil is a perfectly good option, coconut oil can actually help you lose weight. As such, it’s one of the best options to grease your pan. Use a tablespoon or so, and let it fully melt before adding eggs.The coconut flavor will be subtle, if you even notice it. If you do, add turmeric to season the omelet. These two lead to great flavor combination.
While butter will work, it's much less healthy. If you insist on using butter, don't overdo it. Two teaspoons is plenty to grease your pan.
 Add oil to the pan. Both eggs and egg whites are notorious for sticking to cookware. Even with a well-seasoned cast iron skillet, you’ll want to make sure your pan is ready to resist your omelet’s likely stickiness. Wait for the pan to heat up before adding the eggs. The oil should be sending up thin wisps of smoke, so that when the eggs hit, they’ll sizzle.
Don’t cook anything in the pan beforehand. Residue from other ingredients will cause egg whites in particular to stick. If you want to cook other ingredients before you put together your omelet, do so in a separate pan or wipe the pan clean before cooking the eggs.
 Leave eggs or egg whites alone for 15 seconds after you put them in the pan. Use a spatula to push back eggs that have set every couple seconds thereafter, with the burner on medium to medium-high. Tilt the pan to help uncooked egg get into contact with the pan, and continue as such until the egg no longer runs.Turn the heat down to low add whatever ingredients you’re including. Finally, fold one half of the omelet over onto the other, let it settle for a few minutes in the pan, and viola!

, Black pepper contains a compound called piperine, which can add spice to your omelet, and fight the formation of new fat cells too. As a rule of thumb, use a bit more pepper than salt. (This helps keep your salt amount low too.)Feel free to mix in other herbs and spices at liberty. These will offer additional flavor that add to the enjoyment and fulfillment you derive from your meal. Try basil, turmeric, dill, rosemary, thyme, and more.

