 The best environment for storing linens is one free from dampness and pests. A linen closet, a suitcase, a cedar-lined box, etc., can all be suitable storage places provided that are dry, free of pests such as moths, and will not be disturbed by everyday use of other items.


It is also important that the storage space is dark. Light will eventually fade and weaken fabric and embroidery.;
, There are several things to do prior to placing the linens into storage:


Check for food or other stains. If there is anything that might attract moths, wash the item according to its care requirements.
Ensure that all linens are completely dry. Storing damp linen will cause mildew growth that will spread quickly through neighbouring linen.
Don't starch linens. Starch is a pest attractant.
Don't iron. Ironing linens can cause hard seams. These hard edges can cause the fabric to crack or even break owing to its age. Besides, it's always good to have an excuse not to iron!

, It is prudent to provide covering around the linens to prevent staining. You can use either acid-free tissue paper (non-dyed is preferable as color might run) or plain cotton such as calico, muslin, old sheets and pillowcases, etc.).


Roll or pancake stack the linens in the covering. Rolling or stacking flat is the best way to avoid creating stress points on the linen. Folding can create cracks and breakage. Small items such as doilies are fine stacked, while larger items such as table runners or tablecloths are best rolled.
Use a poster tube for large rolled items such as tablecloths.
When pancake stacking, be sure to have heaviest at the base, lightest at the top. This will help to stop creasing or crushing of fine designs. If something is very delicate, do not stack it but roll it and keep it apart.
 If storing in anything that might cause stains, provide a barrier layer of plastic or paper between the stored linens and the storage space.


Wood can stain linen.
Scented drawer liners can stain linen.
Check all other items in the storage area to ensure that they cannot impart a stain, odor, or other sort of damage.
Consider adding linen protection sachets to the storage space.
 At least once a year, remove stored linen and check for insect damage, creasing, or signs of wear. It's also a good opportunity to take an inventory of your collection and to update or cull it as wished.

