 Do things you love and love what you do. Choose an occupation that moves you and that you enjoy. If you’re stuck in an occupational rut, find a way to change your circumstances.


Try not to get too sucked into consumer culture. It’s not a strong foundation upon which to build happiness. Some philosophers have argued that once people’s basic needs are met, they become more interested in things like achievement, freedom of expression, and other intangible concepts.
Being part of something bigger than yourself can make you a lot happier. , Letting go of anger – we all harbor some of it – can be extremely difficult to do. But if you hold onto old grievances, you’re bound to only hurt yourself in the end. Try as much as possible to focus on the future, and learn from the past rather than dwell in it. You may need help from a religious leader or from a counselor to let go of deep traumas. However, learning to forgive and to let go of anger is mostly about you – not the person you need to forgive.
Seek reconciliation in situations where it might be possible, even if that means you have to take the high road when you think you’re the one wronged. It will make you feel better inside to be the generous one. Recognize that no one is perfect, most people have their own version of the story, and everyone’s an imperfect human being at the end of the day.
 There’s no question about it. Exercise is good for more than your muscles. It’s also going to release adrenaline into the body, which is a natural mood lifter. If you exercise regularly, you will also be physically healthier and look fitter, which should lead to a better mood. How could it not!
You might meet people at the workout gym, increasing your social network. Or you could exercise outside. This way you will also get the warming rays of the sun (if you live in a warm enough climate). The sun has healing powers. Get out of a gloomy dark house for awhile and you will see an immediate mood lift!

, Make an honest assessment of your life. What’s not making your happiness stronger? Are there things in your life that are negative patterns that you just keep repeating?


Assess what aspects of your life add to your life in positive ways, and which detract. And then set out to remove the aspects that detract. Ask a friend or relative for their assessment, and see if they match yours.
Figure out the causes of unhappiness and to what degree you are playing a role in your own problems. What would it take to make your life happy? What life do you want? Write it down. , You need to have a strong idea of who you are and your own self worth to be happy. If you don’t have those things, you need to work on them with a therapist or just by starting to recognize your own worth.


Be happy with yourself. Never change who you are for anybody; discover what you like and dislike, and figure out what you believe in and what issues are of little importance to you. This will help you discover who you really are. Then be proud to be you and let it show. If people don't like you the way you are, brush it off and embrace yourself. You are unique and special, so enjoy the wonderful things that make you stand out from the crowd.
Ignore the opinions of others, unless they come from someone you deeply respect. But random gossip or criticism that seems unfair – don’t let it rock you if you know you operated in good faith. , You will be happier if you are not isolated or alone. If you feel like you have isolated yourself, force yourself to reach out to others or at least to slowly build relationships, even casual ones. Connection leads to happiness.


Support groups, friends at work, joining a new church or workout club, these are all ways to meet new people. Your support system could be a pet. Many people feel better when they are around pets, because pets provide constant and unconditional love.
A therapist could be part of your support system. Every individual is different, but sometimes people need help working through past issues before they can let go of them and move on to finding happiness. Don’t feel embarrassed if you need to seek outside help; it’s a sign of strength.
Be a support system for those who love you too. Make sure to prioritize what’s important in your life, and make sure you carve out enough quality time for those you love and who love you. Connecting with loved ones is a happiness builder.

