 If you’re dealing with an infection, getting plenty of rest will help your body recuperate. You will probably still have responsibilities to take care of, but try not to push yourself beyond what absolutely needs to get done.If you have a bacterial sinus infection, you may need and antibiotic as well as mucoactive agents to dry up the mucus, such as Mucinex.;
, Drinking an adequate amount of water daily will cause mucus to lose its thickness and help clear the nasal passages.Caffeine-free tea and soup are common cold remedies for this reason.
Try sipping on peppermint tea or eating some pineapple. The menthol in peppermint and the bromelain in pineapple might help to reduce the coughing mucus causes.Caffeinated and alcoholic beverages, by contrast, can increase mucus production and dehydrate the body.
 Wet a clean washcloth with warm water and squeeze out the excess water. Then, cover the nose and cheeks with the hot washcloth compress. The heat from the washcloth will loosen the mucus and reduce the pain caused by congestion.Heat will help dilute the mucus (which is mostly solid in nature), resulting in easier release when you blow your nose.
 The steam from the shower opens up your nasal passages, which allows mucus to pass through easily. Taking warm showers will also help dry up mucus because the steam is able to open up the nasal passages so that mucus can easily pass through. Remember that during nasal congestion the nasal passages are all blocked up, and steam works with heat to thin the mucus, allowing for easier mechanical release.Steam inhalation also works — boil a pot of water, then remove it from the heat. Get a blanket or any cloth that can cover your face and the pot of boiling water, and inhale the steam so that it can loosen the mucus. Be very careful not to burn yourself on the pot or the hot steam; keep your face at least 12 inches above the water. Try adding a few drops of essential oils such as tea tree oil, peppermint oil, or eucalyptus oil to help open up your sinuses.
You may also find that using a humidifier helps ease your symptoms.

