 Don't forget that your hygiene is just as important as having an amazing smile in your photo. You should take a shower and wash your face before you show those pearly whites.


If you normally shower in the evenings, try to make time for a morning shower on the day of your photo. This will make your skin look even better.
If you're not wearing makeup, wash your face before you take your photo.
Wash your hair so it's shiny instead of limp or greasy.;
, Your face and hair should be in great shape when you take your yearbook photo. You don't have to overdo it, but there are a few things you can do to make sure you look your best on the day of the photo.


Keep your hair out of your eyes. Though you may think it's "cool" to hide half your face under a layer of bangs or long hair, your parents won't appreciate it, and the other students will be focusing on your hair instead of your looks.
Style your hair like you normally style it. Don't try anything crazy or fancy on the day of the photo. It may not turn out right, and you won't end up looking like yourself.
Use a little gel or hair product to keep your hair fresh.
Boys should make sure their eyebrows are in place, and that if they have facial hair, that it isn't out of control.
Girls should wear light makeup if that's what they normally do. No dramatic eye-makeup or lipstick changes on the day of the photo, though.
Avoid any distractions. Girls shouldn't wear big earrings, and boys should avoid chains or hats. Keep the focus on your face, not your accessories.
 Your shirt or top will be the next thing that people notice after they see your expression, your face, and your hair, so you should get it right. The top should emphasize your best features, not distract people from your amazing looks and smile. Here's what you should wear:


A simple, solid color.
A black or dark color to make you stand out against the background.
Nothing white or yellow that may wash you out.
No shirts with logos, pictures, or witty sayings. Those will distract people from your face.
Avoid wearing anything too trendy. Your nautical-style shirt may be in this fall, but you will look ridiculous and dated years later.
If you really want the perfect photo, bring a different top of an opposite color to school just in case. If it turns out the background is sky blue and you're wearing a sky blue shirt, you'll feel happy to have your trusted black t-shirt.
 There are a few things you can do to improve your yearbook photo while you're waiting in line.


Girls should quickly run to the bathroom or take out a mirror to touch up their makeup before the photo shoot.
Bring a brush. Run it through your hair, but not so many times that it looks poofy or staticky.
Bring a mirror. Though the photographer should have one, be prepared just in case. A mirror will help you see how your hair and face looks, and will help you see if there's anything in your teeth.
If you have oily skin, use an oil-blotter to quickly get rid of the shine.
Have a positive attitude while you wait. Get pumped to take your yearbook photo, and your positive energy will show in the picture!

, You should decide on the look you'll give well in advance, so you don't try anything new on the day of the photo. Plan a natural smile that emphasizes your best features, and which actually looks like you.


If you normally show your teeth when you smile, do it for the photo.
Work on having your eyes open just the right amount. Avoid opening your eyes too much and having bug eyes, or squinting.
Don't slouch. Maintain good posture while you take your picture, and you will look better for it.
Practice your smile at home. Having a friend or relative take picture of you if you really want to practice.
Work on your angle. You should aim to look at the camera directly, or to tilt your head slightly. Don't tilt your head too much or turn to the side or you may look a bit silly. The photographer should direct you.
If the photographer gives you a few photos to choose from at the end, pick the one that looks the most natural.
Remember to be yourself! Your yearbook photo is your chance to show off who you really are — not to look like a complete stranger.

