 Nothing makes a better conversation starter than browsing the same section of books as someone else. If you are a literary creature and look forward to stops by the library or bookstore, do so with the intention of picking up some new books and social interests., Plenty of cities offer free shows by great bands. If you love music, find others with a similar interest by going to a free concert. Head out a little early and stay a little late to talk to other music fans about the show you’re set to see.
 If you have a passion for a certain activity or organization, do double duty by helping out your community and meeting new people with similar interests. Volunteer for local programs on a regular basis, and you’ll meet plenty of new people for free.
 Even if you were never the type to join a club in high school or college, there’s nothing stopping you now! Join a local club that interests you - a runners club, a book club, a sports club, anything that catches your eye. These gatherings are full of people who you will share something in common with, making conversations easy.
 Whether it is a local high school team or major league game, sporting events are packed with new people. Often local high schools offer free admission to games, and have stands full of people. Discussing the game is an easy excuse to start up a new conversation.
 If simply watching a sports game isn’t enough for you, join a local coed sporting team. You’ll get some physical exercise, enjoy a bit of fun, and be forced into meeting new people of both genders. See what sports are recruiting team members in your area, and start playing!

, Seminars are great for several reasons; they give you tons of helpful information, are totally free, and also give you the opportunity to get to know plenty of like-minded individuals. See if any stores, universities, or businesses in your area are giving seminars that you might be interested in. Staying around to talk about the event afterwards is perfect for finding people.
 If you are spiritual or part of a religious group, use it to your advantage. Go to a new church/temple in your area or to a big gathering nearby. Sharing beliefs with those around you should make it more comfortable to approach new people. Plus, you know you’re a bit more compatible with these people you meet than just anyone off the street.
 Free dancing lessons are booming these days, and many people are flocking to the events. Try out a free swing or square dance class in your area, or go to a club where people will be dancing anyway. If you’re outgoing enough to dance in front of others, you are certainly outgoing enough to get to know the people you’re dancing with.
 Find out spur of the moment that a friend or acquaintance is hosting a party? Don’t avoid the social event - join in the fun! Parties, especially full of people you don’t know as well, are great places to find people. Plus, parties thrown by friends are normally free; win-win.
 If you’re looking for new people, why not try the easy route of asking your friends to set you up? Plan events where your friends must bring a new plus one, or hang out with someone new that is mutually known to you.