 Recognize signs and symptoms of a UTI so that you can catch it early. The most common signs of a UTI are urinating even more than usual, urgent urination, pain, stinging, or burning when you pee, cloudy or bad-smelling urine, blood in your urine, fever, and backache or pelvic pain.See your doctor at the first sign of a UTI for treatment.

Recognize that some symptoms of a UTI can seem common to a regular pregnancy, like urinating frequently and having a backache. Pay attention to the changes your body is going through during pregnancy, so you can differentiate symptoms of illness from regular conditions of pregnancy.
Sometimes you might not have any symptoms from a UTI, so be sure to see your doctor regularly during pregnancy so you can be screened.
Consider keeping a diary of how you’re feeling during your pregnancy. Take note of how many time a day you have to urinate, where you have pain, and other physical changes.;
, Only some medications are safe to take during pregnancy – others can cause harm to your baby or affect your pregnancy. Ask your doctor before taking any medication, even over-the-counter medicine, while pregnant. Don’t try to treat your UTI by yourself – you need medical treatment and a prescribed antibiotic.

No medication is proven 100% safe during pregnancy, but the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has categorized medicines based on their relative safety. Your OB/GYN will know exactly which medications are safe for you to take.
 It’s not uncommon to have to take antibiotics during pregnancy. Simply consult with your doctor to choose the right one. Which antibiotic to take depends on how late you are in your pregnancy and other factors.The safest antibiotics to take during pregnancy are amoxicillin, ampicillin, penicillin, clindamycin, erythromycin, cephalexin, sulfisoxazole, or nitrofurantoin. Fosfomycin is a newer antibiotic that you only have to take for 1 day.Bactrim (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) and tetracyclines (doxycycline and minocycline) are commonly used to treat UTIs, but should NOT be used during pregnancy.
Take your antibiotics exactly as prescribed by your doctor. Usually this will be for 7, 10, or 14 days.Even if you feel better, you must complete the treatment.
Do not take any leftover antibiotics you may have from a previous UTI or from someone else.
 It’s important to make sure your course of antibiotics was effective. Visit your doctor for a follow-up 1-2 weeks after you finish taking your antibiotics. You will provide a urine sample to test that your infection is sufficiently treated., If your follow-up visit shows that you still have a UTI, your doctor will have you take a different antibiotic for 10-14 days followed by nightly suppressor therapy (a low dose antibiotic) until 6 weeks after you have your baby. Take your medicine as prescribed, and continue to see your OB/GYN regularly during your pregnancy.