 A child who has dyslexia may find it hard to read clocks, or to use typical written schedules. Try using picture schedules to help the child know what the day will bring. These can be hand-drawn, downloaded and printed from online sources, or found in an app of a smartphone.Consider setting a phone alarm to provide additional reminders for time management.
Set a limit on the time the student should expect to spend on homework, as a student who has dyslexia may spend more time than his peers on the same material.
 Since sequencing is difficult for most people with dyslexia, you can help support them by showing them the smaller steps that make up a larger task. Use checklists, or picture lists for younger students.For example, providing a "homework checklist" which includes not only the pages to be read, and worksheets to be completed, but also steps like "get pen or pencil", "write your name on the top of the page," and "put homework in school folder when finished."
If the student's visual memory is poor, rote copying will not be an effective way of learning. Instead, offer notes or handouts to help the student learn the information.
 Folders or binders with pockets to help a student organize his materials. Use color-coding, which supports separating the materials into different subjects.Keep pens and pencils in a packet within the notebook for easy access.
It can be a good idea to check and make sure that a student with dyslexia has the homework assignment written down correctly, and placed in the same position within his notebook every night.
Consider providing a homework checklist to help with organization.
 Automated processes, the kind of rote memorization that allows for easy access to familiar activities, is often more challenging for someone with dyslexia. Poor memory recall is one of the hallmarks of the dyslexia. A better way of learning is to teach a person with dyslexia to rely on models that can provide a framework for effective learning.An example of such a framework is the rule “I before E except after C…” which can help a person who has dyslexia with spelling.
Other supports include providing acronyms for accessing organizational systems. For instance, SLUR might be taught as a way to remember “Socks, left (drawer), Underwear, right (drawer).”

, Studies suggest that people with dyslexia may find reading easier when using an e-reader rather than printed paper.E-readers limit the amount of text appearing on a single line, which prevents visual crowding on the page.


In particular, people who have dyslexia and who have issues with visual attention may benefit from the use of e-readers.
Some people who have dyslexia also prefer using certain fonts with e-readers.

