 If you are aiming for a toddler, pick any style with any (natural) colour, except for the one on the hat and hair accessories list, that shows longish girly hair tied up in lots of different parts. Even as it is tied up, tomboys would not normally wear it all girly like that. But if you are aiming for a child, either pick the hair on the hats and hair accessories menu that is tied up simply, or any short hair that you can find. Any naturally human hair colours can be used.;
, Editing the t shirts sure help a lot. Pick a t shirt, a long sleeve top or a hoodie, not a dress or whatever. Then, scroll down to the right-hand-bottom-corner where there is a paint pallet. Click on that. Once you are on that menu, click on the box that will say misc. on it, and click on the word that says 'themes' and scroll down until you find the designs near the bottom of the page. The race car design is probably the best for a tomboy, but you can pick any boys design that you want. If you have a child and you can't be bothered to edit anything, then go onto where the main designs are, and on the first line there are some unisex t shirts. You can pick any of these, and the line with the long sleeves too, if you want.
 When picking the pants I would recommend picking shorts, but it is up to you. But whatever you do, do not pick a skirt. I would say that the light-brown shorts on the child's menu are the best option, but you can pick any you like if they are not pink or purple. The same with toddlers, too.
 Edit a t shirt so that it looks boyish, I.e the blue skull design and chuck on a blue or white diaper if it is a toddler. If it is a child though, do the same thing with the shirt but because you can't put a child in a diaper (obviously) then pick a pair of blue or grey really short shorts on and you're done.
 Toddlers can't wear swimwear, but children can. Go onto the place where they keep the one-pieces, click on any one, then go onto edit mode. Turn it black, blue, red, or green. Then you should be done.
 Do the same sort of thing that you did for the everyday outfits, unless more formal.

