 Your partner is your equal and the person you are building your life with. However, your partner can’t meet all of your needs. Some of your needs and wants will need to be met in other ways and through other relationships.For example, your need for companionship may not be able to be only met by your partner. You may need to have this need met by family and friends as well.
 Being in a relationship means giving as much as you are getting. Because of this, your partner may have some wants and needs of their own that they need met. You should be open to meeting their needs as much as they are open to meeting yours.The two of you should work together to come up with ways to meet both of your needs, especially if your needs are different.
You may not understand your partner’s needs, but you should respect them. For example, you may not understand why your partner needs you to go home with them every few months. Your partner explains they need your support, so you respect their wants and go with them.
For example, you may say, "I am not going to give up my Wednesday night book club so you can join a Wednesday night intramural sports league. However, I will gladly watch the kids on another night of the week so you can join a Tuesday or Thursday night sports league."

, There may wants or needs that you or your partner needs that you may not be willing to meet in the way your partner wants. You may find yourself demanding something you want and not thinking about what your partner needs. If this is the case, you both should negotiate and compromise to come to an agreement you are both comfortable with.For example, you may need your partner to be more social and outgoing, but your partner is a shy, introverted person. You both compromise that your partner will go to social gatherings held in smaller groups. You can say, "Large groups make me uncomfortable, so I do not want to go to large parties or bars with you. However, if you want to get together with a few couples at someone's house, I would be willing to do that."

, As you and your partner work towards fulfilling each other's wants and needs, be open to communicating with each other. You should continue talking about your wants and needs.


Make sure that you let your partner know when they fulfill your wants and needs effectively. Letting your partner know that you appreciate their efforts and that they are doing what you need can help strengthen your relationship and make your partner feel good about themselves and their place in the relationship.
 Every so often, you and your partner should sit down to evaluate the progress of your relationship. Take the time to discuss if both of you feel that your needs and wants are being met. If there are additional things you'd like to discuss at this time, let your partner know.


During these talks, you should let your partner know when things are going well. Don't just make these progress talks about negative things. It is really important to give your partner positive reinforcement and let them know what they are doing right. Show your appreciation to your partner.

