 Because Zumba is a trademarked exercise program, you will have to be licensed through the Zumba Academy.;
, The first step in attaining your Zumba fitness instructor license is to enroll in one of the following courses:


Zumba Basic Steps Level 1: This course will teach you the foundation for teaching Zumba. You will learn the four basic dance elements: merengue, salsa, cumbia, and reggaeton, and how to apply the various dance moves you learn to the songs you choose for your class.
Jump Start Gold: This course will teach you how to teach Zumba to an older audience, and how to target the physical and psychological needs of your students.
 Once you have completed the training course, you will be granted a one-year license to teach Zumba. This license will have to be renewed over time if you want to continue teaching.
 Licenses to teach Zumba last for one year, and should be promptly renewed upon expiration if you want to continue teaching.
 Before you can teach Zumba, you will have to first master the style and choreography of the fitness program. If you haven't already, enroll in a Zumba class and attend at least 3-5 days per week.


Be sure that you can keep up with Zumba classes of all different levels before you consider teaching a class. You must be in excellent physical condition to teach this or any other exercise class.
Take Zumba classes at different studios and with different instructors. This will help you pick up on the various techniques, and choose what kind of teacher you want to be. Pay attention to which classes seem to attract the biggest group of students, and notice unique elements (whether it is the dance moves, music choice, or overall energy) that that particular instructor brings to the table.
 Remember that requirements for teaching Zumba may vary between different studios and/or gyms. Some studios will accept a Zumba licensing on its own, but others may require you to have a group fitness instructor license as well.


Contact the person who is in charge of group fitness instruction at the gym or studio that you plan on teaching at. Set up a meeting with this person, and find out what certifications you need (if any) other than the Zumba license.
 While this requirement may vary between gyms, it is a good idea to be CPR certified if you are teaching a fitness class in the case of an emergency.


Register for a CPR training course through the American Red Cross in your area. Be sure to properly renew your certification as needed.

