 This information will help you understand what you are seeing.

The San Andreas is a transform fault, meaning that it is the boundary between tectonic plates. It is the boundary between the Pacific Plate (to the west) and the North American plate (to the east). It runs for 810 miles, mostly north-south along the coast of California.
Land to the west of the fault is moving roughly north to northwest; land to the east is moving roughly south-southeast.
The fault is a strike-slip fault, meaning that the movement on either side is mostly horizontal and roughly parallel to the fault, as shown in figure C in the diagram.;
, Near Palo Alto, California, visit Sanborn County Park and explore the earthquake trail there. The San Andreas Rift Valley, one of the places you can hike through, is along the fault. Looking at a topographical map or satellite photo of this area shows the line of the fault clearly. The valley is formed by a mixture of geological characteristics (the weak spot where the earthquake fault is) and the erosion that has happened as water flows through the landscape.
 This USGS office is a research studies earthquakes, along with other earth sciences topics.
Check their website for seminars and lectures open to the public, for news on recent earthquakes (large and small) and for earthquake preparedness information.
Also check out their earthquake map to see recent earthquakes.
This image is an earthquake intensity map for a small (magnitude 3.4) quake that happened near Gilroy, California. It also shows faults in and around the area in red. The San Andreas is the one that passes offshore just south of San Francisco.
 Watch for the blue Vista Point signs and take the one just north of Edgewood Road. You will drive up into the hills and get a great view of (south to north) the Upper Crystal Springs Reservoir, the Lower Crystal Springs Reservoir, and the  San Andreas Lake. If you look at these bodies of water on a map or from the viewpoint, you'll see that they all line up. That's because they all lay along the fault.

There are hiking trails down along the Crystal Springs Reservoir, as well.
 You may have already explored this beautiful landscape, a short distance north of the Golden Gate. But did you know that the entire Point Reyes peninsula shifted north some 20 feet during the 1906 earthquake? To see the fault, look for water all in a straight line, separating the peninsula from the mainland, where Highway 1 runs along Tomales Bay.

Hike the short Earthquake Trail. Start at the Bear Valley Picnic Area (near the Bear Valley Visitor Center) and follow the signs for a short 1km (0.6 mile) loop.

