 You should seek medical help right away if you are in severe pain. If pain or tenderness in your shoulder area increases over time or persists, contact a doctor to get a formal diagnosis.Your doctor will perform a physical exam and x-rays to determine if you have an AC separation or if something else is causing your pain., You can apply an ice pack to your shoulder to soothe the pain and help relieve swelling. Wrap an ice pack (or a bag of frozen vegetables) in a clean, dry towel and place the pack on your shoulder for up to 20 minutes.Make sure that you give your skin a break after 20 minutes and allow it to return to normal temperature. Otherwise, you risk getting frostbite.
 Over-the-counter pain medications such as acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and aspirin can help to relieve pain from a separated AC.Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for dosage.


Ask your doctor if you are not sure about how much to take.
 Your shoulder may take a few weeks to heal. During this time, try not to do anything strenuous with your shoulder and rest it as much as possible. You may even need to wear a sling depending on the severity of your injury.Avoid moving your shoulder in any way that makes it feel worse. Try to keep it in a position that feels comfortable.
 Depending on the severity of your injury, you may need to do some physical therapy. A physical therapist can teach you exercises to strengthen and stretch your shoulder muscles as your AC separation heals.Do not attempt to do strength training or stretching exercises without your doctor’s permission. Also, make sure that the exercises you do are approved by your doctor. Some exercises might aggravate your injury.
 If your AC separation is severe or does not improve with time, then you may need to discuss surgical options with your doctor. A surgeon can fix the torn ligaments in your shoulder and reposition bones that moved out of place during the injury.Keep in mind that surgery is reserved for cases that do not heal with conservative therapy, have persistent pain or a severe deformity.. Most separated AC joints will heal on their own within a few days to 12 weeks.