


Look for pet friendly hotels if you will be bringing the family pet along. There are a number of resorts and spas that allow for pets to stay with your family for a fee.
Drive your RV or even rent one to make the trip to Palm Beach. There are award-winning RV parks within walking distance of the beach.
Go green with a green hotel. This is an ideal choice if your children suffer from allergies.
Immerse your family in the history of the area with a stay in a historic hotel.
Spoil your family in a luxurious resort hotel. All-inclusive packages are often available to provide your family with a comprehensive Palm Beach experience.
Rent a vacation home, condo, or apartment. With all the comforts of home, cooking your own meals can save a surprising amount of money.;
,, Roger Dean Stadium hosts both major and minor league games.



Pretend to be a pioneer, postal worker, or traditional grocer at the Boca Raton Children's Museum.
Touch a real meteorite, see the world from a bug's perspective, and relax in the planetarium at the South Florida Science Museum.
 Lion Country Safari, Busch Wildlife Sanctuary, and Palm Beach Zoo may bring out the animal in your most reserved child.
, (Only for older children.)

,


Take in a performance at one of the many live theaters. Offering hit Broadway musicals and plays, children's theater, and comedic performances, options abound.
Relax and listen to the sounds of live music at one of the outdoor concert venues

,,


Take a guided boat trip around the area and you may even see dolphins and manatees.
Tour the Everglades from an airboat. Prices range from $8 for children under age 6 to $44 for adults.
Hike one of the many trails in the area. The Florida National Scenic Trail crosses 30 miles (48 km) in the Palm Beach area, and a number of nature centers offer a wealth of information on what to look for, with more accessible trails.
 All that is needed is a GPS and the directed online coordinates to locate the "treasure" or "geocache." A GPS may be purchased at any electronic store or large discount store.

