 Although it sounds contradictory, those who stay active tend to preserve energy levels more so than those who try to stay off their feet completely in the days after chemotherapy treatments.While you should stay active, don’t push yourself too hard.


Instead of vigorous exercise, simply try to take one or two walks a day.Generally speaking, try keeping up the activities you enjoy, but try shorter, easier versions of them.Some forms of chemotherapy are particularly exhausting in the days after treatment. If this is the case for you, and it is too hard to even get out and walk or exercise, be forgiving of yourself and speak to your doctor for additional advice and guidance.
 Keep track from day to day, and you’ll likely notice a trend for when you feel most up to activity. Schedule your favorite or most important activities for this time period.Some people have a few "bad days" immediately following treatment, followed by "good days" before the next treatment begins. You can use these "good days" to be more productive and to get the things done that you need to do.
On your "bad days," it is important to give yourself permission to rest to allow your body to heal.
 Listen to your body. Don’t feel guilty for napping during the day if you need to. Try to keep naps to an hour or less and take them in a comfy chair rather than in your bed because this makes it easier to get up and resume your day., Depending on the type of cancer, anywhere from 30 to 75 percent of patients have reported insomnia as a symptom.Proper rest is more important than ever while your body and immune system battle both the cancer and the effects of the chemo. Consult your doctor who will be able to prescribe sleep medications as needed.Some of the best ways to fight insomnia include avoiding stimulants like caffeine in the evening and ensuring that your room is quiet, dark, and comfortably cool in temperature.
You can find more info on controlling insomnia at How to Prevent Insomnia.
 One of the most common side effects of chemotherapy is diminished red blood cell and white blood cell counts.Low red blood cell counts is called anemia. It leads to increased fatigue. Treatment includes iron and Vitamin B12 supplements, as well as the option of Epogen injections which are given by some physicians between chemotherapy cycles to boost your blood cells counts.
Address underlying anemia. Low levels of red blood cells can also cause fatigue. If you have anemia, you may be particularly susceptible to fatigue during chemotherapy treatments. Ask your doctor for help if you are experiencing very low energy levels.
White blood cells also drop during chemotherapy and this is called neutropenia. White blood cell are important for fighting infection; therefore, talk with your doctor throughout your chemotherapy treatments to monitor both your red and your white blood cells.
 Often, people going through chemotherapy develop anxiety which in turn leads to fatigue. To combat this feeling of anxiety, try some relaxation techniques. Activities like meditation, yoga, and different breathing exercises can help to calm you down and reduce your anxiety-induced fatigue.Join a support group to interact with people who are sharing your experience. Or, ask for a referral to see a psychologist who works specifically with patients with cancer.
If you’re specifically interested in yoga and the spiritual side of meditation, you can even try visiting a local Buddhist temple for more info—and for much cheaper than attending most yoga classes.
 While going through chemotherapy is stressful enough, you may have other stressful things you are dealing with as well. If you can, eliminate them from your life. Other stressful things and ways to combat them include::


Chores - you can have a friend or loved one help around the house. You can also schedule your activities to take advantage of your good days. For instance, prepare meals for the week on your day off and refrigerate or freeze them, so you don’t have to worry about cooking after work.
Work - ask your employer about the possibility of working from home for part of your day during the worst of your side effects. While you might not be able to take time off work, you may be able to split up your workload in a way helps you manage your fatigue.

