 You would want to get some backup with equipment, while having an extra eyewitness account(s) if anything supernatural occurs.;
, A 5 megapixel camera is a good one to have. The better the resolution you have, the more detail you'll be able to see in your images.
A good digital recorder is needed to record electronic voice phenomena (EVP). Digital recorders from such manufacturers as Olympus, SONY, and RCA range in price from about $30 into the hundreds of dollars. Again, get the best one you can afford because the higher the price, the better the quality as you'll want a model that can record high-quality sound.
Not everything in the ghost hunter's arsenal is high-tech or requires batteries. A simple pen and paper are just as important on any investigation. Keep notes about the readings of your other equipment, your experiences, and even your feelings.
Get a small but powerful flashlight, one that easily slips into a pocket. These days you can get a small 5- or 6-inch LED flashlight that emits a very good beam of light.
If some equipment, such as your camera, have rechargeable batteries, make sure they are fully charged before the ghost hunt. You might even consider getting extra batteries and charging them as well. Many ghost hunters have noted (and have been frustrated by the fact) that haunted places tend to drain batteries; even fresh batteries seem to go dead quickly.
Meters for detecting electromagnetic fields (EMF) are also popular with ghost hunters on the theory that the presence or movement of ghosts might disrupt or otherwise affect this field.
Paranormal investigators use thermal scanners to detect "cold spots" on the theory that the presence of ghosts drains the ambient air of energy or warmth.
You can try to detect a ghost's movement with a motion detector. These gadgets are often used for home security, but the ghost hunter can set them up to possibly detect the movement of something that the eye cannot see.
Always have a first aid on hand. You never know when these types of things could happen.
 Be sure to obtain permission before going onto private property or you could be guilty of trespassing.
 You may wish to take pictures, make recordings and take notes about anything unusual. Try to find out as much about wherever location you go to as possible because this will help identify anyone if a face, body, or both appears in a picture(s). Maybe it'll help to identify someone's voice even if caught on an EVP recorder.
 Some ghost hunters have unusual or rare encounters with these supernatural forces.

