 Baking soda functions as a natural bleaching and cleaning agent, which can help remove staining on your teeth. Start with 1/4 tsp of baking soda, mixing it with just enough water to form a paste (or mix with your regular toothpaste). Once a week, use baking soda paste to brush the surfaces of your teeth. After a few weeks, you should notice that your teeth have become whiter, and that stains have been reduced. You can use lemon juice, hydrogen peroxide solution, or white vinegar instead of water to make the baking soda paste. These liquids will enhance the cleaning and whitening power of the paste, but can also be unpleasant to taste. Use them with care and stop if there is any type of teeth sensitivity

, Many over-the-counter options are available. Whitening toothpastes and mouth rinses contain bleaching agents which will help loosen and remove staining substances from your teeth during brushing. Make sure to follow all instructions on the product's package, and expect to wait a few weeks before you notice any results.At-home tooth bleaching kits are also available. These kits use a bleaching agent such as carbamide peroxide to change the natural color of your teeth, making them whiter while removing food-related stains. These kits can be a hassle to use, adding time to your everyday oral health routine, but they are the strongest over-the-counter product available for whitening teeth and reducing stains.
 Acidic food and drink, and food and drink with strong colors, can stain teeth, especially if consumed regularly. If you're concerned about staining your teeth, you should avoid consuming food or drink which would cause a stain to a white cotton garment, as they will likely also stain teeth over time. When you do consume these things, you should do your best to keep them off your teeth as much as possible. Using a straw for staining beverages is a great way of doing this.Strongly-colored sauces, such as pasta or curry sauce, as well as brightly colored fruits such as many berries, are examples of foods which can lead to stained teeth if consumed too frequently.
Dark, acidic drinks such as coffee, tea, wine, fruit juice, or sports drinks can all cause tooth stains over time. Because they are liquids, they can seep into the spaces between teeth and cause even more staining than solid foods.
 Tooth stains are caused when food or drink penetrate the surface of your teeth and are allowed to stay there. Brushing and flossing regularly are essential for your overall oral health and hygiene, and are the first steps in preventing food matter from remaining on your teeth long enough to cause staining.


Brushing immediately following a meal is a good idea, but don't brush right away after eating an acidic food, or drinking an acidic drink, such as coffee or fruit juice. Acidic foods temporarily weaken your teeth's enamel and your toothbrush may remove it during brushing.
 It is difficult to avoid strongly colored food and drink, and indeed you may not wish to, since brightly colored fruits and vegetables can have health benefits. If and when you do consume such foods, simply rinse your mouth out with water immediately afterwards. This will help remove any staining food matter from your teeth before they can set in.Eating celery, an apple, pear or carrot after a meal will trigger the production of saliva in your mouth, helping to naturally wash away potentially staining food from your teeth. Chewing sugarless gum is another good option.
 Smoking tobacco can be extremely problematic for your health for many reasons, and can also lead to tooth stains. The tar in tobacco smoke can easily get into any grooves or holes in the surface of your teeth, leading to long-lasting, difficult to remove staining., Your dentist will be able to recommend and explain products and practices to fit your specific needs. Having your teeth regularly cleaned by dental professionals will also help remove any deep-set food particles which your daily brushing and flossing regime might fail to remove. For severe or hard-to-remove staining, your dentist may recommend professional teeth whitening.