 Preheat the oven to the directed temperature on the cake mix's package. Spray a cupcake tray with non-stick greasing spray or place paper liners in the cases.;
, Follow the cake mix's package instructions to make the cupcake batter. Combine the ingredients required and instructed on the package and stir it in with the cake mix. Blend with a whisk until properly combined and there are no flour streaks.
 Using a mini ice cream scoop, scoop the cupcake batter into the cupcake tray. Place the tray in the oven to bake until the cupcakes rise and the edges are lightly brown. It will usually take about 13-15 minutes, but check your cake mix's instructions for an exact amount.
 Once the cupcakes have fully baked, remove the cupcakes from the oven. Flip the cupcake tray and place the cupcakes on a wire rack to cool for about five minutes until cool enough to touch.
 Add each can of frosting in three separate bowls. Add ten drops of a different food coloring into the frosting and stir with a toothpick. Mix until the color vividly shows up into the frosting. Leave the white frosting alone and do not color it.
 Using a butter knife, spread white frosting over all the cupcakes. Slowly smooth out the frosting to lightly flatten it.
 Place an ice cream cone by the far end of the cupcake. Carefully press it down so the cone can stick to the cupcake. Repeat the process by adding one ice cream cone to all of the cupcakes.
 Using kitchen scissors, cut the licorice shoestring in 3 inch pieces. Slightly curve the licorice into a 'smile'. Place it on one the cupcakes as a 'mouth'. Do this to all the cupcakes.
 Place two M&Ms slightly near the top of the 'smile'. Press the M&Ms down firmly so it can stick to the frosting. Add two M&Ms each to all the cupcakes.
 Between the M&Ms and the licorice, add one cherry sour ball as the clown's 'nose'. Repeat by adding a cherry sour ball to all of the cupcakes.
 Using one of the colored frosting, spread frosting over the cone. Smooth the frosting out so the frosting can remain flat. Add M&Ms over the ice cream cone to decorate the 'hat'. Repeat process with all the cupcakes, using a different colored frosting for each cone.
 Cut the licorice shoestring into pieces and add it on the sides of the cone for the clown's 'hair'. Add the cut licorice on the edges of the cupcake to make the clown's 'costume'. Repeat with all the cupcakes.
