 Studies suggest that people with schizophrenia tend to have more unhealthy diets than non-schizophrenic people. Lack of exercise and smoking are also common among people with schizophrenia. Research suggests that a diet low in saturated fat, high in polyunsaturated fatty acids, and low in sugar might be beneficial also in alleviating the symptoms of schizophrenia.Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) is a protein that is active in the parts of the brain associated with learning, memory, and higher thinking. While the evidence is as yet unclear, a possible hypothesis is that a high-fat, high-sugar diet leads to exacerbation of symptoms in schizophrenia.
Unhealthy diets can lead to secondary medical problems, such as cancer, diabetes, or obesity.
Eat more probiotics. Probiotics contain beneficial bacteria which improve the quality of the gut. Many people seeking a health-conscious treatment for the symptoms of schizophrenia may want to include balanced diet which contains probiotics. Sauerkraut and miso soup are good sources of probiotics. Probiotics are sometimes added to foods and are available as a dietary supplement.Avoid products with casein. A small percentage of people with schizophrenia have negative reactions to casein, which is found in milk products., Smoking cigarettes is more common among people with schizophrenia than the average population. One study estimated that over 75% of adults diagnosed with schizophrenia also reported smoking cigarettes.Nicotine can lead to temporary improvement in thinking, which may be why many people with schizophrenia choose to smoke. However, this is a short-term improvement. It does not counterbalance the long-term negative consequences of smoking.
Most smokers started smoking before the psychotic features of schizophrenia appeared. Research is unclear on whether cigarette smoke may result in vulnerability to schizophrenia manifestation, or whether the higher rates of smoking are a side effect of antipsychotic medication.
 Gluten is the general name for the proteins found in most grains. Many people with schizophrenia also have gluten sensitivities. They may have a co-existing condition called Celiac Disease, which causes negative reactions to gluten.Celiac Disease is three times more common among people with schizophrenia. In general, people with gluten-sensitivities are more likely to experience mental health problems. This has resulted in a hypothetical connection between mental health concerns and gluten intake.
Research is inconclusive regarding positive benefits resulting from gluten-free diets.
 A ketogenic diet is high in fat and low in carbohydrates, while providing adequate protein. Originally used as a treatment for seizure disorders, the diet has been adapted for a variety of mental health concerns. In the ketogenic diet, the body begins to burn fat rather than sugar, avoiding the extra production of insulin.There is insufficient data to suggest that use of this diet eliminates symptoms of schizophrenia, but some people may wish to try this diet if their symptoms are otherwise resistant to treatment.
The ketogenic diet is also known as the Adkins diet, or the Paleo diet.
 Studies suggest that a diet high in Omega-3 fatty acids helps treat the symptoms of schizophrenia. Benefits from Omega-3 increase if your diet contains antioxidants. Antioxidants may play a role in the development of schizophrenic symptoms.Fish oil capsules are a good source for Omega-3. Eating cold-water fish such as salmon or cod raises Omega-3 levels as well. Other high Omega-3 foods include walnuts, avocados, flax seeds and other nuts.
Take 2-4 grams of Omega-3 per day.
Foods that are high in antioxidants, including vitamins E and C, and melatonin, have been suggested to help minimize the symptoms of schizophrenia.