 In the winter, your fruit tree is dormant (and therefore not producing any leaves or fruit). This makes it easier to target the areas you want to prune and promotes the best production possible.Most fruit trees are best pruned during winter.;
, Some fruit trees need to be pruned during the summer. Cherry trees and apricot trees, for instance, should be pruned in summer.Plus, summer pruning increases the speed of the tree’s branching, and redirects the tree’s energy into growing only the most desirable branches.Summer pruning, however, comes with certain risks. It could slow down the fruit’s ripening process and expose fruit to sunburn.Generally, untrained trees do not need summer pruning.
Summer pruning is appropriate for trees with visibly dead or damaged limbs, or leaves that are visibly sagging under the weight of excess fruit or leaves.
To determine if your tree needs summer pruning, consult a botanist. Botanists are specially trained experts who know a lot about plants. They can help you determine whether or not summer pruning is appropriate for your tree.
 After planting a new, young tree, trim the main trunk down to between 24 and 30 inches (61 and 76 centimeters) high. Trim any side growths down to no longer than two buds. This will equalize the tree’s top with its root system.If you’d like a taller tree that is good for sitting under in summer and fall, make this initial pruning cut at a higher point on the young tree., If you have a young tree that is not growing well, prune it heavily for its first three years. Heavy pruning during the first few years means a lower fruit yield at first, but in the long run your fruit trees will be strong and productive., If your young tree is growing well, allow it to continue doing so. Trim it irregularly or not at all.Irregular pruning does not have a universally constant definition. It refers instead to the practice of trimming the tree to a lesser extent than you would a normal, mature tree. You might trim it once each winter, or not at all.
There are some physical signs that your young fruit tree is ready for pruning. Look for healthy growth characterized by a strong framework of permanent branches. Absent this framework of branches, prune your young fruit tree more often.

