 Whatever stretches your coach has you do at the beginning of practice, do at home 1-2 times per day (splits, etc..) If you are a flyer, stretch your scorpion and heel stretch/bow and arrow. Over time, you will see a huge improvement!;
, Handstands, bridges, back handsprings, and back bends will help you with more difficult tumbling. It's true!


Learn how to fall the right way. Believe it or not, there is a right way of falling! If you're falling backwards, don't just freak out or twist; just do a safety roll, which is just almost doing a backwards roll, but not rolling and just stopping with your hands above your head. If you're falling forwards, tuck your chin in, extend your arms above your head, and roll.
 Remember to keep tight and squeeze your body the entire time. If you're sloppy, you can get hurt. A good way to improve your jumps is to practice the position of the jump you want to become better at when you're just sitting down watching TV or on the computer.


For further improvement, buy a pair of ankle weights (about 1 to 2 pounds each is good). While wearing them, do "leg lifts" - sit in a straddle, put your hands in front of you, and lift your right leg 10 times without letting it touch the ground in between each lift. Do the same with your left leg, and then with both legs at the same time. It's important that you keep your hands in front of you and don't let your legs touch the ground in between each lift. Do this every day and your jumps will be much better!







, Tumbling is extremely beneficial to an aspiring cheerleader. A couple of benefits of tumbling are learning how to have better tumbling passes, helping with jumps, and needed exercise.
 When cheering, your motions should be sharp, not wild and uncontrolled. Shoot your arm motions, and make sure your arms aren't sloppy. Squeeze your arms at all times.
 Being strong will help your tumbling, jumps, stunts, and everything else.


Practice makes permanent, so even when you practice, fix every possible mistake.
 If you're working on back handsprings, barrels will really help.

