 If you have access to a winch, it is the easiest way to pull a vehicle with a rope a short distance without using a second vehicle. Secure the winch to the frame of the vehicle using the supplied mounting hardware, then attach the rope on the other side to a solid, immovable object.Wrap the winch line around a tree that is at least a foot in diameter then hook it to itself.
You may also use rocks or guardrails to attach your vehicle.
Use the controls on the winch to pull the vehicle.
 If you do not have a winch, you may be able to pull a vehicle far enough to get it unstuck using a long rope and a group of friends. Secure the rope to the frame of the vehicle, then tie the other end to a strong tree.You will need at least twenty feet of rope between the vehicle and the tree.
Ensure the rope is taught between the two.
A bowline knot will support the weight required and still allow you to untie the rope when you are done.
 You may be able to pull a small vehicle out of whatever it is stuck in with only one or two friends, but larger vehicles will require more friends to assist. Gather a group of as many friends as you can before you start to ensure you are able to pull the vehicle.The more friends you gather, the easier it will be.
Ensure you have plenty of extra rope so there’s enough room for everyone to assist.
 With the rope taught between the car and the tree, tie a second rope around the midpoint between the two. If the rope is too close to the tree or the car, this method will not work.If you have enough rope, you can simply wrap it around the midpoint and use both ends to pull from.
If you do not have enough rope to wrap it around the midpoint, tie it to the other rope with a bowline knot.
 On the count of three, have all of your friends pull the rope you tied around the midpoint in the tow rope. Pulling in such a manner will dramatically increase the leverage you place on the vehicle and allow you to pull the vehicle a short distance.Pulling from this angle will allow you to pull a car you would not otherwise be able to pull.

