 It's recommended that you start drinking more water immediately, upon preparing for a drug test. Drink at least 78 ounces (about 10 cups) of water per day, up to one gallon (128 ounces).Other beverages are also good as diuretics, but water will help flush your system of everything that goes through your bladder, including THC metabolites.
Don't consume more than 128 ounces of water in a 24-hour period, or you can risk injury or even death from water intoxication., B vitamins will color your urine yellow, giving it the appearance of being less diluted than it really is. Despite reports to the contrary, there's no evidence that the same is true for Vitamin C.B-vitamins can be taken in tablet form, or ingested in nutritional yeast.
Don't take B-vitamin supplements if you're pregnant or breast-feeding.
 Diuretics promote urination, which flushes the system. Examples of diuretics include tea, coffee, and cranberry juice. Over-the-counter medications can also be used if your drug test will take place in less than one week.Be careful of taking diuretics if you're pregnant, or if you're diagnosed with diabetes, pancreatitis, lupus, gout, or kidney problems.Some medications may interact negatively with over-the-counter diuretics. Talk to your pharmacist for more information.
 Standard procedure is to first screen the samples with an immunoassay test (such as EMIT® or RIA®), then confirm positive results with the more accurate gas chromatograph mass spectrometer (GCMS). False positive results are increasingly rare if the lab follows professional guidelines.A variety of over-the-counter medicines can cause false positives for amphetamine and other illicit drugs on the EMIT test, but not on the GCMS.
If this is a random drug screening that occurs at your work place, talk to other people about what to expect. Ask your coworkers what the screening has been like in the past, and whether there are likely to be any changes. Is the testing company the same as it has been? Are they likely to use up-to-date screening techniques? All information can be helpful to you in preparing for your own drug test.
Try to avoid seeming overly anxious or nervous about the drug test. Be discreet about who you ask in order to avoid drawing attention.
 If you don't already include exercise in your daily routine, add it now. 30-45 minutes of light exercise every day will help increase the rate in which you burn fat cells and rid your body of THC and its metabolites.Good exercises include sit-ups, jumping rope, riding a bike, quick walking or light jogging. Anything that gets your heart rate up will speed your metabolism and help rid your body of drug residue.
Avoid exercise in the 48 hours prior to the drug test. At this point, you'll want your body to stop burning of excess THC. Instead, you'll try to get your body to reabsorb it.
 Starting 2 days before the test, start eating more fatty foods such as deep fried foods from any fast food chain. The goal of eating fatty foods at this point is to slow your metabolism. By slowing your metabolism, your body may reabsorb THC or other drug residue before it gets processed by the liver (and winds up in your urine).Further slow your metabolism by quitting exercise at the same time.
On the morning of the test, empty your bladder as completely as possible prior to taking your drug test. Eat a huge, fatty breakfast with plenty of liquids to wash it down. Some people suggest adding an Extra Strength 5-hour Energy Shot prior to taking the drug test. In addition to being a diuretic, this drink contains Vitamin B, which provides a good yellow color to your urine.

