 The endomorph, or hourglass, body type has difficulty losing weight, hips wider than the shoulders, and a pudgy appearance. People with this type of body might have an easier time gaining both muscle and fat., Circuit training consists of engaging in a wide variety of exercises each time you workout. Instead of only riding your bike, for instance, you might ride your bike, then lift weights, then go for a run., Multi-joint workouts are those that engage multiple parts of the body at the same time. For instance, when swimming, you kick your legs, turn your head, and move your arms in sequence. Swim and/or engage in other multi-joint workouts – like deadlifts, squats, step-ups, lunges, and leg presses – on a regular basis., When lifting weights, do 12-15 repetitions and two to four sets. Rest for 30 seconds between each set. Incorporate weight training into your workout at least 2-3 times weekly., Get 20-45 minutes of cardio each time you include it in your workout. On days when cardio comprises a larger portion of your daily workout, perform your cardio routine at about 50% to 70% of your maximum intensity. On days when your cardio comprises a smaller portion of your daily workout, perform your cardio routine at about 70% to 80% of your maximum intensity., To perform a lateral step-up squat press, hold a pair of dumbbells and stand to the left of a step. Place your right foot on the center of the step. Lower yourself into a squat by pushing your chest out, keeping your head up, and bending at the knees until your left leg is at an angle of approximately 135 degrees.Next, push up with your right leg and place your left foot next to your right on the step. Push your arms straight up over your head.
Step off the step to the right side and repeat, going in the opposite direction.
Perform three sets of 10 reps.
 Rear lunge row taps are exercises in which you hold a pair of dumbbells and stand before a step. Place your right foot in the center of the step. Lower yourself so that your right leg achieves an angle of about 80 degrees. Your left foot should remain behind you with only your toes on the ground.Reach down with the weights as if you’re trying to place them beside your right foot.
Pull your left foot forward and place it beside your right foot. At the same time, pull your hands up toward your chest. Holding the dumbbells in a vertical position, bring them parallel with your ribs.
Step off the step and start again, leading with your left foot this time.
Perform three sets of 10 repetitions.
 A decline pushup is like a regular pushup, except you start with your feet raised. Place your toes on a step and put your hands shoulder-width apart on the ground. Keep your toes pointed straight toward the ground. Push up off the ground with your hands. Lower yourself to a point where your elbows form 90-degree angles.Repeat three sets of 15 pushups.
 Sit at a low-pulley cable station. Place your feet on the platform. Grab the machine’s handle with both hands using an overhand grip. Keeping your back stiff and straight, bring the cable attachment toward your waist. When you touch your waist, extend your arms slowly until they are straight.Repeat six to 10 repetitions of this exercise.