


Setting a budget before you buy can keep you from spending lavishly and it is a realistic factor that can determine whether you can afford the diamond stud earrings or not. Although it is advisable to buy within your price range, do not rush into buying a cheaply made diamond bracelet just to spare a few dollars. Everyone knows how expensive the diamond is, so a cheap diamond bracelet can be a fake one and can’t last for a long time. So be realistic. Only you know what you can comfortably afford, but once you’ve worked it out, it’s time to get best value for money.;
, The first thing you need to know before you buy the earrings is to know how to choose the diamond. There are four points you need to keep in mind. They are the four Cs of cut, carat, clarity, and color.


Cut may be the most elusive “C” to understand. A good cut predisposes the amount of light that can enter into the stone, refract and emit that brilliant quality that people love in a diamond. Most stud earrings, except for those custom-made ones, stick to a few basic shapes. They are round, princess, and heart shapes. Square, princess-cut diamonds may use a mix of step and brilliant styles. Brilliant-cut diamonds sparkle with fire thanks to the precise placement of 57 or 58 angled facets over the upper crown of the diamond and the lower pavilion area. The step style on a princess-cut diamond creates straight facets over the crown while the pavilion is cut in the brilliant style; this allows the fire to shine up through the stone. Buyers can also find beautiful preset pear, emerald, and oval-shaped earrings, and jewelers are happy to create custom orders in these and other shapes as well. The Gemological Institute of America (GIA) issues ratings for facet symmetry and for surface appearance, or polish, in round, brilliant-cut diamonds as follows: Excellent (EX), Very Good (VG), Good (G), Fair (F), and Poor (P).
Carat refers to the weight, but remember that bigger is not always better. It all depends on the blend of the other diamond characteristics. One metric carat (ct) weighs 0.20 grams, but carats are more commonly measured in relation to 100 points; for instance, a half carat is 0.50 ct or 50 points. However, the carat weight doesn't necessarily refer to size. While carat weights do have estimated sizes, two different diamond cuts of equal weight may look very different in their settings. The number of carats in earrings typically represents the total weight. If there are small, accent diamonds that enhance a larger one, those small stones are also part of the total. Small earrings of 0.50 ct or less make nice everyday earrings, and up to 1.00 ct can also suit somewhat casual wear. For formal wear, up to around 2.00 ct is a good guide for stud earrings. Too large, and the earrings could drag or flop over; drop or pendant earrings would feature larger stones better.
With regard to clarity, the important thing to bear in mind is that the less flaws visible to the naked eye, the more expensive the stone is . Clarity refers to the presence or absence of inclusions or blemishes, which are small flaws within the diamond or on the surface. These flaws can interrupt the play of light through a stone, or, if large enough, they can visibly mar the appearance. In stud earrings, the presence of small flaws may be acceptable because they are not generally visible to the naked eye. Accepting them can lower the budget or allow buyers to increase the quality of other characteristics.
The absence of color is usually the goal with white diamonds. The GIA rates stones with a letter grade from D, which is completely colorless, through Z, which is light yellow or brown. Most commercial diamonds are in the D through J category, which is considered colorless to near colorless. Unlike many inclusions and blemishes, color is at least somewhat visible to the naked eye. Stones around the H and I grades would be good for stud earrings; a J grade could work as well. Color is more visible in larger stones, and comparing different color grades side by side can show the difference. However, in a pair of moderately sized earrings, the very slight yellow of a J grade may not even be noticeable.



The size of the diamonds you choose will ultimately be decided by a number of different factors, one of which is your own personal style. A smaller diamond can more easily be paired with daytime outfits, while large diamonds usually only look appropriate with dressier apparel and evening wear. Carat is the weight measurement of a gemstone, and the jewelry industry lists the size of a diamond by its carat weight. Be aware that the total carat weight (TDW) for a pair of earrings includes all the diamonds in the jewelry.



The earrings 'setting' refers to the metal base that holds the stone. Yellow and white gold are the most popular metal settings for diamond earrings. Platinum is the strongest for holding stones, but it's much heavier, which could become noticeable with larger stones. Stud earrings typically have a basket setting with between three and six prongs holding a stone in place. The number of prongs generally relates to the size of a stone; six prongs would overwhelm a small stone while three might not be secure enough for a larger one. The cut of the stone also plays a part: A princess-cut stone has one prong at each of its four corners. A bezel setting is another choice for stud earrings. Metal surrounds the diamond with this setting, leaving just the crown facets visible.

