 You don’t absolutely need a concrete reason to self-hypnotize. You might just want to try it and see how it affects you. However, if you do have a reason, it might help you attain what you’re looking for. For example, you might want to de-stress,clear your mind, or improve your focus.


Self-hypnosis is also understood as a viable treatment for what is known as “state anxiety,” anxiety prior to tests, surgery, or other medical procedures, for example.Hypnosis can be useful if you have depression or even less severe, depression-related conditions such as insomnia and excessive rumination.;
, You might not even think of hypnosis as a physical therapy, but it is known to help with a number of ailments. Additionally, it can reduce anxiety before a medical procedure.


According to research in the Expert Review of Neuropathics, self-hypnosis can relieve stress associated with medical and dental procedures.These include migraines, tension headaches, and irritable bowel syndrome.
Hypnosis can also help lower blood pressure, control asthma attacks, and minimize the side effects of chemotherapy., This might depend on your schedule, of course. So, you may need to set an alarm. Hypnosis sessions with a therapist can last an hour or longer. You should self-hypnotize for a shorter period: 10, 20, or 30 minutes at a time.
 This might involve loosening your clothes, removing glasses or contacts, and taking off your shoes.Make sure the temperature in the room is comfortable as well and that there aren’t any distracting noises.
 If you sit back in a recliner or lie down, you may fall asleep, which is okay but something to be aware of. Technically, hypnosis is a wakeful trance state, but falling asleep could simply mean that your relaxation is working.
 Make sure you’re in a location where you feel comfortable closing your eyes. When you’re eyes are closed, you’ll have fewer visual distractions and can self-hypnotize better.
 Breathe deeply from your diaphragm. When you exhale, imagine exhaling all your tension. Staying conscious of your breathing can help you avoid other distracting thoughts, while being a comfort and a release in itself.
 Let all thoughts be pushed away for a minute or so. If you find thoughts coming back, don’t panic. Just re-center yourself and continue trying to rid your mind of thoughts. Soon you’ll be replacing your thoughts with numbers and affirmations.
 If it helps you relax, you can listen to instrumental music. Try other soothing sounds as well, such as white noise or forest, jungle, or ocean sounds. Just try to avoid music with words since you are trying to clear your mind of thoughts. Alternatively, you might consider using any one of a number of the albums devoted specifically to self-hypnosis., Use your inner voice to begin counting. Open your eyes on each count and close them back again. With each count, imagine that it’s almost a chore for you to open your eyes. Your eyelids should become heavier and lazier each time you open them. You may continue counting anywhere from 1 to 10, 1 to 20, or more.
 By this time you will be feeling pleasantly relaxed. Soothing relaxation will be floating all around your body. Just focus on it and enjoy it for few seconds.
 Imagine numbers in front of you from 200, going backwards: 200, 199, 198, and so on. After each number say the words "deeper relaxed." Continue doing so until you forget about the number and slip into an even deeper relaxed state.
 Following counting, or as an alternative to counting, you can use affirmations. These are positive words or phrases you repeat as a way of reprogramming your subconscious.Focus closely on the affirmations along with your breathing. Though you’re consciously focusing on the affirmation, your autohypnotic state is meant to affirm your affirmation on a subconscious level.


Use a specific affirmation that will resonate with your life and goals. Affirmations might be “I am healthy and powerful” or “I am enjoying my life.”They could also be specific to a certain area you’re trying to improve. For example, you might affirm: “My body is my ideal shape and size” or “I feel energetic and healthy.”

, You should repeat your chosen affirmation at least 10-20 times. Repetition allows the affirmation to sink in and work on your subconscious.
 The duration of self-hypnosis varies and tends to depend on the person. It’s different from guided hypnosis, wherein your therapist might have more of a concrete time limit. That said, you should ordinarily stay in self-hypnosis about 25 minutes.In guided hypnosis with a therapist, you might stay in hypnosis for an hour or more, but self-hypnosis is usually shorter. If you can remain in self-hypnosis longer than 25 minutes, that’s great, but you probably don’t want to exceed an hour.
For practical purposes, many people prefer to budget smaller amounts of time more frequently for autohypnosis, rather than longer periods sporadically., To some, an alarm can be too jarring of a way to emerge from a trance state. If this is a possibility, you might consider a quiet alarm, one that gradually rises in volume, or an alarm of that plays music you like.
 Even if your initial release from hypnosis is sudden (i.e. from an alarm clock), give yourself time to gradually emerge from your hypnotic state. Stay seated or lying for a couple extra minutes. Stretch lightly, and move your limbs around to boost circulation.
 Try to avoid strenuous activity immediately after coming out of self-hypnosis. This will help your body and mind gradually come out of the trance state, instead of abruptly jolting out of it.

