 Most people who are clumsy are not too aware of their surroundings. When you get up and start walking, look around and see if there is anything that you will step on, walk into, or run into.
 It’s easy to trip over things if you have stuff all over the floor. Decluttering your house and office will help eliminate opportunities for clumsiness.


If your home doesn’t have clear, open walkways throughout the house, you may also want to arrange your furniture differently. This can help keep you from bumping into things or tripping over them.
Using double-sided tape to secure the edges of throw rugs can help keep you from tripping over them., If you have balance issues, wearing shoes with high heels or narrow soles can disrupt your center of gravity and make you more likely to have an accident. Look for shoes with wide, firm soles that give you a solid foundation on the floor. If you must wear heels, look for chunky heels that will provide more stability., You are more distracted when you’re stressed or anxious, and this can lead to accidents and clumsiness. Take what steps you can to reduce stress in your daily life, and you may see your clumsiness improve too.Mindfulness training, which helps you learn to focus your attention on your actions in the moment, can not only reduce stress, it can also help with the “cognitive failures” that can cause clumsiness.
Try to get enough sleep. Research shows that sleep deficiency can cause a host of physical symptoms, including clumsiness and proneness to accidents., Clumsiness can cause a spiral of embarrassment and self-judgment, which in turn can increase anxiety and cause more clumsiness. Understand that everyone has the occasional klutz moment, and that even chronic clumsiness doesn’t mean anything is wrong with you.If you find yourself feeling embarrassed after a trip or a slip, try taking a few deep breaths. Deep, controlled breaths can enhance your sense of calm and self-collectedness, and can stop the cycle of self-blame in its tracks.

