 Pour a teaspoon of vegetable oil into a clean frying pan and heat it on medium heat. Popular vegetable oils for frying include soy, coconut, or canola. Avoid olive, peanut, or sesame oil for pancakes, as these oils have very strong flavors.


Oil is optional for cooking pancakes, especially if you are using a non-stick pan.;
, Whisk together the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl., Pour in the milk and oil. Whisk the mixture until the ingredients are incorporated, but don't worry about a few lumps. Overmixing can actually make your pancakes chewy when you want them fluffy.This basic pancake batter is ready to cook now, but it can also be spruced up! According to your taste, you can also add things like:


Fresh fruit, such as blueberries and banana chunks
Dried fruit, such as raisins and cranberries
Chocolate chips
Nuts and seeds

, Pour a small amount of batter into the center of the frying pan. For larger pancakes, use about one-third to one-half cup of batter per pancake. For smaller pancakes, use one-eighth to a quarter-cup of batter. For small, silver dollar pancakes, use one tablespoon of batter per pancake.
 When the center of your pancake batter is full of bubbles that are starting to burst, the pancake is ready to flip. Continue cooking on the other side for one to two minutes, until it’s golden brown.


To keep your pancakes warm, keep them in a warming drawer, cover them with foil, or place them on a baking sheet and kept warm in an oven on its lowest heat.
 Repeat this process until all the batter is gone and the pancakes are all cooked. Add a splash of oil before adding new batter.
 On a medium or large plate, stack three large pancakes (or four smaller ones) on top of each other. You can also make two stacks of three silver dollar pancakes.


To add toppings between each layer of pancakes, simply top your first pancake according to your preference before stacking another one on it and topping it.
Pancakes can be served and eaten one at a time instead of as a stack.
 A popular way of eating pancakes is by spreading butter on the top pancake and then pouring syrup all over the stack. Instead of butter you can also use coconut oil, margarine, or nut butter. Some of the most common syrups to use are maple, corn, or pancake syrup. You can also use honey, agave nectar, or rice syrups.


You can also add your favorite toppings between the layers of pancakes if you like.
 Pouring syrup all over the entire stack of pancakes can result in soggy pancakes. Some people don't mind the texture, but if it bothers you, fill a small bowl with syrup instead of drizzling it all over your pancakes.


When you are ready to eat, use your fork to dip individual bites of pancake into the syrup.
If there are several people eating, make sure everyone gets an individual bowl of syrup.
 There are many things you can put on your pancakes if you choose. Many people like fruit on their pancakes, in the form of fresh fruit, compote, or jam. You can also add nuts, seeds, or dried fruit for some added nutritional benefits. And then there are the sweet toppings like whipped cream, chocolate chips, and chocolate syrup. Pancakes are a very personal thing, and everyone likes them prepared differently!

, Because your pancakes are stacked and every bite will include several layers of pancake, you want to cut them up into small pieces. Starting at the edge of your pancakes, pierce the layers of pancakes with your fork and hold the stack in place. Use a knife to cut through the layers of pancakes surrounding your fork and cut off a bite.


If you are dipping your pancakes into syrup, dip each forkful into the syrup and let the excess drain off over the bowl.
 When you’ve cut off a small bite, use your fork to lift your pancakes. Hold the forkful over your plate for a moment to allow excess syrup or toppings to fall back onto your plate. Once you've got the pancakes in your mouth and the fork's out of the way, be sure to chew thoroughly before swallowing.


Chew soft foods about 10 times before swallowing, and harder foods (like nuts) up to 30 times.To keep your pancakes in their stacked form, only cut off one bite at a time.
Use a napkin to wipe away any food or syrup from around your mouth.
 For stuffing and rolling pancakes, you’ll need a larger, thinner pancake that’s more like a French crepe. Thin out the batter by adding an extra quarter-cup to half-cup of water so the batter runs easily. Pour one-third to one-half cup of batter (per pancake) into the hot frying pan. Cook as before.


For a sweeter, dessert-style crepe, add about two tablespoons (30 grams) of sugar to the batter., Stuffed pancakes can be made sweet or savory, and make a great breakfast or dinner food. Sweet pancakes can be stuffed with fruit (popular choices are banana, strawberry, and blueberry), whipped cream, nut butters, chocolate or caramel sauce, or any other toppings you’d put on regular pancakes. For savory pancakes, try stuffing them with:


Cooked meat or tofu
Sautéed vegetables, such as mushrooms, onions, and asparagus
Cheese
Cooked potato filling

, Lay a single pancake on a plate. Take one-quarter to one-half cup of stuffing and spread it out in a line in the center of the pancake. Use your hands to roll one side of the pancake over to envelop the stuffing. Tuck the stuffing into the pancake pocket you created when you rolled it over, and continue rolling up the rest of the pancake.
 Place the pancake on the serving plate with the seam underneath (against the plate). Top your pancake with the desired toppings. For sweet pancakes, use butter, syrup, or any other topping you’d put on regular pancakes. For savory pancakes, try toppings like:


Gravy
Grated cheese
Hollandaise sauce
Hot sauce or barbeque sauce

, Start at one end and cut off a single bite at a time. Use your napkin to clean up any excess food around your mouth as you eat.

