 Pieces written using tablature are operationally based, meaning that music is notated with reference to the physical location of the note on the fretboard. Pieces are transcribed with 1 bar for each string on a given instrument (e.g. a piece for a six string instrument has six lines.) The highest bar denotes the bottom string (the thinnest and highest sounding one), and the lowest being the top string (the thickest and lowest sounding one). Columns denote measures, sort of like a traditional music bar.


Each bar will have numbers and a letter at the beginning.;
, The numbers represent notes and the letter tells the tuning of a particular string. So when you see a 1 on a string line, that means you play that string while pressing the first fret. If you see a 0, that simply means play the string without pressing a fret.
 You may run across numbers on multiple string lines all on top of each other. This means you will play each string while pressing each indicated fret at the same time, making a chord.
 The space between notes judges the length of each one. The closer the space, the faster the next note is. In some cases, tablature will have letters at the top of the table with a letter indicating the note length as in standard notation. For example, an "e" is an eighth note and a q is a quarter note.
 If you see an X on a string, that indicates a muted note (not pressing a fret, but placing a hand or finger lightly on the string to where it is just a sort of clicking sound).


If there is a "p" or an "h" in between notes, that indicates a pull-off or a hammer-on, respectively. A pull off is when you press 2 frets on the same string and remove the finger from the higher one to change the note to the lower one. A hammer-on is the opposite; playing a fret and then pressing a higher one on the same string, changing the note.
If there is a "\" or a "/" between notes, that means to slide from the first note to the next one. The direction of the slash indicates if it is a slide up or down the neck.
A "b" after a note means to bend the string on that note, changing the pitch.
You also may see "s" "p" or "t" at the top of the tab, this means to slap, pop, or tap the note directly below it.
 When writing tab for an actual song, set a standard key signature (e.g., 4/4, 3/4, etc.) and a tempo, like in traditional music notation.
 Some tabs incorporate additional notation into a piece, which must be explained with an accompanying key.

