 Go ahead and plan ahead by creating an artistic invitation to have kids over. If you do not have a flair in creativity no need to worry. Google has made life easier with online customization to invitations, print them and you are good to go.


Coordinate the card with your theme and you can signify a color code so that they are prepared for the treat.;
, This reduces your job as a parent to finalize one as they are headstrong about their choice which seems to be a boon in disguise.  Girl and boy have gender specific choices, and when this is done the color scheme is all set in place.


Be it theme, flowers, balloons, decorations all can together fall in place. Age appropriate theme parties are a must as then the kids will enjoy and his friends will remember the party for a longer time to come. A Princess party, bowling party, Superman party all are just some of the popular themes among the kids. As the age progresses they are more comfortable with Halloween party and slumber parties and celebrating birthdays becomes a pass. Now is the time to cherish and make it memorable for them.
 Hosting a party is one thing and if it is not executed in the right manner, all the preparations will fall flat. Never impulse buy when it comes to party essentials, always buy in bulk and so that you have in spare and do not have to rush to the market in the middle of party.


Be a bargain hunter and go shopping in one dollar stores, things you see may amaze you. Buy paper plates, glasses, decorative balloons all to fit perfectly with the theme. Bear in mind the return gifts, all the kids love to take back some goodie bags back with them.
 Host has to bear in mind that food served is easily accessible and most importantly appeases their taste buds. Kids are very fussy about food but in a birthday celebration you have to plan in such a way that they like what you serve.



Finger Food Options: Younger ones can be choosy but a menu that has finger-licking food will make it a hit. Finger foods such as chicken nuggets, potato fries, healthy sandwiches, muffins, small sized pizzas are some of the most liked appetizers. Search the internet and you will find a zillion recipes that will help you to make a batch ahead and save time and effort.

Beverages: If it is summer then opting for cool lemonades will make it major hit in the crowd. A zing of lemon and mint added to water is refreshing on a hot day. Juices such as Orange and Ice tea are always popular among the teens as well.

Cake: Order the cake prior ahead so that you do not get delayed on the final day. If you have time bake your own cake only if you really are aware of the baking nuances one should venture into this area on the own.
 While planning, incorporate all the things which are at home which you can reinvent and use in the party.



Drapes: Be creative in your approach and when the theme is finalized of say Winnie the Pooh you can go for yellow or red drapes and color coordinate it. Buy plain cups and stick stickers so they go well with the theme in hand.

Glow Objects: Be budget friendly as remember as a parent one has to be frugal yet make their kid feel top of the world. Glow objects are a major attraction in night parties they add a flair to the whole event.

Balloons: Colorful balloons and helium ones are a great attraction to any fun party.

Flowers: you can color coordinate the theme with the choice of colors for the entire festive method.
 The above checklist will narrow down your options in a well organized party. As a host you can be arrest assured to have a fun time in the event when you plan ahead with the party. When priorities are set at the startup the final event will end well with the guests leaving on a happy note.

