 Before you get your mobile valued or attempt to list it or show it to anyone, spend a good amount of time cleaning it thoroughly, from top to bottom. Remove unwanted clutter by finding an off-site storage location, such as a storage locker, or with other family if you need to. A clean home will sell much faster than one that looks like it needs care.


Put yourself in the perspective of a potential buyer. It's important to vacuum up any pet hair and deodorize the carpet, making the mobile home the most welcoming and clean version of itself. Your windows, your bathrooms and your kitchen should be spotless if you hope to sell it for a good price.;
, Pay particular attention to leveling issues, plumbing problems, and any other fixable features that will make someone think twice about buying your mobile home. Even though it's unfortunate to have to spend money fixing up something you're not going to live in anymore, you'll be raising the potential asking price of the mobile home by investing in it now.Taking sneaky hide-the-leaky-fixture pictures may seem like a good idea to get around making repairs, but anyone that hires an inspector before making a purchase will find them, and ask you to fix them anyway. Sell your mobile home the right way and take care of issues that need to be addressed.
 Before you list the mobile home, you need to find out how much it's worth and how much you still owe on it, if any. Determine your asking price by consulting with your lending institution to find out what you still owe on your loan for the home and/or the property.


One of the easiest ways to get a quote on the value is to hire an inspector to assess the property. Property inspection is a likely step a potential buyer would take, so furnishing your own results is a good way to stay ahead of the game and even convince buyers not to do it, helping your negotiating standing.
Home valuation reports are also available quickly and cheaply online. You might consider checking out mobilehome.net, accessed here.
 If it is appropriate and OK with the place where your mobile home resides, place your sale sign in the yard or a front window.


If your mobile home is located in a mobile home or RV community, you need to let the management know as soon as possible that you're planning on selling the vehicle, and determine whether or not a potential buyer wishes to live in the same mobile home park. In most parks, the buyer will need to submit a written application and be accepted if they wish to keep the mobile home in the park.