 Then use upgrades for the 2nd group of days, then back for the original way; think of other upgrades. It can be used for muscle activity change-ups, confusing your actions, and getting smarter muscles! Another change is to increase time on each activity

, Get your metabolism kicked up but do a little less at first. If you seem to get too worked up or sweaty for the no change, no shower, then lower the time.


Later on, after you become more advanced, maybe you will increase the time and the difficulty and sweat a little.
 It requires no special clothes or equipment, and you're done in about 20 to 30 minutes. Here's a breakdown on each step:

, Wear comfortable shoes, but nothing special. Get your entire system pumping and blood rushing, but not to much. (Upgrades: speed walk, or jog, or jog in place)

, (Upgrade: wear heavy boots or use ankle weights.)

, Keep your back straight, place your palms on the wall, slowly lean in and count to three, push back, count to three. (Upgrade: slightly farther from the wall, feet spaced wider, or closer.)

, Stand with the chair securely behind you, perhaps against a desk so it will not roll-out from under you, feet shoulder-width apart. Have arms straight out in front of yourself. Slowly lower yourself into a seated position, sit for a count of three, then stand up slowly. Repeat. (Upgrade: Rise onto tiptoes for a variation!)

, Bend and turn at the waist while reaching one hand toward the opposite foot and the other toward the ceiling. Return to your standing position -- alternate from side to side; repeat. (Upgrade: Mix squat chair with touch toe; so sit, rise then touch toe; then repeat...)

, This sub-section is based on the 90 day "muscle confusion" workout exercises without using any special equipment except, perhaps, a pull-up bar that can be hung in a doorway with change-ups of routines (for building your own system).;
, The change-ups will be more demanding, when you demand more of yourself.
~ For the first few days of pull-ups or push-ups, do a few comfortable reps. Later go for less and less comfort and more gain, however it may work for you.
~ The "upgrades and change-ups" section of the article is not part of the easier: Good Housekeeping system.

