 This will not work with an iPod, but it should for most other Mp3 players. Click Start, and type the word Media into the search box. When Windows Media Player appears in the results, click it to open.
 If you don’t already use Media Player, you’ll need to add your music files to the library.


Click “Organize, then “Manage Libraries.” Select “Music.” In the Music Libraries Locations dialog, select the folder where your music is stored and click “Include Folder” to add it to Media Player.
If you don’t know where your music is stored, you can search your computer by pressing ⊞ Win+F to open Windows Search. Type *.mp3 in the search box and press ↵ Enter. When the files are returned, right-click on one and choose “Properties.” The full path to the file will appear next to Location.
 Using the USB cable that came with your device, plug your device into your computer. If it’s your first time doing this, your computer should begin to install drivers automatically. If your Mp3 player came with a CD or instructions on how to install drivers, follow the instructions specific to your player’s manufacturer.
 If this is your first time connecting your Mp3 player with Windows Media Player open, it will sync your device based on the method it believes works best with your device. Automatic Sync will be selected if your Mp3 player has more than 4GB of storage and everything in your library can fit on the device. Note that if you stay with Automatic Sync, your device will be automatically synced with your Windows Media Player library every time you plug in your device.
Manual Sync will be selected if your player has less than 4GB of storage and not all of your music will fit.
To switch from Automatic Sync to Manual (or vice versa)

Click the “Switch to Library” button in the upper right corner of Media Player. Click the Sync tab, then the “Sync Options button” (the one with the checkmark).
Click “Set up Sync” and look for the Device Setup area. Remove the check next to “Sync this device automatically” if you prefer to sync manually, or add a check if you want the process to be automatic.
 Your Mp3 player shows up at the top of this tab, likely called something like “My Media Device.” Select and drag the desired music files to your Mp3 player.


If you chose to sync automatically, you don’t have to complete this step—your files are already syncing.
 You can do this by clicking on your USB device in the system tray (the lower right hand corner of your screen, near the clock) and selecting “Safely eject hardware.”

, This should happen automatically once you’ve disconnected it from the computer. If the files don’t show up in your Music menu, restart the device to initiate the scan.

