 When you form a friendship with him, it is okay to create reasons to get together. The more time you spend with him, the better. He may not be interested in you yet, but you should take this time to comfortably show him your personality and truly get to know him.;
, This part is very important and only possible if you’re friends with him. Mention his crush in a conversation and see what he says. Don’t settle for answers about how physically attractive she is. There must be more to her that he is attracted to you and you have to find out what those traits are.
 Don’t speak poorly of her. You may think that this will make her look bad, but you’ll be the one looking bad in the end. If you speak poorly of her, he’ll think you’re a negative person. Plus, guys love a supportive girl. If you’re bashing his opinions, you’re only hurting yourself.
 While you don’t want to speak poorly of his current crush, you can start to get his mind out of that relationship by talking him up. Tell him that he’s the full package and that he deserves the best. Tell him not to settle and that he should go after someone that he is friends with because the relationship will be stronger if that connection is already existent.
 While you’re still in the “friend zone,” it is a great time to show him your playful side. Guys like a girl that laughs at his jokes. They are intrigued by girls that aren’t always serious about everything.
 While being his friend, you should have learned his likes and dislikes—about girls and in general. Use these things to your advantage. Show him that the two of you have similar interests in hobbies or activities. Also, show him that you have the personality traits that he is attracted to.
 Don’t lose the friendship that you have created. This shows him that you appreciate him as a person. When he realizes that you are attracted to him, it will help create the image of you as “the whole package.” Men want to be with someone that they are friends with and are attracted to.
 While you want to adopt the personality traits that he’s attracted to, you don’t want to completely change who you are. Find a way to merge the traits that he likes with your own. This way, the relationship has a chance long-term.
 When he first told you what he was attracted to in his crush, he probably mentioned a specific look that he liked. Try to mimic it. If he said that he liked a certain part of her body, try to accentuate yours through your outfit. Guys are undoubtedly attracted by looks, so make yourself appealing to him., Make your conversations flirty. Lean into him more when the two of you talk, keep laughing at his jokes, and create a physical connection. You can touch his shoulder when you’re laughing, take his hand to lead him somewhere, or run your hand through his hair and comment on how nice it is.
 He will love your compliments because he’ll trust you, as a friend, that they are genuine. Also, it will show him that you notice his physical appearance. When you compliment him, he may feel the need to give one back, which gets him looking at you.

