 Start by organizing your data so it is divided into categories, with the applicable data noted for each category. You can do this by drawing out a simple table and entering in data by hand.For example, maybe you took a survey of your friends to find out which animals are the most popular pets in your friend group. You may have the following four categories in your table: Rabbits, Cats, Dogs, Birds. Then, you may enter the following data underneath each category: Rabbits, 4, Cats, 6, Dogs, 8, Birds, 2.
Add up the values to get a total number of participants. In this case, it is 4+6+8+2 = 20.
 The percentages are essential to creating the pie chart, as this will help you determine how big of a slice each category is going to take in the pie. To determine the percentages, you will need to divide each value by the total amount of participants and then multiply this value by 100.For example, if 4 people say they like rabbits, then you would divide 4 by 20 to get 0.2. Then, multiply 0.2 by 100 to get 20. This means 20% of the participants said they prefer rabbits as pets. You can do this with the rest of the values. For cats, divide 6 by 20 and multiply by 100 to get 30%, for dogs, divide 8 by 20 and multiply by 100 to get 40%, and for birds, divide 2 by 20 and multiply by 100 to get 20%.
 A pie, or a circle, has 360 degrees. So you will need to take the values for each category and multiply them by 360 to determine how they fit into the full circle, or pie chart. This will give you the sectors of the pie chart.For example, to convert the values on rabbits, you would divide 4 by 20 to get 0.2 and then multiply 0.2 by 360 to get 72 degrees. For cats, you would divide 6 by 20 to get 0.3 and then multiply 0.3 by 360 to get 108 degrees.
 Place the protractor in the middle of a clean, white sheet of paper. Draw a perfect, round circle with a pen or pencil.
 Use the protractor to measure the degrees of each sector. Mark each sector with a pen or pencil as you measure out each sector until the entire circle contains all the values.You should label each section with the appropriate category and color each section a different color with colored pencils or a marker. You should also include the percentage associated with the category. For example, the category on rabbits should take up 72 degrees of the circle, be labeled “Rabbits” and have the percentage 20% written down in that category.
You may include a legend under the pie chart with the applicable colors and categories if you would prefer not to label the sectors right on the pie chart itself.
 Once you finish labeling and coloring each sector of the pie chart, you should add the overall title of the pie chart at the top of the chart.For example, you may title your chart about favorite pets as “Favorite Pets According to My Friends”.

