 This is a tricky subject. There is no set reaction that a gay person can have to the topic of gay people. But there can be two signs to look out for:


If the person is very committed to gay rights, is often talking about gay rights, and is often talking about their support for gay people, and if you already have other reasons to suspect he's gay, then it's more likely that he is gay. However, most people who are not out of the closet wouldn't do this. Try discussing the subject to someone else in their presence, and see how interested they are. If they are in the closet they will be likely to cautiously watch for others opinions.
If the person is very homophobic and makes comments against gay people every chance they get, there may be a chance that the person really is gay, or may not even know that they're gay, and the idea of coming out makes him so uncomfortable that this is their reaction.

That is to say, there's no "one" reaction that can help you pinpoint if the person is gay.
 Again, there's no one way that a gay person can react to the opposite sex to make it clear that they're gay. A gay person is just as likely to have a million girlfriends/boyfriends as they are to always be solo.


If the person you know is male and you've never seen him have a girlfriend, talk to girls, or show any interest in girls, then sure, there could be a chance that he's gay. The same goes if the person you know is a girl. But it could also mean your person is just very shy. If you're in high school and your person has never been in a heterosexual relationship, they're much less likely to be gay than if they're forty and you've never seen them in a heterosexual relationship.
That person is also just as likely to always be having straight relationships. A gay guy could even be a real ladies' man for a long time.
When you're out, you can look to see if that person is giving off signs of flirting with people of the same gender. Just don't stare or be too obvious about it. The person could also just be really friendly.
 Though a gay person can have friends who are mostly straight, they are more likely to be friends with other gay people. If the person hangs out with a lot of people who are openly gay, then maybe they have come out to them and just haven't come out to everyone. If they go to a lot of gay bars with them "just for fun," then sure, they're more likely to be gay.


They can also just be hanging out with some people who aren't out yet, either.
If the person spends a lot of time hanging out with just one person of the same sex, and that person is known to be gay, and he often crashes at that person's place and seems flirtatious with that person, then there's a chance the person might be gay. But they might not be -- gay people can obviously be best friends with straight people without having feelings for one another.
 Though if a gay person isn't out, they wouldn't be obvious about their sexual orientation on Facebook, you can still look through their profile for clues of their sexual orientation. But this can only get you so far.


See how many of that person's friends are gay, and if they keep in close touch with that person. Again, it doesn't mean that person is gay, but even Facebook has a way of knowing that you're more likely to be gay if you have many more gay friends than the average person.Look at the person's posts. Is he always posting about gay rights? This could just mean that he's really passionate about the cause, or that he's more comfortable with his sexual orientation on Facebook.
 If you really have a good reason for wanting to know if that person is gay, ask your gay friends, if you have any. They may be a valuable resource for two reasons. One, they might have just heard something about the person from other gay people, or have seen the person at certain events. Or two, they just may be better equipped to be able to tell if that person is gay.


You should only ask them if they are closer to you then the person you suspect is gay. Otherwise, your plans to be discreet will backfire and that person will find out.

