 In order to play a game properly and fairly, you need to know the rules. The rules will tell you the object of the game, what's expected of players, and what's fair and what’s not allowed.


For example, most field sports have boundary lines, and you need to know where these are in order to play the game properly.
If you are starting out with a new sport or hobby and don’t know all the rules, ask coaches, parents, and other players. You can also read books or check websites.
 Once you know the rules of the game, it’s important that you play by them and don’t cheat just to tip the odds in your favor.Don’t cheat means don’t bend the rules, don’t lie about how events played out, and be honest about your actions and the actions of other players.For example, if you have an opportunity to score a basket in a game of basketball but can't do it without taking more steps than you're allowed without dribbling, resist the temptation to cheat. Do your best while following the rules, even if it means not scoring.
 While winning is the object of many games, it’s not the only thing that’s important.Instead of caring only about winning, focus on things like:Learning the game
Having fun
Getting exercise
Making new friends
Improving your skills

, There will be disagreements that occur in your games, and part of being a good sport is taking people’s word and not suspecting others of lying and cheating.


For instance, if you think that someone went out of bounds but the other team says that player was in bounds, accept what they're saying and let the game resume.
Similarly, you can hope if the tables were turned, the other team will also give you the benefit of the doubt., This means showing respect for your coaches, yourself, your teammates, your fans, and the game officials.You can do this by listening to what these people say, taking their advice, and not arguing with them.


For instance, if your coach suggests that you try a certain play on the field, try your best to execute it, even if you think it won’t work.
You can also show respect by showing up to all your games and practices on time, even if you're the best player on the team and think you don’t need to practice., Everybody on your team has something to contribute, and everyone deserves a chance to play. Even if your team is on the verge of winning or losing and you think you need an all-star lineup on the field, you must still let other players have a turn, even if they need some extra practice.


Players who do need extra practice will never get better if they aren't given a chance to play, so don’t get angry or upset if your coach pulls you to give another player time on the field.Don’t be a show-off, even if you're a more skilled player than your teammates or the other team., No matter what the result of the game and regardless of whether you won or lost, you should always shake hands with your own team and your opponents.Shaking hands at the end of a game is a sign of good faith, and indicates that you're more concerned with playing well, having fun, congratulating your fellow players, and encouraging your team.

