 Click the Start/Orb button at the lower left corner of your computer’s screen to open the Start menu.;
, Select “Control Panel” from the Start menu to open it on a new window.
 Select “Programs” from the category list displayed inside the Control Panel window then click on “Uninstall a program” listed below “Programs and Features.” A list of all the installed applications on your computer will open inside the Control Panel window.
 Scroll down the list and look for applications labeled Yontoo Pagerage or Yontoo Layers. The programs are installed together, but you can also find one without the other.
 Select all the Yontoo applications you can find and click the “Uninstall” button at the top of the list to remove the selected programs.
 Open Google Chrome and click its menu button at the top-right corner of the window.
 Select “Tools” from the drop-down list and click on “Extensions.” A new tab will open showing all the plugins currently installed within Chrome.
 Delete any extensions named “Yontoo” or anything that you don’t remember installing yourself by clicking the trash bin icon beside the plugin name.
 Click the Chrome’s menu button again, but select “Settings” from the dropdown list this time.
 Scroll down the Settings tab and click the drop-down list under “Search.” Choose the search engine you want to use as the default from the list and exit the Settings tab by closing it.
 Open Firefox and click its menu button at the top-right corner of the window.
 Select “Add-ons” from the drop-down menu and click “Extensions” from the left menu panel. A new tab will open showing all the plugins currently installed within Firefox.
 Delete any extensions named “Yontoo” or anything that you don’t remember installing yourself by clicking the “Remove” button beside the plugin.
 Click the search bar at the upper righthand of the Firefox window and from the drop-down list, select the search engine you want to set as default.


If the Yontoo plugin hasn’t changed this option, you can just go ahead and skip this step.
 Open Internet Explorer and click “Tools” from the menu bar at the upper-left section of the browser window.
 Select “Internet Options” from the drop-down list to access the browser’s settings.
 Select the General tab and click the “Settings” button under the “Search” field. The “Manage Add-ons” window will open

, Click “Search Providers” from the left menu panel and choose the search engine you want to set as default from the list displayed. Click the “Set as default” button at the bottom-right corner of the window to confirm your selection.
 Click “Toolbars and Extensions” from the left menu panel after changing your default search engine to view all the currently installed plugins inside Internet Explorer.
 Delete any extensions named “Yontoo” or anything that you don’t remember installing yourself by selecting it and clicking the “Disable” button at the bottom-right corner of the window.
 Click the “Close” button to exit the Manage Add-ons window.
 Click “OK” on the Internet Options window to save the changes you’ve made.

