 Most three, four, and five star hotels have fixed policies on how often they change out mattresses and pillows. Staying in a nicer, more expensive hotel won’t ensure a bed bug-free environment, but it definitely increases your chances., Move the sheets and look in the crevices of the mattress and box springs. Look for reddish-brown bugs, small red spots, yellow skins, and egg casings, which look like tiny translucent sacks. Check seams and crevices of all furniture.Don’t neglect the headboard and other wooden furniture near the mattress. Bed bugs can hide in the cracks.
If you find a bed bug, contact the front desk and leave immediately.
You may not always be able to see the bed bugs. Just because you can't find them doesn't mean they are not there. If you wake up and have developed an itchy rash, then bed bugs may be in your bed.
 Even if you don’t find signs of bed bugs, it’s best to avoid placing luggage on the bed, even for a moment while removing items from it. Your luggage is the item most likely to carry bugs back from your trip and it’s the hardest to treat. Keeping it free of bugs will give you the best chance at preventing an infestation.While you initially inspect the room, place your bag in the bathtub where it’s unlikely to pick up bugs., After you check it for contamination, move the luggage rack away from the wall and put your luggage on top of it.If there’s not a luggage rack, the bathroom and tub are the safest locations in the hotel room for you luggage.
 When you get home, avoid bringing in hitchhiking bugs by removing the contents of your suitcase outside. Place all clothes in plastic bags for immediate washing, and leave your suitcase outside until you’ve inspected it., Include all of the clothes that you brought on your trip in your washing, not just the clothes you wore. Wash and dry the clothes on the highest setting that the fabric can withstand or take items to the dry cleaners.Undress on a hard surface floor rather than on carpet if you suspect bed bugs are on your clothing. Wipe off the floor to capture any bed bugs that fall off the clothes.
 The heat from a dryer can kill bed bugs at any stage of their development. Washing alone won’t kill the bugs. To get the best results, wash the items in hot water and then dry them for 30 minutes on high heat., If you can’t dry an item, placing it in the freezer can also kill bed bugs. Place items that are better suited for cold in your freezer., Use an attachment on your vacuum cleaner or a handheld vacuum to clean your bag. Pay special attention to the crevices.You can also use a no-pest strip to treat your bag if you’re worried you may have encountered bed bugs. Place the strip and your luggage in a large garbage bag. Seal it and let it sit for two weeks.