 “Range” essentially refers to how many types of sounds a stereo receiver can produce. Systems with a “full” range (between 20-20,000 Hz) will sound much more crisp and detailed than those with restricted ranges. This is one of the most important factors in determining overall quality.You can usually find a stereo’s audio specifications on the packaging, or somewhere on the unit itself.
Avoid stereo systems that overemphasize a specific range. Too much high end (sounds with a higher pitch) can be harsh and piercing, while a boosted bass may come through murky or muffled.;
, The stereo’s wattage, or power, translates to the number of decibels it can produce. This is worth thinking about about, as audio that sounds great at a medium level may begin to degrade at particularly high or low volumes. Low-wattage systems therefore won’t be the best choice for listening parties or other situations where you want the audio to be nice and loud.Most basic stereo systems have a wattage somewhere between 150-200 watts per channel. Musicians, DJs and other who need more power will want to look for a system closer to the 300-500 watt range.Higher wattage doesn’t always mean higher quality. Manufacturers often make their products louder in an effort to fool consumers into thinking that they perform better., See if you can locate the stereo’s THD rating among its technical details. This number describes how close the quality of the audio put out by the speakers will be to its original source. Power is one thing, but if there’s too big a difference between the receiver and the speakers, your listening experience will suffer.A lower rating indicates a truer sound—any distortion below about .1 percent will be practically unnoticeable, but it will become more obvious the higher the number gets.You may also be able to dig up a product’s THD rating with an internet search if it isn’t displayed on the unit itself.
 The source of the audio itself also plays a big part in how it will sound over a new system. Will you be using your stereo to stream music in high-definition or watch YouTube videos? You won’t be able to get an accurate reading of your system’s potential if you’re listening to underwhelming sources.A digital file with 320kbps quality, for instance, will sound crystal clear, whereas a grainy, low quality recording will be hard to listen to no matter what it’s played on.
Most stereo systems are optimized for a particular source, such as digital or CD. This can make it easier to find a product you’ll be satisfied with if you’re not that knowledgeable about audio equipment.

