 The more you know about your friend’s older brother, the easier it will be for you to talk to him and make him think of you romantically. You don’t have to interview your friend, but pay attention for clues that tell you more about your friend’s older brother.


When you are at your friend’s house, pay attention to things you see around the house.
For example, a flyer for a band might give you insight into what type of music your friend’s brother likes.
Notice if your friend talks about their brother’s activities. For example, if your friend mentions that their brother plays a sport or an instrument.
It’s okay to ask your friend once (or twice) about their brother. More than that and it can get awkward.
For instance, you might say, “So, tell me more about your older brother. I know a bit about him and I’d like to know more.”

, Your friend’s older brother may be used to thinking of you only as his sibling’s friend. You can start to make him think of you romantically if you make an effort to talk to him when you are around him.So, say hi, and start a conversation with your friend’s older brother.


You can start by just asking him how things are going, how his day was, or about one of the activities he participates in.
For example, if he walks in while you and your friend are making a snack, you could say, “Hey, Matt. How’s lacrosse going?”
Ask him his opinion on current events or things going on in the community to keep the conversation going.
You might say, for instance, “What do you think about the latest presidential debate” or “Who do think is making it to the playoffs this year?”

, Starting a conversation with your friend’s older brother about relationships and dating can help him start looking at you as someone he might go out with. You don’t have to ask him out, but you can talk to him about his opinions on relationships.For example, you could say something like, “So, Tommy, what do you think makes a good relationship?
Or, you could try, “What’s the most romantic date you would ever want to go on?”
You might even say, “How do you let someone know you are interested in them romantically?”

, Even though you have great qualities, your friend’s older brother still may not think of you romantically. If this happens, accept that it doesn’t mean anything is wrong with you, it just means you and your friend’s brother aren’t meant to be.


Respect it if he thinks the age difference between you two is too big. He may be right if you two aren’t adults and are more than a year or two apart.
Don’t do anything against your beliefs in order to convince your friend’s older brother to think of you romantically.
For example, don’t do something sexual with your friend’s older brother just to get him to like you.

