 More readers, more money. The equation is simple, but the actual practice of it is much harder. There are thousands of ways to increase readership, but the basics are actually simple. You should:


Hone in on one specific niche or project.
Use social media accounts to promote every single post.
Embed links to other articles of yours in each article.
Deliver regular content.

Learn how to utilize SEO., The top priority should be creating content that is worth reading. If you write blog posts that are worth reading people will come back to your blog over and over. You build a following, and when you have something to say there will be people who will read it. Do not write a financial blog one day and a cooking blog the next because you'll never know who your readers are.


Pictures and video are becoming increasingly important online. Make sure you have images to go with your posts to keep readers engaged.
Monetizing a blog is about finding a market of buyers interested in specific products -- finance or cooking -- not the small number of people who like both., This takes some time, but will net you much higher profits. Basically, you just ask a business or individual if they want to buy space on your site, charging by the month to keep it up. You can offer different sized ads for different prices or lengths of time and you get the entire profit, not Google. However, you have to take the time to find a buyer, which leads to less time blogging. You also have to be able to seamlessly incorporate the ad into your site. Be ready to:


Show a potential buyer your monthly page views and visitor counts.
Point out your blog's specific niche and target audience.
Work with them to make sure the ads fit neatly in your site, without compromising content.
 No one likes to click on a website and get inundated with ads. If your readers feel like you're selling them out, or that you care more about money than content, they will leave. So place your ads sparingly, using other methods like direct sales or services to make your money.


In general, ads come in three standard pixel sizes: 300×250, 160×600, or 728×90., This is especially important if you sell or plan to sell anything on your blog. Use a service like MailChimp or Useletter to collect and store mass emails. Wordpress even has a built in "follower" section that collects addresses. When your eBook comes out, or you have a fundraiser to start, being able to get the word directly to your reader's inboxes is an invaluable way to advertise your work directly.


Do not spam your readers, however, with mail. One email a month is generally a good start, or whenever you have something new to promote.
 The better you can tap into other sites like yours, the better your chances of attracting viewers. Comment on other blogs, offer to share or write specialty posts, follow your favorite writers on Twitter, and generally make your presence known. Within 2-3 months you'll see the uptick in traffic as your friends recommend you back and start building up your trustworthiness., Because you generally don't have a lot of "products" to sell on your blog, you don't usually have a lot of ways to make big bucks starting out. Building a readership, honing your writing skills, and finding your niche are most important. Once you've got this, you can start implementing monetization strategies. However, this should not be your first and only strategy.


Forbes reports that the majority of bloggers make less than $2,500 from their blogs -- you must be prepared to work hard to crack this barrier.