 At forty, you may have some regrets. However, to turn forty gracefully, you should not dwell on negative thoughts of regret or obsess over things you wish you’d done differently. While it is important to learn from your past mistakes, do not let them ruin your life. Focus instead on the here and now, and the things you can do to move in a positive direction.For instance, instead of thinking to yourself, “I am too overweight to be attractive,” think about how you can lose weight by eating right, exercising regularly, and investing in clothes that compliment your physique.
When you encounter negative thoughts, envision them in your mind’s eye as red balloons. Then, picture yourself letting them go and seeing them floating away until they’re out of view. Then, imagine a group of new, blue balloons floating down representing positive thoughts.
 Try to begin each day with a positive affirmation. For instance, you might wake each day and, after brushing your teeth, say to yourself, “I have had forty full years of life and I will have forty more,” or “Today will be a great day.”

, Start each day by making a list of five things you are thankful for in your life. For instance, you might think about your family, your spouse, your home, or something else that gives your life meaning. You can choose to write the list down, or just compose it in your head. Tell people you care about that you love them frequently. At the end of each day, find time to reflect on your day and try to list at least three good things that happened., If you find yourself thinking negative thoughts, get rid of them by smiling. Don’t hide your emotions or avoid smiling, as some people do when they reach forty, in an effort to reduce smile lines on your face.
 If you have a coworker or family member that is constantly tearing you down or criticizing you, avoid them as much as possible. Surround yourself with people who want what’s best for you and support you in your endeavors. If you have to deal with a negative person on a daily basis, speak to them about your concerns.


Be polite but firm when telling people to stop criticizing you unjustly. Say, “I’m sorry you feel that way. I disagree with your point of view.”
Sometimes, it's good to listen to a critical friend or family member. People who are close to you generally want what's best for you, and criticize what you're doing because they worry you might do something wrong. If several of your friends or family members come to you with the same concern, you should take their criticism seriously and find a way to address it.

