 This might go without saying but it’s to important not to treat all readers as a tenderfoot. Before one even thinks about participating in spiritual warfare, it’s imperative that they are saved by being born again and transformed into a new creation. To become saved by Jesus Christ the bearer of all sins and iniquities, you must believe in your heart that he exists in a heavenly dimension and that not only does he exist, but he once died on a cross for all the sins of mankind and was raised to life again by the Father. If you have faith (belief) that this is a true account of Jesus, then you can ask him into your heart by repenting of your sins and accepting to become a new creation.


Pray this petition to help you repent and receive Jesus to rule and reign your new life in him: "Dear God I know I'm a sinner, I know I am not where I want to be, and I want your forgiveness! I believe that Jesus died on the cross to pay the price for my sins and that you raised him from the dead to reign as a king. Please wash me clean from all sin, shame, and guilt, come into my life today Jesus to be my Lord and Savior. I ask this in Jesus name. Amen!";
, Written in 1 Corinthians 4:20 from the Bible it states that “For the kingdom of God does not consist in words but in power”. This verse indicates to us that to walk a life dedicated to The Lord, it needs to consist of his unseen power. To obtain the power that the scriptures speak of, one needs to be filled with the Holy Spirit.


Pray this petition as a sample prayer in receiving the in-pouring of the Holy Spirit: “My Heavenly Father, I am a believer. I am your child and you are my Father, Jesus is my Lord. I believe with all my heart your word is true. Your Word says that if I will ask I will receive the Holy Spirit. In the name of Jesus Christ, my Lord, I am asking you to fill me overflowing with your precious Holy Spirit. Jesus Baptize me in the Holy Spirit, Because of Your Word, I believe that I now receive and I thank you for it. I believe that the Holy Spirit is within me and by Faith I accept it. Now Holy Spirit, rise up within me as I praise my God. I fully expect to speak with other tongues as You give me the utterance."
Thank God and Praise him for Baptizing you in the Holy Spirit. From this Moment on you are a Spirit Filled Baptized Believer.
 Before you start tapping into the war that's been wagged upon all believes, it's important to see that you are not alone. You have the creator of the universe on your side, surveying each step you take. You did not earn God's protection, by faith you have received. Every day you wake, ask God to encamp his warrior angels around you and to usher you to and fro your daily destinations. His Holy Spirit will be your guide and his angels will protect you, as it is written “For he give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways” Psalms 91:11.


God protects you by guiding people along your path so that they might help you through him by praying and initiating a 'covering' over you. A 'covering' is where someone else is praying for you in the spirit, and helping to remove any obstacle that might be standing in your way that you have either informed them about, or they have discerned via the Holy Spirit.
 The whole reason we as Christians proceed with Spiritual Warfare is because God allows us to. We as believers in Christ have inherited the ability to stand in fervent authority against the powers of the enemy, for it is written, “Behold I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you” Luke 10:19

, By reading the bible and noting various bible verses that declare the truths and promises the Lord has bestowed upon all believers; you are able to use the word to deflect every attack, not just any, or some; every attack that the enemy wages upon you, you will be able to deflect it with the word, just as Jesus did to Satan on the mount of olives in Matthew 4:1-11.


Understand that the enemy knows the word, he knows the bible back to front. He uses scriptures to twist and lead you down paths of distraction and misleads you into false teachings, doctrines and habits that you may have approved via a dodgy concept of scripture. That is why it is imperative that you be baptised and lead by the Holy Spirit so that you can obtain spiritual discernment.
It's important to understand that even a verse of two sentences can have the enemy running for the hills, because you've allowed Jesus Christ and the active power the word emanates to step into the picture.
 It is common for new Christians to fear the enemy and therefore not participate in warfare. They want to believe just the positive things and forget the deflecting of attacks. Being a baby Christian has its own season, once a believer knows the fundamentals of the gospel, they are responsible for battling with the remainder of awake believers in the fight to breakdown the strongholds of the enemy.


You mustn't be afraid but stand firm in Christ and understand that if Jesus died, went down to take the keys of hell and rose again; he is powerful and that is why the enemy, even today, is petrified of Jesus and even with the name of Jesus on your lips will have the enemy fleeing.
 In Matthew 18:19 the verse tells us that “Whatsoever we bind on earth will be bound in heaven”, what that means is that whatever we command to be bound, will be bound in the spiritual realm (or the heavens). Binding is where (in the spirit realm) you are literally wrapping a spiritual being like a demon or spirit in a very powerful hold. You yourself aren't doing it, but you are calling upon Jesus’ power to bind them. By binding the spirit you are stifling them of their activeness and ultimately their power.


You can bind any evil spirit through Jesus. For example; you might have an abusive partner, parent or sibling; you can bind the spirit of anger, aggression and violence in them at the name of Jesus. By saying allowed " In Jesus name I bind the spirit of aggression that is over ______ and demand you to loosen your hold over them. I bind you from hurting me or them and drive you away from their presence immediately!"
By saying that, it may just sound like words and feel like you are doing something that isn't working, but until you perform it, you may never know what it can actually do. By being a fervent Christian and using what Jesus has given you and that is his holy spirit to bind, cast and remove any unclean spirit or force that is interfering with your family, church, school or yourself, you can and will begin to see changes you once thought would never manifest.
 Whether you are or aren't apart of a church group it doesn't stringently matter. A church will provide you with fellowship, a covering and in most cases teaching that can help you grow spiritually. It's of pivotal importance that your church practices spiritual warfare in all it's forms (e.g Deliverance), believes in the power of speaking in heavenly tongues and conducts praise and worship services that are lead by the Holy Spirit.

