 Expect prolonged exposure to either natural or artificial light to increase the risk of melanoma. Be especially mindful of those areas of your body that do not normally receive much direct light. Refrain from tanning naked in sunbeds if your private parts rarely see the light of the day.If you or any relative has suffered skin cancer in the past, consider this a warning sign that you are at much greater risk. Do not use sunbeds if your family has a history of melanoma.
 The younger you are, the greater the danger posed by UV rays. Sunbed use is often forbidden to anyone under the age of 18 accordingly. However, continue to regard yourself as a likely candidate for melanoma well after that. Use sunbeds sparingly or abstain from them entirely until you are 25 or older., If you are currently taking any medication or topical creams, whether they are prescribed or over-the-counter, read the directions before tanning. Double-check for any warnings about extra sensitivity to sunlight. If the directions advise limiting your exposure to natural sunlight, take that to mean that you shouldn’t use a sunbed, either.Consult your doctor about possible ramifications from medications that they prescribe for you, as well as any other health factors that may elevate your risk of skin cancer.
 Be aware that the negative impacts of sunburn and overexposure may take as many as 20 years to show themselves. Refrain from tanning yourself and risking further damage if you have repeatedly suffered sunburns in the past. Be twice as reluctant to use sunbeds if you suffered those sunburns in your childhood, when you were most at risk of developing long-term damage., Although some debate persists as to whether a base tan protects you against sunburn, err on the side of caution. Consider tanning as a natural reaction to previous overexposure in an attempt to prevent further damage. Use sunscreen and other forms of protection to avoid sunburn, rather than rely on your base tan to do the job for you.Skin Types 1 and 2 should use a SPF-30 sunscreen or an even stronger SPF. So should anyone with a personal or family history of skin cancer or any other condition that makes them more sensitive to sunlight.Skin Types 3, 4 and 5 should be safe to use a SPF-15 formula. However, using a stronger sunscreen is still advisable.Give your skin a quarter of an hour to absorb the sunscreen before braving the sunshine. Check the directions for its lasting power. Never wait longer than two hours to apply more. Reapply more frequently when swimming or sweating profusely.

