 If you are feeling stressed, take a moment to identify the source. What exactly are you stressed about? Try keeping a stress journal to help you identify the sources of your stress. Write in your stress journal every day and include:What you think is causing you to feel stress.
How you feel, including your physical and emotional state.
How you responded to the stress.
What you did to feel better.;
, If you are feeling stressed and it is making you feel nervous or jittery, then find an activity that you can channel this energy into.Go for a walk, clean your kitchen, or engage in a favorite hobby. Anything you can do to work off some of this energy may help.
 Having some alone time can also help you to feel more calm.Try going somewhere quiet, such as your bedroom or a bathroom. Then, do something relaxing, such as a progressive muscle relaxation, deep breathing exercises, or yoga.


You can also listen to music, take bubble bath, write in a journal, or just sit quietly and think for a while.
 While stress can be frustrating, getting angry with yourself will only make matters worse. Instead, respond to yourself in a compassionate way. Imagine how a kind friend would speak to you right now. Try to speak to yourself in the same kind, loving way.For example, you might say to yourself, “I can tell that you are under a lot of pressured because of your job. But I think you are doing so well! Things might seem bad right now, but it is only temporary. Hang in there!”

, Being grateful for what you have can help you to shift your perspective from what is causing your stress to what is going well in your life.Try making a list of all of the things you feel grateful for, large and small.


For example, you might include in the list things like a place to live, clothes on your back, a family who loves you. You can also include little things like a good cup of tea, a beautiful sunset, or having time to read quietly.
 Going to bed and waking up at the same time every day is the most effective way to make sure you always get a restful night’s sleep.When you keep your sleeping hours regular, your body will get used to falling asleep right on schedule, and you’ll cut down on time spent lying awake at night.


Adjust the amount of sleep you get for your particular needs. For instance, if you feel tired easily, you may want to aim for more than eight hours of sleep a night.
Avoid napping. Though a catnap might be tempting when you’re tired, sleeping during the day can throw off your sleep schedule and make it harder to fall asleep at night., Try taking a warm bath, meditating, or writing in a journal before bed every day. A soothing ritual will help quiet your mind before bed, and over time you’ll begin to associate the activity with sleep.Avoid watching TV or using electronics during your bedtime ritual. The blue light from these devices can trick your brain into keeping you awake longer. Certain kinds of media such as the news can also add to your stress levels., Invest in a high-quality mattress, turn your thermostat down to a pleasantly cool temperature, and keep noise to a minimum when you’re trying to sleep. Try using earplugs or a white noise machine. By making your bedroom as comfortable as you can, you’ll minimize the amount of tossing and turning you do at night., An afternoon energy drink or cup of coffee might be a good pick-me-up, but it could diminish the amount and quality of sleep you get later on. Caffeine consumed within 6 hours of bedtime can cause you to have a hard time falling asleep or lead to a restless night., Electronic devices emit blue light, which affects your internal clock and makes it harder to fall asleep. TV and internet are also mentally stimulating, so they aren’t good activities for winding down at the end of the day. Turn off your devices at least two hours before bedtime for a better night’s sleep.If you like to read before bed, choose a physical book, not an e-reader.
If it’s absolutely necessary that you use your electronic devices before bed, consider installing an app like f.lux, which filters blue light from your screen at night.
 Exercise boosts your mood and lowers your stress levels by releasing endorphins, the feel-good chemicals in your brain. If you don’t have time to hit the gym, work smaller amounts of exercise into your schedule. Getting your heart rate up for even a few minutes a day can help burn off stress and give you a happier outlook.Aerobic exercises like walking, running, swimming, and dancing are good choices for stress-fighting workouts.
 Your mood has a lot to do with what you eat, and you’ll be better prepared to deal with the challenges of life if you eat nutritious, wholesome foods. Avoid processed foods made with sugar and white flour, which can cause your blood sugar to spike and then crash. Instead, choose fruits, vegetables, and fiber-rich whole grains, and drink plenty of water.To keep your blood sugar stable and avoid cravings, try eating five or six small meals throughout the day.
 When you’re stressed, you might be tempted to use alcohol, drugs, or cigarettes to cope, but this only complicates the problem. Using these substances might make you feel better temporarily, but they don’t help you deal with your stressors in the long run.They also put you at risk for addiction and health problems.
 Breathing deeply is one of the best ways to induce your body’s natural relaxation response. Taking deep, slow breaths calms you down by relaxing your muscles, slowing your heart rate, and lowering your blood pressure. Try incorporating 10 minutes of deep breathing into your routine every day.To practice deep breathing, sit or lie in a comfortable position. Place one hand over your belly and the other over your chest. Breathe in deeply through your nose for a few counts. Notice the hand on your belly moving outwards. The hand on your chest should remain relatively still. Hold the breath briefly. Then, release the air out through your mouth. Notice the hand on your belly collapsing. Repeat as needed.
 Mindfulness can help reduce your stress by taking your focus off the future. When you practice mindfulness, you concentrate on what’s happening in the present moment, not on intangible worries that you have no direct control over. This makes you better able to accept your circumstances and solve problems.Meditation is a good way to practice mindfulness. Set aside a few minutes every day to sit quietly and focus on your breathing. When you notice your mind wandering, acknowledge the thought and let it go. Then turn your attention back to taking deep, calming breaths.
 Burnout can be a sign of working too much, spending time on activities you find unfulfilling, and neglecting your physical and mental health. Take some time to think about what is causing your burnout and what you could do to fix it.Can you stop taking on extra tasks at the office, delegate some of your work to someone else, or set aside some time to pursue a hobby every day?

, When you’re burnt out, you feel drained and disconnected from life. The best medicine for feeling passionless is rediscovering something you’re excited about.


Think about what makes you feel alive and find a way to work it into your schedule. Creative pursuits like writing, painting, or theater are especially effective for battling burnout., Getting support from others can help you fight burnout and relieve stress. Try calling a friend, making an appointment with a therapist, or reaching out to your coworkers. Sharing your feelings helps you overcome the feelings of loneliness and isolation that often accompany burnout., Everyone needs to take breaks to relax and decompress sometimes. If it’s been a while since you took time off, consider going on vacation to prevent or recuperate from burnout. Taking some time to lay down your worries and visit an enjoyable place might be all you need to feel refreshed and relaxed when you return.