 There is a very specific process that you must follow in order to properly evict a tenant under Illinois law. Your first step is to send a notice that describes the premises (ie.the address of the property and the unit number), and requests that the tenant immediately pays the amount of rent past due at the time that notice is given. There are 3 types of notice of eviction that are allowed under Illinois law:A 5-day notice of eviction is only allowed for failure to pay rent. The tenant will then have 5 days to pay his or her rent or vacate the property.
A 10-day notice of eviction is issued to tenants who violate the terms of the lease through actions such as having unauthorized pets or committing illegal activities in the rental unit. In most, but not all areas of Illinois, the tenant does not have the right to remedy the situation and must leave after 10 days.
A 30-day notice of eviction may be used by a landlord to terminate a month-to-month or oral lease for any or no reason.
 Lawfully evicting a tenant under Illinois law requires delivering proper service of process to the tenant. You have a couple of options for properly delivering the notice, you can either:Hand-deliver the notice to the tenant or someone who is at the rental unit that is at least 13 years old.
Leave the notice on the ground in front of the tenant in cases where the tenant refuses to accept it.
Send the notice via certified mail with a return receipt requested.
Post the notice on the door of the rental unit if nobody appears to be living there.
 The affidavit of service is an official document stating that you have delivered the notice of eviction to the tenant. Check with your local eviction court for specific affidavit of service procedures that must be followed.
 Complaints can be filed with the County Clerk's Office in the county that the rental unit is located in. Visit the County Clerk’s Office in order to access the proper complaint documentation. There will be a filing fee. Check with the County Clerk's Office for the amount to be paid.
After paying the filing fee you will be given a copy of the complaint and a summons, which will include a court date that you and the tenant must attend.
You then must take the summons to the relevant Sheriff's Office. Upon receipt of the summons, the Sheriff will deliver the summons to appear in court to the tenant.
 Bring a copy of the notice of eviction, an affidavit of service, a copy of the complaint, a copy of the summons, and any witnesses or evidence that you have. Explain to the judge why the tenant should be evicted. The judge will issue a decision after you and the tenant have each presented your case.


If you win the case, the tenant will typically be required to vacate the rental unit within 14 to 21 days.
If the tenant wins, he or she may use the rental unit until the end of his or her lease term.

