 If there's one thing that stands out above the talent, dedication, and all-around presence that is Queen Bey, it's got to be the supreme confidence that she radiates at all times, in all things she does. Whether you're just running out for groceries or you're performing on stage, you should command the presence of everyone in the room with your confidence and ease at being yourself.


Try positive affirmations, if you're not as confident as you'd like to be. Try Beyonce lyrics, to make this extra-Beyonce-like: Chant "I'm a survivor" to yourself when you're feeling less confident than you want. Chant till you believe it.
Accept your shortcomings and your challenges. If you're aware of your weak spots, you can have power over them. They're a part of you.;
, Beyonce, the daughter of a Texas hairdresser and a Xerox sales manager, didn't just wander into her successes accidentally. It takes work. She set huge standards for herself, and became who she is on the back of hard work and dedication to her talent. Aim as high as possible, and figure out what you need to do to actually make those goals a reality.


Start young. Beyonce met the other girls in Destiny's Child when she was young girls, and their goals were established and firm from a young age. They wanted to be stars. What's your big ambition?
Try not to focus on other people's advantages, constantly comparing yourself to those who are already successful and had an easier road to that success. Just focus on what you need to do to meet your goals.
 Figure out a way to be creative in whatever talent field you're involved with. Put your own spin on the work you have to do, and make your work as unique as the person making it.


Try to develop your creative hobbies, if you have any talent for creative pursuits. You don't have to be a singer or a dancer, like Beyonce, but they're certainly worthy creative pursuits for a fan.
Everyone's good at something, and it might take a while to find out what that something is, but don't give up on yourself. Just because you're not a brain surgeon or an astronaut or a Hollywood actress does not mean you don't have a purpose, or that you aren't creative. Find what inspires you and see where it leads.
 Beyonce wouldn't be content to just do the bare minimum. Whatever you do, creative work or not, you need to go above and beyond, doing your absolute best, and achieving at the highest level, even if you're not feeling it today.


This might sound corny, but if you're struggling to care abut a particular project at school, or some assignment you've been given at work, Try to think about it like Beyonce would. How would she go about this project? What would she say to her boss?

, Beyonce hangs a Grammy in her gym, to keep herself focused and motivated on the goal at hand. It's not enough to set ambitious goals–you've also got to keep yourself fixated and working toward those goals at all times. You've got to put in the hours.
 Beyonce is not only a great singer and dancer, but a talented fashion designer, perfumer, shoe designer, actress, activist, and she has a hand in many other fields. She's a jack-of-all trades, and strives to achieve at a high level, even in fields she's inexperienced with.


Don't let yourself stagnate. Keep adding new talents and skills to your bag of tricks. Be restless. Do what's necessary to learn to do what you want to be able to do.
 Beyonce is a philanthropist, generous with her time and money, using her influence to help others. Knowles became an ambassador for the 2012 World Humanitarian Day campaign donating her song "I Was Here" and its music video, shot in the UN, to the campaign. It might sound impossible if you aren't a huge name in Hollywood, but take little steps to helping your friends and neighbors.


People do kind things for each other every day, and it can be as simple as giving someone a smile, holding a door open, donating some money, or tons of other things. Be giving with your time.
 Beyonce and Jay-Z are equally well-respected in the world of pop music, as innovators and powerful talents. If you want to be like Beyonce, look for someone that you will respect and admire as an equal, then conquer the world together. Individually, they're in control of their own lives, ambitious, and successful. Together, they're unstoppable.


You don't have to be rich or powerful to be part of a "power" couple. Power couples are forged on mutual respect, mutual ambition, and independence. Power couples are formed when two successful but like-minded people come together and form a bond.
 Sasha Fierce is a more energetic stage persona of Beyonce. Beyonce, you might say, "becomes" Sasha Fierce when she's on stage, which might help give her the courage to do things like dance on stage with flaming pyro while wearing a glow-in-the-dark bra and leopard print pants.


Try tapping into a "fierce" side of yourself can give you the confidence to do things you might not normally do, and maintain the confidence of the person you want to be. Simply pretend to be someone else.
Center yourself in that alter ego when you need a confidence boost. Need to gear up for a big work presentation? Get your fierce face on.

