 Organize this by children, adults, and seniors.;
, Keep in mind that weekends are typically busy, along with midsummer, as these are times most families take vacations. Plan accordingly.


If you are traveling to Tennessee by plane consider checking the airfare before you buy your tickets. You may find that airfare on certain days will be cheaper, allowing you to save money. This can also save you from extra work if you find that you cannot book a flight during the time you bought your tickets for.
 If you are not comfortable or do not want to purchase your tickets online, you may purchase them at the entrance to the park. Keep in mind you may have to wait longer to enter the park if you decide to buy tickets at the gate.


If you want to go to Splash Country, Dollywood's water park, consider buying a ticket package for both. Keep in mind that Splash Country is only open during the summer.
 This can be found online here or can be obtained at the entrance to the park. You can use this map to plan out the shortest ways to get to certain areas of the park in advance. Familiarizing yourself with the map will also allow you to find rides and certain areas of the park more efficiently.
 A full list of rides can be found on the Dollywood website. Consider the age range of your group and their preferences. For example, if your group loves thrill rides consider finding rides that they will enjoy and plan accordingly. If your group consists of mostly adults who do not enjoy rides plan spending more times at shows and eating venues.



If you're visiting in the summer pack light clothes such as shorts and t-shirts, as it can get quite hot and humid in the summer.
If you're visiting during the fall or spring, pack a mix of pants, shorts, and light jackets, as the weather can be unpredictable.
Dollywood is open during Christmas too! If you're visiting then pack warm clothes, gloves, and hats as winters can be quite cold in Tennessee.
 Search for hotels that are close to the theme park and provide transportation.
, Go to bed early, so you can get on the road before traffic or get to your flight on time. Try to get on the road early enough, so that you will have plenty of time to get to the park before it opens.
 This will ensure that the wait time to get into the park will not be long.

