 Like all young animals and children, kittens are incredibly playful creatures. When you adopt your kitten, pick up a few cat toys on the way home. These can include rubber or wicker balls and feather wands. Sit on the floor with your kitten and play with it for at least 15 minutes, three times a day.Playing with your kitten also mimics the behavior that it would naturally show with its brothers and sisters.Playful behavior helps a kitten develop its motor skills and the predatory behaviors that come naturally to cats.;
, Young kittens love the attention that grooming gives. Petting and other physical contact will help you feel closer to your kitten, as well. Petting and initiating physical contact with your kitten will mimic the social behavior that cats naturally exhibit, and will show that you have kind, loving intentions towards it.Eventually, when it is comfortable with you and enjoys the pets, your kitten should start purring.
If you want to act motherly toward your kitten, rub your head with theirs.
Nap with it or find other times to snuggle. Holding it while watching TV, or on the phone are great options.
 Blinking is a way that cats naturally show affection to one another, similar to a hug or a kiss among humans. In order to comfort and bond with your kitten, slowly lower your eyelids, blink, and open your eyes again.This should settle your kitten if it’s nervous.


If your kitten returns the slow blink, it’s responding to your affection.
Do not hold direct eye contact with your kitten—especially shortly after adopting it—as this can be perceived as challenging or threatening behavior.
 Animals trust those who help them survive, and tend to be more trusting of those who feed them. While your cat is eating, reach down and pet its back and tail (avoid touching its face while it eats). This will help your kitten associate you with food, and with the pleasant sensation of eating and being petted.When you first bring a kitten home, it may take time to adjust to you and to the new environment. If this is the case, give the kitten space and do not stroke it as it eats., Kittens are a large responsibility, and can require a surprising amount of attention and maintenance. You’ll need to constantly keep an eye on your kitten while it’s underfoot, and make sure it’s not getting into mischief behind your back. Make sure your kitten has plenty of food and water at all times.


You may need to “kitten-proof” areas of your house. Kittens can be destructive. Hide any breakable items (valuable dishes, vases, etc.) and put up any blankets that you wouldn’t want claw-holes in.

