 Have fun looking through the endless varieties of clothes you can find at a thrift store. Give each other a thirty minute limit to try on and buy the most ridiculous outfit you all can find, and then decide where you’re all going to wear your outfits, whether you go to a party, walk around the mall, or even wear them to school. This can be a fun way to spice up your afternoon!


You and your friends can even go for a theme, like “Goth” or “80s” and find clothes that stick to that theme so you all have a relatively similar look.
 Hey, why not? Get at least 100 cans of soda and have fun making the tallest pyramid possible in your garage, on a table in your backyard or another place with an even surface. Take some photos to show off your pyramid-making skills. Once you’ve build the pyramid, you can start drinking the soda little by little, play pyramid Jenga, or even work on making other shapes with the soda cans.


Just don’t drink too much soda at once—unless you plan on getting super hyper!

, Once you’ve mastered your soda pyramid skills, or if you just feel like starting with a bigger challenge, then you and your friends should make a human pyramid to see how high you can make it. As a general rule, heavier and bigger people go on the bottom, and the smaller people go on top. If you only have a few friends, invite more people in your social network over and see if you can make a human pyramid of twenty people or more.


Just make sure to plan it out carefully and not to rush it.
 If you really want to get a great deal, hit up the Halloween store a week after the holiday is over. This should give the stuff enough time to go on super sale but will be close enough to Halloween that the store won’t close up or stop selling Halloween stuff completely. Go into the store with your friends and act like you don’t know that Halloween is over and make sure you consider all of your options very carefully so the salespeople get confused.


Once you have your awesome discount Halloween outfits, you and your friends can wear them out to bars, parties, or just the mall, acting like you don’t understand why no one else is wearing a costume. Just make sure your costume doesn’t have any dangerous elements on it and that you don’t get in trouble.
 If you’re bored and looking for something original to do, then try spying on someone you know. Assemble a team of your best spies, pick your target, and have fun watching the person over the course of a few hours. Take photos, take notes, and discuss any suspicious behavior you may see. Of course, you shouldn’t take this too far and shouldn’t snoop around too much, but if you can find a good place to hide and watch over a person for a few hours without invading his privacy too much, then this can be a great way to have fun with your friends.


If you’re really committed to digging up some dirt on this person, you and your friends can split up and pretend your cell phones are Walkie-Talkies, telling each other everything you see from different places.
 This is definitely an original idea that no one can top. The hardest part can be finding the monkey costume. Once you do that, though—whether you buy them online or make them yourself—all you have to do is head to the local grocery store with your friends while you’re dressed up and buy some bananas. This can be the most fun if you don’t act like monkeys but talk to each other like everything is perfectly normal and then casually buy the bananas instead of making a spectacle of yourselves.


To really make a statement, buy a few bunches of bananas. Try not to crack a smile while you do this. You can even say something like, “Man, I’m starving,” to one of your friends to make your act even more convincing.
 Another thing you can do is get some props, get one friend with a camera who knows how to use it and plan something completely silly and ridiculous that you can film. You can try to break dance, pretend you’re wild animals, speak a made up foreign-language, pretend like you’re making a motivational speech, or really do whatever you think will make people crack up the most. Give yourselves a two-hour limit to film a five-minute video so you don’t overthink it or waste too much time planning it.


If you’re really proud of your handiwork, then you can post it on YouTube. Or you can try the reverse—telling yourselves that you’ll have to post the video on YouTube no matter what, so it better be good.
 If at least one of your friends has a car and your license, then you should drive around blasting embarrassing music that will get everyone’s attention. You can play whatever you think is embarrassing, whether it’s The Bee Gees, Britney Spears or just whatever you’re in the mood for hearing. Don’t be ashamed—sing the lyrics loud and proud, and smile at the people who stare at you.


For bonus points, you can even act like one of your friends is chasing after your car, wanting to be in on the fun. There’s something hilarious about a guy chasing after a car that’s blasting Britney.

