 In order to register to vote in Maryland, you must be a United States citizen.If you were born in the United States, your birth certificate is proof of your citizenship. If you were born outside of the United States, you may still be a United States citizen but you will need to check with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)., If you want to vote in Maryland, you have to be a resident of the state. To be considered a Maryland resident, you must be domiciled within the state. Your domicile is the place you consider to be your permanent or official home. Your domicile will usually be the address you have on your drivers license, tax documents, and bank accounts. Additionally, your domicile might not be the place where you are actually living if that living arrangement is temporary.


For example, if you are a college student in Maryland, you can only register to vote if you consider Maryland to be your permanent or official home., In Maryland, you can register to vote when you are 16 years old. However, you will not be allowed to vote until you are 18 years of age., Certain categories of individuals are not allowed to vote in Maryland. If you find yourself in one of these prohibited categories, you will not be able to register. Maryland considers the following groups of individuals unable to register:Anybody convicted of buying or selling votes
Anyone under guardianship for a mental disability and found by a court to be unable to express their desire to vote
Any convicted felon currently serving a court-ordered prison sentence

, As of early 2016, felons can register to vote in Maryland under certain circumstances. If you are a convicted felon, you will be able to register as soon as you complete your court-ordered prison sentence. Convictions include any federal, state, and out-of-state convictions. Contact the Maryland Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services to get your right to vote restored. If you were convicted in another jurisdiction, contact the Parole and Probation Division in that state or region.


However, if you were convicted of buying or selling votes, you will not be eligible to vote, even when your sentence is complete., If you are a United States citizen living over seas for various reasons, you may still be eligible to register in Maryland. To be eligible, you must be a United States citizen living overseas, a current military member living overseas, or a dependent of a military member living overseas (e.g., the husband or wife of a military member living overseas). In addition, your last address in the United States must be in Maryland.