 If you want to act in a mature fashion, you need to respect authority. No matter where you go—home, school, or work—you will have to obey rules set by authority figures. In most cases, these rules are set to keep you and others safe, so comply with them.


It’s normal for teens to want to push back against authority sometimes. If you want to discuss rules with authority figures, argue your case in a respectful manner. That way, the adult is more likely to listen.For example, you might say, “Mom and Dad, I’m fifteen now and I think I deserve a later curfew. I always come home on time and I never get into trouble. What do you say?”;
, Having good manners shows respect. Proper behavior also helps adults see you as more mature. Good manners cover a wide range of behaviors: saying “yes, sir/ma’am,” answering the phone with “hello,” not interrupting others’ conversations, chewing with your mouth closed, and holding the door for the person walking behind you.Many rules of etiquette may already have been explained to you. However, you can ask your parents or other adults, “How can I show good manners?” to learn more.
 A mature person doesn’t expect others to go around cleaning up their messes. If you’re a teen trying to be mature, then you’ll want to start picking up behind yourself. This means putting your plate away after meals and wiping up any spills. You should also return games, movies, or books to their proper place after using them.


Keep your room tidy by tossing dirty clothes in the laundry and putting away clean clothes in drawers or in the closet. Make your bed each morning immediately after you get up. Place your book bag on a hook behind the door to keep it off the floor. Line up shoes under your bed or on shelves in your closet so you and your parents don’t trip over them.
Make it easier to tidy by setting a timer for 20 minutes and doing a deep-clean of your room once a day. Play some music to make the time go faster., A mature teen knows to say “no” to delinquent behaviors. Using alcohol and drugs, lying, stealing, fighting, acting recklessly, or destroying others’ property will only get you into trouble or hurt. Instead, be drug-free, wear your seat belt when driving or riding in a car, and stay away from negative influences.