 If you are having a lot of people over a large backyard is a must. It doesn't have to be your yard. Ask your parents if their yard is larger, join forces with the neighbours and spread the fun across more than one yard. Ask the local authorities if you can spread the party to the lane, road or green space in front or behind your yard if you wish. Backyards are best for backyard parties but the front yard or some communal space can work too. If the summer weather lets you down, you might need an alternative location, your house can work.;
, Invite all your friends. If it is a end-of-school party then a good idea would be to invite all your classmates. The more the merrier. Make it a way to get to know your neighbours if you wish, invite them to your backyard party. Invite your family if appropriate.
 Make sure it is a date where a lot of people will be free. Make sure your invitees know the date, time, and location, i.e., your backyard.
 People will get hungry! Be sure to have a wide variety of food and drinks laid out. Borrow tables if required. Picnic tables and patio furniture are ideal for backyard parties. Consider carefully the pros and cons of taking your dining room furniture out doors. It's probably better to throw a clean white sheet over a trestle table than cart your antique, oak dining table into the garden.
 Try to find games that work for a large group of people, like truth or dare or spin the bottle.
 Use paper plates and plastic cups if you don't like washing up. Make sure you have enough cutlery for everyone. Have a way to keep food a drink cool if required. Some people like to fill a child's paddling pool with ice and water and put all the bottles and cans in that., Having a party without permission never ends well! Make sure you clear all your ideas with your parents before anything is set in stone.
 The guests' own parents might feel better if your parents are in the house should anything go wrong, but you don't want party pooper chaperones hovering over your fun.
 People don't want to be standing around hungry for hours waiting for the coals to start to glow or gnawing on ribs that are burnt on the outside and raw inside., First of all, tidy up. Mow the lawn, sweep the patio, weed the flower beds etc. Get the yard looking neat and tidy. Then, you can add some decorative touches. Use bunting on your garden fence or in any trees. Tie balloons to fences or garden furniture. Cover tables in decorative table cloths. If you have a patio umbrella, gazebo, rose arch or other similar item, decorate it with banners, streamers, flags etc., It's sensible to keep people out of house if they don't need to be in their, this is a backyard party after all., If you'll be in the yard after dark your guests will need to be able to see. Turn on outdoor lights, hang lanterns, float tea lights on your pond, hang candles in jam jars in the trees or use glow sticks and outdoor party lights.