 Pop-punk songs can be about almost anything. Most commonly, however, they talk about love, adolescence, and rebellion. Unlike its older cousin punk, pop-punk songs are focused more on melodies and relatable lyrics than hard-hitting social criticism. Common subjects include:


Love and heartbreak
Suburban angst
Rebellion against school, parents, etc.
Joke-y and goofy lyrics
Growing up., Pop music, no matter what subgenre, is about music that hooks the listener in. You want everyone singing or humming your chorus when the song is done. Keep it short, simple, and make sure it sounds great.


Whistling the lyrics is a great way to hear the melody. Write lyrics so that they sound great even when you're just whistling.
Green Day, Blink-182, Operation Ivy, and Rancid are great bands on their own, but it is their ability to write a catchy, radio-friendly chorus got them famous., The easiest way to write song lyrics is in rhyming couplets. Basically, you write one line, then write another line that rhymes with it. These lyrics need to flesh out your chorus and idea. If you're stuck with the verses, you might--


Tell a story ("Timebomb")
Describe related moments or images about a girl, life, school ("Story of my Life.").
Explore a theme or idea, using each verse to talk about a different aspect ("Longview").
 The sing-along, often little more than "lalalas" "oooohhhs" and "ahhhhhhs," is a staple of pop-punk. Often used in the chorus or outro, a good sing-along section is key for a pop-punk section. You don't need one in every song, but even something as simple as "nananana nanananana" in "All the Small Things" is the difference between a good song and a hit.
 Pop punk is personal medium. Your own worries, fears, and anger will fit right at home in the lyrics, so don't shy away from personal stories or opinions. Punk is known as an inclusive, do-it-yourself genre, so just be yourself. Even somewhat angsty, emo-type lyrics work well, as evidenced by Good Charlotte, Fall Out Boy, and Screeching Weasel.


Feel free to get weird. The Lillingtons, for example, made their mark with sci-fi inspired songs.
Feel free to be funny. Pop-punk has a long history of pranksters and joke songs, from the poppier NOFX songs to the self-awareness of The Steinways.