 Ask as many questions as you can. Find out the following information:


What the child has been suspended for
What exactly happened
Why suspension has been the chosen punishment
Were other students involved in the incident, and if so, have they also been suspended; if not, why not
How long will the suspension last
What your child be expected to do during the suspension
How this will affect your child academically;
, The schools much prefer an involved parent who wants to know what is happening to their child over a disengaged one.
 Suspension is a very common punishment in some schools. It does not mean your child is being rejected.

Is the child old enough to understand what they have done wrong?
Was the child suspended for one-off petty offenses such as long hair or for throwing pencils at another student?
Was the child suspended also for throwing stones at students and/or teachers/faculty?
Was the behavior caused by learning disabilities and/or other disabilities or delays your child has such as ADHD, autism, learning difficulties, hearing problems, vision problems, health problems, etc. Exercise your rights under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) if this pertains.
 Consider including: a table (or portable table) set up in an isolated area away from the TV, computer, gaming consoles, and/or other fun areas. Include wide ranges of educational work appropriate for your child's grade level, and a timer that will ring at certain times of the day.



Tell your child to do work from the suspension kit/schoolwork.
Make sure you use an alarm to let the child know when it's time for him/her to do other work.
Get help from your spouse, a babysitter, a neighbor, or a grandparent to make sure your child's not having fun during his/her suspension.



If you leave your older child at home alone, take all power cords associated with withdrawn privilege(s) to prevent him from violating his/her grounding.



Don't allow your child to listen to music they like. If your child has crushes, don't allow your child from going out and/or being with them. Prohibit your child also from going out with friends, best friends, boyfriends, or girlfriends. Don't allow older children, also, to go to extra-curricular activities such as sporting events, and proms, too, while suspended. The punishments can also apply if the child hasn't finished his/her chores you assigned during the suspension days and/or work from the suspension kit and if there will be a break during suspension days. Your goal is to make his/her day less pleasant to make sure he/she isn't suspended in the future.
Give him/her a time out or ground your child, if he/she leave stop doing their work and/or leave their room and/or the house.
Put a password on the child's laptop or tablet (if they have one), if necessary.
Give your child some unpleasant chores.
Beware of any inclination for the child to take the suspension days as leisure away from teachers/faculty and/or class responsibilities. Example: If Grandpa or Grandma is more likely to be sympathetic to him/her and let him/her watch TV all day, that will not work.
If you're unsure what to do, read up more on the following articles:How to Punish Disobedient Children,or How to Punish a Child in the Right Way


, They may be angry, upset or emotional about what happened, or possibly even gloating about it. You will probably be angry and upset too. Talking about it straight away can lead to a pointless battle. Wait until you both calm down (perhaps the next day) to discuss the issues.
