 A bra that doesn't fit right will look "off" under your clothes. You may be spilling out of the cups or have a band that is too tight and looks lumpy, which may draw attention to your chest. A bra that provides proper support and fits correctly will help you feel comfortable and may improve your confidence.


Check that your bra straps don't dig into your shoulders. Your straps should not be working hard to support your breasts. You may need a smaller band size or a bra with wider straps.You can also buy padding that slips under your straps if your bra fits right but your straps still hurt.
Make sure the bra band (the strap that runs across your back) is parallel to the ground or lower. The bra band should provide most of the support, and the lower it is on your back, the more support it can provide.The cups should be smooth against your chest. If your breasts are spilling out the top or sides or it feels like your bra is cutting into your breasts, try a larger cup or a bra with a bigger cup design.You should be able to fit a finger under the front of your bra band. If it's too tight, you need a larger band size.A professional fitting can be extremely beneficial in helping you find a bra that fits correctly. An employee at a lingerie store or department store can measure you for the right band and cup size.
 The wrong bra can make your breasts look saggy but, even worse, can cause you significant pain. There are many different bra types on the market, and you'll need to find out which ones work for your body.


Try a multi-cup bra. The cups on these bras are made up of two or more pieces of fabric and they provide a ton of support. They will center your breast tissue, which will slenderize your silhouette.Try a long-line bra, which can relieve stress on your shoulders and back. The band on this bra is extended down to your waist, which distributes the weight of your breasts more evenly over your body. It can also act as shape wear, giving you a smooth line under your clothes.Try a minimizer bra, especially if you like button-up shirts. Minimizer bras minimize your breasts' projection, or how far they stick out. If you find your breasts cause gaps between the buttons in your shirts, a minimizer will push them back. Be aware that this can also create cleavage, which you may want to avoid if you're trying to deflect attention from your breasts., If you find that the stores in your area don't have bras that accommodate women with larger breasts, there are plenty of great online retailers that offer attractive bras that will give you the support you need.


Keep in mind that if you are above a DD cup, sizing will vary among different companies. Check the sizing on the website to make sure you choose the right bra.