 Once you've cut the strand, separate it into at least three finer strands., After it's threaded through, tie a knot so the strand remains looped through the needle's eye. The loop will hold the thread that you'll actually use to string your pearls.


Leave the loop on your needle so you can reuse it over and over again, Think of it as enlarging the "eye" of the needle into one big loop.
 Cut off a strand of thread at least three times the desired length of your necklace, then double it over and slip the loose ends through the loop of thread you've already made. Pull the ends through far enough that they don't easily slip out.
 Cut one of the clasp ends from your original necklace and loop the thread through it. Slip the threaded beading needle through the ring on the clasp and then back through the end loop in the thread. Tie a knot close to the clasp to prevent the loop from slipping up onto the ring incorrectly.
 If using graduated pearls, be sure to string them in order from smallest to largest and back to smallest again. There should be plenty of extra thread.
 The knot will prevent the pearls from slipping off while you tie knots. You can then push the pearls to the end of the thread where you tied the knot.
 Tie a knot immediately outside the clasp to prevent the metal from scratching the first pearl. Push the first pearl up against the knot and tie another knot on the other side of the pearl.


You may find it helpful to hold the loop down on the pearl and tighten.
Hold the thread tightly against the pearl as the knot is pulled shut.
 Push each pearl up against the last knot and tie an additional knot immediately on the other side of the pearl.


After tying each knot, separate the two threads and pull them tightly apart to move the knot closer to the pearl.
Try placing a needle through each knot to guide the knot tightly against the pearl.
Keeping a finger tightly over each knot as it's being pulled will help to pull it snug against the pearl.
 Once you've knotted the final pearl, cut off the end thread knot and slide the two threads through the other side of clasp. Then pull the threads tightly up to the final knotted pearl strand and tie a strong double knot.
 If you used silk thread, apply a tiny dot of super glue with a tooth pick, carefully keeping glue off the pearl or pearl hole. Once the glue dries, cut the thread as close as possible to the knot.


If you used synthetic thread, cut within a 1/4-inch of the knot and melt the loose ends with a small flame from a lighter or a match.

