 Squeeze approximately 10 tsp (40 ml) of dish soap into a watering can.Then, use a hose to add water to the soap in the watering can. Once the watering can is mostly filled with water, turn off the hose, and gently shake the watering can for about 10 seconds.


Rake the mulch and leaves off of the soil, and then pour the soapy solution over the area you plan to collect worms from. Make sure that you spread out the soapy water, and don’t pour it all in one spot.
Remember, moist, fertile soil is the ideal environment to find worms.
Shaking the watering can will mix the soap and water together, and you may have suds falling out of the watering can’s sprinkler., Once the soapy solution is poured over the dirt or grassy area, worms should start to wiggle to the surface.It may take a few minutes for most of the worms to surface, but as they do, use your fingers to pick them up and put them in a container until you can rinse them off later.


Again, try to pick the worms up by the end of their body, which will be lighter in color.
 Once you have your collection of worms, use clean, non-chlorinated water to gently rinse the worms from any soap residue.Add a little bit of water to the container holding the worms (completely covering the worms), and softly swish the water around for a few seconds. Then tilt the container with your hand on the edge, to drain out the water and catch any worms that might fall out.


You can also place a towel or old t-shirt over a bucket, place the worms on it, and then pour cool water over the worms to rinse away the soap.
Rinsing the worms is very important. Since the soap is irritating, the worms could die if soap residue remains on their bodies for too long.
 When your worms are clean, store them in a container with a perforated lit. Add some dirt with bits of leaves, or worm bedding to give the worms something to nest in. Keep the container in a cool, dark place until you need to use them.


Make sure that you do not repeat the soapy water process in the same area for at least a few weeks. It will make the area unappealing to worms. For this reason, you may also want to avoid using this method near compost piles, plants, or other areas where worms are beneficial.