 The ideal piece of paper for folding your squirrel airplane will be size A4. You should be able to buy this from your local arts and craft store or stationary store. Fold it in half lengthwise so that it resembles a hot dog bun.If you have difficulty finding A4 paper, you should use paper roughly A4 dimensions which are 8.27 × 11.69 inches (210 × 297 millimeters). North America convention uses the name “Letter” to refer to a page that is of similar dimensions to A4 sheets.If working with children on this project, you may want to help visualize this fold by explaining it as “hot dog style.” Much like you’d prepare a hot dog left-to-right (horizontally), you’ll fold your paper in half lengthwise hot dog style.You should consider using a smooth, solid object to help your press firmly against the folds you make. This object is usually called a “bone folder” in paper crafting. You might use a smooth bottle cap, a paperweight, or a coin to press against your folds while folding to make cleaner, crisper folds., Lay your page before you so the crease of your fold faces you and the flaps face away. Take the top left corner and fold it down so that the edge that runs between the upper and lower left corner runs along the crease. Then:


Perform this same fold on the other half of your paper so that both same-side corners fold inward evenly along the crease. This will cause the left side of your paper to slope down to the bottom-left corner in a point.
This is the classic paper airplane shape, with a V-shaped nose and simple rectangular body. You should run your nail or some other solid object along your folds at this point to strengthen the creases of your squirrel airplane., First you'll need to open the lengthwise middle fold and lay your paper flat on the table. The left corners of your plane should still be folded, creating an arrow shape pointing to the left. The triangular point of this arrow is the nose of your craft. Take your nose by its tip and fold it inward until the base of the nose becomes the new outside edge.


As your folds thicken, it will become more and more difficult for you to achieve deep, crisp folds. Deep and crisp folds will make a stronger and more precise airplane. Use a bone folder or press creases firmly with your nail to strengthen your folds.
Your nose should fold inward so the outermost perimeter of your paper forms an evenly shaped rectangle. The center of your paper should be creased left to right, and the triangle you folded inward should be pointing inward to the right.
 The nose of your craft should have an upper and lower corner. Fold both corners inward to run along the center crease flatly. Precise folds that don’t overlap will create the strongest and most accurate airplane. After folding your corners, the resulting shape should create an even base, the resulting flaps forming two halves of a triangle.


Once you have finished this fold, your paper should again be shaped like an arrow pointing to the left. Run over your folds with your nail or a bone folder to strengthen them, and pay special attention to folds with many layers. , Hold the tip of your left pointing arrow and fold it inwards. Fold the tip so that it’s tip is even with its base. After you make this fold, the nose will be shaped with two small triangles pointing left and one small triangle pointing right.


Now your craft is ready to be re-creased. Pick up your sheet and bend it along the middle lengthwise crease. Use your nail or a bone folder to strengthen this fold.
 Use a ruler and a marker to draw guidelines for your next folds. You’ll want a 1-inch (2.6 cm) mark along both sides of the nose of your craft and a 1½-inch (3.8 cm) marks on both sides of the tail. Then draw a line from the marks on the nose to the marks on the tail to create your guidelines for both sides. Fold your wings from the outside of each flap and bend both downward until the creases of your wings follow your guidelines perfectly.Your wings, once folded, should face outward to either side flatly. The middle crease will point down and create a V-shape. Getting your wings to maintain this position might require you to repeat the folds several times to strengthen them. You might also use a tool, like a bone folder.
Both Wings should mirror each other in shape and size. One should not be longer than the other. If your wings don’t look like mirror-images, you should unfold your wings, re-measure your guidelines, and check your folds. Correct and refold any errors you find.
If you’re a novice paper crafter, you might have mis-folded a few steps. This might result in some of your creases being weak. Weak folds can hurt the performance of your finished paper airplane, so you might want to start afresh if you’ve had some mis-folds.
 You’ll likely have to adjust your wings with slight bendings and tweaks from your hand to get the wing position right. Looking at your plane head on, open the wings so that they form a flat L-shape at the top of both sides of the V-shaped crease that forms the body of your plane.


When you have finished shaping your wings, pinch the body so both sides of the middle crease are pressed together. Then flip the plane so that the top of the wings are flat on your table., Take your ruler and use your marker to draw a point .62 inches (1.6 cm) from both nose-side corners of the wing to the inside. On the tail corners of both wings, measure and draw a point ½-inch (1.2 cm) to the inside. Use your ruler to connect these two points to form the guideline for your fin fold.


Take extra care to be precise with your fin measurements. These will have a significant effect on the drag forces on your plane and will greatly impact your modified squirrel paper airplane’s ability to boomerang., Small modifications you make to the tail of your paper airplane will have a significant effect on its steering. To boomerang to the left, you’ll need to tweak your tail to steer to the left. Look at your plane from its tail. See how the very back is mostly flat? You’ll want to:


Slightly bend (tweak) the back edge of the right wing to point upwards.
Divide the left wing’s back edge into a right and left half.
Bend the right half of the left wing slightly up.
Bend the left half of the left wing slightly down
Bend the left side fin slightly to the left as well.You will likely have to make adjustments to your tail after you test fly your craft. The balance of your plane, irregular folds, small tears, the position of the bends in your tail – all these can influence your plane’s ability to boomerang. Have patience and tweak the shape of your plane until it boomerangs to the left back into your arms

, But first, pick it up and hold it by the bottom of the V-shaped crease in the middle. Allow your thumb and forefinger to pinch the nose so the sides of the V press together. Then, in a smooth motion that curves to the left, throw your plane and release with your thumb and forefinger.


Note the areas your plane needs improved. If it turns to hard to the left, your leftward tweaks on your tail should be smaller. If it doesn't turn left enough, you should add a deepen your leftward tweaks., The common problem of your plane looping can be solved by adjusting the upward and downward tweaks you made on your rudders. Make your tweaks subtler. If you have the problem of your plane rapidly crashing to the ground, flatten out downward tweaks you made on the left rudder and, on the same rudder, make your upward tweak less subtle.


You may need to adjust your throwing motion. Experiment with your throwing angle and how hard you throw the plane.

