 Now, this isn't a written invitation to go to school in your pajamas and leave your hair unbrushed/combed, but don't feel as if you should change your look to impress fellow classmates. Wear what you are comfortable in and styles that you personally like, as long as it adheres to your school's clothes policies and is neat.;
, Again, this doesn't mean smear your face with pounds of makeup. It just means that you shouldn't look dirty. Wash your face, brush or comb your hair, have neat hands and nails, and clean teeth. Makeup is not restricted for the preteen age, but I would personally suggest that if you want to wear makeup, go for a natural look, with colors close to your skin tone. Make SURE not to wear a lot of eye makeup, it just looks like you're trying too hard to be pretty. A clear gloss, concealer if you have acne, and maybe some mascara on your upper lash line is sufficient.
 If you are naturally shy, work on your smile, and things you can say to people. If you are allowed to talk to people before school starts, instead of being the one who people whisper about, saying things such as, "Look at that new girl over there all by herself," suck up your nerves and walk over to a girl who looks friendly (trust me you will want to start off with a girl) and say, "Hi, my name is _________. I like your _______" (shirt, bracelet, etc.) If she really is a nice girl, then she will probably begin to talk to you, or (hopefully) introduce you to some other people in your class. If she is not so nice, don't lose hope, just try it again with another girl.
 Try to talk to a variety of girls, and, if you begin to feel comfortable with it, talk to some guys as well.
 You really need to find out more about his personality. And also, if you do slip something about liking him, it could end up getting to him, and if he doesn't like you, you don't want to get humiliated on the first day!

,, If there is a tense/awkward moment, don't let it drag on. Say something funny and witty to break the ice.
 Defend yourself if need be, but do it in the quietest and nicest way possible. The more friends you have, the more support and trust you will gain.
 Whatever you do will have consequences, whether they are good or bad.

