 The following are symptoms of potential bacterial infections that may require treatment by a physician.Fever, especially with a severe head or neck ache or chest pain
Trouble breathing or pain in the chest
A cough that lasts longer than a week
Rash or swelling that won’t go down
Increasing pain in the urinary tract (which may be pain with urination, in the lower back, or in the lower abdomen)
Pain, swelling, warmth, pus drainage or red streaks extending from a wound.;
, The only sure way to determine what types of bacterial infection you have is to visit a doctor. If you think you have an infection, call your doctor and schedule an appointment right away. Your doctor may perform a blood test, urine culture, or swab of the infected area to determine what type of infection you have.


Remember that bacterial infections can only be diagnosed by a doctor. If you think that you have an infection, note the symptoms and go to the doctor for treatment as soon as possible.
 Asking your doctor about the different types of antibiotics that are available will make it easier for you to understand what your doctor is prescribing.



Broad-spectrum antibiotics fight a wide variety of bacteria. Broad-spectrum antibiotics treat gram positive and negative bacteria, so your doctor may prescribe one of these types of antibiotics if he or she is unsure about what bacteria you have.

Amoxicillin, Augmentin, Tetracycline and Ciprofloxacin are examples of broad-spectrum antibiotics.



Medium-spectrum antibiotics target a group of bacteria. Penicillin and bacitracin are popular medium-spectrum antibiotics.

Narrow-spectrum antibiotics are made to treat one specific kind of bacteria. Polymyxins fall into this small category of antibiotics. Treatment is much easier and more effective when your doctor knows what kind of bacterial infection you have., Your doctor will select the type of antibiotic that works best against the specific bacteria that has caused your infection. Keep in mind that there are many different kinds of antibiotics and only a doctor can prescribe an antibiotic to you.


Make sure that you know exactly how much of the antibiotic you are supposed to take, and when you are supposed to take it. Some antibiotics need to be taken with food, some need to be taken at night, etc. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you don’t understand the dosage instructions.
 If you do not take the full course, your infection may get worse. You may also become antibiotic resistant, which can make it hard to treat other infections.


Even if you feel better, you need to take all of the antibiotics to kill the disease causing bacteria that is left in your body. If you stop treatment too soon, you may never fully get rid of the infection.