 Waivers are available only for certain people, depending on why you were found ineligible. You should read your denial letter, which will tell you if you are eligible to apply for a waiver.Generally, waivers are available for most grounds of inadmissibility for nonimmigrant visa applicants., Your denial letter will tell you the precise steps you need to take in order to apply for a waiver. Take out your copy and read it. If you have questions, you can call the number on the letter.


If you have questions, contact the consular officer at the U.S. Consulate or Embassy where you applied., Some applicants for a nonimmigrant visa will have to complete Form I-601, Application for Waiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility.You can download the form and its instructions from the USCIS website.Once you complete the application, you should make a copy for your records.
You must pay a $585 filing fee. Make your check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” Don’t use other abbreviations. Since fees are subject to change, you should call 1-800-375-5283 to check the current fee., Most people requesting a waiver for a nonimmigrant visa will not complete Form I-601. Instead, they will need to draft a letter explaining their need to travel to the U.S. The letter should include the following:dates of arrival and departure
how many times you intend to enter the U.S.
the facts surrounding the reason you were denied a visa

, You might submit letters from references who can attest to your good character or reputation. For example, you might seek letters from the following people, which you can include with your letter:


past and present employer
colleagues
other people who know you

, You may need to provide the consulate with additional documents, depending on your situation. For example, you might have to provide the following:certified copies of your criminal record (if you were denied on grounds of criminal inadmissibility)
a psychological evaluation, if appropriate
evidence of rehabilitation, e.g., proof of employment, education, counseling, or treatment

, The consular officer who found you ineligible will decide whether to recommend to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) whether you should receive a waiver.The official will focus on the following factors:how recently the activity occurred that resulted in your inadmissibility
your reason for travelling to the U.S.
whether there is a positive or negative effect on the public interest in having you travel to the U.S.

