 When your money is on the line, don't follow your gut. Instead, use your head. There's no way to be absolutely certain who will win a given football game, even when one team is heavily favored. However, taking a careful look at the two teams' statistics will give you a better idea of who is likely to win. For NFL teams, basic stats are available for free from the league's official site.Below are just a few stats to consider:


Total offense (yards per game). The team that scores more points wins, so a strong offense is a good indicator of success.
Total defense (yards per game). Strong defenses shouldn't be ignored — under the right circumstances, they can shut down powerful offenses.
Rushing/passing stats (yards per game). Knowing both teams' offensive and defensive strengths can help you predict how each match-up will play out.
 This is true of all gambling in general. No matter how sure you are about your bet, there is always a chance that you'll lose everything you wagered, so never bet money you won't be able to get by without.


A good policy is to treat gambling as something to do only with your "extra" money. In other words, once all your bills are paid off, you've budgeted for your living expenses, and your financial obligations are met, you can use a small amount of whatever's left over for betting.
 Over time, minor changes in NFL rules can have major effects on the way games are played. The current rule set favors quarterbacks by making it harder for the defense to sack or put pressure on them without drawing a penalty.Because of this, teams with good quarterbacks currently have a slightly greater advantage than usual.


On the other hand, a bad quarterback can hamstring teams that have good stats otherwise. In the 2013 NFL season, 10 the 11 teams that threw the most interceptions failed to make the playoffs., If you're banking on one team to do well during a given season, be sure to note the teams they will be playing (as well as when and where). A favorable schedule can help a team get into the playoffs. A difficult one can make it very challenging even for a strong team.


For instance, if your team is playing their main division rivals during an away game, they'll lack the home field advantage that might have made the game more of a sure thing on a different schedule. On the other hand, if their schedule is packed with weak teams, they may easily cruise to the playoffs.
 There isn't any science to this, but teams that do very well during one season tend to do somewhat worse the following season. This can be due to many factors, including fatigue and a shorter off-season. If your favorite team went all the way to the Super Bowl last season, you may want to think twice about making a prop bet on them appearing again, even if you feel that they deserve it. Even the strongest teams can be vulnerable after a great season.