 Do so by entering http://www.utorrent.com/ into your browser's URL bar.
 It's the button in the middle of the µTorrent page that mentions your computer's operating system (e.g., "For Windows"). Doing so will prompt µTorrent to begin downloading.

Depending on your operating system, you may need to click Get µTorrent on a second page first.
Depending on your browser, you may first have to click Save or specify a download location before the download will begin.
 This process will vary depending on your computer:


Windows: Double-click the µTorrent file, click Yes when prompted, click Next twice, click I agree, select shortcut options and click Next, click Next again, and click Decline on the recommended programs. Click Finish to finalize the installation.

Mac: Drag µTorrent into the "Applications" folder.
 Simply double-click the µTorrent icon to do so. You're now ready to begin downloading movies using µTorrent., It's recommended that you use a supported web browser like Edge, Chrome, or Firefox, since Internet Explorer may be too vulnerable for most torrent websites., Torrent websites are typically hit-or-miss due to legal reasons, so you'll likely need to browse to find a currently operational site rather than relying on any specific torrent website.

One way to find a torrent website is by searching "torrents" on Google or a similar search engine and then reviewing the results.
 You'll typically find the search bar at the top of the site, though each site's layout will differ slightly. Searching for your term will pull up a list of matching results.

Using more specific terms (e.g., "Blair Witch 2016" rather than "Blair Witch") will yield more specific results.
 When downloading a torrent, there are a few things to look for:


Seeders: The number in the "SEED" column on the right side of the page should ideally be higher (or roughly equal to) the number in the "LEECH" column.

File details: Make sure the file name, category, and any other information in the title matches exactly what you're looking for.

Quality (video only): Look for at least "720p" in the title ("1080p" is ideal) or higher as those files will in the range of DVD quality or greater. Anything lower will have poor quality.
 There are a couple of other things you'll look for here:


Comments: Specifically, look for comments on whether or not the torrent is safe, as well as quality comments.

Rating: Make sure the torrent has a low number of negative reviews and a high number of positive ones.
 Do so by clicking your site's "Download" button, which will usually say Download Torrent or something similar (e.g., Download ).

Many Torrent websites have false ads plastered on the page that look like download links but will take you to another site. Make sure the download link matches the format and style of the Torrent site you are using. You can also hover the mouse over the link to view that the link's URL is the on the same domain name as the Torrent website you are currently on using.
 Dropping the file here will prompt the movie file itself to begin downloading to your computer.

You may first have to specify a download location (e.g., your desktop).
 Once the file finishes downloading, you'll see "Seeding" appear to the right of the torrent's name. This indicates that you're sharing the data for your movie file to other people who are also trying to download the same movie.

BitTorrent is a P2P (Peer to Peer) network system of sharing files without needing to have the file in a specific location. Instead of download the movie file directly from a website or server, you are downloading it from everyone who is sharing (or "seeding") that same movie file all at once.

