 Open the deployment clasp as you usually would. The exact method you'll need to use will vary depending on the type of deployment clasp you have.


The deployment clasp must be completely opened and expanded to its longest position. You need to be able to see into the side of the clasp. Make sure that you can see a thin metal prong or pin extending from the top piece to the bottom piece. The two metal pieces are connected on the closed interior side by a small hinge.
Standard deployment clasps and hidden deployment clasps are pried open, but push button and fold-over push button deployment clasps must be opened using the appropriate button.
For more information, please see the Opening and Closing the Deployment Clasp section of this article.;
, Look into the side of the branded section of the clasp. You should be able to identify a hinged flap beneath the top logo. Flip down the flap to open this portion of the clasp.


Grab the branded top with one finger and the unmarked back plate beneath it with your thumb or another strong finger. Hold the branded portion steady while pulling the back plate down and away from it. It should click open without additional work.
If you are unable to open the flap with your fingers, use a penny or similarly small metal coin. Insert the penny in between the branded top and the unmarked flap. Twist the coin to either side. The pressure should force the flap to drop open., Thread the strap of the watch or bracelet in between the branded metal bar and the newly opened flap.


Hold the metal bar between your thumb and index finger with the back plate flap hanging open and down.
Insert the unattached end of the strap through the gap. Continue threading it through until the band has reached your desired length.
Note that the watch will look larger now than it will once the deployment clasp is closed again. Keep that in mind while adjusting the length of the strap. The distance around your wrist will need to equal the sum of the length of both strap ends, the face of the watch, and the length of the closed clasp.
 Close the back plate flap to set and secure the new length of the band.


Close the flap by pressing it back up toward the branded top bar.
As you close the back plate flap, look into the open side of the hinged metal again. Make sure that the prong or pin connecting the flap and the branded metal top is inserted into one of the holes in the strap., Slip the watch over your hand and onto your wrist. Close the deployment clasp as you usually would to keep the watch on.This is the best time to check the fit. The band should be tight enough to stay on your wrist without turning or slipping off your hand, but it should not be tight enough to dig into your skin or cut off any circulation.
If you need to make any adjustments, open the watch as usual and take it off your wrist. Follow the same procedure you just completed to open the adjustment flap, then slide more or less of the band through it to tighten or loosen it. Repeat as needed until you achieve the correct fit.
 The deployment clasp and band have now been adjusted to fit your wrist. You should not need to repeat these adjustments again, and the watch should be ready to wear.


Each time you want to wear the watch or bracelet, open the deployment clasp and expand the band to its widest position. Slip the band over your hand and onto your wrist, then close the clasp.
Note that deployment clasps are designed to preserve the lifespan of leather and similarly fragile bands.
 Pinch the lip of the open clasp end beneath your index finger or in between your index finger and thumb.


To determine which end is the open end, look at the deployment clasp from the side. You should be able to see hinges on one side, and the other side should not have any hinges. The side without hinges should also have a slight lip on it when viewed from the top of the clasp.
The "open end" of the clasp is the side without hinges.
 Pull up on the clasp lip with your index finger until the cover snaps open, lifting up and away in the direction of your pull.This type of deployment clasp is held together with pressure, so you only need to apply force to open it up.
Some deployment clasps are stronger than others, so you may need to apply considerable force to open yours. If you cannot lift the clasp cover with your fingers, you may need to insert a small metal coin or flat screwdriver into the space beneath the lip. Use this tool as a lever; press down on the end hanging outside of the clasp, causing the end inside the clasp to lift up and pry open the cover from beneath.
 Open the entire deployment clasp, stretching it out until it reaches its maximum length.


If the band has already been attached at both ends, the band will also expand to its full (adjusted) length. If the band has not been attached at one end, though, you can only open the clasp to its full extended length.
Note that this type of clasp folds out into three hinged parts, creating a “z” shape.
 Slip the band over your hand and wrist, then press the cover back down to close the deployment clasp.


Fold the clasp thirds back up in their natural orientation.
Place your thumb beneath the bottom part of the open clasp end and your index finger over the cover at the open end. Pinch the top and bottom together in between your fingers, continuing until you hear a click. Once the clasp clicks into place, it should be securely closed.
 This style of deployment clasp has a push button on one side of the unhinged edge of the clasp.


Some versions have two buttons—one on either side of the clasp.
The push buttons on these clasps control the opening mechanism. They offer additional security and prevent the clasp from opening on its own.
 Press the button into the side of the clasp. Hold it down as you lift the unhinged edge up and open.


For two-button models, you will need to press both buttons simultaneously.
You can release the buttons as soon as the clasp is open.
 Continue opening the clasp until you have expanded it to its fullest length.


This type of deployment clasp should fold out into three hinged portions, creating a zigzag or “z” shape.
If the band has already been adjusted, place it over your hand and onto your wrist while it is expanded like this.
If the band has not been adjusted, do so now.
 Fold the clasp thirds back up, pushing the top and bottom in between your fingers until you hear a click.


You should not need to use the push buttons to close the clasp.
After clicking into place, the clasp should be closed and secure.
 Look for the latch covering the unhinged portion of the deployment clasp. Pull the latch up and away from the clasp.When folded down, this latch prevents the opening mechanism from engaging. It also prevents the opening of the actual clasp from getting snagged.
 Locate the push button on the side of the deployment clasp. Press it in while simultaneously lifting the clasp up and away from the security latch.


Note that some versions have a button on either side of the clasp. You will need to press both buttons at the same time to open this type of clasp.
You must press these buttons to trigger the opening mechanism. Do not attempt to open the deployment clasp with force alone.
 Open the deployment clasp until it expands out as far as possible.


This type of deployment clasp is also made of three hinged portions arranged in the same zigzag manner as the standard and push button varieties.
If you haven't adjusted the band yet, do so now.
If you have adjusted the band, this is when you should slide it around your wrist.
 Fold up the clasp thirds, stacking them one on top of the other. Squeeze the entire clasp in between your thumb and index finger until you hear it click closed.


You should not need to use the push buttons to close the clasp. Gentle force should be enough.
 Return to the separate latch lying next to the deployment clasp. Push it back toward the clasp, then press it down onto the clasp until you hear a click.


After clicking this latch closed, the opening mechanism should be secured and the entire deployment clasp is considered closed.
 Look for the point at which the two band ends meet. Grab each end near this point and simultaneously pull them away from each other.


The deployment clasp itself is actually located on the inside of the band, so you won't be able to see it from the front.
As you pull the two ends apart, the resulting pressure should be enough to engage the opening mechanism of the clasp and cause it to lift away from the band.
Note that some versions of the hidden deployment clasp also have push buttons on either side of the clasp. For this type, you will need to push both buttons in while simultaneously pulling the joined ends of the band apart.
 Continue opening the band by spreading the separate ends apart as far as they will go. The deployment clasp should expand until it is nearly flat.


This style of deployment clasp differs slightly from the other common types. There are still three separate metal pieces connected by hinges, but instead of opening into a "z" shape, the longest of these sections will lift straight up while being supported by the other two sections, forming something closer to an "n" shape.
With the clasp expanded, adjust the band or, if previously adjusted, put the band onto your wrist.
 Bring the two band ends back together, holding them as close to each other as possible.


This will draw the deployment clasp near the band, but under most circumstances, it won't actually be enough to close the clasp.
 While holding the band ends together, use your thumb or index finger to push the flattened clasp into the back of the band. Continue pushing until you hear it snap or click into place.


Even if the clasp has push buttons on it, you should not need to use them while closing it.
After clicking the clasp into the back of the band, it should be closed and secured.

