 You don't need to be an artist to paint. Painting has a way of helping you express your inner self. If you're bored, try expressing your boredom through a colourful scenery. Take your time and be patient. If it doesn't work out, try again! Painting will not only improve your skills, but it will also give you a feeling of accomplishment.;
, Bicycling is a great way to catch some fresh air and feel the natural beauty. No need to do it as an exercise! Do it to kill time doing something constructive. If you don't have a bicycle, no need to purchase a new one. Borrow from a neighbour or a friend. If you like the idea, then go buy one for yourself! Bicycling is one of the most beneficial sports of all time. It strengthens your whole body, helps you to maintain balance and is a great way to get that extra oxygen for your 24-hour functioning lungs! (In case you're not a fan of bicycling, try horse-riding. It has the same benefits!).
 Yoga is a great way to keep your body young and flexible. There is no age limit to yoga. It only requires patience, concentration and perseverance! It will tone your body muscles and give you a youthful glow. There are many books available on basic yoga steps. Start from the basics. You will become more and more flexible as you go further on your quest of yoga! Tried and tested!

, It doesn't have to be a whole garden blooming with flowers. Start with a single pot. Buy some seeds and get started! Gardening will help you develop patience, tolerance and everything in between!

, Start writing an introduction to a book. Write as much as you feel like. Don't force yourself, ideas don't just pop out for themselves! First of all, think of names for the protagonists (main characters) and antagonists (villains, enemies etc.). If you have a personal journal or diary, take ideas from some of the events you yourself have been through in life. If you think you've done well, why not get it published in a local magazine? It is a great way to kick start your career an author or writer. You will feel very accomplished! If you'd like to help others through writing write for Wiki How.
 You don't need a LG Optimus G or Canon S100 IS to start photographing! Your mobile camera is enough. Try taking beautiful photos of a natural scene outside your house, a beautiful dish or anything else that amazes and inspires you! Photography will help you adore nature and kill time at the same time!

, Don't worry if you're an amateur baker. There is no fault in trying. Try the simplest recipes in your cookbook. If you don't have one, search the internet for simple recipes and get them printed. Don't be hesitant. Be ambitious. It's only normal to not be satisfied with the end result. Enjoy it and forgive yourself!

, No one likes messed up clothes, right? If you're not satisfied with your wardrobe, it's time to fix it up. The perfect time to organize your wardrobe is when you don't have anything else to do, you're completely free. This way you'll organize more calmly and you'll be more concentrated. You won't have the burdens of the world on your shoulders. Start by folding your clothes properly. Hang the fancy ones on hangers. You don't want to ruin a perfectly good dress! Arrange your shoes. Make sure shoes aren't matched up with different pairs. For females, keep your high heels separate from your flats. Don't let dirt from joggers and boots affect other shoes.
 You see a person's disorganized bookshelf and you immediately know that he's too lazy to organize the most important things in life. If your bookshelf isn't too messed up, try organizing the book alphabetically. Put tags for different alphabets. This way it'll be easier for anyone to grab a book and start reading right away! This constructive activity will help you improve your concentration and organizing skills. It takes a lot of patience take all the books down, dust them and reorganize them! Another benefit is that an organized bookshelf always gives a good impression!

