 Search for dirt and grass, and find the materials to create a bed. Dirt blocks, grass, and a bed are all required for breaking bedrock in Minecraft.


You can collect grass by using shears on any grass found in the world. Dirt can be found in most biomes in Minecraft. If you see any grass, dig into it to collect dirt blocks.
A bed can be made on a crafting table with three wool blocks and three wood planks. Wool can be collected from killing sheep, or you can collect their wool using shears. Wood planks can be collected from wood logs, which in turn can be collected by breaking trees.
When breaking bedrock, you can reuse the dirt block and bed, but the grass cannot be reused. So make sure to collect one piece of grass for every bedrock block you’d like to break.;
, Dig down at your feet until you reach the bedrock layer. It’s possible to find bedrock from any point in the Minecraft overworld. If you keep digging directly down, you’ll always eventually come in contact with bedrock as this is used as a block to mark the very bottom of the world. You may want to use a high quality tool, such as an iron pickaxe, to speed up the process.


To create an iron pickaxe, you will need 3 iron ingots (created by placing wood and iron ore into a furnace) and 2 sticks. Sticks can be created by placing one wood plank in the top-middle space in the crafting table interface and one wood plank in the very center of the crafting table interface.
 Digging directly down towards the bottom of the world can put you at risk of coming in contact with hostile mobs and pits of lava. To protect yourself from death, make sure to bring food so that you can heal yourself after any potential fights. Bring a bucket of water so that you can use it on any pits of lava you come across. By placing water on a lava pit, the lava will be removed.
 Once you find the bedrock you want to break, place your dirt block in the correct position in preparation for breaking the bedrock. Your should place a dirt block below the bedrock block you’d like to break, as well as one dirt block in front of the bedrock block.
 Equip the grass you’ve collected and place it on top of the dirt block that you placed down earlier. Your grass will be destroyed during the next step, so make sure to collect extra grass if you’d like to break multiple bedrock blocks.
 Face the dirt block and bedrock block head-on so that the dirt block is directly in front of you and the bedrock block is one block behind it. After lining yourself up, equip the bed and tap the top of the dirt block that you placed the grass on. This will destroy one bedrock block in front of you, but the bed will remain where you placed it.
 You can reuse the dirt block and bed you’ve already placed down to repeat the process on more bedrock blocks, but you’ll need to use a new piece of grass.

