 You’ll need a mold to help form the caramels, and an 8-inch by 8-inch (20 cm by 20 cm) or 9-inch by 9-inch (23 cm by 23 cm) baking dish works best. To keep the caramels from sticking to the dish, line it with parchment paper so the excess hangs over the edge. Next, spray the sides of the dish and the paper with nonstick cooking spray.If you don’t have parchment paper, you can line your baking dish with foil instead.
You can substitute butter for the cooking spray, but be careful not to apply too much.;
, In a small sauce pan, combine 1 cup (237 ml) heavy cream, 4 tablespoons (454 g) unsalted butter, and ¼ teaspoon (4 g) salt. Heat the ingredients over medium heat until the butter melts completely. It should take approximately 5 minutes. Remove the saucepan from the heat, but keep it close by.Cutting the butter into pieces can help it melt more quickly.
 In a larger sauce pan, combine 1 ½ cups (300 g) granulated sugar, ¼ cup (60 ml) corn syrup, and ¼ cup (59 ml) water. Stir the mixture gently to moisten the sugar and form a thick paste.Wipe down the sides of the pan to ensure that there are no sugar crystals above the surface of the sugar mixture before heating it. You can use a damp paper towel or pastry brush to wipe away the sugar.
Don’t try to combine your ingredients in a small sauce pan. The sugar will triple in size when you eventually add the cream so it can overflow if you use a smaller pan., Clip a candy thermometer to the side of the pan so you can monitor the mixture’s temperature. Next, place the sugar mixture on the stove at medium to medium high heat. Allow the syrup to come to a boil without stirring it at all. Let it cook for approximately 5 to 10 minutes or until the mixture reaches approximately 320 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius).At 320 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius), the syrup will darken, taking on a golden color. You may also notice that it starts to smell like caramel.
Don’t allow the mixture to go above 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 degrees Fahrenheit) or it may burn.
 Once the sugar syrup has reached the right temperature, turn off the heat. Slowly add the cream and butter mixture to the syrup, whisking gently to fully incorporate it. After you’ve finished adding all of the cream and butter to the pan, stop whisking.When you mix in the cream and butter, the sugar syrup will triple in size as it bubbles up. Don’t be alarmed.
 Once the cream mixture is fully incorporated into the sugar syrup, turn the heat under the pan back up to medium or medium-high, and bring the caramel mixture to a boil. Don’t stir the caramel as it boils. Remove the pan from the heat when the mixture reaches 245 to 250 degrees Fahrenheit (118 to 121 degrees Celsius).The caramel mixture will start out a golden color, but gradually deepen to a reddish-brown caramel shade as it cooks.
 Right after you remove the caramel from the heat, whisk in ½ teaspoon (2.5 ml) vanilla extract into the mixture. Work quickly so the mixture doesn’t get too thick before you fully incorporate the vanilla., As soon as you’ve finished whisking in the vanilla, transfer the caramel to your prepared baking dish. Don’t scrape the bottom of the pan to get out all of the mixture because there may be some burnt bits that you don’t want in the candy. To get out all of the good caramel from you pan, you can knock it against the counter a couple of times. That will break any air bubbles and allow the caramel to flow more freely.
 Once the caramel is in the mold, it needs time to set before you can cut and eat it. Place the pan in an out of the way spot, and allow it to sit for at least three hours. Once the caramels reach room temperature, though, you can cover the dish.For the best results, let your caramels set over night.
If you want to add any toppings to your caramel, such as sea salt or shaved chocolate, do it after approximately 20 to 30 minutes of setting. The caramels won’t be so soft that they’ll absorb the topping, but they’ll still be soft enough for the toppings to stick.
 Once the caramel is completely set, you can cut it into pieces. Lift the caramel out of the pan using the edge of the parchment paper, and use a very sharp knife to cut the caramels into your chosen shape. A 1-inch by ½ inch (2.5 cm by 1.2 cm) rectangle is a classic option.If your caramel is still too soft to work with, place the pan in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to an hour to help it firm up.
 After you’ve cut the caramels, cut small pieces of wax paper that are slightly longer than the candies. Wrap each caramel in the paper, twisting the ends to seal them.The caramels should stay fresh for approximately two weeks if kept at room temperature.

