 More colleges and universities are offering degrees in technical communication and rhetoric. A college degree in this field will be an asset when you apply for a job as a technical writer.


A college degree is not a formal requirement for many technical writing jobs, but most people who work in technical writing have a college degree. It will be easier to get a job if you have specific training in the field.
If your college doesn't have a technical writing program, you may be able to get a degree in creative writing or English with an emphasis in technical writing and communication.;
, People who get degrees in technical writing and communication usually choose between technical, medical and scientific tracks for their degrees. Choose the track that seems more interesting to you, so that you can learn the style, terminology and best practices of that specific trade.


If you are not enrolled in a technical writing and communication degree, consider a double major in writing/English and another subject you are interested in, such as computer science, biology, graphic design, pre-med, engineering, law or mechanics. This is the technical knowledge needed to work as a technical writer.
If enrolling in a double major is not an option, you can always teach yourself the language used in your field of interest. Visit your university's library and read the journals and manuals used in the field you're interested in. Read extensively online in the area of your interest. In order to be considered for a job as a technical writer, you'll need to know the language used in the particular field for which you're writing.
 Technical writing courses are offered at many universities, community colleges, or at the Society for Technical Communication, STC.org. Make sure that the course provides you with all the skills needed to produce a technical document, a certification and some kind of specialization.


A technical writing course/certification should teach the following skills: analyzing information/research, interviewing, documentation, basic computer/graphic design, presentation, testing, editing, publishing and revising.
There are many online classes in technical writing, and even a few certificate and degree programs. If you're planning on getting an entry level job as a technical writer, these courses can help boost your resume and sharpen your online skills at the same time.
 The software industry is a major presence in the technical writing field, and employers are actively seeking writers who are familiar with the latest computer programs and applications.


Particular programs that all job applicants should make sure to know include: Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe FrameMaker, Adobe Creative Suite, Madcap Flare, Author-it, Microsoft Visio, and Lotus Notes.Opportunities to learn new computer skills are often available for free. Take advantage of online learning opportunities, and document every new skill you learn.
 This will give you added relevance in the technical writing market, allowing you to expand your job search and land a job more easily.


Being active in the technical writing field means ongoing training in the area of your specialty. Use online courses, often available for free, to continue to develop knowledge in your field of interest.
Employers are often attracted to job applicants who have a demonstrated enthusiasm for learning. In the competitive marketplace for technical writing jobs, having additional certifications will help a potential employer take notice of your resume.

