 If you've put a little effort into your appearance, you'll look more attractive and approachable. (Looking good can help you feel confident, too!) Before going to school, sports, a club, or a social gathering, do the following:


Shower (within the past 24 hours).
Brush your hair. Try styling it if you'd like.
Brush your teeth. Also consider flossing and using sensory-friendly mouthwash (e.g. bubblegum flavor).
Put on clothes that fit you well and help you feel confident.;
, When you join a social situation (be it a party or even just a small gathering), hold your head up high, take a deep breath, and stand tall. Entering the room is probably the most difficult part so remember you are there for a purpose—to get to know others better.


Make it a goal just to get there. You don't have to speak to anyone or do anything unless you want to, but you won't know if this social activity will be something you can ever get any benefits from if you don't go at least once. Focus on just being there as a start if anything else feels a bit overwhelming. Just rubbing shoulders with the others and observing what is going on will, over time, make you feel more comfortable in the situation, and the others with you.
 Autism is not a burden; it gives you notable strengths and can help you be a more inventive, compassionate, and unique person. Instead of trying to hide your oddities, love and embrace them. Your quirks are part of what makes you special. Instead of trying to hide yourself, be the best version of yourself.


If you think of yourself as horribly afflicted and hindered, it'll come through in your attitude. Autism won't stop you from making friends. (There are autistic people who have lots of friends!) Instead, see yourself as likable and quirky, with some different needs.
Hiding your autism will only make you feel more alone., They can hang out with you and offer cues if you're unsure what to do. It may help to admit that you're a little new to the social scene; your friend can look out for you and help out if you need it.

