 This is what happens upon entering the cruise terminal. Depending on whether you enter early or late, is how this will go. If you enter early, you will be given a number and directed to the seating area. Once they call your number, you will get in line. There will be two lines, a first time cruiser line and one for members who have cruised on the same line before. You will go through the line, have your papers checked, then if everything checks out you will board the ship! And your vacation will begin! However, if you come late and many people have already boarded, you will simply get into line and the same thing will happen from there, but you don't need numbers or a waiting area.;
, You may have a lot of baggage with you, so grab a table a bit larger than your family size.
 Look around and see how nice your temporary home really is. Most ships are quite beautiful.
 It will be much smaller than you may have expected, but for the time you will really spend in your room, it's large enough.
 After this, you will participate in a mandatory lifeboat drill. Some ships require you to grab your life vest, and some don't. If it is required, proceed to your room to get it, then go directly to your muster station. This is on your card, and usually on the back of your door. This will be the spot you must meet in case of an emergency. If you do not need your life jacket, then simply head to your muster station.
 This will involve dancing if you please, a barbecue, and you looking out a window, waving goodbye to your starting destination. Let the party begin!

, Generally you will need business-casual attire for dinner, but because it is the first night and you probably didn't receive your luggage yet, whatever you are wearing is fine.
 If you do, head to the dining room stated on your sail and sign card. If not, go to the dining room of your choice at your selected hour. If you'd like a recommendation or have questions on anything, your cabin steward is always there to help, as are the people in the front desk.
 If you are sailing on Carnival, you will be attending either Circle C(12-14) or Club O2(15-17), depending on your age. On Norwegian you will be in Club Underground(13-17), and so on.
 Go to the program, and stay for a while. It may seem boring and awkward at first, but it is the best way to meet friends, which you will be hanging out with constantly for the duration of your cruise.
 That will be the start of your hang out montage ;). There are many activities on the ship, so go participate in one together, or simply find a place to sit and have a nice talk or play a party game.
 You need to be able to stay out other nights, so don't ruin it the first night.
 Often times on cruise ships it is awkward and boring in the morning because you don't know where your friends are, so to defeat this, meet up somewhere at a certain time or have everyone meet in your cabin at a certain time. This way you can all walk up together and no one is the first one, who has to sit there alone waiting. After this, hug goodbye and you will see them the next day!

, Be sure to check out events happening both in the teen club and around the ship, so you never get bored! Go swimming, tanning, play on the basketball courts, or simply sit down to a splendid game of truth or dare together ;). Don't be afraid to be a little crazy, because you will most likely only see these people for a week and should make the best of it. However, don't do anything that is stupid and you'll regret. You know your limits!

, You don't want your parents to be worried, I mean, this is a family vacation!

, You want to keep in touch! Proceeding this, head home, having had and amazing week of parties and new memories. Remember, what you share with your friends is your option!

