 Some people find that catnip is even better at repelling mosquitoes than chemicals, such as DEET. Best of all, catnip is safe. It can even be grown next to plants that typically attract mosquitoes as a deterrent. Keep in mind, however, that the catnip will attract cats into your yard.


Catnip is an aggressive grower, like a weed. Be sure to keep it reined in, or it will take over your flowerbed.;
, Citronella masks the surrounding scents around your home and garden that attract mosquitoes, preventing them from coming too near.


If you live in warm climates where frost does not occur, plant citronella directly into the ground behind your other plants. Citronella can grow to a height of up to between 5 and 6 feet (1.52 and 1.82 meters) and forms in large, grassy clumps.
If you live in a cold, freezing climate, plant citronella in large planters. This way, you can move the planters indoors during freezing temperatures and harsh weather conditions.
Verify that the citronella plants you use are called Citronella winterianus or Cymbopogon nardus, as opposed to plants labeled "citronella-scented," which may not be authentic citronella plants.
 Not only will you have something that you can use in your cooking, but you will be keeping the mosquitoes away. Many herbs also develop small white or purple flowers. Here are some popular herbs that keep mosquitoes at bay:Basil
Garlic
Lavender, Lemon balm, and Lemongrass
Peppermint
Rosemary

, These small blue and purple flowers are hard, suitable for just about any climate. The plant grows up to 18 inches (45.72 cm) tall, making it ideal for the back of flowerbeds. It needs partial or full sunlight.


Ageratum secretes a scent considered offensive to mosquitoes.
 The smell that these flowers emit will prevent mosquitoes from entering a specific area, functioning similar to a border.


Plant marigolds in areas with fertilized soil that can be exposed to full sunlight at all times.
 They will add color and fragrance to your yard, while keeping mosquitoes at bay. Consider planting some of these flowers into flower pots, and placing them near doorways and windows. Flowers that repel mosquitoes include:Geranium
Mums
Pennyroyal
Tansy

, Horsemint works similarly to citronella, but can withstand dry weather, sandy soil, and salty air.Grow horsemint in either a shaded or sunny area with enough room to allow the plant to grow between 2 and 3 feet (60.96 and 91.44 cm) in both width and height.
 There are many other wild plants that also repel mosquitoes. If any of these plants are native to the area you live in, consider planting some in your garden. You may already have some growing in or near your garden.


Cedar trees
Mugwort and Nodding onion
Pineapple weed
Snowbrush, Sweetfern, and Sagebrush,
Wild bergamot, Wormwood, and Vanilla Leaf

